09 March 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks States’ views on 50% cap on quota||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine whether its nearly three-decade-old judgment, which fixed reservation for the marginalised and the poor in government jobs and educational institutions at 50%, needs a relook. In 1992, a nine-judge Bench of the court had drawn the “ Lakshman rekha ” for reservation in jobs and education at 50%, except in “extraordinary circumstances”. However, over the years, several States, such as Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, have crossed the Rubicon and passed laws which allows reservation shooting over 60%. Maratha quota law A five-judge Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, set up to hear the challenge to the Maratha quota law, decided not to confine the question of reservation spilling over 50% limit to just Maharashtra. The Bench expanded the ambit of the case by making other States party and inviting them to make their stand clear on the question of whether reservation should continue to remain within the 50% boundary or not. Justice Bhushan, leading the Constitution Bench, decided to start the hearing from March 15, giving time for the other States to prepare their arguments. The court, meanwhile, framed a series of questions, which include whether the Indira Sawhney verdict of 1992, fixing 50% limit on quota, needs to be relooked by a larger Bench of more than nine judges. Another question is whether the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act of 2018, which provides 12% to 13% quota benefits for the Maratha community, and thus, taking the reservation percentage in the State across the 50% mark was enacted under “extraordinary circumstances”. The Indira Sawhney judgment had categorically said “50% shall be the rule, and only in certain exceptional and extraordinary situations for bringing far-flung and remote areas population into mainstream the said 50% rule can be relaxed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-states-views-on-50-cap-on-quota/article34024113.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘SC has highest respect for womanhood’||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Monday said the Supreme Court, as an institution, had the highest respect for womanhood, and recent media reports quoting him as asking an alleged rapist to marry the victim was completely misquoted. The CJI made the position clear on International Women’s Day while hearing a plea made by a 14-year-old rape victim seeking the termination of pregnancy. On March 1, during a virtual hearing, several media outlets reported the CJI asking the lawyer of a rape accused to find out whether his client would be willing to marry the victim or risk the prospect of going to jail. The lawyer came back later and said his client had declined as he was already married. On Monday, advocate V.K. Biju, who was appearing for the 14-year-old, told the Bench, led by Chief Justice Bobde, that certain people were out to tarnish the image of the judiciary. The Bench said the reputation of the judiciary rested in the hands of the Bar. ‘Twisted out of context’ Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the comments of the CJI on March 1 were indeed twisted out of context. A flurry of outrage followed the reported comments of the CJI. According to the prosecution side, the accused had repeatedly raped the girl since she was in high school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-has-highest-respect-for-womanhood/article34024114.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Budget: infrastructure gets lion’s share; focus on health, agriculture||In a bid to recover the struggling economy in the wake of COVID-19, the Maharashtra Budget for 2021-22 has focused on investment in infrastructure development, while providing women with financial benefits and promising devotees a makeover of religious places. State Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday presented a Rs. 4,84,118.19 crore Budget. Though he refrained from making too many big-ticket announcements he ensured that health and agriculture get good shares of the budgetary allocation. In the backdrop of a revenue deficit of Rs. 46,177.59 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal, Mr. Pawar expected the revenue deficit to come down to Rs. 10,225.66 crore in the next financial year. While the Budget has not proposed cuts in taxes on petrol and diesel, it has suggested a hike in excise duty on branded country liquor and VAT on liquor. Major projects Among the major infrastructure announcements are a 200-km Jalna-Nanded Expressway Connector to Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samrudhi Mahamarg, at an estimated cost of Rs. 7,000 crore, a 170-km Pune Ring Road estimated to cost Rs. 26,000 crore, and a coastal highway connecting Revas in Raigad district to Reddy in Sindhudurg district at a cost of Rs. 9,573 crore. Besides, the Pune-Nashik railway project is a medium high-speed railway line with a proposed length of 235 km, which is estimated to cost Rs. 16,039 crore. Along with the ongoing infrastructure works in Mumbai, which include Metro, coastal road, Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link Project, and Virar-Alibaug multimodal corridor, Mr. Pawar announced sewage treatment plants at Worli, Bandra, Dharavi, Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Versova and Malad at a cost of Rs. 19,500 crore. Health services On the health front, a Rs. 7,500 crore project involving construction and upgrade of health institutions across the State will be completed in the next four years. The government will provide Rs. 5,000 crore in the coming five years for quality health services in the municipal councils and nagar panchayats. It has also been proposed to set up post-COVID-19 counselling and treatment centres at every district hospital and government medical college in urban areas. Marking International Women’s Day, the government announced Rajmata Jijau Griha-Swamini Yojna under which a concession of 1% in stamp duty will be given if the registration of the property is in the name of a woman of the house. The Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule scheme offers free travel in the Maharashtra State Transport buses to girl students in rural areas for commuting from their villages to schools. The State has announced forming of a first women battalion of the State Reserve Police Force. The Sant Janabai Social Security and Welfare scheme provides for registration of unorganised labourers and a capital of Rs. 250 crore will be allocated for this purpose. It has been proposed to reserve 3% funds from the district plan for a scheme to empower women and children. Temple conservation To conserve and preserve eight ancient temples, Mr. Pawar announced an outlay of Rs. 101 crore. Along with this, monetary assistance will be provided to over 19 religious places across the State. Other announcements include Rajiv Gandhi Science and Technology Park, which will be set up in each revenue district. The Maharashtra Apprentice Promotion Scheme will be launched on Maharashtra Day, covering two lakh youth apprentices, which is expected to cost Rs. 300 crore. New government medical colleges will be set up at Sindhudurg, Osmanabad, Nashik, Raigad, Satara, Parbhani and Amravati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-bets-big-on-infrastructure/article34024283.ece
09 March 2021||Kolkata,||Seven killed in fire at Eastern Railway building in Kolkata||Seven people, including four firefighters, were killed in a fire at the Eastern Railway headquarters in Kolkata late on Monday evening. The blaze broke out on the 13th floor of the 14-storey building located on Strand Road. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee along with Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra reached the spot and spoke to officials engaged in the firefighting operation. While the fire was brought under control in a few hours, causalities were reported when fire brigade and security personnel entered the building to rescue if anyone had been trapped. “It’s a very sad incident. Seven bodies have been found. The accident occurred because they were going to the 13th floor using the lift,” Ms. Banerjee said. The CM announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh for the kin of each deceased and a job to one member of the family. According to officials of the State’s Fire and Emergency Services Department, who are present at the spot, four of the deceased are firefighters, one is a police officer, and one is an official of the Railway Protection Force. The seventh body is yet to be identified. According to reports, security personnel and firefighters took a lift to the 13th floor and could not escape the smoke and fire after stepping out of the lift. Over half a dozen of ambulances were rushed to the spot. The electric supply to the building has been cut off. “The fire occurred at 6.10 p.m. at New Koilaghat building and by 6.30 p.m. the fire brigade was present at the spot. The blaze is under control. We will only be able to ascertain the loss after the situation is brought under control,” Kamal Devdas, chief public relations officer, Eastern Railway, said. He said that the ticketing system had been affected by the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-killed-in-fire-at-eastern-railway-building-in-kolkata/article34024280.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||An emergent YC attempts to sway candidate selection in its favour||In Kerala, an emergent Youth Congress (YC) has reportedly impelled the party’s national leadership to give at least 60% weightage to youngsters in candidate selection for the State Assembly polls on April 6. Ahead of the AICC’s screening committee meeting in New Delhi on March 10, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has reportedly argued for more electoral space in the party for youth political expression. He has reportedly directed the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to go beyond merely suggesting the names of a smattering of YC and Kerala Students Union leaders and ensure the generational shift truly reflected in candidate selection. Mr. Gandhi has also batted for more representation of women. The KPCC has insisted that at least one woman candidate be in the fray from each district. The YC had vociferously demanded that the old guard make way for the new. It had opposed the candidature of senior leaders and batted for fresh faces. The organisation had also attempted to impact coalition seat sharing. It had publicly opposed the move to cede Chadayamangalam and Muvattupuzha seats to the Indian Union Muslim League and the Kerala Congress Joseph faction, respectively. The YC had also attempted to set the political agenda. It was at the forefront of the agitation against backdoor appointments and postings for PSC rank holders. A party insider said the Congress planned to contest in at least 92 seats. It had to factor in caste and communal equations in candidate selection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-emergent-yc-attempts-to-sway-candidate-selection-in-its-favour/article34024267.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||Active COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra reach 97,637||After recording over 10,000 new novel coronavirus cases for the last three days, Maharashtra on Monday reported a dip as 8,744 new infections came to light. The caseload in the State rose to 22,28,471, while the death toll reached 52,500 with 22 fatalities, a Health Department official said. As many as 9,068 people were discharged from hospitals, taking the total recoveries to 20,77,112. The State now has 97,637 active cases. Mumbai city reported 1,014 new cases, increasing its tally to 3,34,583. With four deaths, the toll in the country’s financial capital rose to 11,508. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which includes Mumbai city and satellite towns, logged 1,770 fresh cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,42,120, while the fatality count stood at 19,890. Nashik division’s COVID-19 tally is 3,02,902 and the death count stands at 5,311. The number of cases recorded so far in the Pune division stands at 5,41,223 and the death toll at 11,798. Kolhapur division has recorded 1,20,453 cases and 4,079 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division’s case tally stands at 84,786 and the death count at 2,066.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-reach-97637/article34024613.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Batla House encounter: ‘IM operative’ convicted||A Delhi court on Monday convicted Ariz Khan, allegedly associated with the terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), for the murder of Delhi police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma in a case related to the 2008 Batla House encounter. Sentencing on March 15 Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Yadav said it was “duly proved that Ariz Khan and his associates caused murder of police official and fired gunshot on the police official”. The court will hear arguments on the quantum of sentence on March 15. The Special Cell of Delhi police had arrested Khan along the India-Nepal border in 2018 after about a decade of search. Two suspected IM operatives were killed and two were arrested when a Special Cell team raided a hideout of bomb blasts suspects at Batla House on September 19, 2008. Khan and another alleged IM operative, Shehzad, were present at the hideout but managed to escape. Inspector Sharma, who had led the team, was killed in the encounter. The incident took place a week after five serial blasts hit Delhi on September 13, 2008, killing at least 30 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/batla-house-encounter-im-operative-convicted/article34024366.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s per capita income dips by 5.9%||The per capita income of the people of Delhi has fallen by 5.91% (at current prices) to Rs. 3,54,004 during 2020-21, compared to Rs. 3,76,221 in 2019-20. Also, the Gross State Domestic Product (at current prices) fell by 3.92% in 2020-21 to Rs. 7,98,310 crore from Rs. 8,30,872 crore in 2019-20, as per the Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21 tabled in the Delhi Assembly on Monday. “Because of COVID-19 pandemic, business was less in the market and because of this revenue was less for the government. So, the financial condition was weak, and we couldn’t spend on some schemes,” Finance Minister Manish Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-per-capita-income-dips-by-59/article34024369.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Internet suspended in Bhainsa after clashes||Prohibitory orders were clamped and internet services suspended by the authorities at Bhainsa town in Nirmal district, following communal clashes between two groups on Sunday. Some houses, vehicles, and petty business establishments were damaged in the arson that followed the violence on Sunday evening. More than 10 persons, including police personnel and a journalist of a Telugu news channel, suffered severe injuries, in the clashes. Nirmal District SP (in-charge) Vishnu S. Warrier said that till Monday evening four cases were booked against several persons. More than 50 persons, including suspects and trouble mongers, were taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/internet-suspended-in-bhainsa-after-clashes/article34024544.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,||CM promises 6 free gas cylinders to each family||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced the provision of six free cooking gas (LPG) cylinders a year to each family and Rs. 1,500 a month to the woman-head of every family as part of the party’s promises for the Assembly election. Addressing the media, along with Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other leaders, at the party headquarters here, Mr. Palaniswami said the announcements were made on Women’s Day. He added that the manifesto, to be released shortly, would have “many more announcements that will gladden the hearts of people”.  ‘A leak’ Asked whether his announcement was made in the light of the DMK’s promise of Rs. 1,000 a month to women, Mr. Palaniswami replied that his party’s manifesto had been in the making for the past 10 days. “Somehow, because of over-enthusiasm, some parts of it have got leaked to them [the DMK], just as you, mediapersons, share news among yourselves,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-promises-6-free-gas-cylinders-to-each-family/article34024144.ece
09 March 2021||Vijayawada,||State will have gender budget, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said Andhra Pradesh would become the first State to come up with a gender budget this year which will clearly list out the expenditure on schemes meant for welfare of women. Participating in the International Women’s Day celebrations at his camp office on Monday, the Chief Minister said the gender budget would be a significant step towards sorting out issues of inequality, thereby ensuring that the benefits of development reached women as much as men. He said the government introduced various schemes for the welfare of women, including Amma Vodi, YSR Cheyuta, YSR Asara and Kapu Nestham, on which Rs. 80,000 crore has been spent in 21 months. Besides, the government provided 50% reservation to women in all nominated posts and nominated works. Panels on harassment Committees were being set up to check harassment of women at workplaces both in government and private institutions starting with one such panel at the Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-have-gender-budget-showing-funds-for-womens-welfare/article34024066.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Courts in five countries back Cairn ruling||Courts in five countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., have given recognition to an arbitration award that asked India to return $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy plc — a step that now opens the possibility of the British firm seizing Indian assets in those countries if New Delhi does not pay, sources said. The company had moved courts in nine countries to enforce the December 21 award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/courts-in-five-countries-back-cairn-ruling/article34024110.ece
09 March 2021||Vijayawada,||HC stays polls to Eluru civic body||The A.P. High Court has stayed the polls to the Eluru Municipal Corporation two days before the scheduled polling. It took objection to holding polls without reconciling the voter lists in spite of an earlier judgment which ordered necessary corrections be made. The court was hearing a batch of writ petitions which challenged the process of elections on the ground that the electoral rolls were not updated and the delimitation of wards was also not taken into account. The court reserved its judgment on the MPTC and ZPTC poll after hearing petitions seeking a fresh notification to be issued keeping in view the forced withdrawal of nominations and prevention of candidates from filing their papers in March 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-polls-to-eluru-civic-body/article34024111.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Curtail House session, MPs request Birla||Lok Sabha members from the poll-bound States of West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry have requested that the second part of the Budget session that began on Monday be curtailed. Sources said nearly 145 MPs have written to Speaker Om Birla. The government is mulling over closing the session by March 25. Though there is no official announcement so far, both Houses are set to restore pre-COVID-19 timings and seating arrangement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curtail-house-session-mps-write-to-birla/article34024115.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Over 1 lakh senior citizens take the jab in one week||As many as 1,00,574 senior citizens have been vaccinated against COVID-19 in the State since last Monday when the second phase was rolled out. This apart, 16,497 persons above 45 years with co-morbidities have got the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-1-lakh-senior-citizens-take-the-jab-in-one-week/article34024489.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maha Cong MLA seeks change in 'Gangubai Kathiawadi' film title||Maharashtra Congress MLA Amin Patel on Monday demanded that the title of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s upcoming movie Gangubai Kathiawadi be changed, claiming it maligns the name of Kathiawad city. The film features Alia Bhatt as Gangubai, one of the most powerful, loved and respected madams from Kamathipura, Mumbai’s red-light area, during the 1960s.Speaking in the Assembly, Mr. Patel, who represents the Mumbadevi constituency in south Mumbai, said the Kamathipura area had undergone changes. “It is not the same like it was in 1950s. Women there are excelling in different professions,” he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maha-cong-mla-seeks-change-in-gangubai-kathiawadi-film-title/article34024611.ece
09 March 2021||Pune,||Army exam paper leak: Major sent to police custody till Mar 15||A 47-year-old Army Major arrested in connection with a recruitment exam paper leak in Pune was on Monday remanded in police custody till March 15. The Pune police told the court of Additional Sessions Judge S.R. Navandar that Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu, who was arrested from Tamil Nadu, had forwarded the question paper to one of the arrested accused identified as Bharat Adakmol using a messaging app. Public prosecutor Premkumar Agrawal told the court that Mr. Thangavelu had forwarded the leaked question paper to other accused through WhatsApp. Mr. Agrawal said Mr. Thangavelu and Mr. Adakmol had deleted the mobile phone chats.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-exam-paper-leak-major-sent-to-police-custody-till-mar-15/article34024612.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Biotech centre, plastic park proposed||Setting up an Advanced Biotech Innovation Centre for aquamarine and a plastic park in Mangaluru and developing beaches are some of the proposals mooted for coastal Karnataka in the State Budget for 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biotech-centre-plastic-park-proposed/article34024598.ece
09 March 2021||Guwahati,||Kolkata synop||The BJP does not seem to be looking beyond Finance, Health and Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for ideas in poll-bound Assam. A majority in the first list of 70 candidates announced by the party on March 5 are known to be loyalists of Dr. Sarma. Such has been his clout, party insiders say, that many aspirants backed by the RSS and some new faces reportedly preferred by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal were ignored. Party insiders said Dr. Sarma’s loyalists have been fielded from four of the 11 constituencies from where the sitting MLAs were dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-synop/article34024281.ece
09 March 2021||Imphal,||Huge quantity of narcotic drugs seized, three arrested in Manipur||A special team of police in Thoubal district arrested three alleged drug manufacturers-cum- traffickers and seized a huge quantity of narcotic drugs and ingredients from Lilong areas on Sunday night. Thoubal District Superintendent of Police S. Ibomcha said that on receipt of intelligence inputs, the special teams raided some houses. He said, “We have arrested Yunus Khan, Sher Shah and Mohammad Manegul. However, their associates Akbar Khan, Mohammad Manaeruddin, Airsh Khan and Mohammad Mustota managed to escape. A total of 1947.46 kg of brown sugar, 5 kg of opium and Rs. 61,400 in cash were seized from the possession of the three arrested accused.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/huge-quantity-of-narcotic-drugs-seized-three-arrested-in-manipur/article34024282.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Iran denies links with blast near Israel Embassy||The Iranian Embassy denied any connection between the Quds Force, an arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps, and the IED blast outside the Israeli Embassy in Delhi in January. In an official statement on Monday, the embassy “strongly repudia-ted” the allegation that the NIA had “concluded” that the attack had been carried out by an Indian proxy group on the orders of the Quds Force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iran-denies-links-with-blast-near-israel-embassy/article34024536.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Women power across the divide at Tikri border||On International Women’s Day, which was celebrated with much fanfare at the Tikri border here, there were women protesters on one side and women security officers on the other — both honouring the day in their own way. Women took over the stage at the protest site and the crowd too was filled with women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-power-across-the-divide-at-tikri-border/article34024367.ece
09 March 2021||Mysuru,||Tiger attack in Kodagu claims boy’s life||A boy was killed and a plantation worker seriously injured in a tiger attack at Belluru village in Ponnampet taluk of Kodagu district on Monday. The victim was identified as Rangaswamy, 8, while his grandfather Kencha was injured and hospitalised. This is the third human death by a tiger attack in Kodagu district in the past three weeks and has resulted in widespread anger against the authorities for their ‘failure’ to curb man-animal conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiger-attack-in-kodagu-claims-boys-life/article34024241.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SCBA moves court against SOP for hybrid hearings||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) moved the court on Monday to quash the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for hybrid physical hearing of cases from March 15. It said the SOP was evolved without a discussion with lawyers. The SOP involved limited entry into courtrooms and allowed judges on the Bench to decide whether a case should be held virtually or physically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scba-moves-court-against-sop-for-hybrid-hearings/article34024368.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N.’s daily case count remains over 500||Tamil Nadu’s daily count of COVID-19 cases stayed above the 500-mark for the fourth day in a row. A total of 556 persons tested positive for the infection in the State, taking the overall tally to 8,55,677. There were 229 cases in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tns-daily-case-count-remains-over-500/article34024141.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,||DMK signs pact with CPI(M), other parties||The DMK on Monday signed a seat-sharing agreement with the CPI(M) for six Assembly seats. It also signed an agreement with the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi, the Aathi Thamizhar Peravai and the Makkal Viduthalai Katchi for one seat each. Candidates of these three parties will contest on the DMK’s Rising Sun symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-signs-pacts-with-cpim-other-parties/article34024142.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,||People without masks will be fined on the spot||Non-compliance with mask wearing would invite spot fines, Health Department officials said. On visiting key shopping areas in Chennai on Monday, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan not only advised persons, who did not wear masks, but also imposed a fine of Rs. 200 on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-without-masks-will-be-fined-on-the-spot/article34024143.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,||50 held after clashes in Telangana’s border town||Prohibitory orders were clamped and internet services suspended by the authorities at Bhainsa town in Nirmal district, following communal clashes between two groups on Sunday evening. Some houses, vehicles, and petty business establishments were damaged in the arson that followed the violence on Sunday. This led the law enforcing authorities to invoke the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety Rules 2017) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, to stop locals from sharing videos and photographs of the incidents on online messaging platforms and to contain the issue. The police had resorted to lathicharge for more than half-a-dozen times till Monday afternoon. More than 10 people, including police personnel and a journalist of a Telugu news channel, suffered severe injuries, in the clashes. The journalist, Vijay, who rushed to the spot to report the incident, was attacked by a few miscreants with a sword. After first-aid in a local hospital, Mr. Vijay was shifted to a corporate hospital in Secunderabad, where his condition is said to be stable. Speaking to The Hindu , Nirmal District Superintendent of Police (in-charge) Vishnu S. Warrier said that till Monday evening four cases were booked against several persons on charges of rioting, arson, bodily offences, based on various available evidence and as and when complaints are filed they would register cases. He said that the clashes started at around 8.45 p.m. after an heated argument between a biker and people from another community, and by 10.30 p.m. the situation was brought under control.  Police deployed “More than 600 additional police personnel from five neighbouring districts, apart from Nirmal police, are deployed in the town to control the situation,” Mr. Warrier said. More than 50 persons, including suspects and trouble mongers, were taken into custody, another officer said. He said that people are using various online messaging platforms to circulate videos and photographs and spreading rumours, which might cause law and order problems not only in communally sensitive areas, but also in other parts of the State and country as well. Speaking on withdrawal of internet service in the town, he said suspension of the internet is only a temporary solution, “now we have to come out with a permanent solution to control or even curb the spread of hatred between two groups in this tiny town bordering Maharashtra.” He noted that the damage was already done, as photos and videos of the violence were circulated on WhatsApp and other online messaging platforms much before the internet was curbed in Bhainsa. “CCTV footage and other technological aids are being utilised to identify and arrest the accused who are involved in the incident,” Inspector General of Police (North Zone) Y. Nagi Reddy said. He said that six civilians, three police officers suffered injuries in the violence. While two houses, two auto rickshaws, two four wheelers and five two-wheelers were set on fire by the miscreants. “All offenders involved in the incidents will be brought to book. Strong actions will be initiated against all offenders, including externment and preventive detention,” Mr. Reddy said. MP stopped Later in the evening, Hyderabad police intercepted Member of Parliament from Nizamabad Dharmapuri Aravind while he was on his way to Bhainsa. The police asked the MP stay at home in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/50-held-after-clashes-in-telanganas-border-town/article34024073.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Pricey fuel triggers Opposition protest||Multiple adjournment motions marred the working of the Rajya Sabha on the first day of the second part of the Budget session, with Opposition leaders demanding a debate on the “huge and frequent” increase in petrol, diesel and LPG prices. The Lok Sabha, too, saw disruptions on the demand for a separate discussion on the issue. The first adjournment in the Rajya Sabha came at 10 a.m. after House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu rejected the Opposition’s demand to suspend the day’s business to conduct a debate on fuel prices. Mr. Naidu said there would be many opportunities to discuss the issue in the course of the session, including a debate on the Appropriation Bill. “You are well aware, petrol prices are nearly Rs. 100 per litre and diesel prices are more than Rs. 80 per litre. LPG rates have also increased and all petroleum products [prices] have gone up,” said Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Kharge said the debate on fuel prices cannot be put off for later as the common man was suffering. But the Chairman did not agree to his demand. Following this exchange, the Opposition started raising slogans. Mr. Naidu called it a “mockery of democracy”. When the House re-assembled at 11 a.m., Congress members demanded a discussion again. After continuing protests, the Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day at 1.30 p.m.  In the Lok Sabha, after the House reconvened at 5 p.m. after an hour’s break due to obituary references on the death of two sitting MPs — Daman and Diu MP Mohan Delkar and Nandkumar Chauhan of Madhya Pradesh — Speaker Om Birla dismissed adjournment motions on the issue of fuel price hike, resulting in protests by Opposition members. MPs rush to the Well Mr. Birla said the Opposition could raise the issue as part of a discussion on the supplementary demand for grants, but the MPs did not agree. Congress, Trinamool and Shiv Sena MPs also protested in the Well of the House. Mr. Birla said women MPs had asked for a Calling Attention motion on women’s empowerment and that should be discussed. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi appealed for calm and asked for the discussion on women’s empowerment to start, but protests went on. Mr. Birla then adjourned the House till 7 p.m. After resuming, the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day in about 30 minutes as protests over rising fuel prices continued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pricey-fuel-triggers-opposition-protest/article34024088.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 cases climb in eight States||India reported 18,599 new COVID-19 cases, 14,278 recoveries and 97 deaths in the 24 hours up to 8 a.m. on Monday, a release issued by the Union Health Ministry said. The country now has 1,88,747 active cases, with a cumulative death toll of 1,57,853, total cases of 1,12,29,398 and total recoveries of 1,08,82,798. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Gujarat were displaying an upward trajectory in new daily cases, the Ministry said. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu cumulatively accounted for 86.25% of the new cases reported in the 24 hours. Maharashtra reported the highest at 11,141, followed by Kerala with 2,100 and Punjab 1,043. The Ministry said the Centre was regularly holding high-level review meetings with the States and Union Territories showing a surge in new daily cases. The Health Secretary was also holding weekly review meetings as part of the Centre’s efforts to engage continuously with those reporting a higher caseload of active cases and those showing a rise in new daily cases. Recently, the Centre rushed high-level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in control and containment measures. It had deputed teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in the fight against the pandemic. These teams interact with authorities of the States and Union Territories and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any. The cumulative tests conducted in the country have surpassed 22 crore (22,19,68,271). The national cumulative positivity rate currently stood at 5.06%. Maharashtra, Kerala, Chandigarh, Goa, Punjab, Sikkim, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average (2.29%). Maharashtra has the highest weekly positivity rate of 11.13%. The nation reported 97 deaths in the 24 hours, with seven States accounting for 87.63% of them. Maharashtra saw the highest of 38, followed by Punjab with 17 and Kerala with 13. Eighteen States and Union Territories, including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Sikkim and Tripura, did not report any deaths. Vaccination figures Nearly 17 lakh COVID vaccine doses were administered till 9 p.m. on Monday, making it the highest single-day coverage since the beginning of the drive in January, said figures released by the Health Ministry. “Total 16,96,588 vaccine doses were given till 9 p.m. today, the 52nd day of nationwide COVID-19 vaccination. Out of which, 14,30,954 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 2,65,634 health care workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) received second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report,” the release said. The Ministry said the cumulative number of doses administered in the country had crossed 2.26 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-climb-in-eight-states/article34024091.ece
09 March 2021||Kannur,||Pinarayi hits out at Shah as he kicks off campaign||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday termed Union Home Minister Amit Shah a personification of communalism. At a Left Democratic Front (LDF) campaign meeting in the Dharmadam constituency, Mr. Vijayan attempted to emphatically counter Mr. Shah’s speech at the conclusion of BJP State president K. Surendran’s Vijay Yatra at Shanghumughom in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Shah had insulted Kerala. The State was the least corrupt in the country. However, Mr. Shah had chosen to portray it as a hive of graft. Congress-BJP nexus The Congress was yet to respond to Mr. Shah’s insinuations. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had castigated Central agencies for not doing enough to tarnish the LDF government. His words had spotlighted the Congress-BJP political nexus in Kerala. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Shah’s words did not suit his stature as the Union Home Minister. He had belittled his high office by his communally divisive politics. “Mr. Shah’s voice assumed a strident tone when he mentioned Muslim,” he said. Quoting a book on the Gujarat riots, Mr. Vijayan said the writer had found Mr. Shah dismissive of the threat of violence and pogrom faced by Muslims in the aftermath of the Godhra incident. Mr. Shah’s speech was pregnant with communal overtones. Such a narrative would serve only to stoke resentment and divide society. Mr. Vijayan listed the “fake encounter killings” in Gujarat under Mr. Shah’s watch as the then Home Minister of the State. He said Mr. Shah had faced criminal charges in at least one extra-judicial killing case. Gold smuggling Mr. Shah should answer how the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport had become a conduit for contraband gold after the BJP assumed power at the Centre. The multiple investigations by Central agencies into the gold smuggling case had reached a dead-end. The main conspirators in Dubai were still at large. Gold smuggling via the diplomatic channel had occurred under the watch of the Central government. Border enforcement was a Centre subject. Mr. Vijayan said the LDF’s popularity had unnerved the Congress-BJP axis. The clique had exploited central agencies to lay down a smokescreen of lies by attempting to falsely implicate the political executive in the smuggling case. The BJP panicked when it saw the gold probe coming close to some of its apparatchiks. It transferred a Joint Commissioner of Customs who denied the BJP’s allegation that the Chief Minister’s Office had intervened with the Customs on behalf of the gold smugglers. The Central agencies had acted like the cat’s paw of the BJP-Congress axis in Kerala. They had sacrificed their objectivity at the altar of electoral politics. LDF workers received Mr. Vijayan with much fanfare at the Kannur airport. Constituency tour The function at Dharmadom was the commencement of an 18-day tour of his constituency. He is scheduled to attend over 46 functions in Dharmadam, including neighbourhood meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pinarayi-hits-out-at-shah-as-he-kicks-off-campaign/article34024072.ece
09 March 2021||Kolkata,||‘Women will make a new Bengal’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday took the electoral fight to the streets of Kolkata with an all-woman rally on the occasion of International Women’s Day. Ms. Banerjee walked from College Square to Dorina Crossing in Esplanade flanked by a number of film and television stars, some of whom are contesting the Assembly election as Trinamool Congress nominees. The Chief Minister has regularly held rallies on International Women’s Day, but Monday’s roadshow was to add more momentum to the Trinamool Congress’s electoral campaign, where women are at the forefront with “ Bangla nijer meye kei chae (Bengal wants its own daughter)”, the new campaign slogan of the party. Addressing a gathering at the end of the rally, Ms. Banerjee said, “Women will make a new Bengal.” Countering the BJP’s campaign, the Chief Minister said the Prime Minister was peddling lies when he says that women were not safe in West Bengal. “Ahmedabad, which is a model of Modi-Shah governance, records four cases of rape every day, and Uttar Pradesh records highest cases of rape in the country,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said this was her election, and declared that she was the candidate for all the 294 seats. “I am the one contesting all 294 seats. It is me versus the BJP. BJP has money and goons and I have all the support of the people,” she said. Flagging the rising prices of petroleum products, particularly cooking fuel LPG, Ms. Banerjee demanded that the Central government give LPG free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-will-make-a-new-bengal/article34024087.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||6 share 100th percentile in JEE-Main first round||The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday announced the results of the first round of the JEE-Main held last month. The six toppers from the February exams were — Saket Jha from Rajasthan, Pravar Kataria and Ranjim Prabal Das from Delhi, Guramrit Singh of Chandigarh, Siddhant Mukherjee from Maharashtra and Ananth Krishna Kidambi from Gujarat, the NTA said. As NTA scores are percentile scores, these six students scored in the 100th percentile for each of the six sessions of the first round of the exam, held between February 24 and 26. The top girl candidate was Komma Sharanya from Telangana, who received an NTA score of 99.999, while Vishwadev from Haryana was the top scorer among candidates with disabilities. The JEE-Main is an entrance test for admission to undergraduate engineering courses at the National Institutes of Technology (NIT) and other Central, State and private institutions, and is also used as an eligibility test for JEE-Advanced, which is an entrance examination for the elite Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT).  Exam being held 4 times The examination is being held four times this year, once each in February, March, April and May. Students are free to attempt the examination as many times as they want, with each candidate’s best score being taken into consideration for the final ranking. All-India rankings and cut-off scores for JEE-Advanced eligibility will only be calculated after all four rounds of the examination are over. In the February session, more than 6.2 lakh students attempted the examination, including 4.35 lakh boys and 1.85 lakh girls. For the first time, the examination was conducted in 13 different languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-share-100th-percentile-in-jee-main-first-round/article34024097.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Women power across the divide at Tikri||On International Women’s Day which was celebrated with much fanfare at the Tikri border here, there were women protesters on one side and women security officials on the other — and both honouring the day in their own way. On Monday, women took over the stage at the protest site and the crowd too was filled with women. They took pride in their involvement and believed that this fight demanding repeal of the farm laws cannot be won without their support. A 19-year-old BA first year student Komaldeep Kaur from Faridkot — volunteering on the stage — said she had been at the protest site since November 26 and recently took her examinations online from there itself. “College has opened back home but this is more important than studies right now. If you look at history, there’s no struggle that has been won without women. And if we demand equal rights, then we should be here in equal numbers too,” she said. The young woman has faced problems at the site — especially during her periods — but insisted that these issues are very minor in front of the broader fight, she said. Her friend Paviter Kaur Preet, also 19, and another first year college student, said one thing that the protest had done was to make leaders out of women. “Those women who hadn’t seen beyond four walls of their house have come to the stage and spoken. Young girls like us are in leadership roles here,” she said. Preet Dhillon, 22, from Bhatinda believes that women are the backbone of the protest and if they hadn’t supported the men and let them come here while taking care of the home, kids, and fields back in the villages, the protest wouldn’t have continued.  On the other side, while a senior police officer thanked and praised lower rank women security officials for their work, they wished they could voice their concerns. ‘Want rest days’ A woman constable, holding a bouquet in her hand, said that on this Women’s Day, they wanted freedom and rest days. “We have been working without any leave for over three months now. Life has become very tough for women who live in nuclear families without in-laws,” the constable said. Visibly irritated, another constable said, “Ask those men, who ask us what we do, to swap lives for just one day and do all that we do for a single day — manage children, home and work”. The police had stopped commuters from crossing past the first barricade till 3 p.m. causing trouble which eased post afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-power-across-the-divide-at-tikri/article34024101.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Steps to check election malpractices||The Central Goods and Services Tax (GST) Commissionerate here has taken steps to curb illegal activities aimed at luring voters during the forthcoming elections to the Legislative Assembly. Five districts Flying squads has been deployed in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha under the jurisdiction of the Commissionerate for detection of illegal activities and taking immediate action. Giridhar Pai, the Commissioner, Central GST and Central Excise, said steps to verify doubtful transactions and movement of goods through all modes of transport with potential for distribution among voters have been taken. The department would also work in close coordination with other enforcement agencies such as Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate to prevent election-related malpractices. The public and those involved in trade are advised to carry adequate supporting documents during movement of goods. Similarly, all warehouses have been asked to maintain proper record of goods storage for verification. Call and report Public can pass on information about suspicious movement of goods, illegal storage, tax evasion and similar offences to the Preventive wing of the Commissionerate by dialling or sending an SMS to 9497427111/9497425111.  The public and those involved in trade are advised to carry adequate supporting documents during movement of goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steps-to-check-election-malpractices/article34024303.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana to raise Rs. 1,050 cr. via sale of securities||The State government has decided to raise another Rs. 1,050 crore from the Reserve Bank of India by sale of securities to meet its immediate financial requirements. The government did not opt for the green shoe option so far as it has been doing since the past couple of months, but the tenure of the loan remained at 30 years. The government has bid for the amount which will be mobilized through auction of securities. The auction, to be held through e-Kuber platform of the RBI, will be held on Tuesday and payment by successful bidders would be made the next day. Meanwhile, the Central government informed that Telangana’s share of Central taxes has been fixed at Rs. 11,731.76 crore for the current financial year according to the revised estimates. Of the total quantum, the Centre had released Rs. 7,927.1 crore to the State till December and the releases were to the tune of Rs. 9,473.89 crore till February-end. The releases of States’ share/tax devolution was as per the accepted recommendations of the Finance Commission for its award period. Of the Rs. 5.49 lakh crore devolution to States as per revised estimates, the Centre has released Rs. 4.44 lakh crore till February, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in reply to a query in Parliament. He was responding to a query on the amount of Central taxes which were shared/divided between the Centre and State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-to-raise-rs-1050-cr-via-sale-of-securities/article34024070.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala gets 48,960 doses of Covaxin||Kerala received 48,960 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine on Monday. This time, the consignment received is Bharat Biotech’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin. Of the stock received, 16,640 doses are for the Thiruvananthapuram region, 19,200 for Ernakulam region and 13,120 for Kozhikode region. More vaccine stocks are expected to reach the State in a few days, when more vaccination sites would be opened, an official release said. 10 lakh people covered Till date, 10,19,525 persons have received COVID-19 vaccine in the State, of whom, 1,53,578 are senior citizens, who received the first dose. A total of 3,65,942 healthcare workers have received at least one dose of vaccine, with 1,86,421 among them receiving both doses. The State has also vaccinated (first dose) 98,287 frontline workers and 2,15,297 poll officials. The Health Department has made it clear that there is no need for people to crowd at vaccination centres. People can register through the CoWIN portal and schedule an appointment for receiving the vaccine or directly go to the nearest hospital and get the vaccine after registration. Every beneficiary who registers will be vaccinated as per schedule. Over 1,000 vaccination sites have been opened at public and private hospitals and other centres. Any vaccine-related queries can be directed to the Health Department’s helpline Disha at 1056 or 0471-2552056. Kerala reported 1,412 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-gets-48960-doses-of-covaxin/article34024075.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP calls Uttarakhand CM to Delhi||A crisis over the continuation of Uttarakhand Chief Minister T.S. Rawat seems to be coming to a head in the BJP, with party president J.P. Nadda summoning him to Delhi after central observers Raman Singh and Dushyant Gautam underlined serious concerns over his style of functioning. A meeting of the BJP Legislature Party will be held in Dehradun on Tuesday. In Delhi, Mr. Rawat met Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni and accompanied by the latter, had discussions with Mr. Nadda. Senior national leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and general secretary organisation B.L. Santosh held a meeting on the issue. The reasons for a serious move to replace Mr. Rawat are many including a corruption case in which the Uttarakhand High Court ordered a CBI investigation against him. The Supreme Court stayed it last October. The next hearing on the stay is on Wednesday. Mr. Rawat is also said to be unpopular among his MLAs and an internal survey by the BJP in the State, which is slated to go to the polls early next year, showed that while there was no resentment against the party or Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Rawat was not popular. “While it is not the party’s style to change Chief Ministers hurriedly or so close to the polls, the lessons learnt from the Jharkhand elections are still fresh. We [BJP] lost the State because Chief Minister Raghubar Das was personally unpopular, even within the party, and there was massive infighting even rebellion when we went to polls resulting in the loss,” said a senior source. Party leaders feel that if the Supreme Court vacates the stay on the High Court order, Mr. Rawat will anyway have to resign under a cloud, and it would be better to replace him before that. Mr. Rawat had called party MLAs to Delhi and later called to cancel the trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-calls-uttarakhand-cm-to-delhi/article34024083.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Only half of govt. schools, anganwadis have tap water’||Only half of government schools and anganwadis have tap water supply, despite a 100-day campaign for 100% coverage being launched by the Jal Shakti Ministry in October 2020, according to information provided to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Water Resources. Less than 8% of schools in Uttar Pradesh and 11% in West Bengal have it, while it is available in only 2-6% of anganwadis in Assam, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Bengal. At a time when schools and anganwadis are just starting to reopen after a year-long shutdown, COVID-19 safety protocols require repeated handwashing by students and teachers. In its report on the demand for grants submitted to the Lok Sabha on Monday, the Standing Committee urged the Ministry to take up the matter with laggard States. The campaign to provide potable piped water supply for drinking and cooking purposes and tap water for washing hands and in toilets in every school, anganwadi and ashramshala or residential tribal school was launched on October 2, Gandhi Jayanti. The 100-day period should have ended on January 10, 2021. However, as of February 15, only 48.5% of anganwadis and 53.3% of schools had tap water supply, the Ministry told the Parliamentary panel. Seven States — Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Punjab — achieved 100% coverage. A number of other States also made significant progress in that time, and 1.82 lakh grey water management structures and 1.42 lakh rainwater harvesting structures were also constructed in schools and anganwadi centres. “However, some States/ UTs have indicated that they need more time to complete the task and sustain the efforts. Therefore, the campaign has been extended till March 31, 2021,” the Ministry said. The panel noted that “children are more susceptible to water-borne diseases, more so when there is also a need for repeated washing of hands as a precautionary measure during the pandemic”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-half-of-govt-schools-anganwadis-have-tap-water/article34024090.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel for tweak in rail passenger fares||A parliamentary committee has recommended that the Railway Ministry should undertake “prudent adjustment” of passenger fares to reduce the burden on freight segment, while highlighting that the Railways’ operating ratio, which helps determine the financial health of the national carrier, has regularly deteriorated after 2015-16. The committee, in its report tabled in Parliament on Monday, also said the actual earnings of the Railways have fallen short of projected earnings for all years since 2016-17, indicating that either unrealistic projections were made or the Ministry’s efforts to actualise the accruals were not sufficient. Noting that revenues from passenger services had deteriorated due to suspension of operations during COVID-19, the panel, headed by former Union Minister Radha Mohan Singh, asked Railways to consider resuming passenger services to boost their revenues. No to cross subsidies “...the tariff policy of the Indian Railways has traditionally followed the principle of cross subsidisation in order to offset the losses incurred in the heavily subsidised passenger and other coaching services through additional revenue from freight movement...The Committee feels that both passenger fares and freight rates have to be demand-cum-market driven and fixed differently for different segments,” it said, recommending that the Ministry undertake a “prudent adjustment” of passenger fares to reduce the burden on freight segment. On the net revenues, the panel noted that over the past five years, Budget Estimates for revenues are being drastically reduced at Revised Estimate stage, and even the reduced targets nowhere matched the actuals. Noting the regular deterioration in Railways’ operating ratio, the panel added that “Railway finances should be monitored and managed prudently by keeping a close and constant tab on the undesirable/ unproductive expenditure so that the operating ratio (OR) may reach at acceptable level in the near future”. Operating ratio indicates how much the Railways spend to earn a rupee. For example, an operating ratio of 98.36% for 2019-20, indicates that to earn Rs. 100, the Railways will have to spend Rs. 98.36. “The Committee observed that for the fiscal year 2015-16, the Railways Operating Ratio was 90.5%. In contrast in the succeeding years the Operating Ratio has regularly deteriorated.” For 2016-17, the operating ratio rose sharply to 96.5%. Subsequently, the OR was 98.4% in 2017-18, 97.29% in 2018-19. For 2020-21, it is estimated to be 131.4%, while for 2021-22, Railways is targeting OR of 96.15%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-for-tweak-in-rail-passenger-fares/article34024102.ece
09 March 2021||MYSURU,||Boy killed in third Kodagu tiger attack||A boy was killed and a plantation worker seriously injured in a tiger attack at Belluru village in Ponnampet taluk of Kodagu district on Monday. The victim was identified as Rangaswamy, 8, while his grandfather Kencha was injured and hospitalised. This is the third human death by a tiger attack in Kodagu district in the last three weeks and has resulted in widespread anger against the authorities for their ‘failure’ to curb human-animal conflict. Tusker trouble The area is also known to constantly witness human-elephant conflict. The local community has complained that atleast 16 animals – mainly cows and oxen – have been killed by the tiger on the prowl. Meanwhile, the State government has issued permission to shoot and put down the tiger but only as a last resort in case efforts to tranquilise and shift it fail. The outgoing Conservator of Forests T. Hiralal said they have identified the tiger which is about 10 years old and is now ensconced in a sacred grove or Devara Kaadu. Combing operations are on and the tiger has been cornered, he added.  The combing team attempted to tranquillise the tiger that was lurking in the bushes but missed the shot. The marksmen accompanying a foot patrol team had come close to the tiger and hence were forced to open fire but the animal escaped. A senior official said the combing and tracking operation was suspended late in the evening and will resume at dawn. ‘Another tiger’ A tiger was trapped and tranquillised two weeks ago under similar circumstances when two persons were killed in a span of 12 hours. Mr. Hiralal said there are reasons to believe that this is a different tiger and they had not captured the wrong tiger three weeks ago as suspected by the local community. “The tiger trapped almost three weeks ago and shifted to the wildlife rescue centre in Mysuru was an injured animal and was unable to hunt. This is a different tiger,” said Mr. Hiralal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boy-killed-in-third-kodagu-tiger-attack/article34024068.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Primary deficit worrying factor||The primary deficit (PD) is apparently a cause of worry as it is phenomenally higher than the budget estimates (BE) for the financial year 2020-21. According to information, the PD has been on the higher side since June 2020. It was noticed that PD was Rs. 29,263 crore in June itself while the BE for the entire year was Rs. 27,912.39 crore. Since then, the PD has been on the rise and peaked at Rs. 61,741.68 crore in November, 2020. It was Rs. 55,129 crore in December, 2020 and Rs. 58,781 crore in January, 2021. In fact, the PD has remained more the BE throughout the year. Also, the actuals of primary deficit in the current fiscal have been much higher than all months in the last financial year. The PD to the BE is 210.59% in January, 2021. It is 184.72% in the corresponding period in 2019-20. Similarly, the PD to BE was 197.51% in December, 2020 (financial year 2020-21) and 164.47% in 2019-20 financial year. Primary deficit is the difference between the fiscal deficit of the current year and the interest paid by the government on loans obtained in the past. What it indicates is that the government’s borrowings are utilised to pay the interest on loans rather than on capital expenditure. The rise in the primary deficit is not the sign of a healthy economy. It means the government is spending more on interest payments instead of creating wealth, sources say. When asked whether the rise in primary deficit was due to the payment of interest on the loans borrowed by the government, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said, “The government did borrow the loans to continue the welfare schemes and help the poor and middle class.” The primary deficit has been on the rise ever since the State’s bifurcation in 2014. The interest payments have increased phenomenally during the last five years. The primary deficit was Rs. 12,014 crore in 2015-16. It rose to Rs. 19,211.46 crore in 2016-17. It was Rs. 18,525 crore in 2017-18 and touched Rs. 20,098 crore in 2018-19. The revised estimate for the financial year 2019-20 is Rs. 24,100 crore. The government estimated that the primary deficit will be Rs. 27,912 crore during the current fiscal. “Any borrowing or loan that does not lead to creation of assets, or reduction in liabilities, will not help the economy in the long run,” opines an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/primary-deficit-worrying-factor/article34024656.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,||No new taxes in Karnataka budget||The State Budget for 2021-22, presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa amidst a pandemic-linked economic slowdown, has not levied fresh taxes or increased existing ones despite a shortfall in revenue. It was a please-all Budget that spread out allocations and projects for all communities, districts, and sectors. It announced some incremental steps for developing health facilities and infrastructure, in the light of the pandemic. Presented on International Women’s Day, it focused on encouraging self-reliance and entrepreneurship among women through various programmes, both in rural and urban areas. Balancing act During the two-hour-long speech on the Budget in the Legislative Assembly — which was boycotted by the Congress — Mr. Yediyurappa admitted that “in the midst of the pandemic maintaining a balance between fiscal discipline and equity in development has given the experience of walking on a razor’s edge”. He said the Budget had been formulated “in such a way as not to increase the financial burden on the common man”. COVID-19 had not only hit the State’s economy in 2020-21, but would continue to pose challenges in 2021-22 as well. “The 14% expected growth year on year in revenue will not be there during the next year. The responsibilities taken to manage the pandemic will have its own consequences in 2021-22,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Yediyurappa, who termed the preparation of the Budget “unprecedentedly difficult”, presented a revenue deficit Budget, for the first time in recent years. The revenue deficit is estimated at Rs. 15,133.60 crore for 2021-22. The share of the State in Central taxes has come down by over Rs. 8,000 crore in 2020-21, receiving Rs. 20,053 crore against the estimated Rs. 28,591 crore. Despite floods and the pandemic, the agricultural sector brought cheers to the State by recording a remarkable growth of 6.4% in 2020-21. Industrial and service sectors contracted by 5.1% and 3.1%, respectively. The size of the Budget is fixed at Rs. 2,46,207 crore, an increase of Rs. 8,314 crore (3.5%) over the previous year’s (2020-21), including revenue expenditure (Rs. 1,87,405 crore), capital expenditure (Rs. 44,237 crore) and debt repayment (Rs. 14,565 crore). It has proposed to borrow Rs. 71,332 crore (4% of GSDP). With the fiscal deficit estimated at Rs. 59,240 crore (3.48% of GSDP) and total liabilities at Rs. 4,57,899 crore (26.9% of GSDP) in 2021-22, the government has proposed amendments to the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002, in the current Assembly session. Among the highlights, to please communities, the Budget proposed to rename the Ashrama schools of STs as “Valmiki Ashrama Shale”, earmarked Rs. 500 crore each to various development boards/corporations, Veerashaiva-Lingayat, and Vokkaliga communities. While Rs. 50 crore was allocated for Brahmin Development Board, Rs. 200 crore was earmarked for Christians, and Rs. 10 crore for construction of the Yatri Nivas at Ayodhya for the benefit of pilgrims visiting Ram Mandir which is under construction. Region-wise, Rs. 1,500 crore has been allocated for the Kalyana Karnataka, Rs. 3,000 crore for development of backward taluks, and Rs. 7,795 crore for development of Bengaluru city. Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat, it has proposed a new aerospace and defence policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-new-taxes-in-karnataka-budget/article34024067.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Let’s have Men’s Day too for gender parity: Sonal Mansingh||Noted classical dancer and nominated Rajya Sabha member Sonal Mansingh left the Upper House members bemused with her demand to institute a ‘Men’s Day’ as a mark of gender equality. Ms. Mansingh was speaking during the Zero Hour, which was reserved for the women members to mark International Women’s Day. “Who decided International Women’s Day? Two German women started this tradition. Today, on the floor of this House, I demand that International Men’s Day should also be celebrated,” she said. Her speech was interrupted with loud guffaws from both sides of the House. “We do talk about gender equality...” she said, in an attempt to explain her suggestion.  Congress leader Chhaya Verma opened the debate. “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhaoslogan sounds very good but it is far from the truth,” she said. House Chairman Venkaiah Naidu reminded her that it is a positive agenda and no “political” speeches must be made. The members also raised the pending women’s reservation Bill. Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said it is time to revisit the 33% reservation and increase it to 50%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lets-have-mens-day-too-for-gender-parity-sonal-mansingh/article34024085.ece
09 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Khap leaders upset over group meeting U.P. CM||As the news of Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Umesh Malik taking a delegation of khap Choudharys to meet Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath spread, some khap leaders reacted strongly to it. “It is an attempt to divide us and we would advise the government and our political representatives to refrain from it,” said Shayam Singh, the Thamba Chaudhary of a dozen villages of Gathwala khap. Around 50 tractors of Gathwala and Battisa khaps reached the Ghazipur border and put their point across. In the meeting with the Chief Minister, the Gathwala khap was represented by Rajendra Malik, the son of the Chaudhary of the khap, Baba Harkishan Singh. “In the meeting, nominees are not sent, even if it is the son. And when Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan met Baba Harkishan in Lisad last month, Baba reprimanded him for not speaking on behalf of the farmers,” Mr. Singh said. “As per our knowledge, no other khap was represented by its head in the meeting.” ‘Meet Mr. Tikait’ Mr. Singh said if the BJP leaders were too keen to rope in khap heads, why does Mr. Balyan not approach Naresh Tikait who is the head of the khap he belongs to. “Naresh ji has repeatedly said the BJP leaders should avoid visiting villages to convince farmers for farm laws. While many leaders of the party have followed his advice, there are some who are too keen to express their loyalty to the central leadership.” BJP leaders have said that the movement was not of the khaps, but of the farmers. “If that is the case, why Mr. Balyan and Mr. Malik were busy approaching khap Chaudharys,” said Baba Sanjay Kalkhande, Chaudhary of Kalkhande khap in Lilon village of Shamli. “Those who thought that farmers would be won over just by building the Ram temple were mistaken. For us, the biggest temple is our farm, and today it is in shambles... how would we offer anything to the temple when we have not been paid our dues and there is no increase in SAP for the last three years,” said Mr. Kalkhande. He was not against meeting the CM, but demanded that the PM and the CM should meet the right people. “There is no harm in telling the CM about our problems. However, right now, some of our political representatives are painting a picture that all is well and that it is some political parties that are trying to foment trouble,” he said referring to the Sorum episode (in Muzaffarnagar) on February 22 where Mr. Balyan said those who raised slogans against him were from the Rashtriya Lok Dal. Earlier, he said, Samajwadi Party workers raised slogans against him in Bhainswal. They have forgotten, he said, that farmers in this region rejected these parties in 2014, 2017, and 2019. Still, he added, farmers were ready to give BJP a chance provided they mend their ways. Sokendra Chaudhary, son of Baba Surajmal of Battisa khap, said his father was indisposed, but he refused to meet the BJP leaders when they approached him. “We have repeatedly told them to explain their point of view to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha but they are employing different tactics to divide us.” The next move, he said, could be to isolate Jats as they did in Haryana. “As of now, all the 36 castes are working as one unit. In a khap, every caste is represented by its Chaudhary. We are working towards mending social ties,” said Mr. Chaudhary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/khap-leaders-upset-over-group-meeting-up-cm/article34024370.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||1969 Telangana movement protagonist passes away||Kolluri Chiranjeevi, a protagonist of statehood for Telangana, who actively participated in the second phase movement in 1969, died of illness at a private hospital here on Monday. He was 74. He was admitted to a private hospital last month due to respiratory-related illness and died around 1.45 a.m. on Monday. He is survived by wife and a daughter. Dr. Chiranjeevi was active in several social movements in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, besides being part of the movement for statehood to Telangana since 1969. As an MBBS degree holder from Kakatiya Medical College, Warangal, he led the students in the 1969 Telangana movement. He was also active in the movement for statehood to Telangana since 2001, particularly in the phase after December 2009, and acted as convener of Telangana Movement Founders’ Forum. In the past, he was associated with Naxalite movement, particularly with Peoples War Group and also with founder of Bahujan Samajwadi Party Kanshi Ram in Dalit movement. The State government sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh to meet his medical expenses when his hospitalisation was taken to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Recalling the services of Dr. Chiranjeevi, Mr Rao expressed condolences and said he led an ideal life and worked for the society. He conveyed his sympathies to the bereaved family. Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Ministers K.T Rama Rao, T. Harish Rao, Eatala Rajender, S. Niranjan Reddy, V. Prashanth Reddy, Koppula Eshwar, V. Srinivas Goud, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar and several others mourned Dr. Chiranjeevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1969-telangana-movement-protagonist-passes-away/article34024546.ece
09 March 2021||Kolkata,||7 dead in fire at Eastern Railway headquarters||Seven people, including four firefighters, were killed in a fire at the Eastern Railway headquarters in Kolkata on Monday evening. The blaze broke out on the 13th floor of the 14-storey building located on Strand Road. Two persons are reported missing after the blaze. The blaze broke out at the New Koilaghat building, which houses the zonal offices of the Eastern Railway and the South Eastern Railway, and also has a computerised ticket booking centre on its ground floor, Eastern Railway spokesman Kamal Deo Das said. Late in the evening, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee along with Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra visited the accident spot and spoke to firemen and relatives of those feared dead. “It’s a very sad incident. Seven bodies have been found. The accident occurred because they were going to the 13th floor using the lift,” Ms. Banerjee said. The CM also announced compensation of Rs. 10 lakh for the kin of each deceased and a job to one member of the family. Ms Banerjee raised questions on role of Railways in the incident . While the fire was brought under control in a few hours, causalities were reported when firefighters and security personnel entered the building to rescue those trapped inside. Officials said the deceased include four fire fighters, one police personnel and one member of the Railway Protection Force. The identity of the seventh victim is yet to be ascertained. According to reports, the security personnel and firemen took a lift to the 12th floor but were trapped in the smoke and fire as they stepped out. The bodies were taken out in ambulances around mid-night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-dead-in-fire-at-eastern-railway-headquarters/article34024484.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Amit Shah expresses concern over violence||Home Minister Amit Shah called Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy over telephone on Monday to enquire about the Sunday’s incident at Bhainsa in the State, the prevailing situation and expressed his concern over the violence. Earlier, Mr. Reddy strongly condemned the Sunday violence and said the attack on media personnel is “disturbing and unfortunate”. The Minister informed that he had already spoken to Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy twice and stressed on the need to arrest the culprits at the earliest and suggested deployment of additional forces. Party’s Adilabad MP Soyam Bapu Rao was also spoken to on the issue, he said. The DGP is said to have apprised Mr. Reddy about the situation which is under control and that the offenders will be nabbed soon. Mr. Babu Rao and Nizamabad MP D. Aravind had also visited the injured persons undergoing treatment in a city hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-expresses-concern-over-violence/article34024065.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SC seeks States’ views on 50% cap on quota||The Indira Sawhney judgment had categorically said “50% shall be the rule, and only in certain exceptional and extraordinary situations for bringing far-flung and remote areas population into mainstream the said 50% rule can be relaxed”. The court will also examine whether the Maharashtra State Backward Classes Commission, under the chairmanship of Justice M.C. Gaikwad, had made up a case of “extraordinary circumstances” of deprivation suffered by the Maratha community, requiring the helping hand of reservation even at the cost of crossing the 50% line. In fact, the Bombay High Court had, in June 2019, reduced the quantum of reservation for Marathas from the 16% recommended by the Gaikwad Commission to 12% in education and 13% in employment. A significant question the Bench wants to judge is whether the Constitution (One Hundred Second Amendment) Act of 2018, which introduced the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), interferes with the authority of the State legislatures to provide benefit to the social and educationally backward communities in their own jurisdiction. The Constitution Amendment Act had introduced Articles 338B and 342A in the Constitution. Article 338B deals with the NCBC. Article 342A empowers the President to specify the socially and educationally backward communities in a State. It says that it is for the Parliament to include a community in the Central List for socially and BC for grant of reservation benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-states-views-on-50-cap-on-quota/article34024076.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘SC has highest respect for womanhood’||Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the comments of the CJI on March 1 were indeed twisted out of context. A flurry of outrage followed the reported comments of the CJI. According to the prosecution side, the accused had repeatedly raped the girl since she was in high school. Monday saw the CJI clarifying that his oral remarks, on March 1 again, during the hearing of another case concerning a man accused of falsely promising marriage to a woman was also misinterpreted. The accused had approached the court saying he was framed. He said they were in a live-in relationship and she had accused him of rape when their relationship turned sour. Their sexual intercourse during the period was consensual. The court had stayed his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-has-highest-respect-for-womanhood/article34024077.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Curtail House session, MPs request Om Birla||For the first time in a year, members of both Houses will sit in their respective chambers instead of being spread across the two chambers. Sources said the pre-COVID-19 timings and seating arrangement are being restored to provide more time to each of the House so that the Budget session can be wrapped up before schedule, as per the demand of the MPs. The MPs will, however, continue to sit in the galleries of the chamber to maintain physical distance as per the COVID-19 protocol. On Monday, during the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the Lok Sabha, floor leaders of various parties advanced the same view. The Trinamool Congress and DMK leaders were not present at the meeting. Mr. Birla met some leaders one-on-one to get a sense of the situation. Sources said he would arrive at a decision only after ascertaining the “sense of the House” on the matter. While the Shiv Sena said it would go with whatever the government decided, the YSRCP was one of the few parties that felt that the days lost, in case the session is cut short, should be made up for. 2011 & 2008 precedents The Trinamool Congress, in letters addressed to both Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Mr. Birla, referred to the 2011 and 2008 precedents, when the session was similarly curtailed. In the letter to Mr. Naidu, Trinamool Congress national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien said due to the polls, the MPs of his party would not be able to attend the Parliament session. He cited the 222nd session in 2011, which started on February 21 and was scheduled to conclude on April 21. But it was adjourned sine die on March 25 due to Assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. He also referred to the 214th session in 2008, which commenced on October 17 and was adjourned early on October 24 to meet again on December 10. The session, as per the original schedule, was to continue up to November 21. However, due to coming Assembly elections in some States, the House was adjourned till December 10. “I am optimistic that you will consider this proposal of ours,” said Mr. O’Brien. Trinamool leader Sudip Bandopadhyay had written to Mr. Birla in February stating that due to campaign commitments in West Bengal, MPs from his party will be unable to attend Parliament, and requested that the session be curtailed. The government has started reaching out to Opposition parties seeking to close the session early. A section of Congress leaders, including Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, supports the demand, but others feel it will send a wrong message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curtail-house-session-mps-write-to-birla/article34024078.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,||Twenty20 to contest from five constituencies||Twenty20, a corporate-backed political formation, based in Kizhakkambalam, has announced five of its candidates for the upcoming elections to the State Assembly. The formation has nominated Sujit P. Surendran, 38, a native of Kunnathunadu to contest from the Kunnathunadu constituency. He is a postgraduate from the National Law School of India. Chithra Sukumaran, 50, will contest from Perumbavoor. She is the managing director of S&C MultiCommercials and trained in Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam, and Kuchippudi. Jose Joseph, 50, a medical doctor, will contest from Kothamangalam constituency. He was an associate professor at the Government Medical College in Kalamassery before joining public life. C.N. Prakash, a mediaperson with degrees in law and journalism will contest from the Muvattupuzha constituency while Job Chakkalakkal, 60, formerly an associate professor at St. Paul’s College, Kalamassery, will contest from Vypeen. Twenty20 was formed ahead of the local bodies elections in 2015. The formation won 17 of the 19 seats in the panchayat council. The formation also made its presence felt in the local body elections and won Aikkaranadu, Mazhuvannoor and Kunnathunadu panchayats. It is a strong presence now in Vengola panchayat too. Sabu Jacob, party president, said in a press release that a seven-member committee had been constituted to strengthen its operations ahead of the Assembly polls. Industrialist Kochouseph Chittilappilly is the chairman of the advisory council for Twenty20 while film actor Sreenivasan and film director Siddique are its members, sources said.  Seven-member panel constituted to strengthen forum’s operations ahead of polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twenty20-to-contest-from-five-constituencies/article34024079.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will handle national security projects: ISRO||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has said it will be in charge of projects linked to “national security and advanced technology”, such as the forthcoming Chandrayaan-2 missions and the Gaganyaan mission that plans to send Indian cosmonauts into space. However, the bulk of commercial activities would increasingly be handled by the newly formed New Space India Ltd (NSIL). The comments were in response to a query by the Standing Committee on Science and Technology, led by Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh on whether the NSIL would “replace” ISRO. The NSIL recently coordinated the launch of the Amazonia satellite by Brazil on February 28, its first fully commercial mission that also saw 18 other satellites being launched. The NSIL was incorporated in March 2019 and in June 2020, its scope was “enhanced”. Its mandate, according to a standing committee report on space laid in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, includes owning satellites for earth observation and communication applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-handle-national-security-projects-isro/article34024081.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Stir will go on: Congress||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said the Congress would continue to protest in the House over fuel prices and inflation. Speaking to journalists outside the Parliament House, Mr. Kharge said the government had earned over Rs. 21 lakh crore in the past six years by way of taxes and duties on petroleum products. “Nobody knows where this money went,” he said. He mentioned the February 21 letter of party chief Sonia Gandhi to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in which she had argued for prices to be brought back to 2014 levels by rolling back additional excise duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stir-will-go-on-congress/article34024086.ece
09 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||‘Compensate those acquitted under UAPA’||A local court in Gujarat’s Surat city recently acquitted 122 persons arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for participating in a meeting organised in December 2001 as members of the banned outfit Students' Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). After their acquittal, some of the accused, and also activists from the minority community, demanded that they be compensated for being “illegally framed by the police” without any evidence against them. “Many of them spent years in jail while facing trial. Five accused even died during this lengthy legal proceedings. They should be compensated,” an activist belonging to the minority community said. Five died during trial After protracted legal proceedings, the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate A.N. Dave acquitted the 122 persons as the prosecution failed to produce any substantive evidence linking them with the proscribed outfit. Five of the accused had died during the trial. During the trial, the accused had vehemently denied being members of SIMI and submitted that they had gathered to participate in a seminar organised under the banner of All India Minority Education Board. They submitted that they were in the meeting for religious and educational purposes and to take part in a seminar in a peaceful manner. They said that they had no record of being involved in any terror related or subversive activities as was charged by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/compensate-those-acquitted-under-uapa-say-activists/article34024089.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five themes for 75th year celebration of freedom||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the celebrations of the 75th anniversary of Independence would be based on public participation and revolve around five themes — the freedom struggle and ideas, achievements, actions and resolve at 75. Mr. Modi addressed the first meeting of the national committee chaired by him for the commemoration of the anniversary next year, starting with events this month. Speaking via videoconferencing with Governors, Chief Ministers, prominent artists and others who form the 259-member committee, Mr. Modi said the anniversary should be marked as a festival with the spirit of the freedom movement and tribute to martyrs being highlighted. “He said this festival should embody the glimpse of the glory of Sanatan Bharat and also the glow of modern India. He said it should reflect the light of the spirituality of the sages and also the talent and strength of our scientists. He said it will also showcase our achievements of these 75 years to the world and also give a framework for resolution to us for the next 25 years,” a government statement said. Mr. Modi said the stories of the lesser-known freedom fighters should be publicised. The statement said Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the suggestions made by members would be looked into. Among those who gave suggestions were former President Pratibha Patil, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, former Lok Sabha Speakers Meira Kumar and Sumitra Mahajan and BJP president J.P. Nadda, according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-themes-for-75th-year-celebration-of-freedom/article34024092.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Iran denies links with blast near Israel Embassy||The Iranian Embassy denied any connection between the Quds Force, an arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), and the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) blast outside the Israeli Embassy in Delhi in January. In an official statement on Monday, the embassy “strongly repudiated” the allegation carried in a news report that suggested that the National Investigation Authority (NIA) had “concluded” that the attack on January 29 had been carried out by an Indian proxy group on the orders of the Quds force, in retaliation for the deaths by U.S. drone of Quds force Chief General Qasem Soleimani and top nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh last year. “While respecting the honourable government and authorities of India in their endeavour to thoroughly investigate and probe into the [January 29] incident in order to identify the orchestrators of such actions and to bring them to justice, this embassy strongly repudiates any unsubstantiated allegations or irresponsible comments in this regard,” the statement said, adding that the allegations of an Iranian hand were aimed at “spoiling” bilateral relations. “[It] is the presumption that this act must have been conducted by third parties who are angry and dissatisfied with the progress in the relations between the governments of Iran and India.” The Ministry of External Affairs did not comment on the newspaper report that alleged the link, nor did it respond to questions from The Hindu about whether it has conveyed any conclusions from the investigation to the Iranian or the Israeli government. While no one had been injured in the attack, the proximity of the IED to the high security zone where the Israeli embassy is located was seen by the police as an indication of the seriousness of the threat. Requesting not to be identified, a police official told The Hindu that while the investigation continues, they had narrowed suspicions on two individuals who hired a taxi to the Israeli embassy on the Abdul Kalam Road, and are believed to have had links with a “foreign national”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iran-denies-links-with-blast-near-israel-embassy/article34024098.ece
09 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Rape accused dies after being beaten by villagers||A person accused of raping a woman died in a temporary jail after he was allegedly thrashed by locals before they handed him over to police in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, a police officer said. The person, identified as Subodh Bajpai, was booked for rape after a woman living in the same village lodged a complaint against him on March 5. The locals caught Bajpai the next day from outside the village and handed him over to the police station, said Superintendent of Police (Rural) Kanpur Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. The locals allegedly thrashed him before handing him over. After a medical examination, the accused was sent to jail under judicial remand, said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rape-accused-dies-after-being-beaten-by-villagers/article34024371.ece
09 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Gogoi files nomination papers for poll||Jailed rights activist Akhil Gogoi on Monday submitted nomination papers for the Sivasagar and Mariani Assembly constituencies from the Gauhati Medical College Hospital (GMCH). Mr. Gogoi is the president of Raijor Dal, a new regional party formed almost at the same time as its ally, the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), six months ago. An election team collected Mr. Gogoi’s papers from the hospital where he filed his nominations via video conference. He is brought to the hospital for periodic check-ups. Soon after submitting his papers, Mr. Gogoi wrote a letter addressed to the people of Assam. “It is time to perform the BJP’s visarjan [immersion]. You, the people of Assam should come out to defeat the traitorous BJP,” he said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gogoi-files-his-nomination-papers-for-poll/article34024082.ece
09 March 2021||Kolkata,||Denied ticket, 5 Trinamool MLAs join BJP||Several disgruntled leaders of the Trinamool Congress, including five MLAs, who were denied ticket by West Bengal’s ruling party, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday. Sarala Murmu, who got party ticket from Habibpur in Malda, also joined the BJP. An embarrassed party replaced her candidature with Pradeep Baksey. The defections have become a regular feature in West Bengal polls even as nominations for the first two phases have begun. The MLAs who joined the BJP on Monday include Rabindranath Bhattacharya of Singur, who is upset that the party has given Bechram Manna ticket from his constituency. Mr. Bhattacharya, who was a prominent face of the anti-land acquisition stir at Singur, has represented the constituency since 2001. The 88-year-old MLA, who was denied ticket on account of “old age”, said the party has “disowned him”. “I am also upset that Becharam Manna and his wife (Kabari Manna from Haripal) will contest from two adjoining seats. Is the Trinamool becoming a family party?” said Mr. Bhattacharya. Sonali Guha, a close associate of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Satgachia MLA, also joined the BJP. Ms. Guha, who had described herself as a “family member” to the CM, said that she was hurt after being denied ticket and not getting any call from her. The other MLAs who joined the BJP after being denied ticket are former footballer Dibendu Biswas, Basirhat Dakshin MLA, Jatu Lahiri from Shibpur and Sital Sardar from Sankrail. The most interesting switch was that of Ms. Murmu, who was nominated by Trinamool to contest from Habibpur Assembly seat for the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denied-ticket-5-trinamool-mlas-join-bjp/article34024084.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC revokes extension of limitation time||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to end the extended limitation period granted to litigants for filing appeals. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had last year invoked its extraordinary powers under the Constitution to extend the limitation period of appeals due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The period was extended with effect from March 15, 2020. In an order on Monday, the SC ended this arrangement, in view of the improved situation and the fact that courts have started functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-revokes-extension-of-limitation-time/article34024482.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lawyers move SC on hybrid physical trial||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) moved the court on Monday to quash the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for hybrid physical hearing of cases from March 15. It said the SOP was evolved without a discussion with lawyers. The SOP involved limited entry into courtrooms in tune with physical distancing norms and allowed judges on the Bench to decide whether a case should be held virtually or physically. The association, which has over 13,000 members, said the SOP notified on March 5 was just another instance when the court’s administrative wing — the registry — did not take lawyers into confidence. The pandemic had compelled the court to shift to virtual hearings in March last year. Through the past few months, several lawyers’ bodies had individually and jointly met Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde with a plea to resume physical hearings. “Most of the high courts have started holding physical courts… The last one year has affected younger members of the Bar. There were a lot of problems with regard to muting and unmuting of lawyers in virtual hearings,” the SCBA’s petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawyers-move-sc-to-quash-sop-for-hybrid-physical-trial/article34024094.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||NIA takes over Mumbai explosives case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over from the Maharashtra Police a case pertaining to an explosives laden car that was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s mansion, Antilia, in Mumbai on February 25. The car’s immediate owner, Mansukh Hiren, a resident of Thane, was found dead under suspicious conditions in a creek last week. NIA said that it has received orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to probe the case. “NIA has received orders from MHA, Government of India, for investigation of case FIR 35/2020 registered at PS Gamdevi on 25.02.2021. This case relates to recovery of explosives from a Mahindra Scorpio parked at Carmichael Road, Mumbai. NIA is in the process of re-registering the case,” the spokesperson said. The Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks, was found near Mr. Ambani’s high-rise south Mumbai home on February 25. Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had said in the State Assembly on March 5 that Hiren was not the owner of the car and that the real owner had handed it over to him for some interior work. As per Thane Police, Hiren, who was in vehicle spare business, left his shop around 8.30 p.m. on March 4 in an autorickshaw and since then his phone was switched off. His family then lodged missing person complaint. His body was fished out from the creek on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explosives-near-antilia-nia-takes-over-case/article34024284.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS Minister tests COVID positive||Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod has tested positive for COVID-19. After getting the results on Monday, she checked into hospital and is said to have mild symptoms. 111 new cases On Sunday, the State recorded 111 coronavirus case, taking the total to 3,00,011. The new cases include 27 from Greater Hyderabad, 10 from Rangareddy and nine from Medchal Malkajgiri. No cases were recorded in nine districts including Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, Wanaparthy and Suryapet. While 19,929 people were tested, the results of 349 were awaited. With one more person succumbing to the virus, the death toll now stands at 1,642. So far, a total of 89,84,552 samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 1,807 are active while 2,96,562 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-tests-positive-checks-into-hospital/article34024243.ece
09 March 2021||Hubballi,||Four killed as earth caves in||Four workers, including two women, were buried alive at a work site after the earth caved in at Santebail near Idagundi village of Yallapur taluk of Uttara Kannada district on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Bhagyashree Yadage, 21, Laxmi Doyipade, 38, Santosh Doyipade, 18, and Malu Doyipade, 21, residents of Gouliwada near Kiravatti. The incident occurred when they were excavating earth at Somwargudda (a hillock) to be transported to Manjunath Bhat’s farm. In all, seven workers were hired and three escaped. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-killed-as-earth-caves-in/article34024251.ece
09 March 2021||Kochi,||HC posts Sunny Leone’s bail plea for hearing on March 23||The Kerala High Court on Monday posted for hearing on March 23 the anticipatory bail petition filed by Bollywood actor Sunny Leone and her husband in a cheating case registered against them in connection with a show that did not come off. The case against Ms. Leone, her husband Daniel Weber, and Sunil Rajani, chief executive officer of their production house, was filed by Shiyas Kunhumuhammed of Perumbavoor, the coordinator of the show. The complainant alleged that the actor and other accused had entered into a contract with him for performing stage shows in Kerala and abroad and had allegedly received Rs. 39 lakh. However, Ms. Leone and the others had committed a breach of contract by not performing in the shows and also failed to return the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-posts-sunny-leones-bail-plea-for-hearing-on-march-23/article34024071.ece
09 March 2021||Medak,||Woman doused with petrol, set on fire||In a shocking incident, a man is reported to have doused a woman with petrol and set her on fire at Gadipeddapur village in Alladurg mandal in the wee hours of Monday. She was injured seriously and was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for treatment. Her condition is reported to be serious. According to Alladurg Sub-Inspector A. Mohan Reddy, the woman from Malkapur tanda in Tekmal mandal had gone to Jogipet market on Sunday and did not return even at night. On Monday morning the villagers received information that a woman was found in an unconscious state at the Gadipeddapur Gandhi statue with burn injuries and rushed there and identified her. They shifted her to Osmania General Hospital in Hyderabad for treatment. Earlier, it was suspected that the woman was attacked with acid. Superintendent of Police Chandan Depethi has confirmed that the victim was doused with petrol and set fire by a man.Alladurg police registered a case and started investigation. They have collected data of phone calls to her. Police are also trying to find out the reasons behind the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-doused-with-petrol-set-on-fire/article34024074.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||DAC to take up deals for armed drones, submarines||Multi-billion deals for 30 armed drones from the U.S. and six advanced submarines under Project-75I are likely to be taken by the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) in April for approval, a government official said. India has been looking to procure 30 armed drones, 10 for each service, from the U.S. but the process has been repeatedly delayed over the last couple of years. While the Navy has a pressing requirement for the High Altitude Long Endurance drones, there have been questions on their utility for the Army and Air Force, given the high cost. The three Services have since finalised the Qualitative Requirements and the all the processing has been completed. The case is now ready to be put up before the DAC, an official said. Last November, the Navy inducted two MQ-9B Sea Guardian unarmed drones procured from the U.S. on lease for one year. The U.S. has given in principle approval for the sale of these armed drones to India a while back and the deal came up for discussion during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue in October. However, since the stand-off with China, the need for long endurance drones to maintain continuous surveillance of the border has been acutely felt and the armed forces are in the process of procuring drones of several other categories as well. In January 2020, the DAC had shortlisted Mazgaon Docks Limited (MDL) and Larsen & Toubro (L&T) as the Indian partners for the P-75I deal worth over Rs. 45,000 crore. Once the DAC clears it, the Navy will issue the Request For Proposal (RFP) to the two Indian companies who would respond to it in partnership with a foreign Original Equipment manufacturer (OEM).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dac-to-take-up-deals-for-armed-drones-submarines/article34024093.ece
09 March 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. man gets death penalty for rape, murder of minor||A local court in Uttar Pradesh’s Jaunpur district on Monday awarded the death sentence to a man, just seven months after he was booked for the rape and murder of a 11-year-old Dalit girl. Special POCSO Judge Ravi Yadav convicted the accused Balgovind, alias Govinda, of rape and murder, among other charges, and sentenced him to death. The crime was committed in a village under Madiahun police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-man-gets-death-penalty-for-rape-murder-of-minor/article34024096.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||CISCE revises exam schedule for Classes 10, 12||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Monday revised the exam schedule for classes 10 and 12, with no exams on May 13 and 15, officials said. The Class 10 Economics (Group II Elective) exam will be held on May 4 and Art Papers 2, 3 and 4 on May 22, 29 and June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cisce-revises-exam-schedule-for-classes-10-12/article34024483.ece
09 March 2021||Chandigarh,||75% quota: A ploy of BJP-JJP govt. to “hide its failures”||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja on Monday accused the BJP-JJP government of “hiding its failures” under the garb of providing 75% reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the State. “Neither the youth nor people running industries are happy with the decision. This government has betrayed the people again,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/75-quota-a-ploy-of-bjp-jjp-govt-to-hide-its-failures/article34024099.ece
09 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Rights group’s plea to NHRC on Myanmar refugees in Mizoram||A New Delhi-based rights group has asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to process the asylum or refugee claims of Myanmar nationals who fled the military coup-affected country and had taken shelter in Mizoram. More than 50 people belonging to the Chin ethnic group — related to the dominant Mizos in the Northeast — have taken shelter in Mizoram since March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rights-groups-plea-to-nhrc-on-myanmar-refugees-in-mizoram/article34024095.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s daily case count remains over 500||Tamil Nadu’s daily count of COVID-19 cases stayed above the 500-mark for the fourth day in a row. A total of 556 persons tested positive for the infection in the State, taking the overall tally to 8,55,677. Chennai, Chengalpattu and Coimbatore accounted for 57% of the cases. There were 229 cases in Chennai followed by 48 in Coimbatore and 46 in Chengalpattu. While Tiruvallur recorded 29 cases, there were 19 cases in Tiruvarur, 18 in Tiruppur and 16 in Thanjavur. Kancheepuram and Salem had 15 cases each, Kanyakumari reported 14 cases, Erode saw 10 cases and the Nilgiris three cases. While Kallakurichi and Perambalur had no new cases, 22 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. The fresh cases included a returnee from the United Arab Emirates.  Active cases The number of active cases crossed 4,000 again. As of date, 4,018 persons were under treatment of which 1,866 persons were in Chennai. Another 532 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 8,39,138. The number of active cases in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris, Erode and Salem is 582, with Coimbatore alone accounting for 353 cases. A total of 106 people were discharged after treatment at these places. The State reported three fatalities — two in private hospitals and one in a government hospital. There were two deaths in Chennai and one in Coimbatore. One of them, a 62-year-old woman from Coimbatore, was admitted to a private hospital in Erode on March 4 with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing for a day and loose stools. She died on March 7 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Till date, 12,521 persons, including 4,166 in Chennai, have succumbed to the infection. As many as 54,325 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. With this, 1,79,00,716 samples have been tested in the State. Vaccine update In the highest daily coverage, over one lakh persons — a little over 40% of them aged above 60 years — were vaccinated on Monday. A total of 1,10,251 persons were inoculated, taking the State’s total coverage so far to 9,58,327. A total of 47,535 senior citizens, 26,787 persons aged 45 to 59 years with comorbidiites, 25,486 frontline and 10,443 healthcare workers received the vaccines. Of this, 46,338 persons aged above 60 years, 26,231 persons with comorbidities, 24,979 frontline and 9,864 healthcare workers received Covishield. Covaxin was administered to 1,197 senior citizens, 556 persons with comorbidities, 507 frontline and 579 healthcare workers. With this, a total of 4,22,902 healthcare and 2,44,789 frontline workers, 1,06,187 persons aged 45 to 59 years with comorbidities, 1,84,449 senior citizens were vaccinated till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-daily-case-count-remains-over-500/article34024182.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directive to ECI on allotting permanent symbols to parties||The Madras High Court on Monday decided to examine whether it was fair on the part of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to allot permanent election symbols to recognised political parties alone and deny such a benefit to the registered but unrecognised political parties. The court directed the ECI to file its counter affidavit to a writ petition challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made it clear that it would not be possible to decide the issue before the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in the State on April 6. However, stating that it could be decided with respect to future elections, the Bench instructed ECI counsel Niranjan Rajagopalan to make sure that a counter affidavit was filed within six weeks and granted two more weeks for the petitioner party to file a rejoinder to it. Tamizhaga Murpokku Makkal Katchi had filed the case to declare paragraphs 5,8,9,10,10A,10B, 11 and 12 of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 to be in violation of Article 14 (equality before law) of the Constitution.  The petitioner’s counsel K. Sakthivel contended that allotting a permanent symbol to one set of political parties and denying it to another set of parties amounted to defying the principle of ensuring a level-playing field during the polls. He pointed out that the practice of allotting election symbols began after Independence because a majority of the Indian voters were illiterates and therefore it was felt that a unique symbol would help the voters in identifying their choice of candidates. However, now that the literacy rate in the country had increased to 84% from 12% in 1947, there was absolutely no need for allotment of symbols to select parties under the nomenclature of recognised political parties, he contended. The counsel also claimed that many other countries had dispensed with the practice of allotting symbols and instead started using the names of candidates and the parties to which they belong on the ballot papers. ‘Psychic relationship’ “Recognised parties with permanent symbols create a psychic relationship with the voters by registering it in their subconscious mind and it affects freedom of voting as well as the principle of ensuring a level-playing field to all parties that contest elections irrespective of being recognised or not,” he said. He also accused the recognised political parties of glorifying the permanent symbols allotted to them and making the voters to blindly follow such glorification without assessing the weightage of individual candidates on the fray. He also alleged that the party in power ends up promoting such permanent symbols using public funds and government machinery. This was nothing but exerting undue influence and would amount to corrupt practice under Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-directive-to-eci-over-allotting-permanent-symbols-to-some-parties/article34024179.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP strength to be in double digits in T.N. Assembly’||BJP State president L. Murugan  is confident that his party will have ‘double-digit’ MLAs in the Tamil Nadu Assembly after the election. Edited excerpts from an interview he gave The Hindu at the busy BJP campaign office at Koyambedu, Chennai, on Monday.   You said the BJP had winning prospects in 60 seats but have settled for 20 seats in the AIADMK-led alliance…  Our main agenda is to ensure that our alliance wins. The DMK should not come to power at any cost. Our alliance is very big. Other partners need to be given seats. Hence, we have taken these many seats. How many do you expect to win? We will win all 20. In the coming Assembly, we will have double-digit MLAs. The NDA, led byAIADMK, will form the next government. Will you seek a share in power? After the election, we will have to see what our national leadership decides. Did the BJP try to rope the AMMK into the alliance? The BJP did not interfere; we won’t. The AIADMK is the leader of the alliance in the State. Who were you referring to as anti-nationals when you recently said this election was a fight between nationalists and anti-nationals? The DMK. They are against Tamils [as well]. Almost 1.5 lakh Tamils were killed [in Sri Lanka] when the Congress was in power. The DMK supported them. Those behind ‘insulting’ the Kanda Sashti Kavacham had the backing of the DMK. Let me explain how they are anti-nationals. In this country whenever any growth-related works are taken up, they protest against them. They only brought in NEET [the DMK’s stand is NEET was not implemented then], but are now opposing it; the Congress and the DMK proposed fixing prices for farm produce; now the DMK is opposing the farm laws. The National Education Policy proposes teaching in mother tongue, but in schools run by DMK functionaries, Hindi and English are being taught as main languages. They have also destroyed the resources of the country — the 2G scam is a mega scam [all accused were acquitted by the trial court]. But most of them are policy issues. How does it make them ‘anti-nationals’? They [the DMK] are against the development of the country. Take the COVID-19 crisis. The Centre and the Tamil Nadu government handled it efficiently, but the DMK is criticising the response. Do you believe that the Devendrakula Velalar issue will work in your favour? We did not take it up for votes. This was taken up in 2012 and [the then BJP president] Amit Shah ji came in 2015 and we had the Madurai declaration. [Prime Minister] Modi ji met their representatives. When I was the Scheduled Castes Commission Chairman, we took it up. But none of this was done for votes. It was to acknowledge and respect the community’s sentiments. Won’t the exclusive reservation for Vanniyars lead to consolidation of other communities? This is about social justice. It should reach everyone. The Vanniyars had put forth their demands to the government. The government considered them, and has given the reservation. But the Bill was passed just before the Election Commission notified the poll schedule… Not everything should be seen through the prism of election. For the past 40 years, they have been fighting for the reservation. In the Lok Sabha election, Tamil Nadu saw an anti-Modi wave… There was no anti-Modi wave. The negative propaganda was spread by the DMK and the Congress. There is only a pro-Modi wave here. People have now understood that none of that propaganda was true. It is due to this that so many people — fishermen, actors and youth — are joining the BJP. Why did you seek a ban on Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s campaign in Tamil Nadu? We only complained to the EC about his holding a meeting at an educational institution and criticised the Prime Minister and the Centre there after the model code of conduct came into force. Your party inducted a number of anti-social elements recently… In our party, anyone can give a missed call and become a member. So they could have become a member using this procedure. We don’t give any work to those with a criminal background. What do you have to say about the DMK’s seven agenda points announced by Mr. Stalin on Sunday? Whatever they have announced is a copy of what the Central government is doing. They are talking about water — our government is doing that under the Jal Jeevan mission. We have given an AIIMS. SC/ST scholarship to the tune of Rs. 60,000 crore has been allotted. Farm laws have been passed. How do you see the chances of Kamal Haasan’s party? He will have no impact. (For the full interview, visithttp://bit.ly/MuruganBJP)  We will win all 20 seats.... The NDA, led by the AIADMK, will form the next government in Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-strength-to-be-in-double-digits-in-tn-assembly/article34024166.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Roads, drains remain Avadi’s sore points||Evenings have become happier and filled with activities for residents of Avadi in Tiruvallur district, thanks to the restoration and development of the Paruthipattu lake into an eco-park. The Rs. 28-crore project, which gave a new lease of life to the lake, is one of the achievements of Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan, who represents Avadi in the Assembly. Five lakes, including Ayanambakkam and Sekkadu, have been restored in the last five years. “We have a Tidel park coming up near the railway line. Construction work is under way. It will help residents here to get better job opportunities in a new field. Most residents here depend on the public sector undertakings and the manufacturing industries in the neighbouring areas. If this is completed, we need not travel all the way to the IT corridor for work. Though it took some time to fructify, we are happy that it has happened as it would help improve infrastructure, including roads,” said a consumer activist and long-time resident of Avadi and added that more needed to be done to improve the quality of life of residents. However, residents of Pattabiram and Avadi town say though they were impressed with the work of their MLA, who is a Minister, they are unhappy with the functioning of the municipal corporation. “Even basic things like sweeping of roads, clearing of garbage and laying of roads have not happened. Main roads, including Kamrajar Salai and Alamathi Road, are badly in need of re-laying. We may be the fifth largest constituency in terms of the number of voters, we would perhaps also be the only one to have seven Tasmac shops on a 2-km stretch,” said J. Jayakumar, a resident. Residents said there were still localities that did not have underground drainage, a crucial element to ensure hygiene. “There are streets where you can see sullage running on either side. A cartel of contractors is preventing work, including laying of roads, from being carried out. Something must be done to change this,” said a resident. Mr. Pandiarajan said the much-awaited underground sewage project was happening now and covers 8,000 homes. Minister’s assurance “The work was stopped due to the election notification. It will be completed. The system with a 4 million litres daily pumping station at Mittanamalli is functioning well. We have covered more homes with safe potable drinking water. In place of 1 MLD earlier, we now supply 10 MLD. Similarly, we have rehabilitated over 3,000 families that encroached government land worth Rs. 502 crore and are in the process of constructing various government offices there,” he said. The Tidel park and the Chennai Peripheral Road, connecting Mamallapuram and Minjur, would help develop the constituency as an IT and logistics hub. “In the next five years, I see transformation of Avadi from a manufacturing shop to a hub. We will be restoring five more lakes,” he said.  In the next five years, I see transformation of Avadi from a manufacturing shop to a hub  K. Pandiarajan Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-drains-remain-avadis-sore-points/article34024519.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisheries sector needs improvement||With fish landings remaining flat for several years in a row, experts in the fisheries sector say the focus should now be on quality and value addition so that the men who toil in the seas off the Tamil Nadu coast will get a better income. “Over the past five years, fish production has not increased much, hovering around 6.9 lakh tonnes per year, and marine fishermen are spending more on getting bigger boats, nets and equipment. They are forced to get engines with a higher horsepower that can drag the nets at the bottom of the sea,” said an expert, who did not want to be named. Fishermen, especially those operating out of the Kasimedu fishing harbour in Chennai, have been urging the government to establish a fish park near the harbour so that fish being landed here could be processed for export markets. Recently, the Centre announced in the Union Budget that the Kasimedu harbour would get some facilities, but it is not clear what facilities will come up. “At present, fish from Chennai is being sent to Kerala to be processed and then exported, which means we are losing out on income from exports. Further, the price that we get is quite low, compared with other fishing harbours. The harbour only has auction halls, open spaces to sell fish in retail and space to repair nets. In fact, going by international standards, sanitation is not up to the mark. We even lack toilets and drinking water. Unless these facilities are upgraded, we cannot export from here,” said Nanjil Ravi of the Akhila Indhiya Meenavar Sangam. Price of catch U. Arulanandam, president, Rameswaram Fishermen Association, said tuna, a major catch among those from deep sea, was being sold for as high as $1,000 a kg in Japan. “With every improvement in quality, the price of the catch will increase. Fish from here is sent to Vietnam where it is processed and sold for a higher price,” he said, adding that while the processing facilities were established, care must be taken to ensure that local needs were met. “Every fishing harbour has its unique catch. Uniform facilities would not be of much help,” he said. To increase the income of fishermen, the Tamil Nadu government is trying to encourage deep sea fishing. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said this would help build resources close to the coast, thereby benefiting artisanal fishermen. “Already over 60 deep sea vessels have been built and handed over to the fishermen. There are two subsidy schemes for their purchase. For those in the Mandapam area, the subsidy amount is higher. The concept of mother ship, which was introduced in 2014, would help fishermen of deep sea vessels since it would process the catch in the sea and bring it to the coast. However, there have been no takers for this,” he explained. He also pointed out that his government had spent over Rs. 1,500 crore for improving infrastructure in the State in the last five years. “We currently rank number one in fish production in the country,” he said.  At present, fish from Chennai is being sent to Kerala to be processed and then exported, which means we are losing out on income from exports||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisheries-sector-needs-improvement/article34024168.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pink booth created as part of voter awareness drive||A Pink Booth was inaugurated at Aringar Anna Government Higher Secondary School in Poonamallee Constituency on Monday on the occasion of Women’s Day. Women from the locality were presented with a short familiarisation programme about the functioning of VVPAT machines. There are 18 booths in the school and booth number 312 has been converted into a pink booth. “One booth should not have more than 1,050 voters. Booth number 312 had more than the prescribed number, so we made this into a pink booth exclusively for women with 600 voters,” said N. Preethi Parkavi, Election Officer, Poonamallee constituency. She said the entire room was converted into pink colour. “Right from the fans to the tumblers, everything was pink. The presiding officer and the polling officials in the booth are all women,” she said. After the booth was inaugurated, awareness on the importance of voting was given to women from the locality and the teachers of the school. “We asked them to come with voter Id and conducted a mock voting exercise. We showed them how the VVPAT machines worked,” added another official. Every day, 50 women would be given such awareness. Besides, to create awareness about the importance of casting vote, Ms. Parkavi has given tags to all the hotels in her limits. “These should be tied to the food parcels which are delivered through Swiggy or Zomato. They will carry messages such as Voting Is Your Duty, If You Don’t Vote You Can’t Complain, Don’t Sell Your Vote etc. The customer will read it and this will create an awareness,” she added. A special team of revenue inspectors and village accountant officers has been formed to ensure that all hotels follow it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pink-booth-created-as-part-of-voter-awareness-drive/article34024522.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Czech envoy calls on Prince of Arcot||The Ambassador of the Czech Republic to India in Delhi, Milan Hovorka, made a courtesy call on the Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali in Amir Mahal here on Monday. He was accompanied by Ar Rm Arun, Honorary Consul, Czech Republic in Chennai. The Ambassador was keen to promote education in India, particularly joint venture programmes with the leading educational institutions in Tamil Nadu. In response, the Prince assured his support to the Ambassador’s initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/czech-envoy-calls-on-prince-of-arcot/article34024512.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Czech Republic keen to boost trade ties with Tamil Nadu: Ambassador||Czech Republic is keen to strengthen its business ties with Tamil Nadu, Ambassador Milan Hovorka said. “We consider Tamil Nadu as one of the most prospective Indian States in so many areas. I am starting purposefully by enabling people to people contact. This is my 11th visit to the State,” he said in an interaction on the sidelines of an event organised by The Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Hovorka said tourism and education could be two potential areas of synergies for Tamil Nadu and Czech Republic. “In terms of tourism, both sides have so many places worth visiting. Ofcourse, now tourism is hit due to COVID-19 pandemic. But the idea is to keep the dialogue going, so that people can plan their travel once the pandemic is over,” he noted. Mr. Hovorka pointed out other potential areas are automotive, food processing, textiles and financial services, defence and aerospace.“Tamil Nadu is a leading automotive hub in India. Czech Republic produces 1.2 million passenger cars a year. So there is a respective common ground to collaborate and explore the market opportunities together,” he said. He said the bilateral trade between India and Czech Republic had been strong and there were investment opportunities for both sides. Bilateral trade is now $1.6 billion out of which $1 billion is imports from India. Even when Czech’s economy fell 5.6% in 2020 due to the impact from COVID-19, exports from India grew 7%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/czech-republic-keen-to-boost-trade-ties-with-tamil-nadu-ambassador/article34024514.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MGM Healthcare sets up new institute for liver transplant||MGM Healthcare has announced the setting up of MGM Institute of Liver Transplant and Hepato-Pancreatico-Biliary (HPB) Surgery at the hospital. Addressing the media here on Monday, the doctors said the institute performed four liver transplants with organs from live donors in the past one month. S. Thiagarajan, director of the institute, said this included a liver transplant for a 42-year-old man under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. He said the patient had acute and chronic liver failure with episodes of food pipe bleeding. He was admitted to the hospital in critical condition. After treating him to prepare for an emergency liver transplant, Dr. Thiagarajan said the necessary approvals for performing the transplant under Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme was provided by the government within 24 hours. Increased awareness He stressed on the need for increased awareness on liver transplantation as thousands of lives could be saved every year, particularly from diseases such as liver cirrhosis. Echoing his thoughts, Karthik Mathivanan, senior consultant and associate director of the institute, said that more people can get benefited in Tamil Nadu under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. “The government provides Rs. 22 lakh for liver transplant and lifelong aid for immunosuppressive drugs for those covered under the scheme. This amount is the highest in the country,” he said. Ravi R., academic director, Interventional Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases at the hospital, said the new institute, with world class infrastructure and expertise, would help in better diagnosis and management of all gastroenterology and liver problems and provide comprehensive care for all diseases and disorders affecting the digestive systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgm-healthcare-opens-institute-for-liver-transplant/article34024521.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination centres in Chennai register spike in footfall after awareness drive||A total of 1.59 lakh residents have received the dose of COVID-19 vaccination in the city. “The number of residents visiting hospitals increased on Monday,” said an official of the Greater Chennai Corporation. Over 80 lakh residents in the city are expected to be vaccinated by the end of this year. Civic officials have started creating awareness about COVID-19 vaccination in various parts of the city, pointing to the rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the past few days. Sanitation workers have started earmarking COVID-19 hotspots to warn residents about the need for COVID-19 vaccination. A total of 51,767 residents have received doses at the Corporation urban community health centres. Just 1,461 residents have visited urban primary health centres in the city for COVID-19 vaccination. As many as 35,525 residents have visited government hospitals for COVID-19 vaccination in the city. Private hospitals have vaccinated 70,761 residents so far. Two-dose count A total of 1.44 lakh residents have received the first dose and 14,968 residents have received the second dose. A total of 52,901 healthcare workers, 14,058 frontline workers, 4,484 police personnel, two RPF personnel, 447 election officials, 50,658 senior citizens, 17,418 persons with co-morbidities have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination in the city. Over 1.39 lakh persons who received the first dose have opted for Covishield and 4,578 have received Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-centres-in-city-register-spike-in-footfall/article34024517.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo Hospitals launches cancer awareness drive||Women should make their health a priority so that their family remains happy, said Prathap C. Reddy, founder-chairman of Apollo Hospitals. At the launch of breast cancer awareness programme on the occasion of International Women’s Day, Dr. Reddy said, “Every woman should promise herself that she shall prevent herself from getting cancer of the breast. It is curable. Spread the message. We need to take this challenge across to all women.” Healthcare provision in his native town had paid dividends. Not only had the neonatal or maternal mortality been prevented but even cancers were detected early and treated, preventing deaths, he said. Cancer can be cured by being aware. All women must participate to make people aware that cancer is curable, he added. Actor Radhika Sarathkumar urged women to spend a few minutes to self-examine their breasts. “Self breast exam is simple. My fight has been against perceived notions. Let me take care of myself and be special always. It is not about being remembered for just one day in the year,” she said. She flagged off two buses that would be used for cancer screening programmes. Apollo Cancer Centres has collaborated with Lion’s Club to screen women in the villages of Kancheepuram for breast cancer. Apollo group vice-chairperson Preetha Reddy said potentially 350 million lives would be saved in India with awareness about cancer. By not taking care of themselves, people found healthcare an economic burden, she said. Radiation oncologist at Apollo Cancer Centre Rathna Devi said survival rate of breast cancer patients was low because detection was late. Bhawna Sirohi, breast medical oncologist at Apollo Proton Cancer Centre, said 70% of women come very late for diagnosis and this reduced the chances of cure as well. She urged people to be proactive and asked them to register to be a breast examiner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-group-launches-cancer-awareness-drive/article34024525.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not wearing masks will invite spot fines, says Radhakrishnan||Non-compliance with mask wearing would invite spot fines, officials of the Health Department said. Fresh COVID-19 infections have been slowly rising in the State, especially in Chennai, in the last three days. Poor adherence to wearing masks is one of the causes of concern for public health officials, raising the need for strict enforcement of norms. On visiting key shopping areas in Chennai on Monday, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan not only advised persons, who did not wear masks, but also imposed a fine of Rs. 200 on the spot. He ordered officers of the Greater Chennai Corporation to impose spot fines on persons who did not wear masks. He told reporters that till date, more than Rs. 13 crore was collected as fine from 14,21,350 persons for non-adherence to COVID-19 appropriate norms. The Health Secretary inspected Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar, and carried out a mask compliance drive, and later visited containment areas and a vaccination centre in West Mambalam. The rise in COVID-19 cases in States such as Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala was a warning signal for people in Tamil Nadu. People should cooperate to keep the cases under control. They should wear masks and maintain physical distancing, he added. He said that after Chennai, additional attention was being paid to districts such as Coimbatore and Chengalpattu. Persons arriving from abroad should get tested for COVID-19 72 hours prior to travel and would be allowed to enter only if the test result was negative. However, persons travelling from the U.K. would be tested again for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. In case of any symptoms, they would be isolated and monitored, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-wearing-masks-will-invite-spot-fines-says-radhakrishnan/article34024184.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK signs pact with CPI(M), allots six seats||The DMK on Monday signed a seat-sharing agreement with the CPI(M) for six Assembly seats. It also signed an agreement with the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi (TVK), the Aathi Thamizhar Peravai (ATP) and the Makkal Viduthalai Katchi (MVK) for one seat each. Candidates of these three parties will contest on the DMK’s Rising Sun symbol. With the seats allotted to the allies so far, the DMK will contest in 187 of the 234 constituencies, including those where the MDMK, the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, the TVK, the ATP and the MVK will contest on the Rising Sign symbol. Sources said a few more seats might be allotted to smaller partners. Tough negotiations The agreement with the CPI(M) came at the end of tough negotiations. On Saturday, after the second round of talks, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan said the seats on offer were inadequate. Speaking to reporters after signing the agreement with DMK president M.K. Stalin, Mr. Balakrishnan said the party had agreed to the offer of six seats with the sole objective of defeating the BJP-AIADMK alliance. He said the BJP had toppled the Puducherry government with just a few representatives in the Assembly. “We have to ensure that the BJP does not make inroads into Tamil Nadu,” he said. The DMK has already allocated 25 Assembly seats to Congress, besides the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha seat for the byelection; six seats each to the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the Communist Party of India and the MDMK; 2 seats to the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (one of which will be contested on the DMK’s symbol); and three seats to the Indian Union Muslim League.  Sources said a few more seats might be allotted to smaller partners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-signs-pact-with-cpim-allots-six-seats/article34024167.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac deploys flying squads ahead of polls||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Ltd. (Tasmac) has deployed flying squads across the State to monitor liquor movement ahead of the election. Special teams have been constituted in all districts, which include a representative from Tasmac, excise and prohibition. According to sources in Tasmac, from the time the election dates were announced, the teams have been scrutinising the State borders to keep a tab on liquor coming in from the neighbouring States.  Vehicles monitored For the last one week, vehicles that move from depots to shops with liquor consignments are being monitored, and details pertaining to opening and closing stock, along with photographs, are being sent (through WhatsApp) to the head office in Chennai, said a source. Sales patterns at shops are being scanned by the flying squad, and if the sales are abnormally high (more than 30% of the usual sales), those in charge of the shops are being questioned. ‘Sensitive’ shops A senior official said that around 703 shops have been identified as “sensitive” based on parameters like aloof spots, those away from main roads and shops located in slums. “These shops will be watched closely,” he said. Tasmac has put in place 45 checkposts across the State, especially in Villupuram and Krishnagiri. “Cameras have been placed at these checkposts and monitored from the control room at the headquarters from time to time,” said the official. Officials claim that because of these efforts, Tasmac has seized close to 5,264 bottles between February 26 and March 5 and over 180 FIRs have been filed. The maximum seizures happened in regions in and around Madurai, followed by the Coimbatore region. Interestingly, liquor sales had dipped by 5-6% since the day the election dates were announced. “Even prior to that, sale was down by 1-2% on an average,” said another source. The source explained that although there was growth in the value of liquor sold, the volume had not been promising. The reason for growth in value was due to the revision of maximum retail price (MRP) of IMFS and beer products that happened in February 2020. The excise duty was again increased in May 2020. Tasmac on an average sells liquor worth Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore a day through its 5,300-plus shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-flying-squads-check-liquor-flow-ahead-of-election/article34024513.ece
09 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK copying MNM manifesto: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday launched a scathing attack on DMK and its president M.K. Stalin. At a Women’s Day event in Chennai, he reiterated his allegation that the DMK was plagiarising MNM’s manifesto which promised monthly salary for housewives. He dubbed the DMK as a party of ‘dacoits’. “Let them acknowledge it. If they want to copy from us, we have more such plans. Whether they acknowledge it or not, they should do good things,” he said. He further mocked Mr. Stalin’s slogan ‘Stalin dhaan varaaru’. “The dacoits are announcing their arrival now,” he said. Mr. Haasan said that “poverty is carefully protected” by those in power. “It is not very difficult to get rid of poverty. Human resource is valuable. Only two countries are more resourceful and rich – India and China – in that order. China has just started learning English but we have writers who can write in English and are winning international acclaim. People may wonder how Kamal Haasan is saying we can eliminate poverty when economists are saying otherwise. We just have to do one thing: stop stealing public money,” he said.  Mr. Haasan said the party believed housewives contributed to the GDP of the State. “It has been two years since we announced it. I am glad they understood it now. If they speak about it in the Assembly, we need to keep teaching them. In Assam, Congress announced Rs. 2,000 for housewives. The DMK has announced a mere Rs. 1,000. Apparently, they wanted to give Rs. 4,000. They will always take away Rs. 3,000,” the MNM leader said. Meanwhile, the MNM finalised its alliance with the All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi led by R. Sarathkumar and T.R. Paarivendhar’s Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi on March 8, a party release said. Mr. Haasan’s party will contest 154 assembly constituencies while AISMK and IJK will contest in 40 constituencies each. The list of candidates are likely to be announced in the next few days.   If they want to copy from us, we have more such plans. Whether they acknowledge it or not, they should do good things||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-copying-mnm-manifesto-kamal/article34024180.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami denies differences with OPS||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday denied the report that there were differences between him and Deputy Chief Minister and coordinator O. Panneerselvam over the finalisation of his party’s candidates. To a question on the issue, he answered that “the media are carrying reports to create some excitement. There is no substance in them.” The talk of differences cropped up in the morning, as the Chief Minister did not take part in the party’s celebration of Women’s Day at the headquarters. A release issued by the party said that as part of the celebration, Mr. Panneerselvam cut the cake in the presence of deputy coordinators K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam. At the same time, the Chief Minister was closeted with two of his Cabinet colleagues S.P. Velumani and P. Thangamani. A couple of senior functionaries said the differences had cropped up over nomination for the Assembly election. While Mr. Panneerselvam was for dividing the total number of the AIADMK seats equally between two camps, Mr. Palaniswami wanted the lion’s share for his group because of its strength. One of the Ministers from northern districts said it was “natural” that such differences would arise. Through “a free exchange of views,” the party would “resolve all such issues,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-denies-differences-with-ops/article34024183.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Build bones in younger age, prevent fractures in future’||Women and men should build their bone mass before the age of 30 so that they can benefit as they grow older, say doctors. Ahead of the International Women’s Day on March 8, The Hindu as part of it Wellness Series along with Kauvery Hospital organised a webinar on bone health recently. Participants, including Aravindan Selvaraj, co-founder and chief orthopaedic surgeon of Kauvery Hospital, S. Chockalingam, consultant trauma and orthopaedic surgeon in the Tiruchi branch of the hospital, and Usha Sriram, head of the Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Women’s Health at the Voluntary Health Services in Taramani, reiterated that women should include sufficient exercise. While men and women achieve their peak bone mass around the age of 30, women tend to lose their bone mass faster. “Bone is a dynamic organ which is alive and the cells,” she said. Dr. Chockaligam likened the body to a building and the bones to the steel structure on which brick and mortar were added to build. “Bone is a vibrant structure which is why when a bone breaks, it hurts, the muscles ache and the joints become weak,” he said. Both obesity and being underweight could adversely affect the bone health, he said. Dr. Aravindan said in his hospital, menopausal women were routinely advised to check for bone health and bone density. “We advise dietary changes and recommend regular exposure to sunlight. Women should not ignore regular weight bearing exercises,” he said. The challenges of managing women over the age of 65 with broken bones were higher as their bones were fragile and did not have the ability to hold up the bones. Dr. Usha said sunscreen lotions were prescribed by dermatologists for a specific condition. But using them would prevent absorption of Vitamin D by the body, she cautioned. Dr. Chockalingam said women should continue exercising post-delivery, be it normal or caesarean section. The injections given during delivery were not to be blamed for back pain. The body needed only 1 g to 1.2 g of calcium. Exposure to sunlight helped the body synthesise calcium consumed through food sources, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/build-bone-mass-at-a-younger-age/article34024524.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Shop-and-donate’ platform launched||Sethu Foundation launched an e-merchandising programme “Kalpavrisksha: shop and donate” which will have products cultivated and handcrafted by women. “The first product we will have on our web platform for purchase is Lakadong Turmeric from Jaintia Hills in Meghalaya. Trinity Saioo has been spearheading a revolution with regard to its cultivation by several women’s groups and we have roped in women’s groups here, to help with the packaging and retailing,” said Sethu Lakshmi, Managing Director, Sethu Foundation. The merchandising programme was introduced as a part of the foundation’s Women’s Day celebrations at Teynampet on Monday. Speaking about their soon-to-be-launched website for Kalpavriksha, Ms. Lakshmi said that it would be a unique e-commerce platform where the profit was clearly displayed and taken as a donation for activities of the Foundation.  Free counselling The Foundation’s ‘Reboot Life’ initiative, which offers counselling services, was introduced to those who were present at the event.  Achievers R. Nandini, M. Mahadevi, S. Malathi, M. Kalaiyarasi, L. Subbulakshmi, E. Bharathi, R. Devi, and Anjali Selvam from Teynampet, were recognised for their resilience and honoured on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shop-and-donate-platform-launched/article34024520.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women loco pilots face challenging working conditions, seek reforms||Even as International Women's Day is celebrated, highlighting the achievement of women breaking of the glass ceiling in several domains, including driving buses, trucks and trains, very little has been done to improve their working condition, said a group of women loco pilots. The Southern Railway has more than 50 loco and assistant loco pilots operating the suburban trains in the Chennai division but face hardship such as lack rest room (running room in railway parlance) facilities, transport facility and lack of security while working odd hours. The Southern Railway has been elevating women loco and assistant loco pilots to operate mail/express trains but with minimum working comfort. A woman loco pilot explaining the daily hardship faced by them to answer nature’s call because of lack of running room and safety concerns of attending duties to operate trains during odd hours at night, wanted the Southern Railway to build exclusive rest rooms in important railway stations. The office-bearers of the All India Loco Running Staff Association, to mark the Women’s Day celebration this year, has submitted a petition to Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer (Operation) of the Chennai Division, Southern Railway, to take steps to provide exclusive rest rooms. The petition, which highlighted the need for transport for women crew attending to work at odd hours at night, sought women staff at the rest rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-loco-pilots-face-challenging-working-conditions-seek-reforms/article34024635.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All COVID-19 norms will be strictly followed at polling booths: Sahoo||All COVID-19 norms, laid down by the Health Department, will be strictly followed by election workers during polling in Tamil Nadu on April 6, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said here on Monday. At a press conference, he said every elector would be given a hand glove for pressing the button in EVMs. The Election Commission of India had ordered strict compliance with all precautionary measures recommended by the Health Department, he said. Physical distancing, wearing of masks and other precautions would be ensured at polling booths. “All electors will be scanned with infrared thermometer. Those who are having fever or other COVID-19 symptoms will be issued a medical certificate and allowed to vote at the additional hour of polling,” Mr. Sahoo said. They will also be given a personal protective equipment kit when they come for casting their votes. He said election officials would issue a voter identification slip to electors five days before polling; Along with it, the electors must bring any of the 11 documents recommended by the Election Commission for proof of identity. They are Aadhaar; MGNREGA job card; passbook with photo issued by banks or post office; health insurance smart card issued by the Ministry of Labour; NPR smart card; driving licence; PAN card; Indian passport; pension document with photo; Service identity cards issued to employees by the Central or State government or public sector units or public limited companies; and official identity cards of MLAs and MPs. The political parties must submit the documents needed for star campaigners before March 22 and comply with the Election Commission’s guidelines for submitting the candidates’ criminal antecedents, he said. While documents are submitted for filing of nominations, only two persons will be allowed to accompany a candidate. The Election Commission has increased the number of polling booths from 68,324 to 88,937.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-covid-19-norms-will-be-strictly-followed-at-polling-booths-sahoo/article34024165.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK office-bearer files suits against CM, Minister||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Sulur Union division secretary A. Rajendran has filed two defamation suits in the Madras High Court against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Municipal Administration and Rural Development Minister S.P. Velumani for speeches made by them during the election campaigns in Coimbatore, Erode and Pollachi allegedly accusing him of sexually harassing a woman passenger during a train journey in March 2019. When the two suits were listed before Justice R. Pongiappan on Monday for deciding their maintainability, senior counsel N.R. Elango, assisted by S. Manuraj, relied upon a few Supreme Court verdicts to contend that the High Court Registry was not right in having questioned whether the suits were maintainable. The judge asked the counsel to circulate hard copies of the verdicts and directed the High Court Registry to list both the cases again on Wednesday. In his identical plaints, Mr. Rajendran said he had travelled from Chennai to Coimbatore by train on March 11, 2019. Since he was a diabetic, he had to use the rest room often. While climbing down from the upper berth, he slipped and fell on the lower berth where a woman passenger was sleeping. The fall made him lose consciousness for a short period. In the meantime, the woman lodged an oral complaint to the railway and police authorities, and they reached the spot. However, after he explained the situation, the woman realised that he did not intend to cause any harm to her and asked the officials not to initiate any action. About 15 days after the incident, a First Information Report (FIR) was registered against him on March 26 on the basis of a complaint lodged by her husband. Subsequently, on April 5, 2019, the woman appeared before a Mahila court in Salem and said there was no mens rea on the part of the plaintiff, he claimed. ‘Irreparable damage’ The plaintiff moved the High Court on the strength of such statement and the latter quashed the FIR on June 14, 2019. Despite knowing all this, the Chief Minister, during his campaign speech in Coimbatore on January 23 this year had referred to the train incident and claimed that a DMK office-bearer had misbehaved with a pregnant woman passenger. Such defamatory statement had caused irreparable damage, the plaintiff said and sought over Rs. 1 crore in damages. Filing a similar suit against Mr. Velumani too, the plaintiff said the Minister had made several imputations and defamatory statements against him while addressing a public meet at Pollachi on January 11. “The AIADMK members, such as the defendant herein, are trying to save their image, because of the ongoing CBI proceedings and inquiry into Pollachi sexual crimes by raising this issue against the plaintiff,” the plaint read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-office-bearer-files-suits-against-chief-minister-minister/article34024237.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 held for burning a shop||Five persons were arrested on charge of setting a garment shop on fire in January in the Choolaimedu police station limits. According to the police, Petram, 55, runs a garment shop in a building owned by Nizam. On the morning of January 4, he received information that his shop was on fire. He lodged a complaint with the Choolaimedu police station. With the help of CCTV footage, the police arrested Rajesh, Ramaraj, Anandan, Balaji and Chandru. Further investigation revealed that they were hired by Nizam to make him vacate the shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-burning-a-shop/article34024516.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs ECI to allot distinctive symbols||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to allot distinctive symbols, as far as possible, to the candidates on the fray in the Assembly elections to be held on April 6. The direction was issued after a complaint was made to the court that symbols such as television, laptop and blackboard look similar when they get printed on paper stuck to the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and therefore, such confusion should be avoided. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the direction while disposing of a writ petition filed by Puthiya Tamilagam party, led by K. Krishnasamy, who had sought allotment of television symbol to his party candidates during the ensuing Assembly elections. The party insisted on the television symbol since it had been allotted the same symbol during the 2011 Assembly elections as well as the 2014 Parliamentary polls. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the ECI to make sure that a decision on the petitioner party’s application was taken within a week. The judges also took note of a submission made by senior counsel N.L. Rajah, representing the petitioner party, that the Commission should desist from allotting symbols that look identical since they might lead to confusion among voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-eci-to-allot-distinctive-symbols/article34024205.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK signs pact with AIMIM, allots 3 seats||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), led by Asaduddin Owaisi, have entered into an electoral pact for the Assembly poll. As part of the agreement, the AIMIM has been allotted three seats – Vaniyambadi, Sankarapuram and Krishnagiri. The pact was signed by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary of the AMMK, Mohammed Rahmatullah Tayyab, AIMIM’s in-charge for Tamil Nadu, and T.S. Vakeel Ahmed, president of the State unit of the AIMIM. ‘False report’ Earlier in the day, after holding interviews with a section of aspirants, Mr. Dhinakaran termed as “false” the reports regarding his party negotiating with the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM). While refusing to divulge the details of the AMMK’s talks with other parties, he expressed the confidence that the entire composition of the alliance would be made known by Tuesday or Wednesday. The AMMK’s list of candidates would be released in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-allots-3-seats-to-aimim/article34024178.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patrol team catches fleeing thief||A police head constable and a constable chased and caught a 25-year-old man who tried to escape after stealing over Rs. 4.60 lakh from a house in Madhavaram on Monday. According to the police, a patrol team was doing the rounds near Thanikachalam Nagar in Madhavaram when they stopped a motorcyclist. Head constable Sridhar and constable Suresh tried to question him but the culprit fled the spot. The policemen nabbed him after a chase. He was identified as Sudhakar of Vellore. He had stolen cash from the house of Fabian, who runs a call centre. A two-wheeler, three mobile phones and watches were recovered from him. House-owner alerted The police went to Mr. Fabian’s house and informed him about the burglary. A complaint was filed, and Sudhakar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. He has cases in Vellore and Kodungaiyur, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patrol-team-catches-fleeing-thief/article34024515.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two daughters jump from moving train||A 37-year-old woman and her two daughters jumped from a moving suburban train near Sevvapet railway station on Sunday. They have been admitted in the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in critical condition. The woman has been identified as Munilakshmi, wife of Kathiresan, and her daughters Harshini, 13, and Varshini, 7, from Pattabiram. The police suspect it to be a suicide attempt due to family problems.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-two-daughters-jump-from-moving-train/article34024636.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President arriving today||President Ram Nath Kovind will arrive here on Tuesday on a three-day visit to Tamil Nadu.   After arriving in Chennai on Tuesday evening, he will spend the night in the Raj Bhavan before leaving for Vellore on March 10. He is scheduled to participate in the Thiruvalluvar University convocation.  On Thursday, the President will preside over Anna University’s convocation before returning to Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/president-arriving-today/article34024181.ece
09 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ripon Buildings turn purple for Women’s Day||The Ripon Buildings, the headquarters of the Greater Chennai Corporation, went purple to observe Women’s Day. Neuberg Diagnostics lit the buildings. With 10 approved labs for COVID-19 testing, it has processed 1.5 million RT-PCR tests in India and South Africa, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ripon-buildings-turn-purple-for-womens-day/article34024523.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gloves to be given to all voters at polling booths||The district administration, as per the Election Commission of India guidelines, would distribute glove to all voters at polling station, Collector K. Rajamani said here on Monday. The one-hand glove distribution would form a part of the COVID-19 safety precaution that the administration would take to contain the infection spread, he said and added that only by using the glove the voters should press the button on the electronic voting machine. The other precautions included spraying sanitisers, giving mask for those not wearing one and checking temperature. For issuing the glove, mask and take differently abled voters to the polling booth, the administration would rope in nearly 10,000 volunteers at two each for the 4,227 booths, Mr. Rajamani said. For polling personnel inside the booths, the administration, again as per the Commission guidelines, would distribute PPE kits. After polling, the administration would collect the PPE kits and gloves using dedicated vehicles and dispose of them by engaging the contractor who processed medical waste from hospitals. He also said the administration would conduct training on March 13 for the 22,150 personnel engaged for poll duty. Then, there would be first round of randomisation for polling personnel. This would be on March 26 where the administration would finalise which person went to which constituency. Thereafter, there would be a second round of randomisation on April 5 in the presence of Election Commission of India observers, where the administration would finalise which person went to which polling booth. In response to a question, the Collector replied that the administration was in the process of despatching the electronic voting machines to the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district. This continued on Monday. He expected the process to be completed either on Monday night or early Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gloves-to-be-given-to-all-voters-at-polling-booths/article34024209.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Box and recycled paper manufacturers hit by high raw material prices||Corrugated box manufacturers have urged their customers to increase the sourcing prices, as these units are reeling under sharp increase in prices and disruptions in the supply of raw materials. The Indian Corrugated Case Manufacturers’ Association (ICCMA) has said in a press release that the total cost increase for the box makers has crossed 70 % cumulatively, on account of paper alone. “The Industry is bleeding on account of unprecedented hikes in the cost of its main raw material – kraft Paper. “Kraft Paper Mills cite the rising prices of imported and domestic waste paper on the supply side post COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns and international logistics disruptions for the reduced availability,” said ICCMA president Sandeep Wadhwa. According to the ICCMA, the demand gap and attractive pricing in China is diverting the output of Indian kraft paper from the domestic market and driving up the prices of finished paper and recycled fibre. Exports of recycled kraft paper pulp rolls by Indian kraft paper mills is expected to touch two million tonnes this year, which is approximately 20 % of total domestic kraft paper production in India. “The corrugated box industry in the country with over 350 automatic corrugators and more than 10,000 semi-automatic units, mostly in MSME sector, is facing immense stress on account of these unprecedented cost increases,” the association said appealing to all the box users, including large brand owners and other corporates, to go in for “fair price revisions” to cover the increase in raw material and conversion costs. Meanwhile, the Indian Agro & Recycled Paper Mills Association (IARPMA) has written to the Union Ministry of Commerce alleging there is an acute scarcity of waste paper that has been artificially created by “certain vested interests”. The recycled fibre (waste paper) based paper mills, which account for almost 70% of paper and paperboard production in the country, say the key raw material prices have doubled over the last six months. According to the IARPMA, from a pre-covid price range of Rs. 10 to Rs. 13 a kg, the waste paper prices have surged to Rs. 22 to Rs. 24 a kg impacting the industry adversely. Kraft waste paper prices have also reached Rs. 22 a kg as against Rs. 10 during the pre-COVID-19 period. “Certain waste paper suppliers are controlling the price and availability of waste paper and as a result there is no option for the paper mills, but to cut their paper production as per the raw material availability and stock inventory,” said Pramod Agarwal, president of IARPMA. The association has appealed to the government to intervene and crack down on illegal hoarding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/box-and-recycled-paper-manufacturers-hit-by-high-raw-material-prices/article34024206.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Women staff run Passport Seva Kendra||An all women staff managed the operations of the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) in Coimbatore on Monday as part of celebrating International Women’s Day and processed around 500 applications, said officials. K. Palravindran, passport officer at the Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Coimbatore, said the initiative was taken to honour the women staff and appreciate their works. “PSK is the face of the RPO. The total management of the PSK was given to the women staff on Monday to recognise and appreciate their works,” he said. Kavitha Kumari was in-charge of the PSK under whom 13 women staff worked. Uma Murali headed the team of the private partner, TCS, which had 16 women staff. Women staff were deputed in the house keeping section as well as for the security duty, said Mr. Palravindran who visited the PSK on Monday evening and felicitated the women staff. He added that more events would be conducted for the women staff ahead of the International Women’s Day next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-staff-run-passport-seva-kendra/article34024211.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare professionals celebrate Women’s Day at Baralikadu||Healthcare professionals from Karamadai and Mettupalayam celebrated International Women’s Day at the Forest Department’s eco-tourism centre at Baralikadu on Monday. Though the eco-tourism centre is yet to be opened for visitors after it was closed following the COVID-19 pandemic, the Forest Department opened the tourism spot just for the women healthcare professionals on Monday to honour their work. Special permission E.N. Manoharan, forest range officer of Karamadai forest range, said District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh gave special permission for the visit of the healthcare professionals to the eco-tourism centre. According to Mr. Manoharan, around 50 women healthcare professionals working in primary health centres and government hospitals at Karamdai and Mettupalayam celebrated Women’s Day at Baralikadu. They were received with bouquets. The women professionals also interacted with residents of tribal settlements. Forest Department staff explained to them about various works they did on a regular basis for the protection of the environment and forests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-professionals-celebrate-womens-day-at-baralikadu/article34024531.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Check posts to be strengthened||The district administration would strengthen the check posts on the Kerala border in view of the rising COVID-19 cases in the State, Collector K. Rajamani said here on Monday. To prevent the COVID-19 spread in the district and monitor the movement of people from Kerala, where the number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise, the administration would strengthen the check posts at six of the 13 places, he said and added the places would be Anaikatti, Walayar, Velanthavalam, Anamalai, Valparai and Pollachi. As in the past, the administration would man the check posts with personnel from the Revenue and Health departments and the police. And, they would be manning the posts round the clock. They would check every person entering the district if they had e-pass and valid medical certificate showing that they were COVID-19 negative. The two were mandatory and non-negotiable, Mr. Rajamani said and added that it would also apply to those who returned to the State after visiting Kerala for a day or two. As for those who went to the State every day for work, it would take a call on a case-by-case basis. In response to a question on checking train passengers alighting either at the Coimbatore Railway Junction or Podanur Railway Junction, the administration was taking steps to screen such passengers as well. The district saw an average of 40-50 cases a day with no particular place showing an increase in case. A few pockets, however, continued to report cases on a daily basis, but this was not in the family or locality of persons who had tested positive. The areas that reported positive cases were Kalapatti, Singanallur, Ganapathy, Ondipudur, Peelamedu, Sowripalayam, and a few more places, where the agency concerned - Health Department staff or Coimbatore Corporation - were taking the necessary steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-posts-on-kerala-border-to-be-strengthened/article34024208.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 7 lakh seized||Static surveillance and flying squad teams on Monday seized over Rs. 7.89 lakh in the district. According to sources, teams in Coimbatore North seized Rs. 5.56 lakh and another team in Kinathukadavu seized Rs. 83,100. The day also saw a Singanallur team seize 58 liquor bottles. Thus far, the officials had seized Rs. 14.45 lakh. The district also saw registration of 14 poll violation cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-7-lakh-seized/article34024533.ece
09 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nomination to start on March 12||The district administration would start accepting nominations, as announced by the Election Commission of India, from March 12 to 19 except on March 13 and 14 (Saturday and Sunday), said a release. Returning officers of the Assembly constituencies concerned would receive the nominations from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Candidates who planned to contest in the Mettupalayam Assembly constituency should file the nomination before Returning Officer R. Kumaresan at the Mettupalayam tahsildar office, Sulur Assembly constituency – Returning Officer V. Shanti at the Sulur tahsildar office, Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency – Returning Officer G. Ravichandran at Coimbatore North Revenue Divisional Office on Mettupalayam Road in Kavundampalayam, Coimbatore North Assembly constituency – Returning Officer U. Murugesan Agricultural Engineering Extension Centre on Thadagam Road, Thondamuthur Assembly constituency – Returning Officer A.J. Senthil Arasan at Revenue Divisional Office, Coimbatore South Revenue Divisional Office on State Bank Road, Coimbatore South – Returning Officer T. Siva Subramanian at the Coimbatore Corporation Central Zone office on Huzur Road, Singanallur Assembly constituency – Returning Officer C. Ram Kumar at the Coimbatore Corporation East Zone office in Singanallur, Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency – Returning Officer M. Amsaveni at the Madukkarai tahsildar office, Pollachi Assembly constituency – Returning Officer R. Vaidyanathan at the sub collector office, Pollachi and Valparai Assembly constituency – Returning Officer P. Duraisamy at the Anamalai tahsildar office. Candidates from the communities other than from SC/ST communities should pay Rs. 10,000 as deposit and those from the aforementioned two categories should pay Rs. 5,000, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nomination-to-start-on-march-12/article34024534.ece
09 March 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery, cash seized||Over 176 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 35,700 were seized by the flying squad here at Nallampalli on Monday. The flying squad was inspecting vehicles at Seshampatty Nallampalli junction, when a car was intercepted. The car was found carrying the gold jewellery and cash. Treasury The seizure was inspected by Sub-Collector Prathap and handed over at the treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-cash-seized/article34024210.ece
09 March 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of EVMs, VVPATs completed in Erode, Salem districts||Randomisation of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPATs) for all the eight Assembly constituencies was completed and dispatch of machines to each constituency will be done on Tuesday, said District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan here on Monday. Addressing the media, he said that a total of 3,454 control units, 4,757 ballot units and 3,695 VVPATs are ready for the Assembly election to be held on April 6. Randomisation was completed in the presence of representatives from recognised political parties and the machines would be handed over to Returning Officers of the respective Assembly constituencies on Tuesday. Mr. Kathiravan said that all steps were being taken to ensure smooth conduct of the elections. A total of 2,741 polling stations, including 527 ancillary polling stations, were established at 926 locations in the district in which 13,157 poll officers were posted. There are 64,560 electors whose age is above 80 years and there are 14,498 differently-abled electors in the district for whom Form 12D application for postal ballot facility is distributed, he added. He said that 92 paramilitary personnel had arrived in the district who would be posted in sensitive booths during polling. To protect against COVID-19, wearing a face mask is mandatory, he said and added that fines would be levied on violators.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  The Salem district administration has allocated 5,142 ballot units after randomisation to the 11 Assembly constituencies. District Collector and District Election Officer S.A. Raman conducted the randomisation process. According to officials, there are 7,246 ballot units, 5,625 control units and 5,756 VVPAT machines and the machines would be taken to respective constituencies. The machines would be kept in strong rooms in all 11 Assembly constituencies with necessary security. Among the 11 constituencies, highest number of polling stations are located at Omalur, 426 stations. Lowest number of polling stations is located in Attur constituency, 346 stations. A reserve of 20% of ballot and control units and reserve of 34% of VVPAT machines have been allotted for constituencies in the district. According to officials, including reserve capacity, 5,142 bllot units, 5,142 control units and 5,740 VVPAT machines have been allotted for 11 Assembly constituencies..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-evms-vvpats-completed-in-erode-salem-districts/article34024212.ece
09 March 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Police personnel given juice, buttermilk to beat the heat||With mercury level soaring, distribution of lemon juice and buttermilk to 50 traffic police personnel to beat the heat began in the city here on Monday. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai distributed buttermilk and lemon juice to traffic police at GH Roundabout in the presence of Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) K. Udhaya Kumar and other senior officials. A sachet containing 200 ml of juice or butter milk will be distributed to police personnel both in the morning and evening from today till June or till the end of summer. Senior officials said that personnel were involved in regulating and monitoring vehicle movement on arterial roads, road junctions and at important places in the city and across the district. Most of them perform duty under scorching sun and buttermilk and juice will energise them to perform their duty continuously. They said that sachets will be distributed to them at the designated spot in the morning and evening hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-personnel-given-juice-buttermilk-to-beat-the-heat/article34024215.ece
09 March 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tribal children taste biryani for the first time||Around 120 children living in remote hamlets in Bargur hills, of which many had never stepped out of their hamlets, had a reason to smile as they had biryani feast for the first time in their life on Sunday. On November 24, 2019, a Salem-based garment exporter sponsored chicken biryani for 170-odd children from remote hamlets at Thamaraikarai. Due to problems in commuting, over 100 children in Kongadai and Agnipavi and Osur, all located in West Bargur Hills, were left out. Hence, a friends team from Salem, comprising K. Ali Jan, Noor Mohammed, M. Manivannan, A. Manoharan, D. Jegadesh and V. Mohana Sundaram, decided to sponsor biryani for the left out children. The team members arrived at Thamaraikarai on March 6 and made arrangements for the cooking and taking the children in vehicles from the hamlets. Later, the children were served biryani on Sunday afternoon. Organisers said that interaction with children revealed that many did not venture out of their hamlets so far. Kongadai is located 24 km away from Thamaraikarai that lacks basic amenities and only a TNSTC bus is operated to the hamlet everyday. Since there is little scope for earnings, most of the families move to Valparai or Kerala to work in estates and return occasionally to their hamlets. “Most of these children are taken care of by their grandparents or sometimes they move along with their parents to work place”, said coordinator Anbu who added that lockdown had hit them severely. After the feast, the children were transported in vehicles to their hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-children-taste-biryani-for-the-first-time/article34024216.ece
09 March 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death by son||A 52-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by his 27-year-old son at Arachalur here on Monday. According to Arachalur police, the victim Shankar, a daily wage earner, quarrelled with his son Deenadayalan, a van driver, for being an alcoholic. On Sunday night, he came home in an inebriated condition and Shankar questioned him. Soon an altercation broke between the father and son. Following a quarrel, Deenadayalan allegedly attacked his father causing the death. Police sent the body to Government Hospital at Perundurai. A case was registered in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death-by-son/article34024186.ece
09 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work by Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board in the Erode substation – Town electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on March 9, Tuesday, at Sivashanmugam Street, Muthurangan Street, Periyar Street, Nethaji Road, Pon Street and Cutchery Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34024214.ece
09 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector ‘forces’ boy to have change of hairstyle||A police Inspector allegedly forced a 15-year-old boy to a salon for sporting a rapper haircut, and got him to change his hairstyle after threatening him with arrest and remand. In a video clip of the incident, the Inspector of Maharajakadai police station, Ganesh Kumar, in civil clothes, is seen intercepting the boy near Poosaripatty in Maharajakadai. The Inspector tells the boy that he is the area inspector and queries about the haircut. He holds him by his arm and takes him across the road to a hair-stylist. When The Hindu asked the Inspector if the hairstyle violated any law, he said “His hairstyle and appearance, and body language was not good”. Asked why the boy’s parents were not called, the official said the parents were also called. District Child Protection Officer Saravanan said “The boy and the parents will be called to the office tomorrow, and they will be counselled on what was the right kind of hairstyle.” But, when pointed out that hairstyle was a personal choice, and that was not the mandate of the District Child Protection Office, he said, “Our staff are inquiring into the incident, we will see what happened and then send a report to Commissioner of Social Defence”. In the meantime, V. Ramraj, Member, Tamil Nadu Commission for the Protection for Child Rights, has sought a report from the District Child Protection Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-forces-boy-to-have-change-of-hairstyle/article34024229.ece
09 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Randomised EVMs, VVPATs sent to Assembly segments||Electronic voting machines (EVMs) and VVPATs were sent to 10 Assembly constituencies of the district on Monday after completion of the first round of randomisation. The randomisation of the EVMs and VVPATs was done through Election Commission of India’s web-based tool in the presence of District Election Officer and Collector T. Anbalagan and representatives of recognised political parties. There are 3,856 polling booths in Madurai district. While 125% of ballot units and control units (including reserve) were selected for each constituency, 129% VVPATs were selected as against the number of polling booths in each constituency. Hence, a total of 4,631 control units and ballot units, and 4,978 VVPATs would be used for the Assembly elections. The number of booths in each of the 10 Assembly constituencies are: Melur (346), Madurai East (479), Sholavandan (305), Madurai North (347), Madurai South (326), Madurai Central (349), Madurai West (434), Tirupparankundram (458), Tirumangalam (402), and Usilampatti (410). A Revenue Department official said that the EVMs would be transported to the respective strong rooms of the 10 constituencies with armed police protection. The strong rooms would be sealed by the Returning Officers and armed guard would be posted there round-the-clock, the official added. After the final list of candidates was ready, the slips carrying the names of the candidates and symbols would be fixed on the EVMs. The second round of randomisation would be taken up to allot EVMs and VVPATs to each of the polling booths before elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomised-evms-vvpats-sent-to-assembly-segments/article34024594.ece
09 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, a vaccination centre for women||A COVID-19 vaccination centre, exclusively for women, has been set up at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Monday as part of International Women’s Day celebration. Dean J. Sangumani said the centre would be manned by a team of all women - nurses, computer operators and vaccination officers. It was part of a broader plan to encourage more people to vaccinate themselves against COVID-19. “When women are administered the vaccine, they will take the message of the importance of vaccination to their family members so that an awareness will be created among the public,” he said. Dr. Sangumani exhorted the public to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-a-vaccination-centre-for-women/article34024595.ece
09 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Women who stood on the front line honoured||Frontline workers who performed well during the COVID-19 pandemic were honoured at Lady Doak College on Monday as part of International Women’s Day celebration. Anganwadi workers, who undertook door-to-door screening during the pandemic, the rescue and rehabilitation team of Government Rajaji Hospital, caretakers of COVID-19 ward, and police personnel, were among the women who were honoured. Principal Christianna Singh highlighted how these women showed courage and leadership during the pandemic. Lily Grace, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) advised the students to be mentally strong to face the challenges. V. Dhanalakshmi, Vice-Principal, Madurai Medical College, shared her experiences at GRH during the COVID-19 pandemic. Stress on education Various programmes were held at N.M.S.S Vellaichamy Nadar College as part of the Women’s Day celebration. S. Vasuki, District Protection Officer (Domestic Violence Officer), Social Welfare Department, in her keynote address, stressed the importance of education for women. She spoke on various incidents which would cause problems for the women in family and society. College vice-president K.K. Santhosa Pandiyan and Principal (in charge) R. Rajeswara Palanichamy were present. Dhan Foundation Around 200 women belonging to Kalanjiam movement participated in the Women’s Day celebration organised by Dhan Foundation. Experts in various fields spoke on contributions made by women for the betterment of the society. Executive Director of Dhan Foundation M.P. Vasimalai and Padma Shri award winner P. Chinnapillai awarded women achievers from various fields. Special skills At the Women’s day celebration held at Madurai Divisional Railway Office, senior officials spoke about the special skills of women employees and challenges they were facing in day-to-day working. Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin said women played a major role in maintaining their houses and taking care of the children, besides displaying exemplary skills in the workplace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-who-stood-on-the-frontline-honoured/article34024202.ece
09 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court order on closure of Tasmac shop put on hold||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has put on hold an earlier order passed by the High Court for removal of a Tasmac shop in Madurai on the premise that consumption of liquor was a social evil. There was no distance rule violation and the licensee of the Tasmac shop was not given an opportunity to be heard, the court observed. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi put on hold the order to remove a Tasmac shop situated on Thattankulam Main Road in Madurai. The judges observed that without going into the actual violation, a Division Bench passed an order directing the removal of the shop. It had been running for the past seven years and the petitioner had made a representation only in 2019. Tasmac, in its counter affidavit, stated that there had been no distance violation. The licensee also moved the court stating that he was not given an opportunity to explain and the shop was closed though there was no violation. All parameters had been satisfied at the time of issue of the licence, he said. Taking note of the submissions made in the case, the court said that the earlier order passed required it to be put on hold. The court permitted the licensee to run the shop till further orders and posted the matter for completion of pleadings to March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-order-on-closure-of-tasmac-shop-put-on-hold/article34024593.ece
09 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Women are the forerunners of farming’||The final year students of the Department of Social Sciences, Lady Doak College, released a documentary film ‘Uzhathiyar,’ a film about women working on agricultural fields, here on Monday as part of International Women’s Day celebration. The film was released by G. Sundararajan from Poovulagin Nanbargal, a movement focusing on the environment, in the presence of Principal Christianna Singh through a virtual platform. The students said they were inspired by the works of agri-journalist P. Sainath, who documented about the women farmers in India. The students produced the documentary film based on the lives of women farmers of Thiruvirunthalpuram village of Virudhunagar district. After releasing the film, Mr. Sundararajan said women were the forerunners of farming, and the shift of land ownership from women to men had a drastic effect on farming. He appreciated the students’ efforts in producing the documentary. He said youngsters had a predominant role in promoting and sustaining the environment. Ms. Christianna Singh said students had many responsibilities towards nation building. Caroline Nesabai, former Head of the Department and Director of Centre for Women Studies, LDC; Krishnamoorthy, Project Director, Covenant Centre for Development; Arul from Voluntary Association of People’s Services; and Senthil and Preethi from Payir Trust participated in the online event. Following the documentary film, another two videos on the theme ‘Veiled rainbows’ and ‘Choose to challenge’ were released. Around 80 students and faculty members of the Social Sciences Department participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/documentary-film-on-women-working-on-agricultural-fields/article34024194.ece
09 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Slew of activities at GRH to create awareness of glaucoma||Nursing, undergraduate and postgraduate students of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) participated in a rally within the hospital premises on Monday to create awareness of glaucoma as part of World Glaucoma Week celebration. District Blindness Control Society and the GRH has planned a range of activities throughout the week. On Monday, the participants distributed pamphlets to create awareness of glaucoma. Head of the Department of Ophthalmology U. Vijaya Shanmugam said an exhibition to create awareness of glaucoma, screening for media and health professionals and sanitary workers had been planned. Glaucoma damaged the optic nerve and affected the vision of the eye. Glaucoma was often caused by an abnormally high pressure in the eye. “It causes loss of vision which is irreversible. So people must have regular eye check-ups,” he said. Dr. Vijaya Shanmugam said a separate clinic had been set up at GRH to screen glaucoma. “Medicines to treat glaucoma are available at GRH. Surgery can also be performed under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-plans-slew-of-activities-to-create-awareness-of-glaucoma/article34024592.ece
09 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks CB-CID probe into husband’s death||A woman from Theni district moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking a direction to transfer the investigation into the death of her husband to the CB-CID. She alleged that her husband was tortured at Madurai Central Prison and succumbed to injuries he sustained there. The petitioner, K. Nagajothi from Andipatti, said in 2017 her husband S. Karuppasamy, a casual labourer, was picked up by the police for an inquiry after he was involved in a tussle with one Rasu. She said Karuppasamy was arrested and subsequently remanded in judicial custody. At the Madurai prison he was subjected to torture, the petitioner said. She said her husband had no health issues and had no injuries on his body at the time of being remanded in judicial custody. The injuries were inflicted inside the prison and reflected the torture by the police and prison officials, she said and sought transfer of the investigation in the case from Madurai police to the CB-CID. Justice R. Hemalatha directed the State to file a counter affidavit. The hearing was adjourned till April 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-from-theni-district-seeks-cb-cid-probe-into-husbands-death/article34024189.ece
09 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘10 waterbodies destroyed for laying Outer Ring Road’||A petitioner has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking a direction to the authorities to restore 10 tanks that were said to have been destroyed while laying Outer Ring Road in Tiruchi. The petitioner, M.P. Chinnadurai, 72 of Srirangam said 10 tanks were a water source for irrigation to more than 1,365 acres of land. Due to the arbitrary alignment of the land for the road project, the tanks had been destroyed. Farmers protested against National Highways Authority of India for laying roads by destroying tanks. Still, the authorities went ahead and filled these waterbodies with soil for the road project. This move will not only destroy the ecology but also agriculture, he said and sought a direction to the authorities to restore the waterbodies. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice and sought response from the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-waterbodies-destroyed-for-laying-outer-ring-road/article34024200.ece
09 March 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Voter awareness campaign held||An voter awareness campaign to encourage the public to exercise their franchise during the Assembly elections was held at the Namakkal bus stand. District Collector K. Megraj inaugurated the awareness campaign organised by women self-help groups. He also viewed the rangoli drawn by women. Mr. Megraj also launched a signature campaign to create awareness among the public. A public awareness demonstration of using ballot units and VVPAT machines was done at the bus stand. First-time voters were made aware of the voting process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-awareness-campaign-held/article34024220.ece
09 March 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Imposter arrested||A 48-year-old man who claimed to be a Regional Transport Officer and intercepted a lorry to check the documents was arrested by the police near Padalur in the district on Monday. Police gave the name of the accused as Selvakumar who hails from Theni district. The incident occurred on the Chennai - Tiruchi national highway at Perumalpalayam where Selvakumar stopped a lorry and allegedly told the driver that he was the Regional Transport Officer and asked the former to produce the documents. The driver informed the vehicle owner who in turn informed the police. The message was sent to the Padalur police personnel who came to the spot and arrested Selvakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-claiming-to-be-rto-arrested/article34024157.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of elections, vigil to be increased on inter-State borders||The territorial administration and district administrations of neighbouring Cuddalore and Villupuram districts have decided to step up surveillance on the borders and share information on seizure of liquor and cash and other preventive measures, in the run up to the upcoming Assembly elections in Puducherry, Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. Collectors of Puducherry, Cuddalore and Villupuram took the decision at an inter-State coordination meeting held here on Monday. Villupuram Collector A. Annadurai said the precautionary measures to be taken on both sides of the border were discussed at the meeting. “A multi-pronged strategy will be put in place with an emphasis on inter-state coordination between various wings of the Excise, Police and Revenue departments to ensure incident-free Assembly polls.” Mr. Annadurai added: “Returning Officers in Villupuram and Cuddalore will also share intelligence inputs and details of cash and liquor seized with the Returning Officers of Puducherry.” The border surveillance will also be enhanced along the check posts in Puducherry, Cuddalore and Villupuram to prevent smuggling of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-elections-vigil-to-be-increased-on-inter-state-borders/article34024646.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress-DMK seat sharing formula set to be finalised||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday said the number of Assembly seats to be contested by Congress and DMK in Puducherry will be finalised by Tuesday. Briefing reporters after holding the second round of talks with local leaders of the Dravidian party at the Pradesh Congress Committee office, the former Chief Minister said DMK president M. K. Stalin and AICC general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao would hold further deliberations on the seat sharing arrangements in Chennai. “The local leadership of both the parties discussed the views expressed by (respective) party high commands. Mr. Rao will be arriving in Chennai on Monday evening and will hold talks with Mr. Stalin to finalise the number of seats each of the parties will be contesting. An announcement will be made on Monday night or Tuesday,” he said. Sources in both the parties said the DMK had insisted on a 50:50 seat sharing formula for the Assembly elections. “After arriving at the formula, both the parties could decide on parting seats to Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi," said a DMK functionary. Mr. Narayanasamy said the Congress would hold separate discussions with CPI, CPI(M) and VCK on sharing seats. On the defections from Congress party, the former Chief Minister said some of them had left the party due to threat and others because of political compulsions. “A few leaders joined BJP due to pressure from Central agencies and others quit the Congress due to political compulsions,” the Congress leader said.  DMK president M. K. Stalin and AICC general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao will hold further deliberations on the seat-sharing arrangements in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-dmk-seat-sharing-formula-set-to-be-finalised/article34024639.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai Soundararajan presented Global Women of Excellence Award||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan was presented the Top 20 Global Women of Excellence Award for 2020 at a US event that was live-streamed in the wee hours of Monday. She joined a league of extraordinary women achievers across the world chosen for the award, including US Vice President Kamala Harris. The award instituted by the US Congressional Multi Advisory Task Force led by Congressman Danny K. Davis, Representative of Illinois’s 7th Congressional district, was presented during the 9th Congressional International Women’s Day Gala at Naperville, Illinois. The top 20 women from across the world who had touched excellence were honoured on the occasion. Ms. Soundararajan was introduced to the audience as a physician who rose up the ranks of the BJP in Tamil Nadu to be appointed Governor of Telangana and later Lt. Governor of Puducherry. She spearheads the COVID-19 vaccination drive in both places. In her web address from the Raj Nivas, the Lt. Governor said that with the honour of being chosen for the award along with so many distinguished women came the responsibility to strive harder to create a better world. The citation said Ms. Soundararajan was chosen to be honoured for being an ardent advocate of women’s rights, gender parity, women empowerment and women equality, apart from making a difference to the society through her efforts. Her fight to protect women rights and for gender equality began even when she was in the medical college. She also put in efforts for improving the lives of tribals during her stint in public service, the citation said. The Lt. Governor also participated in a few other events to celebrate International Women’s Day. At a function hosted by the Department of Women and Child Development at the Gandhi Thidal, the Lt. Governor presented Women Achiever awards to winners from various departments. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, C. Udhaya Kumar, Welfare Secretary, A. P. Maheshwari, adviser to the LG, S. Indira, Nodal Office, Indian System of Medicine, J. Marie Anna Dayavady, advocate, S. Asokan, Director of the department and S. Amutha, deputy director, also participated. Later, Ms. Soundararajan exchanged greetings with women staff employed across all levels at the Raj Nivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-soundararajan-presented-global-women-of-excellence-award/article34024643.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Steps to keep tab on election expenses||The Commissionerate of GST and Central Excise has set up a round-the-clock control room to receive complaints from the public about violations in election expenditure norms for the April 6 Assembly elections. The public can report violations to landline number 0413-2221999 or 83005 05535 over mobile, WhatsApp or Telegram message or mail tohelp-pycgst@gov.inor fax to 0413-2331244. M. Sathish Kumar, Nodal Officer, Election Expenditure Monitoring, said the facilities were set up on the directions of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs to monitor election expenditure with respect to the elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory, and to provide assistance to the Election Commission of India for conduct of free, fair and transparent elections. The Commissionerate would keep track smuggled goods/contrabands, illicit articles, non-monetary inducements (sarees, White goods, kitchen items and other goods and services) and cash to lure voters. Strict vigil would be mounted on warehouses/ depots, vehicular movement of goods and provision of certain services through control room, e-way bill verification teams and flying squads. Steps will also be taken to identify and seize smuggled goods/contrabands, illicit articles, non-monetary inducements (sarees, white goods, kitchen items etc) intended to be utilised for electioneering. The Nodal Officer appealed to the public to share information available with them to help the Department in ensuring free, fair and transparent elections by keeping track of election expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-to-keep-tab-on-election-expenses/article34024644.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah holds talks with AINRC chief||Union Home Minister Amit Shah had a brief a telephonic conversation with founder leader of All India N. R. Congress (AINRC) N. Rangasamy to end the stalemate in the alliance. Sources in BJP and AINRC said talks between the two leaders through video conferencing happened on Sunday night. "Both the leaders discussed ways to find an amicable solution to the impasse following Mr. Rangasamy's non commitment to stay in BJP-AIADMK- PMK alliance, " a top BJP leader told The Hindu . The AINRC leader had reportedly told Mr. Shah that his party would like to contest a minimum of 17 seats in the alliance. He had also sought from the Union Home Minister a commitment on Chief Ministers' post, an AINRC leader said. BJP and AINRC leaders said both the parties have almost come to an agreement on the seats to be contested and also on the Chief Minister's post. The BJP in-charge Nirmal Kumar Surana also held talks with PMK convenor for the Union Territory Dhanraj on the seat-sharing agreement, said a BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amit-shah-holds-talks-with-ainrc-chief/article34024640.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of EVMs held||The first randomisation of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and VVPAT equipment was held here in the presence of representatives of all recognised political parties at the Collectorate on Monday. According to an official press note, around 1,603 EVMs and 1,724 VVPAT machines would be operational in Assembly constituencies in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-evms-held/article34024641.ece
09 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory logs 14 new cases||Puducherry recorded 14 new cases while posting 19 recoveries from COVID-19 on Monday. The new cases were reported from Puducherry (13) and Karaikal (one). No new cases emerged in Mahe and Yanam in the last 24 hours. The active cases across the Union Territory stood at 171, including 83 in hospitals and 88 in home isolation. The cumulative toll stands at 670, tally of cases at 39,882 and recoveries at 39,041. The test positivity rate was 3.42%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 97.89%. Of an estimated 6.39 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department to date, about 5.94 lakh returned negative. As on Sunday, 17,243 persons had been immunised in the Union Territory. 10 fresh cases Cuddalore district reported 10 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 25,238.    While 24,887 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 47.    In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,286.    No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-logs-14-new-cases/article34024642.ece
09 March 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Official teams get GPS-fitted vehicles||Global Positioning System (GPS) gadgets have been fitted in vehicles used by the Flying Squad and Static Surveillance Teams formed in the district to enforce model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly elections. The GPS equipment has been installed in 18 Flying Squad vehicles and 18 Static Surveillance Team vehicles to monitor their movements and their location. A separate control room has been opened at the District Collectorate to monitor round-the-clock the functioning and movement of GPS-fitted vehicles, District Collector and the District Election Officer P. Uma Maheswari has said. The Collector, who monitored the installation of GPS gadgets in these vehicles, said that necessary steps were being taken to ensure the conduct of the upcoming elections in a free and fair manner. Flying Squad, Static Surveillance Teams and Video Surveillance Teams have been constituted to prevent any irregularities from being committed in the six Assembly constituencies in the district. The teams were working in shifts round-the-clock for continuous monitoring, the Collector further said. cVIGIL app The general public could convey complaints relating to violations pertaining to model code of conduct committed by individuals or political parties through the cVIGIL app created by the Election Commission, the Collector said. The complaints could be conveyed through photographs, audio or video clips to the Collector and the District Election Officer through the app, she said. The app could be installed through the playstore app on the mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-teams-get-gps-fitted-vehicles/article34024146.ece
09 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Kalam’s elder brother laid to rest||The mortal remains of Mohammed Muthu Meera Lebbai Maraikayar, former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam’s elder brother, were laid to rest at Mohideen Andavar Mosque in Rameswaram in the district on Monday. He died at the age of 104. According to the family members, he was leading a normal life and age-related issues resulted in his demise. A large number of functionaries from political parties, service organisations, teachers and social activists from various walks of life paid their last respects to the departed soul. The family members led the procession to the mosque, where the customary rituals were performed and the body was laid to rest. The former President’s personal secretary Ponraj, who paid homage, recalled a few events when Maraikkayar visited the Rashtrapathi Bhavan, New Delhi, with his family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kalams-brother-laid-to-rest/article34024176.ece
09 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||GST special teams to check poll violations||The GST and Central Excise department has formed special teams to prevent illegal distribution of valuables during the Assembly elections. A.S. Meenalochani, Commissioner, Salem CGST Commissionerate said in a release that flying squads had been formed to conduct vehicle checks and surprise inspection at godowns in Salem, Namakkal, Erode, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. According to officials, seven teams have been formed for Salem, Namakkal and Dharmapuri, four teams for Erode, and four teams for Hosur and Krishnagiri. Officials said that each team would include one Superintendent and two Inspectors and would conduct checks at warehouses for goods meant for distribution among voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-special-teams-to-check-poll-violations/article34024217.ece
09 March 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Govt. staff sacked for seeking to contest polls||The district administration sacked an assistant technology manager under Agriculture Technology Management Agency from the service on the charges of seeking a ticket to contest polls on behalf of a party. According to officials, K.Thilakavathi, a temporary staff, had expressed her interest to contest the Assembly elections from Yercaud constituency and had sought DMK for the ticket. Images related to the event was circulated in social media platforms. Taking cognizance of the event, the district administration terminated her service under sections of Tamil Nadu Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1973.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-staff-sacked-for-seeking-to-contest-polls/article34024219.ece
09 March 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||A majority of fireworks units remain closed in Sivakasi||With over 90 fireworks units facing suspension for violation of safety rules, over 700 units have closed down in and around Sivakasi, apparently, due to fear of action by officials. However, a senior officials said that there was a drastic increase in price of raw materials owing to spiralling fuel price. “Besides, the manufacturers were wary of the prevailing weather condition with high humidity which would trigger fire accidents,” he said. Meanwhile, an office bearer of a manufacturers’ association said that the fireworks producers have closed down the units on their own without any call from any of the associations. “Several teams of officials (from various departments) are on an inspection drive and so far licences of over 80 units have been suspended (by the district administration). Besides, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation has suspended the licences of 11 units,” he said. The association office-bearers have been asking the units to start the work as it would affect the workers ahead of Panguni Pongal, scheduled later in the month. The fireworks units need to pay bonus for the workers on the occasion. “We have told the manufacturers that only those who have leased out their units or allowing more workers than the permitted numbers should fear the officials. Those who are following the safety standards need not close down,” he added. ‘Very harsh’ However, some of the manufacturers felt that even for minor deviation like not maintaining records or drying materials without chemicals under shade were also being taken seriously by the inspecting officials. Office-bearers of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association and The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Associaiton raised their concerns with Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, and Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives of PESO, K. Sundaresan. “We welcome the inspection by officials that will help to weed out the practice of leasing and sub-leasing that are causing fatal accidents. However, our only plea is that they officials should come with an open mind for inspection rather than to somehow suspend the licences,” said TIFMA general secretary, T. Kannan. As the Collector promised to look into their demand, the associations have decided to ask its members to open the units on Tuesday, he added. The district administration has mounted vigil on fireworks units after 29 lives were lost in fireworks accidents in two units in the district in February.  The officials should come with an open mind for inspection rather than to somehow suspend the licence  T. Kannan TIFMA general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-majority-of-fireworks-units-remain-closed-in-sivakasi/article34024195.ece
09 March 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||A majority of fireworks units remain closed in Sivakasi||With the suspension of licences of over 90 fireworks units for violating safety rules, more than 700 units have closed down in and around Sivakasi, apparently due to fear of action by officials. However, a senior official said that there was a drastic increase in price of raw materials owing to spiralling fuel price. “Besides, the manufacturers were wary of the weather condition with high humidity which would trigger fire accidents,” he said. Meanwhile, an office-bearer of a manufacturers’ association said the fireworks producers had closed down the units on their own without any call from any of the associations. “Several teams of officials (from various departments) are on an inspection drive and so far licences of over 80 units have been suspended (by the district administration). Besides, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation has suspend the licenses of 11 units,” he said. Bonus for workers The association office-bearers have been asking the units to start the work as it would affect the workers ahead of Panguni Pongal, scheduled later in the month. The fireworks units need to pay bonus for the workers on the occasion. “We have told the manufacturers that only those who have leased out their units or allowing more workers than the permitted numbers should fear the officials. Those who are following the safety standards need not close down,” he added. But some of the manufacturers felt that even for minor deviation like not maintaining records or drying materials without chemicals under shade were also being taken seriously by the inspecting officials. Meanwhile, the office-bearers of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association and the Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association raised their concerns with Virudhunagar District Collector, R. Kannan, and Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives of PESO, K. Sundaresan. Collector’s promise “We welcome the inspection by officials that will help weed out the practice of leasing and sub-leasing that are causing fatal accidents. However, our only plea is that the officials should come with an open mind for inspection rather than to somehow suspend the licences,” said TIFMA general secretary, T. Kannan. As the Collector promised to look into their demand, the associations have decided to ask its members to open the units on Tuesday, he added. District administration has mounted vigil on fireworks units after 29 lives were lost in accidents in two units in the district in Februrary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/majority-of-fireworks-units-remain-closed-in-sivakasi/article34024234.ece
09 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Women’s Day celebrated||Women’s Day celebration by District Legal Services Authority here was more meaningful with officials choosing to empower women through their right to vote. While touching upon the rights and responsibilities of women, District Principal Judge, A. Muthusaratha, underlined that women should work with self-confidence. She said that women were making great achievements in all spheres of life. On the occasion, revenue officials conducted a special programme to demonstrate how to cast votes using electronic voting machine. “In initial years, women were denied the right to vote. This right has come to the women after a long struggle and hence women should make it their duty to cast their votes,” said Ms. Muthusaratha. Several judicial officers were present on the occasion. Meanwhile, at the Women’s Day celebration held at Madurai Railway Divisional Office, senior officials spoke about the special skills of women railway employees and challenges they were facing in the day-to-day working. Divisional Railway Manager, V.R. Lenin, said that the women who were playing a major role in maintaining their home and taking care of the children were also showing exemplary skills in their work. “Such employees are a boon to the railway department,” he said. Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Lalith Kumar Mansukhani, Senior Divisional Operations Manager, Rathi Priya, Senior Divisional Engineer (Coordinator), Mohideen Pitchai, were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-day-celebrated/article34024196.ece
09 March 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||‘Make use of postal ballot facility’||Collector G.S. Sameeran has urged the voters to make use of postal ballot facility being offered by the Election Commission of India to the differently abled, COVID-19 patients and the elders above the age of 80. In a statement, Dr. Sameeran said the Election Commission of India has allowed senior citizens above the age of 80, differently-abled persons, COVID-19 patients, and the COVID-19 suspects in isolation to cast postal ballots and the Form 12D for getting the postal ballots are being distributed to the individuals by visiting their houses. Those who want to avail this facility should submit Form 12D along with necessary documents such as copy of electors’ photo identity card, age proof, differently-abled certificate and the COVID-19 positive certificate issued by a qualified physician. The applications will be scrutinised and the postal ballot sent to the houses of the applicants to enable them to cast their votes. Those who availed this facility cannot exercise their franchise on April 6 by visiting the polling booth concerned, Dr. Sameeran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-use-of-postal-ballot-facility/article34024197.ece
09 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA’s visit to Sankara Mutt creates a flutter in political circles||The Kumbakonam DMK MLA G. Anbalagan’s visit to the Sankara Mutt in Kumbakonam on Sunday has caused a flutter in the party here. Mr. Anbalagan who had expressed his wish to contest in the forthcoming Assembly elections from the Kumbakonam Assembly Constituency for the third consecutive time called on the Kanchi Sankara Mutt Seer, Sri Sankara Vijayendra Saraswathi, who is camping at Kumbakonam, reportedly to seek his help to solve a long pending demand of the residents of Perumandi village panchayat, a village that falls under the Kumbakonam Assembly Segment. At Perumandi, the villagers have been urging the officials to provide a link road to Nehru Road and Kamarajar Road by acquiring a piece of land owned by the Mutt. However, the timing of the meeting has led to criticism that the MLA had gone to seek the blessings of the seer. Efforts to reach Mr. Anbalagan for comments proved futile; he was said to be busy in election-related work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mlas-visit-to-sankara-mutt-creates-a-flutter-in-political-circles/article34024152.ece
09 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Many unaware of postal ballot facility||The Election Commission’s decision to permit certain category of voters in the forthcoming Assembly Elections to exercise their franchise through postal ballots is yet to percolate down to the targeted voters. According to the data furnished by the District Election authorities in Thanjavur,just 1,450 eligible persons have come forward to utilise the same. The authorities said 59,283 out of the 20.50 lakh voters in Thanjavur district fall under the category of senior citizens aged 80 and above and persons with disabilities. Apart from them another 30,000 voters, mostly government staff, who were drawn for election duty can exercise their franchise through postal ballots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-unaware-of-postal-ballot-facility/article34024154.ece
09 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Women’s Day observed||Seminars, medical camp and street corner meetings were held in Thanjavur on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. While the women staff at the Tamil University organised a meeting on the campus under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor G.Balasubramanian where participants discussed issues and challenges overcome by women, a cancer awareness-cum-medical camp was held at the TMSSS (Thanjavur Multi-Social Service Society) hall in which more than 100 women participated. Meanwhile, a demand for suspension of senior police officials against whom a woman IPS officer had levelled sexual harassment charges, dismissal of the Chief Justice of India for his remarks against women and plea to prevent attacks on women and children were raised at a street corner meeting organised in connection with the International Womens’ Day by the All India Democratic Women’s Association, Thanjavur unit, here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-day-observed/article34024147.ece
09 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||First round of EVM randomisation held||First round of randomisation of electronic voting machines and the VVPATs to be used in the six Assembly constituencies in the district was held in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj and the representatives of recognised political parties here on Monday. The EVMs and the VVPATs, which were selected through lots, were allotted to the 2,097 polling booths to be established in Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Srivaikundam, Kovilpatti, Vilathikulam and Ottapidaaram (Reserved) constituencies. Dr. Senthil Raj said the EVMs and the VVPATs, all kept Thoothukudi Panchayat Union Office with due security, had been allotted to the Assembly segments through draw of lots. Moreover, 20% of the EVMs and 30% of the VVPATs would be allotted to the Assembly constituencies in addition to the numbers actually required as replacement in case of technical snag. After the final list of candidates was ready, the slips carrying the names of the candidates and their symbols would be fixed in the EVMs before the second round of randomisation. The list of the EVMs allotted to each constituency would be given to the candidates who can supervise the shifting of the EVMs to their segments. Thoothukudi Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh, District Revenue Officer Kannapiran and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-round-of-evm-randomisation-held/article34024675.ece
09 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rain-hit farmers say they will boycott polls||Farmers of the district, who suffered heavy crop loss due to the unseasonal rain in mid-January last and are unable to get the compensation from the government following an order from the Election Commission of India, threatened to boycott the Assembly elections, if the disbursal of compensation of that started much ahead of poll notification was not resumed. According to A. Varadharajan, president of ‘Karisal Bhoomi Vivasaayigal Sangam’, the district witnessed an extensive damage to crop cultivated on over 1.70 lakh acres in mid-January due to the unseasonal rains even as the growers were ready for harvest. Based on the appeal from the affected farmers, the district administration sent a comprehensive report to the State government after the joint survey by the departments of Revenue and Agriculture seeking compensation to the farmers who had suffered crop loss. After the State Government announced the compensation of Rs. 4,000 per acre, 40% of the beneficiary farmers had received the relief through their bank accounts. However, the poll notification by the Election Commission of India had stopped the administration from further crediting the compensation in the farmers’ accounts. “As the Government Order for giving relief to the rain-hit farmers was issued on January last while the poll notification released by the Election Commission of India only on February 26. Moreover, disbursal of compensation had already commenced much ahead of the poll notification and 40% of the beneficiary farmers already received the relief while the remaining 60% desperately waiting for the compensation. Hence, the Election Commission of India should withdraw its order restraining the officials from disbursing the relief. Else, we and our families will boycott the polls on April 6,” said Mr. Varadharajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-hit-farmers-say-they-will-boycott-polls/article34024677.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||A parched land awaits industrial development||The predominantly agrarian, Manapparai constituency, which was formed by a delimitation process in 2008, has a mixed population of farmers, farm labourers and construction workers. Until delimitation, most of the areas were part of the Marungapuri constituency. There are three panchayat unions – Manapparai, Marungapuri and Vaiyampatti in the Manapparai constituency. Since Independence, Manapparai has been one of the most backward among the nine constituencies in Tiruchi district. In the absence of assured water source for irrigation, farmers in all the three unions are dependent on monsoon for cultivation. Due to poor monsoon over successive years, hundreds of wells have dried up in the region. Borewells are the main source of irrigation. In spite of difficulty in sourcing water for irrigation, farmers here toil hard to raise crop such as brinjal, tomato, green chilly, spinach and millets. Thanks to the fertility of the soil, brinjal cultivated in villages surrounding Manapparai and Vaiyampatti has a good market in the neighbouring Dindigul and Madurai district. The ‘Manapparai kathirikai’ known for its good taste. Allied agricultural activities such as dairy and cattle farming are the other sources of livelihood. A small percentage of people are engaged in cottage industries, with “Manapparai Murukku” and “Manapparai Madu” enjoying a special status among the people. But due to frequent failure of monsoon, a section of the electorates has migrated to Tiruppur, Erode and Karur for employment. Another group of people have moved to Tiruchi and other areas for construction activities. Though the constituency has vast tracts of barren land and good road connectivity, there has not been much industrial development. Neither the State government nor the entrepreneurs come forward to use the vast tracts of land for setting up new industrial units. Drinking water crisis and lack of employment opportunities have been the major issues of the electorates for long. The Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) has a couple of combined water schemes to Manapparai and its surrounding villages. But many residents get water supply once a week. “We do not have words to describe the sufferings of the people due to acute water scarcity. It has been a perennial problem. No elected government in the past has come forward to find a permanent solution to the crisis,” says N. Ponnusamy, a resident of Manapparai.  Manapparai constituency has been the favourite bastion of the AIADMK. Since its formation after the delimitation in 2008, its candidate R. Chandrasekar has won twice in 2011 and 2016 consecutively. In 2011 Assembly election, he defeated his nearest rival professor and former Minister K. Ponnusamy (Independent) by a margin of 28,299 votes. He obtained 52,721 votes. Mr. Chandrasekar retained the constituency in 2016 election by defeating DMK bagged Indian Union Muslim League candidate M.A. Mohamed Nizam by a margin of 18,277 votes. Before delimitation, the constituency was called Marungapuri. Out of 11 Assembly elections since 1977, the AIADMK has won six times, the DMK four times and the Congress once.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-parched-manapparai-awaits-industrial-development/article34024148.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police wield the baton, begin booking poll-related cases||Police personnel have begun booking poll-related violation cases across the central zone in the run up to the Assembly elections besides initiating security proceedings against anti-social elements. Ever since the Election Commission announced the date of polls for Tamil Nadu late last month, the model code of conduct came into force immediately with Flying Squad, Static Surveillance Teams and Video Surveillance Teams having been constituted in every district for its strict enforcement. Till date, the law enforcers have booked as many as 328 cases under the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act all over the Central zone encompassing Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. The cases were booked for pasting posters, installing flex boards and hoisting party flags in violation of the model code of conduct rules against members of different political parties, say police sources. Maximum number of 229 cases under the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act were booked in Tiruvarur district followed by 58 cases in Nagapattinam district and 23 cases by the Tiruchi Rural Police till now. On Sunday alone, the Tiruchi Rural Police had booked eight cases - four in Kollidam police station and the remaining four in Siruganur police station against certain Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party members under the TNOPPD Act for erecting party flags and installing flex banners and pasting posters at different places under the limits of both stations in connection with the mega DMK public meeting that was held at Siruganur on Sunday. However, none of those named as accused in each case have been arrested. The sources said booking of cases under this Act was on every day as part of an effort to enforce the model code of conduct. Alongside this exercise, the law enforcers have in their database the detailed list of history sheeters and potential trouble mongers against whom necessary action was being taken. Out of the over 3,500 history sheeters listed in the central zone, security proceedings had been initiated against over 2,300 of them so far. A few of them have been remanded and few others detained under the Goondas Act . Similarly, action had also been initiated against certain identified potential trouble mongers all over the zone. Police sources say ahead of the election those in possession of arms with licences have begun to deposit them at the respective police station / taluk offices. As many as 2,670 of them had deposited their arms till now. Some of them had been given an exemption from this directive. Detailed security plans would be drafted in each district for the upcoming elections by listing out the available strength and the additional requirements. The first batch of para-military personnel had already arrived in each district in the central zone where flag marches were being done by engaging them along with the local police personnel to instil confidence among the general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-wield-the-baton-begin-booking-poll-related-cases/article34024158.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Attack on lorry booking office: eight held||Tense moments prevailed near Palpannai area here on Monday when a group of labourers owing allegiance to the CITU besieged a new lorry booking office opened on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu and allegedly assaulted an office bearer of the federation and reportedly ransacked the office. The loadmen and labourers had been on strike for the past few days demanding hike in wages from lorry owners, who were involved in booking freight. This had affected movement of goods and in this scenario, the Peramaippu had decided to open a new booking office. Moments after the new lorry booking office was opened by the Federation State general secretary Ve. Govindarajulu, a group of labourers owing allegiance to the CITU and armed with sticks besieged the office leading to tense situation. Mr. Govindarajulu claimed that a group of around 19 labourers ransacked the new office and assaulted the Federation State vice president S. Kandan leading to his hospitalisation adding that the entire incident occurred in front of the police personnel deployed at the spot. The labourers also pulled down a plantain tree placed in front of the new office besides ransacking the table and chairs inside, he said. Mr. Govindarajulu said since the movement of freight was hit by the labourers strike demanding hike in wages, the federation had opened a new lorry booking office at Palpannai to facilitate transportation of freight to towns such as Pudukottai, Aranthangi, Perambalur, Nagapattinam and Madurai by engaging a new set labourers for loading. Road roko Agitated over the attack on the new office, Mr. Govindarajulu and few others resorted to road roko demanding stern action against the labourers and ensure protection to traders leading to police intervention. Following talks with the police, the stir was withdrawn. The Gandhi Market police later arrested eight persons in connection with the incident, said police sources. Meanwhile, an emergency meeting of traders owing allegiance to the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu held later in the day condemned the attack. A.M. Vikkiramaraja, president of the Peramaippu, said that that it was unfortunate that the attack was carried out in the presence of police personnel. S. Kandan, vice president of the Peramaippu had sustained serious injuries and the police had registered a case against nine persons owing allegiance to CITU under inappropriate sections, he alleged and demanded that the accused be booked under attempt to murder. Mr. Vikkiramaraja said that the workers under the banner of CITU could not be allowed to threaten the unity and harmony of traders and workers. The booking office would continue to function and the police should ensure its smooth functioning, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-lorry-booking-office-eight-held/article34024156.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s vision statement disappoints MSME sector||The MSME sector here is disappointed over absence of specific thrust on development of small industries in the DMK's 10-year vision statement for the State's development. The seven broad categories identified for development constitute economy, agriculture, water resources, education and health, urban development, rural infrastructure and social justice. DMK president M.K. Stalin did talk about the target for double-digit economic growth over the next 10 years and creation of 10 lakh job opportunities every year, but made no mention about extricating the MSME sector from the financial troubles accentuated by COVID 19 lockdown, industry watchers say. “It is shocking that the vision statement of DMK has no mention on infusing vibrancy into MSME sector,” R. Elango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, said, wondering how the sector that is in dire need of active intervention for revival could be overlooked. “We are not happy with the generalisations in the vision statement on industrial development. There ought to be a special focus on MSME sector with particular reference to industries. Educated people can be provided employment only in industries; they cannot be expected to take up agriculture,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president of BHEL Small Industries Association said. In its MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) policy, 2021, unveiled recently, the AIADMK government had promised a three-fold increase in capital subsidy, and strengthening the role of Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation. Other parties had spelt out their plans for MSME sector. The PMK has promised SIPCOT industrial estates for every district, and region-wise industrial development, adapted to the area-specific advantages in terms of eco-system, and availability of raw material. The Makkal Needhi Maiyam has promised support for the MSME sector through mentoring by financial institutions and government initiatives; start of skill development super parks in every district under public-private partnership; and timeline-based business facilitation model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-vision-statement-disappoints-msme-sector/article34024159.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Looking back on a year that made them stronger||It has been a difficult year for people and more so working women whose source of income almost came to a standstill. On the occasion of International Women's Day, some women recollect the year that went by. It has been a hard grind for S. Amuthavalli, a 70-year-old woman, who sells Kambu Koozhu outside the Tiruchi City Corporation office on Bharathidasan Salai. She has been manning the pushcart since 2009 when she decided to set up shop after the death of her husband. “I have two children who are also struggling financially. To help contribute, I began selling koozhu”, she said. She begins making the porridge as early as 6 a.m. so that she can set up shop by 10 am. She stays till 3 p.m. daily. “There are people who drink koozhu for breakfast and even at lunchtime,” she says. For her lunch, she brings food packed in a small tiffin box from home. Her shop reopened on February 1, after being closed for nearly a year. S. K. Jayabharathi, Nursing Superintendent at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has over 30-years of experience. Though, she has a team of 200 nurses, she takes on all the work herself. “Till I have strength left in my body, I will work for the welfare of the people,” she said. Even when she was quarantined at home after being diagnosed with COVID-19, she continued to monitor her team on the phone, doctors say. She even spent three months of her salary to purchase necessities for her staff who were also affected by the viral infection. “Everything I do, I do to see people happy. There is nothing more fulfilling in the world,” she said. A traffic policewoman requesting anonymity said that working night shifts and away from home prepared her to handle obstacles in life. “Women must learn to be independent. We must all prepare to be bold and strong, for our own well-being,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-look-back-on-a-year-that-made-them-stronger/article34024149.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special COVID-19 vaccination camp launched to mark Women’s Day||Various organisations and educational institutions celebrated International Women’s Day by honouring achievers . At the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, a special COVID-19 vaccination camp was launched at the District Early Intervention Centre (DEIC) block in the hospital. Women who had arrived at the hospital to get inoculated were sent to the new block, from where a session site for vaccination would function from Monday onwards. Commissioner of Police, J. Loganathan, who visited the hospital to receive the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine cut a cake along with Dean K. Vanitha and shared it with nurses and other staff at the hospital. The Department of Women’s Studies, Bharathidasan University organised an online seminar- ‘ Women in Leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world’. Director and Head, K. Manimekalai in her address expressed her concern on the duality of women's issues. On one hand, women were reaching great heights while on the other, cases of domestic violence and sexual harassment were on the rise. At an event organised jointly by Srimati Indira Gandhi College ‘Pudugai’ Bharathi, orator, emphasised the role of women in society. K. Meena, former Vice Chancellor, Bharathidasan University, and Secretary, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College, presided. Kalai Kaviri College of Fine Arts commemorated the day with an event presided by D. Thriveni, Judicial Magistrate, Tiruchi, and K. Varsha, a transgender folk artist. Ms. Thriveni stressed the importance of the presence of women in decision-making roles. Varsha said that as a transwoman, she had to fight to be considered a woman. She hoped that society would help provide employment and educational opportunities to transwomen. A 16-year-old entrepreneur and student of Vasant Valley School, New Delhi, Prarthna Batra addressed a programme by the Institute of Management-Tiruchi on ‘Women’s Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a COVID-19 World. She impressed upon the need for freedom of choice in every woman’s life. Janak Palta McGilligan, Founder and Director of the Jimmy McGilligan Foundation and Anoushka Adya, Director and Founder of Lajja Diaries also addressed a gathering of students online. Confederation of Indian Industry & Young Indians (Tiruchi chapter) organised “Celebrating Wonder Women”, an event at Holy Cross College. Nine women including an auto driver, a welder, lorry driver were among those who were recognised. Inaugurating the Women’s Day celebrations organised by the Forum of Women In Public Sector (WIPS) at BHEL, Tiruchi, T. S. Murali, General Manager and Head, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, said that as more and more women continued to venture into traditionally male dominated professions, it was time for men to change their traditional mindset and adapt towards working alongside women towards common goals. S. Akila Kasthuri, Medical Superintendent, BHEL Hospital, was felicitated as the senior-most woman employee of BHEL,Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-covid-19-vaccination-camp-launched-to-mark-womens-day/article34024673.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Engineer arrested on bribery charge||An Assistant Engineer of Tangedco was arrested by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) in Srirangam here on Monday on a bribery charge. Assistant Engineer Rajendran (52) whose office is situated at Srirangam had allegedly demanded Rs. 30,000 as bribe from a manager of a private gunny bag manufacturing unit at Tiruvanaikoil after the latter submitted an application seeking enhancement of power load for the unit. Unwilling to pay the bribe, the manager lodged a complaint with the DVAC, Tiruchi unit. A trap was laid by the investigating agency and the Assistant Engineer was arrested when he allegedly obtained the bribe amount in his office in the afternoon. The DVAC has registered a case against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineer-arrested-on-bribery-charge/article34024155.ece
09 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Deal with poll code violators firmly’||Even as all-out efforts are being made to ensure free and fair polling during the Assembly election on April 6, the Returning Officers have been instructed to file complaints against all poll code violations without any fear or favour, Collector V. Vishnu has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday after inspecting Government Engineering College, the counting centre for the votes to be polled all 5 Assembly segments in the district, the administration had made various arrangements to conduct the Assembly election in free and fair manner with the cooperation of all stakeholders. The round-the-clock election control room could be reached through 1800 425 8373, WhatsApp number 83002 71237 for registering complaints or alerting the officials about election model code violations, if any. The static surveillance teams and the flying squads have so far seized 29 liquor bottles, 64 dhotis, unaccounted cash of Rs. 1.25 lakh, 7.70 kg silver even as 8 poll code violation cases have been registered so far, Mr. Vishnu said adding that 13,441 posters, banners and wall graffiti were removed after the poll notification.  When asked about the case registered against the Congress functionaries in connection with the reception accorded here recently to the party leader Rahul Gandhi Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, T.S. Anbu, who accompanied the Collector, said violators affiliated to any political party would be booked in an impartial manner as similar case had been booked against the BJP cadre also for violation of poll code when they took out bike rally recently. “Based on the inputs being provided by the static surveillance teams and the flying squads and subsequent complaints, we’ll register cases of poll code violation,” Mr. Anbu said. Mr. Vishnu said 1,924 polling stations, including 309 vulnerable polling stations, were ready, ready for polling. Following the First Level Checking, 3,229 ballot units, 2,416 control, 2,563 VVPATs (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) in the presence of political parties, the Electronic Voting Machines are ready. After the nomination is completed, the exact number of EVMs required for polling can be arrived at. “If we have to use more number of EVMs, we’re prepared to source the machines,” the Collector said. Informing that training for 157 zonal officers had been completed, the polling personnel, who are not compelled to accept the poll duty against their genuine problems, had been advised to vaccinate against COVID-19. On the postal ballots allowed by the Election Commission of India for the differently abled and the senior citizens above the age of 80, the Returning Officers have been instructed to give Form 12D to those voters. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan said the paramilitary forces were being deployed along with the policemen as part of the security arrangements with more companies arriving in phases. “Though no new check-posts have been created as part of the election security arrangements, we’ll resort to such measures also if the situation warrants,” Mr. Manivannan said. Mr. Vishnu said work on preparing the counting centre would commence on Tuesday (March 9) even as all polling material had been kept ready. Rally taken out Meanwhile, Mr. Vishnu and the senior officials participated in a voter awareness cycle rally on Monday. After leading the voter awareness cycle rally taken-out from Florence Swainson Higher Secondary School for the Hearing Impaired opposite Palayamkottai Central Prison to the Collectorate, Mr. Vishnu administered cent per cent polling pledge to the first time voters and others at the Collectorate premises. He also demonstrated the casting of votes in the Electronic Voting Machine and confirming their choice of candidate in the VVPAT. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan, District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Assistant Collector (Training) Alarmelmangai, Deputy Collector (Training) Mahalakshmi, officials, students and volunteers participated in the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deal-with-poll-code-violators-firmly/article34024678.ece
09 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in two road accidents||Four persons, including a couple, were killed in separate accidents in the district since Sunday night. Police said a group of people from Tenkasi district was returning home in a car after attending the Thamizhar Viduthalai Kalam meeting held in Tirunelveli on Sunday night. When they reached Seethaparpanallur, a lorry hit the car in which A. Hariharan, 29, of Keezha Vellakkaal North Colony near Tenkasi, was killed on the spot. Though the injured were rushed to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, V. Sivakumar, 37, of Vallam near Tenkasi, succumbed to his injuries later while three others are under treatment with injuries. Alangulam police have registered a case. In another road accident, a preacher and his wife were killed near Cheranmahadevi on Monday. When M. Sundar, 55, of Mela Sivanthipuram near Vickramasingapuram in the district, his wife Anna Packiyam, 50, and 3-year-old granddaughter, were going to Kalakkad on a moped on Monday, a speeding cargo autorickshaw hit the two-wheeler in which the couple were killed on the spot. The girl is undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Cheranmahadevi police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-in-two-road-accidents/article34024676.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Baby rescued from dustbin||A baby boy less than a week old was rescued from a dustbin in Palladam here on Sunday and admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). According to the police, Manickavalli (25) of Sengattuthottam found the baby inside the garbage bin on Sunday. She brought him to the Palladam Government Hospital for first aid. Following this, the doctors referred the baby to CMCH for further treatment. The Palladam police registered a case. The location where the baby was found did not have any CCTV cameras, according to the police. Further investigations are on. Meanwhile, sources at CMCH said on Monday that the condition of the baby was stable and was admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit. The newborn was diagnosed with imperforate anus and other congenital anomalies following admission, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baby-rescued-from-dustbin/article34024526.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Tiruppur City Police on Monday arrested a man on charges of cheating Rs. 50 lakh through a chit fund company. A statement from the police said S. Aravind (29) ran the firm in which complainant J. Haridas deposited Rs. 3 lakh in June 2018. However, the accused absconded without returning the money of around 150 depositors, including the complainant. The CCB police booked the accused and formed a special team to nab him. The team arrested Aravind on Mangalam Road on Monday and remanded him in judicial custody. Investigations revealed that a case was pending against the accused in Economic Offences Wing, Coimbatore, and that he was running two more chit fund companies in Salem, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-cheating/article34024204.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two persons killed in accident||Two men travelling on a motorcycle were killed after being hit by a speeding truck on Mangalam Road within Tiruppur City Police limits on Monday. The police said Velusamy (40) was driving the two-wheeler towards Tiruppur on Mangalam Road and his friend Karunanithi (45) was the pillion rider. As they approached Thadikaramukku at around 11.30 a.m., lorry driver Karthikeyan (32) travelling behind the motorcycle attempted to overtake the duo. The truck’s side came in contact with the motorcycle, causing the duo to fall off the vehicle. Both died on the spot. The Tiruppur Central police sent the bodies to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy and registered a case against the truck driver. The accused was arrested on Monday afternoon, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-killed-in-accident/article34024527.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of EVMs carried out||The first round of randomisation of the electronic voting machines (EVM) and voter verified paper audit trails (VVPAT) was carried out here on Monday in the presence of District Election Officer and Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and representatives from various political parties. An official said the 4,015 control units and 4,015 ballot units were placed in the warehouse at the Palladam taluk office and 4,350 VVPATs were placed in the warehouse at Tiruppur South taluk office. Following the first round of randomisation, these would be divided between the eight Assembly constituencies and sent to the respective strong rooms on Tuesday. District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy and Returning Officers of Dharapuram (reserved), Kangeyam, Avinashi (reser ved), Tiruppur North and South, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam Assembly constituencies were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-evms-carried-out/article34024529.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Former Governor takes vaccine shot||Former Meghalaya Governor V. Shanmuganathan took the Covaxin shot as part of the COVID-19 vaccination drive at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Monday. Health Department sources said that Mr. Shanmuganathan was administered the vaccine shot at around 11.30 a.m. Hospital’s Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-governor-takes-vaccine-shot/article34024528.ece
09 March 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Five hostel students test positive in Mannargudi||Five girls staying in a government hostel and pursuing their studies in the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Mannargudi, have tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources, a hostel inmate studying 12th standard at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School suffered from fever and cough and hence was sent home last week. She had undergone treatment for the high temperature at the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Mannargudi where she was tested for COVID-19. The results revealed that she had contracted the infection. Hence, all inmates of the hostel were also tested and results of four girls have returned positive. All of them were brought to the Government Hospital and admitted at the COVID-19 ward. In view of the development, the school was closed, and samples were taken from teaching and non-teaching staff and students who were attending the school, sources said.  Central region The central districts on Monday reported a slight spike in cases of COVID-19 with 56 patients testing positive. No death due to the viral infection was recorded in the region, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Tiruvarur reported a spike in cases with 19 patients reporting positive, Thanjavur 16 and Tiruchi 10. Seven patients tested positive in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai two. One case each was reported in Ariyalur and Karur. Perambalur reported no new case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-hostel-students-test-positive-in-mannargudi/article34024153.ece
09 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Invasive species prove a tough challenge in the Nilgiris||Removing invasive flora is having very limited impact on restoring native forests and grasslands in the Nilgiris, a committee comprising forest department officials, ecologists and experts on invasive species removal has found during its recent visit to the district. The committee, which is looking into the feasibility of the recommendations put forth by the High Court-appointed expert committee for invasive species management, recently visited Gudalur, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Korakundah, Upper Bhavani and Avalanche, is focusing on areas where invasive wattle trees were removed to ascertain whether this was helping Shola forests and grasslands to re-establish. However, the officials and experts in the committee toldThe Hinduthat they came across multiple complexities that had highlighted the challenges the forest department faced in removing entirely the exotic species from the Western Ghats landscape. “For instance, in areas where invasive wattle trees have been removed, exotic species of grass, such as Vulpia myuros have come up, which is not palatable for local wildlife. Other grasses in wattle-cut areas such as Isachne kunthiana, which is native to the landscape, have also come up in these areas. However, this grass too is not palatable, and as there is not enough expertise to identify these grasses and remove them,” said an ecologist who was part of the committee. The members of the committee said they were pushing for the establishment of nurseries that grew not just Shola tree species but also native grasses that could be planted to help restore degraded or destroyed grasslands.  Restoration programmes Careful monitoring of areas where invasive species have been removed, as well as site-specific restoration programmes is the need of the hour to have any long-term impact to help landscapes recover, said another expert on invasive species management. “The problem we are seeing with removing wattle is that they persistently attempt to re-establish in locations where they have been removed for a number of years. So a patch where invasive wattle has been removed needs to be maintained every year for a period of at least five to six years and this will require persistence and substantial funding,” said a top State forest department official. The department has also noticed secondary invasion of Cytisus scoparius (Scotch broom) in Korakundah and Upper Bhavani, where wattle was removed, while another concern for the department is how to get rid of the exotic trees that have been removed. “We are trying to assess the demand for wood, as the trees, once removed cannot just be left at the site,” said another official, who added that these challenges make the developing of a comprehensive strategy for restoring degraded habitats very complex. Apart from wattle, the spread of Lantana camara and Senna spectabilis is another cause for concern. Forest officials believe Senna spectabilis has spread to more than 20 hectares in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invasive-species-prove-a-tough-challenge-in-the-nilgiris/article34024203.ece
09 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Eco-restoration helps bring back native Sholas to dumpyard in Coonoor||In a little over six months since they were planted, a thousand saplings, mostly comprising native Shola trees, have transformed what used to be a dumpyard for residents of Karadipallam in Coonoor, into an example as what can be accomplished with targeted eco-restoration. The saplings, which were planted in Sampangi reserve forest, have grown surprisingly quickly on the 3.5-hectare area. S.M. Sasikumar, Forest Range Officer, Coonoor Range, said the Shola tree species grown at the site included Syzigium cumini, Elaeocarpus variabilis and Elaeocarpus recurvatus . “They have grown to over five-feet tall, and almost all of them have survived the intense Nilgiris winter,” said Mr. Sasikumar. The eco-restoration project is not only helping Shola forests re-establish in the Sampangi reserve forest in Coonoor Range, but has also led to the entire area to be cleaned up.  “The 3.5 hectare where the plantation has taken place was being used as a dumpyard by local residents. We first spent a good few weeks cleaning up the area and sensitising people to stop littering,” said an anti-poaching watcher who is one of the staff tasked with maintaining the saplings. “We used to carry pots of water up the steep slopes to water each tree. Seeing our difficulties, the ranger and the DFO have fitted a pump which allow us to more easily water the trees and ensure they grow fast and healthy,” he said. The efforts taken by the Forest Department has also led local residents to take ownership of the swamps surrounding their residences in Karadipallam. A. Madhavan, a resident of the area, said people witnessed the amount of garbage that had to be cleaned up, and stopped discarding their waste in the surrounding forests. “We did not realise that waste could accumulate so quickly, and are trying our best to handover our waste to the waste collection teams instituted by the local body,” he said. District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, Guru Swamy Dabbala, said the success of the project would only be visible once the trees attained full growth. “Apart from the Sholas, we have planted a few ornamental Jacarando mimosifolia trees along the road margin. Though they are not native to the landscape, once they become fully grown, the beautiful blue flowers of the trees will definitely draw the public’s attention at the Forest Department’s efforts at regenerating Shola species in the region. We hope that this inspires them to take up planting native trees,” said Mr. Dabbala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eco-restoration-helps-bring-back-native-sholas-to-dumpyard-in-coonoor/article34024532.ece
09 March 2021||Udhagamandalam/ Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ torch reaches Wellington Military Station||The ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ torch reached the Shrinagesh Barracks at the Wellington Military Station on Monday. The year-long Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations started from December 20, 2020 to commemorate the victory of the Armed forces in the 1971 Indo-Pakistani War. The torch was received by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the Madras Regimental Centre and Station Commander, Wellington Military Station. He was joined by veterans from the 1971 war led by former Vice-Chief of Army Staff Lieutenant General S. Pattabhiraman, the senior-most veteran at the occasion. “The solemn occasion was marked by the presentation of arms to the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ torch. The reception of the torch was followed by the felicitation of the three war veterans and three next of kin of war veterans.  The war veterans enriched the gathering with their war experiences,” a press release from the Madras Regimental Centre said. A total of 150 veterans from Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Erode, Tiruppur, and parts of Kerala, including Palakkad, who took part in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, would be felicitated in an event to be held at the PSG Institute of Medical Science and Research in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ torch will be brought to the venue on the day. Though there are around 1,200 war veterans from the region, only 150 will be participating in the event due to reasons including age factor. The event is scheduled to have the presence of Coimbatore District Collector, Coimbatore City Police Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, Commandant of the Air Force Administrative College, Station Commander-Coimbatore, NCC Group Commander, officers from the Army, Navy and Air Force. The event will also feature cultural events including Air Force symphony orchestra and programmes by NCC cadets. G 40 – Rotary Clubs of Coimbatore has extended support for the felicitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swarnim-vijay-varsh-torch-reaches-wellington-military-station/article34024207.ece
09 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman workers want Beedi excluded from amendments to COTPA||More than 65 lakh women Beedi rollers from across the country, including around 30,000 from Vellore, have appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exclude Beedi from the proposed amendments to Cigarette & Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) as it can wreck their livelihoods. There are more than 80 lakh beedi rollers in the country and out of this 65 lakh are women. “In Tamil Nadu alone, there are five lakh of them and 75% are women. In Vellore there are 50,000 and out of this 30,000 are women,” said M.P. Ramachandran, president, Tamil Nadu Beedi Workers Federation. He said that as per the new amendments, Beedi should be sold only as a pack and the brand name should not be printed on the pack. “This will lead to circulation of fake brands and this will endanger people’s lives even more,” he also added. Mr. Ramachandran said that rallies were held across the country demanding that Beedis be excluded from COTPA Act amendments. “It is a traditional industry in the country. Women, mainly homemakers and elderly people, depend on this industry to earn a living. There is no alternative employment for these women beedi workers. The amendments will make them lose their jobs,” added Mr. Ramachandran. He said that the government should reformulate separate rules for beedis under COTPA 2003 to save this indigenous and high employment-generating industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-workers-want-beedi-excluded-from-amendments-to-cotpa/article34024645.ece
09 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records six new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,061 with six new cases reported on Monday. While a total of 20,640 have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 70. The district's death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, one case was reported positive and the total stood at 16,256. In Tirupattur district, three new cases were reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,646. In Tiruvannamalai district, one new case was reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,518. Out of this, 19,218 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-six-new-cases/article34024638.ece
09 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Voter awareness programmes galore in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district has stepped up voter awareness programmes with an aim to increase the voter turnout in the ensuing Assembly election. Virudhunagar District Returning Officer and District Collector, R. Kannan, inaugurated a model polling booth at Mallankinaru. The model polling booth with all basic facilities and some decoration was meant to attract voters into the booth. “First time voters will not know what is there inside the polling booth. So to make them familiarise, we have set up the model polling booth at Mallankinaru,” said district Nodal officer from SVEEP activity, V. Jayakumar. The district officials have already started to demonstrate electronic voting machines and VVPATs at the crowded places where voters try their hand in casting their votes. The officials also explain to them as to how to watch the VVPAT to know that the vote they had cast had gone to the candidate of their choice. Mr. Kannan also inaugurated a signature campaign as part voter awareness programme at Mallakinaru. He also administered a pledge to the officials and employees of Mallankinaru Town panchayat and members of self help groups of women on the need to vote without getting anything favour from the candidates. The Collector said that people should come forward to vote in the Assembly election in order to participate in the democratic process. An awareness rally was also taken out on the occasion. Tiruchuli Assembly Constituency Returning Officer, Ganesan, Project Officer (Mahalir Thittam), Thanapathi, Assistant Director (Town Panchayats), Vijayalakshmi, Assistant Director (Village Panchayats), Ganesan, Mallankinaru Town Panchayat Executive Officer, Murugan and Kariyapatti Tahsildar, Chandrasekar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-awareness-programmes-galore-in-virudhunagar-district/article34024198.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers turn to seed testing||The practice of testing seeds to check their quality is fast catching up among delta farmers and seed dealers going by the data available with the Seed Testing Laboratory (STL), Thanjavur. Normally, farmers rely on the seed certificate issued by the Directorate of Seed Certification, Coimbatore, while deciding on the variety of paddy or other crops they want to cultivate in their fields. Their trust in the Directorate saved them from losses on several occasions in the past. However, seeds with ‘fake’ certification continued to haunt them until they started utilising the seed testing service offered by STL to farmers and dealers under ‘Service Samples’ category. According to official sources, STL, Thanjavur, notified by the Government of India under Section 4(2) of the Seed Act, 1966 as an authorised testing centre for seeds, comes under the control of the Directorate of Seed Certification and Organic Certification, Coimbatore. The main role of the laboratory is to ensure supply of quality seeds for better yield and seeds of paddy, black gram, green gram, cotton, groundnut, gingelly, green manures and vegetables like gourds, tomato, brinjal, chillies and bhendi are tested. The seeds received for testing are classified under three categories – Certification Samples (CS) from the Seed Certification Wing, Official Sample (OS) from the Seed Inspection Wing and as Service Sample (SS) from any farmers or seed dealers. The number of samples received at STL, Thanjavur, has recorded an upward trend in the recent past reflecting the concern among farmers and seed dealers on availability of quality seeds from their side also, sources added. According to data available with STL, the number of samples submitted under the SS category in the year 2017-18 (from April 1 to March 31 in the subsequent year) slipped to 720 from 770 samples tested during 2016-17 but it rose to 750 in the year 2018-19. Surprisingly, the number of farmers or seed sellers who have approached STL to get the quality of their seeds tested increased by over 150 in 2019-20 from around 750 during 2018-19. The need to ensure quality of seed for betterment of the farming community seems to have been realised by the stakeholders as more than 750 seeds were received and tested under the SS category till the first week of this month. The slump in the number of requests for certification under the SS category during the current year may be due to the exposure of agricultural operations in the delta region to unexpected weather conditions during this cultivation season, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-turn-to-seed-testing/article34024145.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM promises each family six free cylinders||On the release of the list of AIADMK candidates and the finalisation of a seat-sharing arrangement with the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and others, the Chief Minister said everything would be completed shortly. “The filing of nominations begins on March 12. By then, everything will be in place.” Asked about the composition of the alliance, he said those parties that had allied themselves with the AIADMK for the 2019 Lok Sabha election would stay in the alliance. Some smaller parties, too, had come in. On the opinion polls that put the DMK and its allies ahead of the AIADMK-led coalition, Mr. Palaniswami said he was sure that the AIADMK would retain power, going by the verdict of the people who ensured the party’s victory in the Vikravandi and Nanguneri Assembly by-elections in 2019 with “huge margins”. As for the support of the minority communities to his party, the Chief Minister said that in recent days, several Muslim and Christian organisations expressed their support to the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-promises-each-family-6-free-cylinders/article34024177.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM promises free cylinders||On the release of the list of AIADMK candidates and the finalisation of a seat-sharing arrangement with the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and others, the Chief Minister said everything would be completed shortly. “The filing of nominations begins on March 12. By then, everything will be in place.” Asked about the composition of the alliance, he said those parties that had allied themselves with the AIADMK for the 2019 Lok Sabha election would stay in the alliance. Some smaller parties, too, had come in. On the opinion polls that put the DMK and its allies ahead of the AIADMK-led coalition, Mr. Palaniswami said he was sure that the AIADMK would retain power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-promises-free-cylinders/article34024238.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Awareness march||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-march/article34024637.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science, hands on workshop on Android Application Development, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: Industry Institute Interaction Cell, Signing of MoU with Triple N Institute of Skill Training, 9.30 a.m.    Sengunthar Engineering College: International Women’s Day celebrations, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34024213.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Overview on Intellectual Property Rights, 12.05 p.m.; Workshop on Agricultural Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Veena Hall, 11 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Energia Club webinar on Energy Conservation through building automation system, 9.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: US India partnership skill development programme, 10 a.m.  Karpagam Institute of Technology: Webinar on Web Architecture, 9 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Executive Chefs Talk, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34024530.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tongue in cheek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tongue-in-cheek/article34024170.ece
09 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Six MES activists held||The police arrested six activists of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) on Monday, when they tried to remove the Kannada flag in front of the city corporation in Belagavi and put up the saffron flag of the MES party instead. Sarita Patil, former Mayor, and some Shiv Sena members were among those arrested. The activists were protesting against the Kannada flag that they alleged was erected without due permit. The police stopped the group that was carrying a saffron flag and took away the flag pole. Protesters gathered in from of the city corporation and shouted slogans against the State government that they alleged was supporting the illegal activities by pro-Kannada groups. Slogans raised Protesters raised slogans against Deputy commissioner M.G. Hiremath for denying permission to the MES rally planned this week. Protesters argued with the police officers who urged them to leave the protest site. Once the frontline protesters were arrested, the crowd dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-mes-activists-held/article34024249.ece
09 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cooperative society launched||The first branch of Lakshmi Tayi Souharda Cooperative Society, promoted by Lakshmi Hebbalkar, MLA, and her supporters was inaugurated in Saundatti on Sunday. The MLA said the society would not limit itself to financial services, but also venture into the fields of education and health. It will strive to provide access to high quality education and healthcare at lower costs to the poor. The society was started to help sugarcane farmers and other farmers get easy loans and higher returns on deposits. It will help farmers buy farm equipment easily, she said. Sri Umeshwar Shivacharya, seer of Hooli Sambayya Mutt, inaugurated the branch by depositing Rs. 1 lakh in the society. MLAs Anand Mamani and Mahantesh Koujalagi welcomed the formation of the society. Channaraj Hattiholi, the MLA’s brother and society chairman, Mahantesh Mattikoppa, vice-chairman, and directors were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cooperative-society-launched/article34024248.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In trying times, GSDP saw negative growth||For the first time since 2012-13, Karnataka’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) growth rate has been negative, at -2.6%. The GSDP has shrunk from Rs. 11.43 lakh crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 11.13 lakh crore in 2020-21. From reduced revenue collection and share in Central taxes, the State, which fought the COVID-19 pandemic most of this financial year, saw a reduction from most avenues while it recovered lost ground in some crucial tax collection segments. A look at the revenue and capital receipts of the State shows that while the share of Central taxes decreased from 1.82% to 1.58% of the GSDP, the share of grants from the Union government also decreased from 1.17% to 0.86% of the GSDP. The State’s own non-tax revenue also decreased slightly from 0.44% to 0.43% of the GSDP. Karnataka’s share in Central taxes is anticipated to decrease by Rs. 2,328 crore, or 7.53%, in 2020-21 from the previous year. The tax devolution from the Centre has come down from Rs. 30,919 crore to Rs. 28,591 crore. The State saw a reduction in grants (excluding Goods and Services Tax compensation) from the Centre, from Rs. 19,840 crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 15,454 crore in this fiscal. The State’s share in GST compensation came down by 6.57%, from Rs. 17,249 crore to Rs. 16,116 crore. However, GST collection has seen a 10.69% increase, from Rs. 42,748 crore to Rs. 47,313 crore. The State tax revenue, which constitutes the largest share, increased from 7% of the GSDP to 7.09%. Revenue from the State’s own tax is expected to be Rs. 1.28 lakh crore this fiscal, up from Rs. 1.18 lakh crore the previous financial year. On the non-tax revenue side, it marginally increased from Rs. 7,508 crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 7,767 crore this fiscal. The annual economic survey said that the ratio of non-tax revenue to total receipts has been continuously very low over the years. The State has among the lowest non-tax revenue-to-GSDP ratios in the country — about the 1% mark for the last five or six years — which has been attributed to low recovery cost. With the pandemic leading Karnataka to increase borrowings to meet its expenditure, the total liabilities of the State government increased from Rs. 3.25 lakh crore to Rs. 3.68 crore, which is at 20.42% of the GSDP. This fiscal saw capital receipts, including loans from the Centre and internal debt, of Rs. 50,148 crore — an 17.2% increase over the previous year. While loans from the Centre accounted for Rs. 1,844 crore, internal borrowings stood at Rs. 43,472 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-trying-times-gsdp-saw-negative-growth/article34024351.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 850 crore for suburban rail project||The Karnataka Budget, which was announced on Monday, has provided much-needed push to Bengaluru’s suburban rail project with an allocation of Rs. 850 crore for the next financial year. Rail activists have hailed the move, saying that it has given a fillip to the long-delayed mass transit project. Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited, a joint venture of the State and Central governments, is building a 148-km rail network with four corridors and proposes to construct 57 stations. In the first phase, K-RIDE will focus on the Baiyappanahalli to Chikkabanavara, and Heelalige to Rajankunte corridors. “The Centre had made an allocation of Rs. 300 crore for the project in the Union Budget. That, along with the State government’s allocation, is a good move. We are hoping that least one of the corridors will be operational in the next two years,” said Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a rail activist. K-RIDE Managing Director Amit Garg said construction will start this year. “The K-RIDE has already taken up various works related to the suburban rail project, including consultation, design, and identification of land for acquisition,” he said. The project requires Rs. 15,767 crore and six years to complete. The Budget also stated that the line doubling projects in Yeshwanthpura-Channasandra and Baiyappanahalli-Hosur divisions will be completed by 2023. K-RIDE is implementing them at a cost of Rs. 813 crore in collaboration with the Railway Ministry on a 50% cost-sharing basis. Tribute to Suresh Angadi The State government has provided a grant of Rs. 463 crore to implement a 73-km new rail line between Dharwad, Kittur and Belagavi. This project was announced by the Centre in its Budget at a total cost of Rs. 927 crore. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the project was sanctioned as a result of the continuous efforts of the late former Union Minister Suresh Angadi. “True respect to late Shri Suresh Angadi will be paid by early completion of this project,” the budget stated The State government has taken up seven new projects for laying of 1,173 kilometres of rail line on a 50:50 cost-sharing basis with the Railway Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-850-crore-for-suburban-rail-project/article34024501.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No vision of preparedness for future pandemics||Although expectations were high on health allocation this year, especially after the State’s experience in battling the pandemic, the Budget for 2021–22 has been disappointing, both in terms of allocation and planning for future pandemics. Although Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa admitted in his Budget speech on Monday that the panic created by COVID-19 could not be forgotten and that the State was preparing to deal with a second wave, the overall allocation for the health sector has remained the same as last year’s — at 4% (Rs. 11,908 crore) of the total Budget. Also, while several initiatives, including setting up of ICUs in district and taluk hospitals and strengthening of tele-ICUs apart from upgrading of primary health centres, have been announced, there is nothing specific on strengthening the health surveillance system for monitoring emergence of new pathogens. Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals and member of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee said there was a need for continuous upgrading of oxygen beds, ICU beds, isolation beds, and testing facilities. “Budgetary allocation for this will be needed to fight any future pandemics,” he said. Terming it as a “reasonable” Budget considering the State of the economy after devastation by COVID-19, Dr. Ballal said, “Facilities to segregate infectious patients from [those with] non-infectious and non-communicable diseases need to be planned in our future healthcare systems.” While welcoming the Budget proposals in the health sector, V. Ravi, the former senior professor and head of neurovirology at NIMHANS and member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said the Budget should have had a long-term vision and planning for future preparedness. This vision should involve setting up good surveillance, which includes establishing a state-of-the-art virology centre in Karnataka, said Dr. Ravi, who is also the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in the State. Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor and activist, said the pandemic is a good time for the government to look at gaps in the public health system and invest in addressing these. “The obvious lesson is that the urban-centric, corporatised, and fragmented healthcare does not meet the needs of a majority in the State. Gaps in disaster preparedness, data mapping, lab testing, transport facilities, etc. have been laid bare. The government should have invested in preparing and anticipating for future pandemics,” she added. However, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the Chief Minister had done a balancing act. “I am confident that the Chief Minister will allocate more funds in the coming days as the State’s revenue returns to normalcy,” he said. The Budget, among other things, proposes to set up satellite centres of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences at K.C. GeneralHospital and Davangere District Hospital on a equip, operate and manage model, apart from additional cancer and trauma centres and two labs to detect hereditary metabolic disorders among neonates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-vision-of-preparedness-for-future-pandemics/article34024259.ece
09 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Slew of initiatives, but no holistic approach||The State Budget appears to have made efforts to create new marketing avenues for farmers as it has announced a slew of initiatives, including creation of an unified market platform for better marketing, connectivity, and publicity for FPOs and similar measures for organic produce as well as minor millets. This is in addition to the proposal to set up exclusive markets for flowers, vegetables, turmeric, and chilli in different places. However, the Budget appears to be lacking a holistic approach with respect to strengthening agrarian economy, especially making farming a sustainable economic activity. There is no clarity on how the proposed marketing initiatives will reach all farmers. There were huge expectations on agriculture in the wake of the sector showing vibrancy by attracting a large number of educated youth during COVID-19. Also, there were expectations of announcements being made in the Budget to encash further upon benefits under the ‘one district, one product’ scheme of the Centre. Though there are initiatives, they are scattered and do not measure up in size to cover all the regions and all farmers. To reduce the burden on farmers, the Budget has proposed to reduce the market fee from 1.5% to 0.6% in the APMCs. The reservation being provided to farmers’ children in agricultural universities has been increased from 40% to 50%. The Budget has proposed to increase the subsidy for setting up cold storage units and post-harvest management/processing plants from 35% to 50%. Similarly, a programme with an outlay of Rs. 500 crore has been announced to promote organic farming. It has also announced that demonstration plots will be set up in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research as well as agricultural and horticultural universities to introduce new technology and crop varieties and better management practices to farmers. But there is no clarity on whether these demonstration plots will cover the entire State. Some of the innovative initiatives include setting up of a food park at Ittangihal village in Vijayapura district to provide opportunity to set up agro startups and establishing a horticultural technological park at Sirivara village in Koppal taluk for economic development of horticultural farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/slew-of-initiatives-but-no-holistic-approach/article34024262.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vokkaliga board to be set up||The State Budget has come under criticism for creating more caste-baseddevelopment corporations and making large budgetary allocations to corporations of ‘upper’ castes, even as the SC/ST sub-plans have shrunk. The Budget announced the formation of a Vokkaliga development board, a demand the community had voiced after the government recently formed the Veerashaiva-Lingayat development board. The Budget announced a grant of Rs. 500 crore for the board.The government had announced the same amount for Veerashaiva-Lingayat board. The two communities have been demanding a bigger share in the reservation pie. Meanwhile, Brahmin Development Board has been allocated Rs. 50 crore. This, even as the budget makes a total allocation of Rs. 500 crore for 16 other development corporations that work for specific communities such as Marathas, Bhovi, Madiwala, Uppara, and other 206 OBC communities. Not just that, Scheduled Caste Sub-plan – Scheduled Tribes Sub-plan has shrunk considerably — pegged at Rs. 26,005 crore — even as the overall Budget outlay has expanded. It has shrunk from Rs. 26,614 crore in 2020–21 — of which Rs. 5,170 crore was sought to be diverted to other expenses. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said in the Budget speech that this was owing to an increase in committed expenditure. ‘Appeasing upper castes’ C.S. Dwarakanath, former chairman, Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, said, “The Chief Minister seems to have devised a new way of making budgetary allocations to communities. Instead of caste mutts, he is now creating caste-based government bodies for upper castes and making generous doles to them.” The government seems to be appeasing ‘upper’ castes at the cost of backward castes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vokkaliga-board-to-be-set-up/article34024263.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Stamp duty revision will help’||Karnataka budget brings a slight respite to the worst business casualty of the pandemic: the real estate sector. It is clear that the State government wants to infuse some buoyancy in the sector as it has a fixed revenue collection target of Rs. 12,655 crore for the Stamps and Registration Department for fiscal 2021-22. On the stamps and registration front, the State proposes to reduce stamp duty from 5% to 3% on first registration of apartments valued between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 45 lakh to promote affordable housing, a proposal to attract new home buyers to the market. Welcoming the proposal, Sarita Hunt, MD, Bangalore, Savills India, said, “This will be a much-required booster for the residential real estate sector in Karnataka, especially for affordable housing. The revision of stamp duty to 3% will benefit the fence-sitters and encourage buyers. Such a move positively impacted the home buying trend in Maharashtra, and we hope to see a similar result in Karnataka as well.” According to Rajendra Joshi, CEO Residential Brigade Enterprises Ltd., the reduction in stamp duty for apartments priced between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 45 lakh will bolster the affordable segment. However, it would have been far more beneficial if it was extended to other price segments as well. “While the stamp duty benefit has been currently declared for fiscal 2021-22, we need to keep in mind that the cycle of planning, execution to registration of properties is significantly longer. It would definitely help the real estate sector if this benefit could be announced for a period of three to five years, as it will help developers modify their product mix as well as help consumers plan their finances and purchase decisions better,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stamp-duty-revision-will-help/article34024497.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM fumes at Siddaramaiah over walkout||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday hit out at Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for staging a walkout during the presentation of the State Budget and said he would ensure a “permanent seat” for Mr. Siddaramaiah in the Opposition benches after the 2023 Assembly elections. “Siddaramaiah, your stay in the Opposition is permanent. Don’t call me by my name if I do not make Siddaramaiah sit in the Opposition by winning 130 to 135 seats [in the 2023 elections],” an angry Mr. Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister claimed that the country has never before seen an Opposition boycotting a Budget presentation. “Do we have any instance of the Opposition staging a walkout, either at the Centre or the State, during the presentation of Budget?” he asked. Referring to the Congress saying that the government had no moral right to present a Budget, he said, “What morality does the Congress have? I will explain this during the debate on the Budget in the Assembly.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Siddaramaiah dubbed the BJP government in the State “unethical”. This comes in the backdropof the resignation of Ramesh Jarkiholi from the Cabinet, following a sex-for-job scandal, and six Ministers subsequently getting an injunction against the telecast or publication of any defamatory materialagainst them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-fumes-at-siddaramaiah-over-walkout/article34024348.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Projects to give a push to renewable energy||Continuing the push for renewable energy — a sector Karnataka is seen as a leader in — Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced the establishment of a 500-MW Inter-State Transmission System (ISTS) solar power park at a cost of Rs. 350 crore at Firozabad of Kalaburagi district. The proposed project, by Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd., is expected to come up on 1,551 acres owned by the Power Company of Karnataka Ltd. through private developers for energy sale outside the State. Apart from this, a 1,000-MW project of pumped hydro storage plant, with private investments of Rs. 4,000 crore, has been announced for continuous supply of clean energy-based electricity. In addition to this, the Chief Minister has announced measures to tackle issues related to the quality of power supply in the State. Rising tariffs and irregular power supply has been a constant grouse from domestic, industrial, and commercial consumers alike. Along with the implementation of the second phase the KPCL project of renovation and modernisation of 400/220 KW sub-centres at a cost of Rs. 100 crore, it has been proposed to automate electricity activities, metering, and audit functions of the KPTCL under the Union government’s SAMAST system and for the co-ordination of open access electricity transactions and billing reports through the Internet, Mr. Yediyurappa announced on Monday. Keeping in mind the push for electric vehicles, he has also announced the establishment of 1,000 charging centres for such vehicles in the State under a public-private partnership model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/projects-to-give-a-push-to-renewable-energy/article34024347.ece
09 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Treated water from valley to fill 234 tanks||The State Budget has proposed to take up a project to fill 234 tanks in Bengaluru city, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, and Chickballapur districts with processed waste water from Vrushabhavathi Valley  of Bengaluru. The project, estimated to cost Rs. 500 crore, will process 308 million litres of water a day to the second stage. Interestingly, Ramanagaram does not figure in the proposed project though Vrushabhavathi Valley is closer to Ramanagaram. It is also stated that the construction of a balancing reservoir near Navali, of Koppal district, to replenish the deficit in the storage of water (owing to silt filling up the Tungabhadra reservoir) would be taken up at the earliest, after consulting with the neighbouring States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and taking the necessary concurrence. The Budget has also proposed to provide Rs. 500 crore this year for the Paschima Vahini project that involves building 1,348 vented dams in different stages to prevent fresh water from joining the sea. On the contentious Kalasa Banduri Nala project, the required funds would be allocated this year in addition to obtaining clearances. The 2021-22 State Budget has also allocated Rs. 5,600 crore towards the implementation of the Upper Krishna Project stage III.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treated-water-from-valley-to-fill-234-tanks/article34024350.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not keeping up with the changing times||Although the pandemic has altered the way schools function, with teaching and learning taking place remotely, the 2021-22 Budget has put very little emphasis on strengthening online learning and providing students with tools to reduce the digital divide. The only announcement made to facilitate learning in the “new way” is a plan to convert classrooms into digital classrooms in a phased manner in government first grade colleges, government polytechnic colleges, and government engineering colleges. Many of the announcements pertaining to the education sector — both primary and higher education — are the ones from the 2020-21 Budget that were not implemented. The government has stated that it would ensure that all public high schools have computer labs. It also plans to develop 50 government schools as Karnataka Public Schools. The Budget has allocated Rs. 100 crore over the next two years to upgrade the existing toilets in government schools and to provide water connectivity. A training programme called ‘Samarthya Sarathya’ will be launched to impart training to approximately five lakh students for competitive exams. The government has also decided to enhance the postgraduate seats by 100 at the Hassan and Mandya institutes of medical sciences. A new medical college will be started in Chitradurga district this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-keeping-up-with-the-changing-times/article34024352.ece
09 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Goshalas to be established only at district level||The government, which had indicated that goshalas (cow shelters) would be set up in all taluks to ensure proper implementation of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, has now proposed to set up goshalas only at the district level. The State Budget presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday proposed to set up one goshala per district. Veterinary experts feel that having only one goshala in a district would make it difficult to accommodate all the abandoned cattle. Especially, it would be tough for farmers as they have to transport their cattle long distances to reach the goshalas, they observed. The anti-cow slaughter legislation has stringent provisions against those slaughtering or selling cows/buffaloes for slaughtering. It says that instead, the unwanted cattle could be handed over to goshalas with certain conditions. Meanwhile, the Budget has proposed to implement ‘Samagra Gosankula Samruddhi’ scheme to develop native breeds from other States such as Gir, Sahiwal, Ongole, Tharparker, and Deoni.It has also proposed to establish a breeding centre for developing Naari Suvarna sheep breed in Koppal and has also proposed to allocate Rs. 1 crore for developing Nandidurga goat breed that produces more meat and offsprings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/goshalas-to-be-established-only-at-district-level/article34024258.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six months additional child care leave||On International Women’s Day, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced a slew of initiatives to promote and encourage working women and entrepreneurs. Women employees working in the State government will be given six months child care leave along with maternity leave, which is currently six months. To provide assistance to urban working women, anganwadis in Bengaluru and other cities will be developed into creches in a phased manner. “Creches will be established in two major government offices in district headquarters for the benefit of employees,” said Mr. Yediyurappa. He said rules that prohibit women from taking up jobs owing to legal impediments would be re-examined. A mission for the protection and empowerment of women will be launched under the direct supervision of the Chief Minister. This would facilitate coordination among various departments implementing schemes for the protection and empowerment of women, he said. Boost to entrepreneurs The Chief Minister also announced that women entrepreneurs in hospital, wellness and other services can apply for loans up to Rs. 2 crore at a subsidised rate of 4% through women’s development board or Karnataka State Financial Corporation. Under the State rural livelihood mission, Sanjeevani, rural self-help groups can start 6,000 micro-enterprises in catering, cleanliness work, poultry, sheep rearing, and solid waste sectors through Panchayat Raj institutions. Women entrepreneurs who manufacture papads, pickles, roti, spices, and other food products will get assistance when it comes to packaging and branding their products as well as access to online marketing and technical help. The Budget also promises to provide bus passes at concessional rates to women in the garment industry. This was announced in the last year’s Budget but had not been implemented.   7,500 CCTV cameras     As many as 7,500 CCTV cameras will be installed in Bengaluru city through the activation of safe city projects. However, Tara Krishnaswamy, a Bengaluru-based activist, said the decision to allocate an additional six months child care leave could even be counterproductive as it would reinforce that taking care of the children was the women’s job. She said the State government should instead introduce paternity leave so that it would encourage working women to return to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-months-additional-child-care-leave/article34024260.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 500-crore push for the battered sector||With tourism being one of the hardest hit sectors during the pandemic and lockdown, seeing a revival of sorts only recently, the Budget has announced Rs. 500-crore worth programmes for tourism development. To tap into the tourism potential around the State capital, the government has announced that tourism spots surrounding Bengaluru will be identified and developed as weekend tourism circuits by improving infrastructure through the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC). Nandi Hills in Chickballapur district and Kemmangundi in Chikkamagaluru district, which used to be managed by the Horticulture Department, have been handed over to the KSTDC and Jungle Lodges and Resorts, respectively, to develop them into “international eco-tourism spots”. Beach development The 320-km-long coastline of the State, for long a pitch the Tourism Department has used to draw parallels with the popular beach destinations in neighbouring Goa and Kerala, has found mention, with the government announcing development plans for Trasi, Maravanthe, Ottinene, and other beaches in Udupi district at Rs. 10 crore, and another Rs. 10 crore for the development of Someshwara beach at Byndoor in Udupi district. “To encourage tourism in Uttara Kannada district, action is being taken to develop a civil enclave near the naval air base inAnkola. Waterways will be developed between Mangaluru and Panaji to promote tourism and for affordable passenger and freight transportation,” said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, adding that a proposal had also been submitted to the Centre to develop waterways in the Kali, the Netravati, the Gurupura, from Hangarkatta in Udupi to Manipal, from Almatti dam in Bagalkot district to Bagalkot town. Other announcements include an integrated theme park downstream of the Kabini reservoir in Mysuru district, development of the site of neolithic age to iron age at Kudatini ash mound located between BTPS and Toranagal, and an eco-tourism park on 1,000 acres in Tadadi on public-private partnership model. But the announcements have done little to pacify the sector, which was left disappointed after the Union Budget too. M. Ravi, joint secretary of the Karnataka Tourism Society, said irrespective of the amount allocated, visible improvements should begin with the basics — toilets, good roads, inter-State taxes, and marketing to attract more tourists to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-500-crore-push-for-the-battered-sector/article34024261.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Armed gang attacks and robs truck driver||An armed gang stabbed and robbed a truck driver who had parked his vehicle on the side of the road at Hanumanthpura Cross on Nelamangala highway on Sunday night. The victim, Bharath Kamble, was heading towards Tumakuru, and decided to park the truck so that he could get some sleep, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/armed-gang-attacks-and-robs-truck-driver/article34024495.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Udhav Varma tops JEE in Karnataka||The results of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main 2021) held in February were announced on Monday. Udhav Varma topped the State with an NTA score 99.9970675. As many as six candidates in the country have bagged an NTA score of 100. A total of 6.52 lakh candidates had registered for the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udhav-varma-tops-jee-in-karnataka/article34024490.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||41 kilometres of metro lines by end of 2022||The Chief Minister promised that 41 km of Namma Metro lines under Phase II will be ready by December 2022. “Approval from the government of India is expected shortly for implementation of the 58-km Outer Ring Road-airport network in Bengaluru as part of Phase 2A and 2B at an estimated cost of Rs. 14,788 crore. The State government has already released more than Rs. 1,600 crore for pre-project activities of land acquisition, utility shifting and design,” stated the budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/41-kilometres-of-metro-lines-by-end-of-2022/article34024502.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Policy to stop conflict with animals||Karnataka has witnessed several instances of man-animal conflict, including one in Kodagu on Monday, and of wild animals straying into urban or agricultural spaces in the recent past. To tackle this, the government has announced its intent to formulate a new policy to enable it to purchase the corridor area between two forest areas. This, the government says, will prevent man-animal conflict and enable smooth and uninterrupted movement of animals. Wildlife conservation experts and scientists have termed this a good move, though not a one-stop solution. “The government has proposed to formulate a policy to allow it to purchase land, as there is no provision to buy such land under existing laws. It is a good thing, especially if someone wants to donate land to the government under CSR or Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority for compensatory afforestation. But it has to be done in a fair and humane manner and not be forced,” said Sanjay Gubbi, senior scientist. The announcement of ‘Aranya e-Parihara Yojane’ for speedy payment of cash on compassionate grounds on account of rising instances of damage caused by animal attacks on people residing in the fringes of forests also will help farmers, Mr. Gubbi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policy-to-stop-conflict-with-animals/article34024346.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reviving Natha heritage||The State government has given a grant-in-aid of Rs. 10 crore for establishing ‘Adichunchanagiri Natha Heritage Centre’ at Adichunchanagiri Kshetra, which has a large following of Vokkaligas, in Mandya district. The Adichunchanagiri Mutt, belongs to the Natha tradition. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, also from the tradition, stays at the mutt whenever he visits the State. Though the mutt belongs to the Natha tradition, Vokkaliga seers have headed it for over half a century now, and thus it has acquired a large following in the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reviving-natha-heritage/article34024264.ece
09 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||SC hostel to be a memorial||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in his Budget, has announced that A.K. Boarding Home, the first hostel for students of Scheduled Castes in Hassan, to which thee architect of the Constitution B.R. Ambedkar paid a visit, would be developed as a memorial at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. Now, the building is Boys’ Home under the Department of Women and Child Development. The boarding home was set up on two-acre land in the heart of Hassan during the rule of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in the 1920s. This was the first hostel facility for students from untouchable communities. During his visit to Karnataka in 1953-54, Dr. Ambedkar visited a couple of education institutes in the State, including this one in Hassan and another in Holenarsipur. “Kripadas, who was the warden of the hostel in Hassan, had arranged Dr. Ambedkar’s interaction with the students,” said Sridhar Kaliveera, one of the founder members of Dalit Sangharsha Samiti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sc-hostel-to-be-a-memorial/article34024336.ece
09 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fillip for airport project near Hassan||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced a grant of Rs. 175 crore in his Budget for the airport coming up at Boovanahalli near Hassan. Additional Chief Secretary Kapil Mohan and senior officers of KPTCL had visited the site identified for the airport on February 28. The officersdiscussed how the hurdles affecting the work could be cleared. KPTCL has taken up shifting of the 220kV powerline, which passes through 536 acres of land acquired for the project. The Chief Minister has also proposed to enhance seats at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences in Hassan; set up an automated vehicle driving testing path in Hassan; introduce an intelligent traffic management system and safety solution on important roads including Hassan-Ramanathapura-Periyapatna road on a pilot basis; and earmarked Rs. 20 crore for residential accommodation and other facilities at Shravanabelagola and other Jain pilgrim centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fillip-for-airport-project-near-hassan/article34024335.ece
09 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Devotees cautioned||The Forest Department has called upon devotees on a padayatra to Dharmasthala to be careful while crossing Shiradi Ghat, where the movement of elephants has been noticed recently. Hundreds of people from different parts of the State are walking to Dharmasthala to take part in the Maha Shivaratri festival at the pilgrimage centre. K.N. Basavaraj, Deputy Conservator of Forests of Hassan, issued a press release on Monday, suggesting devotees stay in groups while crossing the stretch. They should follow signboards put up by the department on roadsides and avoid journeying at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/devotees-cautioned/article34024343.ece
09 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||All-woman staff ‘on board’ special train||While various organisations and government agencies organised programmes in Hubballi Dharwad to celebrate International Women’s Day, the Hubballi division of South Western Railway ran a train with ‘all-woman staff on board’ between the twin cities on Monday. After SWR general manager Ajay Kumar Singh and president of SWR Women’s Welfare Organisation (SWRWWO) Sujata Singh flagged off the Solapur-Dharwad Passenger (07321). While the woman locopilots drove the train, the guard, ticket examiners, RPF security personnel on board discharged their duties. Mr. Ajay Singh and Ms. Sujata Singh felicitated the women serving as station masters, pointswoman, travelling ticket examiners, RPF, booking clerks, reservation clerks, carriage and wagon mechanic, trackwoman, signal technicians, loco shed’s repair staff, loco pilots and guards. ‘Skills know no gender’ Addressing a gathering, Mr. Ajay Singh said that skills knew no gender and time and again women had proved that they were capable of achieving any mission with aplomb. “The qualities of compassion and soft skills are considered feminine and competition and aggressiveness are considered as masculine qualities. Genders can’t be stereotyped based on the qualities and rather every one shall try to improve in the qualities that they are lacking to become all round personality,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-woman-staff-on-board-special-train/article34024252.ece
09 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bombay Karnataka has reason to cheer||The districts of Bombay-Karnataka region have something to cheer about in the Budget, although not many demands have been met. The pending demand for a direct railway line (73 km) between Dharwad and Belagavi via Kittur received grant of Rs. 463 crore in the State Budget. A grant of Rs. 10 crore in the first year for a Rs. 75 crore project for upgrade of Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, establishment of regional centre of forensic science laboratories in Hubballi, establishment of a food park under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan scheme in Ittangihal village of Vijayapura district; establishment of ‘Modern Quality Analysis Unit’ at an expenditure of Rs. 4 crore at Agricultural Produce Market in Byadgi in Haveri district are few projects for the region. The Budget mentioned requisition to NWDA (National Water Development Agency) for formulating a project to utilise 22 tmcft of water under Bedti-Varada river linking project. Along with Ballari in the Kalyana Karnataka region, Hubballi’s Karnataka Insitute of Medical Sciences will get emergency treatment unit. A textile park was proposed at Guledgudda in Bagalkot district and a smart handloom design studio has been proposed for North Karnataka. Haveri got Rs. 8 crore grant for construction of district police complex. Uttara Kannada district got a few projects. Implementation of Khar land project which stops through flap gate the backsurge of salt water due to high tides and floods in the rivers for Rs. 300 crore has been proposed. Development of a civil enclave near Naval Air Base of Ankola; development of 1,000 acre eco-tourism park in Tadadi; and development of four-lane connectivity road at Rs. 100 crore under Bharath Mala Project from NH 66 to the Kasarkod harbour of Honnavara have been proposed. In central Karnataka, a 50-bed capacity sub-centre of Jayadeva Insitute of Cardiology in Davangere was proposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bombay-karnataka-has-reason-to-cheer/article34024247.ece
09 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Not much for Kalyana Karnataka in Budget||The State Budget presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday did not meet many demands and expectations that Kalyana Karnataka leaders had raised. However, it announced many projects for the region, but without any allocations. One of the major demands that had been pushed by the leaders of the region was increasing the special grants to the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), which was established to implement the Special Status accorded to the region under Article 371(J) of the Constitution, from Rs. 1,500 crore to Rs. 2,000 crore remain unfulfilled as the Chief Minister did not make any change in the allocation. People from Raichur had expected allocation of at least Rs. 100 crore for the development of Raichur University which was recently carved out of Gulbarga University. However, no funds were allocated. The Budget made some announcements that looked like were vague statements with no budgetary support. For instance, the budget proposed the development of a ring road for Raichur with the assistance from National Highway Authority, a Horticultural Technological Park for Sirivara village in Koppal district, and a dry chilli market at Aladahalli village in Ballari district. It announced a special incentive package for the agricultural implements production cluster underway in Bidar. It also promised to develop necessary infrastructure facilities for the new Vijayanagara district that has been carved out from Ballari. However, no budgetary allocations were made. Construction of a balancing reservoir near Navali village in Koppal district as a measure to replenish the deficit of water storage in Tungabhadra Reservoir due to accumulation of large quantity of silt had been a major demand of farmers from Koppal, Raichur and Ballari districts. The Chief Minister said the project would be implemented at the earliest after consultation with Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. However, no budgetary allocation was made. Drug park to be built Developing a Bulk Drug Park having world-class infrastructure facilities at a cost of Rs. 1,478 crore with assistance of the Central government on 1,500 acres of industrial land at Kadechuru industrial area in Yadgir district appeared to be a major announcement for the region. However, it is basically a Union government project with State government assistance and the State government share in the total project cost not mentioned in the Budget. Similarly, it proposed to start a burn injuries treatment and plastic surgery division at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), but no additional funds would be provided for it as the Budget mentioned that the project was to be taken up from the funds allocated to KKRDB. Solar power park The Budget also proposed to establish 500 MW Solar Power Park in 1,551 acres at a cost of Rs. 350 crore at Firozabad in Kalaburagi taluk through private developers for sale of energy outside the State through Inter-State Transmission System network as proposed by Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd.  People from Raichur had expected allocation of at least Rs. 100 crore for the development of Raichur University which was recently carved out of Gulbarga University. However, no funds were allocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-much-for-kalyana-karnataka-in-budget/article34024246.ece
09 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Basavakalyan’s New Anubhava Mantapa project gets Rs. 200 crore allocation||The much-awaited project of constructing a magnificent New Anubhava Mantapa at Basavakalyan in Bidar district where the historical Anubhava Mantapa was built and operated by the Sharanas (reformer-poets) in the 12th Century finally got a partial budgetary allocation. During his Budget speech on Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced the allocation of Rs. 200 crore for the project for which the foundation stone had already been laid by the Chief Minister in January first week. The way that Mr. Yediyurappa laid the foundation for the project in a hurry without budgetary allocation and detailed project report had attracted widespread criticism. Many viewed the project, along with the formation controversial Maratha Development Corporation, as a politically motivated move ahead of the imminent byelection for the Basavakalyan Assembly constituency which was necessitated by the demise of its representative B. Narayan Rao of Congress. Impressing Lingayats and Marathas, which were the decisive forces in the segment, with New Anubhava Mantapa and Maratha Development Corporation respectively appeared to have been the ruling party’s strategy for attracting votes in the bypoll. The idea of constructing a New Anubhava Mantapa to showcase the imaginary 12th Century Anubhava Mantapa, which is often claimed to be the first Parliament of the world established in Basavakalyana (then called Kalyana) where Sharanas (poets and socio-spiritual reformers) deliberated for fundamental social change, was originally mooted in 2016 by then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. An expert committee with Go.Ru. Channabasappa as its chairman was also formed to come up with a detailed project plan. The committee submitted its report in September 2017. The initiative did not progress in the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)-Congress coalition government that assumed power after the 2018 Assembly elections. Later, the BJP government gave its nod to the project in September 2019 and the foundation stone was laid in January 2021. The detailed project report, including design of the structure, is not yet ready. However, the report and the design submitted by the Go.Ru. Channabasappa Committee was circulated by the government at the time of the foundation-stone-laying ceremony. As per the committee’s estimation, the cost of the project that was to be spread across 25-30 acres on the bank of Tripurantara lake in Basavakalyan was Rs. 600.44 crore. The committee wanted it to be called Mahamane Kshetra. In the absence of a clear picture of the physical structure of the 12th Century Anubhava Mantapa, the New Anubhava Mantapa was designed to symbolise the six principles of Sharana philosophy – Shatsthala, Ashtavarana, Panchachara, Kayaka, Dasoha, and Anubhaava – in every aspect of its structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavakalyans-new-anubhava-mantapa-project-gets-rs-200-crore-allocation/article34024245.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Student electrocuted at hospital canteen||A student of Karnataka Polytechnic, who was working in a canteen at Government Wenlock Hospital, died allegedly as a result of electrocution early on Monday. The Mangaluru South police identified the victim as Aneesh B. Suvarna, 21, a resident of Bajal. Aneesh’s father Bhagwan Das Suvarna, a conductor on the Route 27 bus, said his son worked in the canteen, located near the physiotherapy unit of the hospital, for the last three years. He worked the night shift and slept in the canteen. He would leave at 6 a.m. to the polytechnic where he was pursuing the ITI course in civil engineering. On Monday, he woke up at 4 a.m. and served some customers tea. CCTV footage shows him cleaning the canteen with water. He is seen touching the cash box initially and withdrawing possibly due to a shock. He is then seen opening the drawer of the cash box to deposit the cash given by the customers and collapsing. Aneesh was immediately rushed to the hospital where he succumbed around 5 a.m. “Fate has stuck us hard. A promising career of my son has come to an abrupt end,” said Mr. Bhagwan Das. Aneesh was youngest of his two children. Samad, one of the two partners running the canteen, said the canteen was being managed on the land leased out to them by the hospital. They had built the structure of the canteen. “Only on few occasions have I experienced a slight shock when touching objects in canteen. But this incident has really come as a shocker. There is no live wire near the cash box,” he said. He praised Aneesh for his dedicated service at the canteen. Many students and staff of Government Wenlock Hospital turned up at the mortuary. “A well-behaved boy who won many hearts with his service. We cannot forget the days he served alone for several days at the canteen during the lockdown,” said an electrician at the hospital. Several of Aneesh’s PU and Polytechnic classmates also turned up to pay their last respects. The Mangaluru South Police have registered a case under Section 304 of Indian Penal Code against the owners of the canteen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-electrocuted-at-hospital-canteen/article34024607.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bio-tech innovation centre, plastic park proposed for Mangaluru||Setting up an Advanced Bio-tech Innovation Centre for aquamarine and a plastic park in Mangaluru, developing waterways between Mangaluru and Panaji, upgrading the Karnataka Coastal Development Authority as a board, development of beaches and adopting upgraded technology to beef up coastal surveillance are some of the proposals mooted for coastal Karnataka by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the Budget for 2021-22. The Chief Minister said the bio-tech innovation centre will be established for the development of bio-technology industries and innovative startups and to encourage the production of light food items utilising the bio-active compounds available from fish and sea weed. The government allocated Rs. 6 crore for the same during 2021-22. With the assistance from the Union government, a plastic park will be developed at a project expenditure of Rs. 66 crore on 100 acre land at Ganjimutt in Mangaluru to encourage plastic and petro-chemical industries, the Chief Minister said. He said waterways will be developed between Mangaluru and Panaji under public-private partnership to promote tourism and for affordable passenger and freight transportation. The Chief Minister said a Bill will be brought to revamp the Karavali (Coastal) Development Authority into Karavali (Coastal) Development Board. It is for the comprehensive development of coastal area. The Budget proposed to upgrade more beaches to international standards to promote tourism. In this background, Thrasi, Maravanthe, Ottinene, and other beaches in Udupi district will be comprehensively developed with an outlay of Rs. 10 crore. In addition, Rs. 10 crore will be provided for the tourism development at Someshwara beach in Byndoor taluk of Udupi district. The Chief Minister said in order to boost tourism, a proposal has been submitted to the Union government to develop waterways in Kali river (Uttara Kannada), Nethravathi, and Gurupura rivers (Dakshina Kannada) and from Hangarkatta to Manipal in Udupi district. With a view to enhance safety and security in coastal areas, coastal surveillance force will be strengthened by adopting upgraded technology in a phased manner. The government promised to provide Rs. 2 crore for the same. To encourage tourism in Uttara Kannada district, action is being taken to develop a civil enclave near the naval air base in Ankola, the Chief Minister said. In order to prevent the back surge of salt water due to high tides and flood in the rivers of the coastal area of Uttara Kannada, construction of flap gates are proposed under Khar land scheme with an outlay of Rs. 300 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bio-tech-innovation-centre-plastic-park-proposed-for-mangaluru/article34024602.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||On women’s day, 40 girls go kayaking||Making a difference on the International Women’s Day and braving sea waters, 40 girls from different educational institutions in Udupi went for kayaking between Malpe Beach and St. Mary’s Island on Monday. The 40 girls kayaked from the beach to the island, which is about 4 km away, in about 75 minutes. They took rest for few minutes on the island and returned back to the beach. Among the 40 girls who participated included 10 students from G. Shankar Government First Grade College in Ajjarkadu, five students from MGM College and 15 students from Sports Hostel in Ajjarkadu. As many as 20 girls kayaked first, followed by the remaining girls. “This is my first attempt at kayaking, which I did not have any idea about. The training at the beach gave us the confidence to kayak this distance in the rough waters,” said Sandhya, a student of the Sports Hostel. Glad over participating in an unique women’s day event, Rakshita, a student of G. Shankar Government First Grade College, said despite knowing swimming they had no inkling over the way they would kayak in the sea. “Completing the task has brought satisfaction. It was fun to learn kayaking,” she said. Jointly organised The event was jointly organised by the district administration in association with Udupi Zilla Panchayat, General Thimayya National Academy of Adventure, Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports and G. Shankar Government First Grade College. Udupi City Municipal Council president Sumithra Nayak flagged off the event. Zilla Panchayat president Dinakar Babu, Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu and Coastal Security Police SP R. Chetan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-womens-day-40-girls-go-kayaking/article34024605.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KCCI welcomes reconstitution of Coastal Development Authority||Welcoming the decision to reconstitute the Coastal Development Authority as Coastal Development Board, the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the proposal to set up 1,000 electric vehicle charging units in the State will encourage more people to shift from petrol/diesel powered vehicles to electric powered vehicles in Dakshina Kannada that stands second in terms of registration of vehicles. In a press release, KCCI president Isaac Vas said introduction of the Bill to reconstitute Coastal Development Authority as the Coastal Development Board would fuel development in the region. The government’s allocation of Rs. 66 crore for the plastic park in Ganjimutt will accelerate the implementation of the project. While appreciating the move to provide loan upto Rs. 2 crore at 4% to women entrepreneurs, Mr. Vas said training micro units to sell their products online would go a long way in exposing micro units to the world. Outlay for conversion of sea water for agriculture use will help in meeting water needs of the coastal districts of Karnataka, he said. Appreciating the move to upgrade 150 Government Industrial Training Institutes with an investment of Rs. 4,636 crore, Mr. Vas said allocation of fund of Rs. 500 crore for development of tourism points and proposed development of Netravathi and Gurupura rivers will help in boasting tourism potential. Canara Plastic Manufacturers and Traders’ Association welcomed the announcement of Mangalore Panaji Seaway Project. Association president B.A. Nazeer in a release said the government should have provided infrastructure grant to Baikampady Industrial Township in the same as it is given to Peenya Industrial Township. In addition to loans and other incentives for women entrepreneurs the MSMEs were expecting more stimulus package post COVID-19 recession, he said. Vinod Madhavan, dean-administration and associate professor (marketing area), TAPMI, Manipal, welcomed the move to digitalise Agriculture Produce Market Committee and said revamping health infrastructure in 19 districts and 100 taluk hospitals was the need of the hour. Reduction of stamp duty to 3% for the first registration of apartments will boost sales of existing inventory of apartments in Bangaluru and parts of the State . The Budget disappoints for continuing taxes on fuel and not making enough allocations of women’s safety. he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kcci-welcomes-reconstitution-of-coastal-development-authority/article34024604.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. allocates Rs. 25 crore to expedite research on yellow leaf disease||The Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa said on Monday that to expedite research on yellow leaf disease (YLD) which is severely haunting arecanut growers of Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Kodagu districts and to encourage alternative crops, a programme would be planned with an outlay of Rs. 25 crore. He made the announcement while presenting the Budget for 2021-22. Plantation affected Thanking the government, Mahesh Puchhappady, general secretary of All-India Areca Growers’ Association (AIAGA), Puttur, said more than 1,200 hectares of plantations have been affected by YLD in 12 villages in Sullia taluk, Dakshina Kannada alone. The association  had requested the government to find a solution to this problem. He said the government’s decision to allocate the amount to promote research on YLD and to promote alternative crops has come at the right time. A. Kishor Kumar Kodgi, president of the Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative (Campco) Ltd., Mangaluru, said that the cooperative had requested the government to extend compensation to farmers whose plantations have been affected by the YLD. The YLD has affected farmers in many arecanut-growing regions in the State, he said. A horticulture department official told the Karnataka Development Programme Review Committee meeting in Mangaluru recently that 1,712.25 hectares of arecanut plantations have been hit by the YLD in Dakshina Kannada alone mainly in Sullia and Puttur taluks. According to the official, 5,588 farmers have been affected in the district. It is estimated that 13,000 hectares of arecanut plantations have been affected in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-allocates-rs-25-crore-to-expedite-research-on-yellow-leaf-disease/article34024600.ece
09 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man accused of stealing cash from temple hundis arrested||The Konaje police have arrested a person allegedly involved in stealing a two-wheeler and cash from hundis of two temples. The accused Taranath, 33, from Montepadavu, is said to be associated with a right wing unit in Ullal. A man named Badrul Muneer from Manjanady filed a complaint that his scooter had been stolen from his home. The police then went through CCTV footage and gathered more evidence to arrest Taranath, Muneer’s neighbour. Following his interrogation, Muneer reportedly admitted to stealing Rs. 2,000 from the hundi of one temple and more cash from another. A complaint of theft, however, had been registered only by one of the temples, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-accused-of-stealing-cash-from-temple-hundis-arrested/article34024606.ece
09 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KFDC to set up more ‘Matsya Darshinis’||Announcing the plans mooted for the fisheries sector, the Budget has said that Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC), Mangaluru, will establish fish sales units and Matsya Darshinis at a cost of Rs. 30 crore to encourage sale of fish and to create awareness on the diverse varieties of fish. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the KFDC will set up a modern processing and value addition centre to process the Pangasius Tilapia fish into fillets and frozen products, which has got a huge demand in the international market. The project will cost Rs. 6 crore. He said Rs. 2 crore will be provided for the upgradation of 16 fish seedling production centres in the State. ‘Grama Bandha Sethuve’ scheme to construct footbridges will be implemented with an outlay of Rs. 100 crore in places without proper road connectivity in Malnad and coastal regions, the Chief Minister said. The Budget also mentioned arranging e-marketing facility for Udupi sarees among other similar products in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kfdc-to-set-up-more-matsya-darshinis/article34024601.ece
09 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply in some areas of Udupi district on March 9 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Ambagilu, Perampalli, Nayampalli, Mahalakshmi Layout, Karamballi, Moodusagri, Indrali Railway Station, Paniyadi, Ananthnagara, Hayagreevanagara, Lakshmindranagara, Parkala, Moodubelle, and Pernankila.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34024599.ece
09 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||All-woman crew on board Gol Gumbaz Express||An all-woman crew was in charge of the Gol Gumbaz Express which was flagged off from the city station on Monday. This was part of the International Women’s Day celebrations by the South Western Railways which also formed a women power chain to mark the occasion. The loco pilot and the assistant loco pilot, guard, ticket checking staff and security personnel on duty on the Mysuru-Bengaluru stretch of the journey were women and this was to underscore the commitment of the railways to create a gender equal workforce to achieve all round development of the organisation. While Sirisha was the loco pilot, Neenu Mubarak was the assistant loco pilot of the train which was flagged off by the Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, Rahul Agarwal, Pooja Agarwal, President, South Western Railway Women Welfare Organisation (SWRWWO) and others. The crew included Anusha, Guard; Gayathri, Deputy Chief Ticket Inspector; and C.L. Rini, Senior Ticket Examiner. The ticket checking squad comprised Anitha, S.N.Rajeshwari, and Thippavva Sannakki, while Renuka and K.L. Navya were from the Railway Protection Force. Prior to the run, Mr. Rahul Agarwal felicitated the women crew in charge of the train and said that over 10% of the workforce in the Division were women and the primary focus was to bring about a qualitative change in the work culture by creating a gender equal environment. The authorities felicitated 14 women employees for their exemplary work during the COVID-19 pandemic period and 13 women employees of Mysuru Division who excelled in their duties to mark the occasion. As part of the day-long celebrations the Mysuru New Goods Terminal station was also managed by women staff comprising operations and safety staff. A. Devasahayam, Additional Divisional Railway Manager (General), B. Srinivasulu, Additional Divisional Railway Manager (Infra & Operations), all the branch officers and staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-woman-crew-on-board-gol-gumbaz-express/article34024339.ece
09 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Farm sector has been ignored’||Describing the State Budget as “urban-centric”, the State Sugarcane Growers’ Association on Monday said it has ignored farmers. “No concrete step has been announced in the Budget for developing the farm sector. It’s a budget with a clear focus on cities, neglecting the issues raised by farmers” said Association President Kurubur Shanthkumar. He expressed dissatisfaction over the sum earmarked for giving loans against pledged assets to farmers. “In my view, the Chief Minister should have allocated Rs. 1 crore each in every APMC limit to facilitate farmers get the loans. For 175 APMCs, the sum set aside is just Rs. 5 crore.” He said Mekedatu and Bhadra projects announced should not remain only on paper. They should be implemented to support farmers of those regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-sector-has-been-ignored/article34024337.ece
09 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA areas to come under KUWSSB||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday announced that the areas falling under the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will be brought under the jurisdiction of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board (KUWSSB) to develop and manage water supply and sewerage network systematically. Mr .Yediyurappa’s announcement in the State Budget 2021-22 presented on Monday follows demands by a host of people’s representatives in Mysuru including former Ministers G.T. Deve Gowda and Tanveer Sait, besides Mysuru MP Pratap Simha to set up an exclusive Mysuru Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MUWSSB) on the lines of BWSSB for Mysuru. The MUWSSB sought by the people’s representatives from Mysuru was to ensure drinking water and sewerage facilities for entire Mysuru city. Presently, Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW), a wing under Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), supplies drinking water to the areas falling under its limits. However, MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev has welcomed the announcement made in the Budget to bring residential areas developed or approved by MUDA under the jurisdiction of KUWSSB. Pointing out that the government may not have agreed to set up the MUWSSB sought by people’s representatives as such a move may have sparked similiar demands from other districts of the State, he said the decision to bring areas developed and approved by MUDA under KUWSSB will go a long way in ensuring the drinking water requirements of the people in the newly developed areas. Hitherto, VVWW was able to meet only a small portion of the drinking water demand from MUDA areas as it was already under pressure to meet the requirement of the MCC areas, he said. “VVWW was finding it difficult to supply water to areas outside the MCC’s jurisdiction.“ If KUWSSB is entrusted with the task of providing drinking water and sewerage network to MUDA areas, the long pending demand for drinking water from Cauvery or Kabini to the newly developed areas starved of water will be met, Mr. Rajeev said. He thanked Mr. Yediyurappa and Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar for the announcement. The announcement came about due to the joint efforts made by party MLAs S.A. Ramdas and Nagendra, besides Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda, Mr. Pratap Simha and Mysuru Mayor Rukmini Made Gowda, Mr. Rajeev claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-areas-to-come-under-kuwssb/article34024338.ece
09 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ramanagaram to get hi-tech cocoon market||A hi-tech cocoon market with modern facilities will be constructed in Ramanagaram district at a cost of Rs. 75 crore. Making the announcement during the State Budget 2021-22 on Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the market will be constructed with the assistance of NABARD for the benefit of stakeholders in the silk industry. It is expected to come up on a 10-acre plot of land on the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway in Channapatna at a distance of about 5-6 km from the existing cocoon market at Ramanagaram, said an official of the Sericulture Department. NABARD has already released Rs. 35 crore for the project, the official added. According to senior officials, there was little scope for expansion of the existing market in Ramanagaram, which had witnessed a sharp rise in the volume of transactions over the last few years. Despite serious efforts in the last three to four years, the authorities were unable to identify suitable land for the purpose. The location identified for the market in Channapatna is around 35 acres, out of which the main building will come up on 10 acres. The remaining land will be used for construction of a dormitory and an exhibition hall, among other things. Apart from modern facilities, the proposed market is also expected to gradually come up with facilities for the overnight stay of sericulture farmers, who come from far off places to sell their cocoons. Meanwhile, the output of cocoons has increased both in quality and in volumes over the last few years. Deputy Director of Sericulture Department Munishi Basaiah said the transaction crossed 41,000 tonnes on Monday with the superior quality bivoltine cocoons accounting for more than 28,000 tonnes while the crossbreed variety accounted for 13,000 tonnes.  Reshme Bhavan The CM also announced the construction of a Reshme Bhavan at a cost of Rs. 150 crore at Okalipuram in Bengaluru with private investment in the land belonging to the department. This will bring all offices of the Sericulture Department under one roof in Bengaluru, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramanagaram-to-get-hi-tech-cocoon-market/article34024341.ece
09 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru dog squad gets Belgian Malinois puppy||A new member was added to the police dog squad in Mysuru on Monday. A two-month-old Belgian Malinois puppy joined the squad This is perhaps the first time this breed had joined the squad. B.C. Pramodh of D-K9 Working Dogs from Jayapura near Mysuru gave the puppy for free to the police. He personally handed over the young dog to Commissioner of Police Chandragupta. “In the market, the breed is priced at Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 80,000. It is a very talented and watchful. It is mostly used in the military,” he said. The Bengaluru police dog squad has two such breeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-dog-squad-gets-belgian-malinois-puppy/article34024342.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||50 cr. allotted for mega garden||Another mega garden on the lines of the Brindavan Gardens near Mysuru has been proposed with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday announcing the project and also allocating a sum of Rs. 50 crore for it. The Kabini dam site in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district is the location. The project is expected to boost tourism in the taluk, which is considered one of the backward taluks in the State. The dam is located at Beechanahalli village, about 50 km from Mysuru. Unlike Brindavan Gardens, the proposed garden at Kabini has scope for expansion as about 300-plus acres of land was available for taking up tourism development plans, including water and adventure sports. Antharasanthe and D.B. Kuppe forest ranges of Nagarahole National Park are located in the area, providing scope for promotion of wildlife tourism and the taluk could be developed into a tourist destination if the safari was allowed there. Kabini backwaters is known for boat rides as tourists get to see wildlife, especially elephants. However, the project is not entirely new as it was earlier proposed - six years ago - and a sum of Rs. 24 crore was also allocated. However, the project saw no major headway barring steps taken for preparing a feasibility report. Stakeholders in the tourism industry here welcomed the announcement but said the government should not delay executing the plan like the last time. “The project will certainly help boost tourism besides creating employment and also addressing the backwardness of the area with tourism development,” they said. Barring this, there is no major announcement in the Budget for tourism development in Mysuru though a long wish list was submitted to the Chief Minister by the stakeholders for giving a fillip to the tourism sector which was hit by the pandemic. The Chief Minister has also not considered the demand for setting up of Mysuru Dasara Authority for planning events well ahead of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-cr-allotted-for-mega-garden/article34024334.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination: Over one lakh senior citizens take the jab in one week||As many as 1,00,574 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since last Monday when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 16,497 persons above 45 years with co-morbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Monday when vaccination centres were opened at over 3,000 facilities, as many as 32,183 senior citizens and 5,669 above 45 years with co-morbidities took the jab. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers – 36,399 and 4,077 – respectively in both these categories. So far, a total of 4,64,400 healthcare workers and 1,67,907 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 2,45,635 healthcare workers have taken the second dose. To mark International Women’s Day, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar inaugurated an all-woman pink vaccination booth at C.V. Raman General hospital on Monday. The department has set up one pink booth in every district exclusively for women. Meanwhile, Karnataka has operationalised State and District control rooms for real-time monitoring, address CoWIN portal issues and adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) queries. 436 new cases, 5 deaths Karnataka on Monday reported 436 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,55,451. Of these, 287 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. With five deaths, the toll rose to 12,367. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 478 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 9,36,250. Of the remaining 6,815 active patients, 116 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.77%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.14%. As many as 56,445 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 54,506 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,93,61,547.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-over-one-lakh-senior-citizens-take-the-jab-in-one-week/article34024493.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Road transport corporations receive ‘raw deal’ in State Budget||Cash-strapped road transport corporations (RTC) received a raw deal in the State budget, which made no direct mention of fund allocation for the induction of new buses. Sources said that prior to the Budget, all the four RTCs had approached the government seeking funds for 3,000 new buses, including 1,500 for the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). They had also sought relaxation of the motor vehicle tax, and the release of pending subsidies towards issuing student bus passes. Bus commuters, too, were disappointed with the Budget. “I fail to understand the priorities of the State government. Buses are an important mode of transport, and all the four corporations worked well during the COVID-19 pandemic. Common people depend on bus services. If the State does not support corporations, it will have a spillover effect on the working class,” said Vinay Sreenivasa of Bangalore Bus Prayanikara Vedike. As per the action taken report on the previous year's budget, the State government had announced funds for inducting 1,500 buses for BMTC. However, the scheme was deferred to be taken up in the next financial year. Allocation of Rs. 100 crore to operate e-buses was utilised to pay salaries of the staff due to financial constraints. Though it did not allocate funds for new buses, the Budget said the public transport system would be strengthened via benefits of the Centre’s ‘Augmentation of City Bus Services Scheme’ initiative. It also mentioned the construction of 52 bus stands and 16 bus depots in the coming financial year.  Highlights Facilitation centres under PPP model for registration of vehicles in Vahana software and DL in Sarathi software Automated vehicle driving testing paths at Belagavi, Dharwad, Mangaluru, Raichur and Hassan will be completed soon and opened to the public Vehicle inspection and certification centres at Dharwad and Mysuru will be operational this year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-transport-corporations-receive-raw-deal-in-state-budget/article34024499.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cancer treatment centre for Mysuru||In a boost to public healthcare services, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday announced the setting up of a regional cancer treatment centre in Mysuru and also at Shivamogga at a cost of Rs. 100 crore. He also announced the establishment of an emergency treatment unit in Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) besides three other cities, at a total cost of Rs. 5 crore. With this, the Chief Minister has met the long-pending demand for a dedicated cancer care facility in Mysuru which, according to senior doctors at MMCRI, has reported a surge in cancer cases in recent years. After the branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research was set up here and was established as an independent facility, the demand for establishing the branch of Kidwai Institute for Oncology grew here, and the successive governments were urged by the locals, including many elected representatives,to establish the branch of the institute to cater to the needs of cancer treatment. Considering the demand, the CM announced the regional cancer treatment facility here. MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj said: “The facility could be the branch of Kidwai Institute. If it is an independent facility, it may perhaps function under the MMCRI. We had actually sought equipment for cancer treatment for our super speciality hospital which has come up on KRS Road. An independent treatment centre will help the treatment of patients of the region.” Dedicated training As per the NMC norms, emergency medicine has to be studied separately at the UG level in medical colleges and therefore the government announced the unit for Mysuru. It will be one of the departments at the MMCRI, helping in establishing an effective system of emergency treatment with dedicated training to faculty and students. Though the trauma care centre here was established long ago and was also inaugurated, it remained non-functional for want of manpower and equipment. Perhaps, on knowing this, the Chief Minister said in his Budget speech that the trauma care centre will be commenced, hinting at providing manpower and equipment for making it functional. He, however, has not specified the funds for making it operational. Following the pandemic, the trauma care centre was identified for COVID-19 treatment but it didn’t function as the second COVID-19 facility though more than 40 beds got centralised oxygen supply as the cases dropped substantially andone dedicated was sufficient to handle the cases. The MMCRI had sought its operations to deal with the rush of emergency care at the K.R. Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cancer-treatment-centre-for-mysuru/article34024340.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A please-all Budget in the time of pandemic||Even during normal times, the State Budgets of the country are largely a political exercise of fiscal adjustments without much policy restructuring. In the face of an unprecedented fiscal crunch, therefore, expectations from the Karnataka Budget for 2021-22, presented in the Legislative Assembly on Monday, were indeed muted. The only curiosity was whether it would offer anything drastic in terms of reordering of priorities or rationalisation of expenditure, taking advantage of what appears to be an economic crisis gripping the State. The Budget, however, had no such bitter medicine. If the Union Budget this year, as commended by a Nobel laureate in economics, went against the grain of throwing a little bit of money at everything and focussed on select supply side measures to reinvigorate a sagging economy, the State Budget seems to have done just the opposite. Unmindful of deficit Undaunted by bleak revenue prospects, it has chosen to tread the beaten path of offering a little bit to every single constituency that matters politically for the current dispensation. The Budget speech — which was, at 96 pages, just one page shorter than the Budget speech of the previous year — read in parts like a sociological text as it virtually listed out every major caste group in the State and set aside a token grant for each. Unmindful of a whopping revenue deficit of Rs. 15,133 crore, the Budget has set apart Rs. 10 crore for a guest house in the vicinity of the Ram temple under construction in Ayodhya and announced yet another caste-based corporation, while doling out grants to the ones already set up. As the revenue sources have dried up and the constitutionally mandated devolution of funds from the Centre has shrunk drastically, the State is financing its largesse by borrowing more. The proportion of borrowings in the total receipts is slated to go up from 22% in 2020-21 to 29% in 2021-22. The share of debt-servicing in total expenditure will increase from 15% to 18%. The share of the State’s own taxes is estimated to drop to 50% of the total receipts, as against 54% during 2020-21. To please all is a permanent State policy, but in a year when the State will have to borrow to meet even its day-to-day expenses, one would have expected more prudence and sharper priorities in public expenditure. There are three specific areas where any keen observer of the State’s economic affairs would have wanted this Budget to be a bit more definite, even in these gloomy times. Little for farmers Firstly, as a follow-up to the recent amendment to farm laws that had led to widespread unrest among farmers, the Budget was expected to present a plan to prepare farmers to cope with the fallout of the new laws. The Budget makes a few stray mentions about setting up and strengthening storage facilities and marketing infrastructure, but presents barely anything coherent to help farmers deal with a privatised farm market. Secondly, the Budget was also expected to present a roadmap or vision for the implementation of the new education policy. Here, the Budget proposes only awareness programmes about the policy, besides repeating a few familiar commitments. Finally, expectations about some innovative measures for tapping non-tax revenue to offset the shortfall in tax revenue have also been belied. The only solace is that the Budget has not imposed any fresh levy. Overall, as a document of development policy, the Budget comes across as a bunch of recycled schemes. And as a statement of fiscal management, it is a bunch of statistics, all of which are set to be revised eventually.  (The author is an associate professor with Azim Premji University. He is a policy researcher and political commentator)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-please-all-budget-in-the-time-of-pandemic/article34024345.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Young lawyers can bring change’||International Women’s Day was celebrated in Karnataka Law Society’s Raja Lakhamagouda Law college in Belagavi on Monday. Yashodha Vantagodi, SP (Lokayukta), northern range, inaugurated the event and addressed students. She gave away prizes to winners of various competitions. She urged young lawyers to utilise their time in law colleges to develop their personalities apart from gaining knowledge. “Young lawyers can bring change in society by taking up prevailing issues. In a way, they assume leadership of various sections of society,” she said. But, this power should be balanced with humility. Lawyers should be role models for young people and lead by example,” she said. She urged law students to plan for a future ahead of their degree. You have to imbibe knowledge that given to you by teachers and practising advocates. But youth should not be content with just a degree. They should aspire for competitive examinations too,” Ms. Vantagodi said. S.V. Ganachari, chairman of the college governing council, said the occasion was not just to celebrate the success of women, but also to remind ourselves that even now, women were not treated equally in many countries. He offered to create an internship programme for law students to work with the police to gain practical knowledge about the criminal justice system. Principal A.H. Hawaldar welcomed the guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/young-lawyers-can-bring-change/article34024250.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Another cluster detected in Thanisandra||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Monday declared an apartment in Thanisandra as a COVID-19 cluster after five members of one family and a domestic help tested positive for the virus. All six have been admitted to a private hospital in Kalyan Nagar. The family of eight lives in a flat in Navagraha Apartment on Rachenahalli Main Road; five of them were infected. Officials suspected they were infected by a relative from Tirupathi who had visited them. “The relative had visited the family a week ago and was suffering from a cold. After staying with the family for two days, he returned to Tirupathi where he tested positive for COVID-19. He then advised his relatives to get tested,” said BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. BBMP health officials traced as many as 54 primary contacts and 150 secondary contacts, who underwent Rapid Antigen Tests. None of them tested positive, BBMP claimed. Just a few days ago, two clusters were detected in the city, one in Vasanthpura and another in Narayanapura government high school. While 16 residents of a multi-dwelling unit in Chikallasandra in Vasanthpura ward tested positive, two teachers and seven students of Narayanapura government high school in Devasandra ward tested positive. Though the number of cases being reported from the city has been increasing over the past few weeks, the BBMP claims that it has isolated all the positive cases, especially in the clusters. Mr. Prasad said that in the light of a spike in cases in neighbouring States, measures have been taken to ramp up testing and intensify contact tracing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-cluster-detected-in-thanisandra/article34024494.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC wants list of parks in limits of BBMP and BDA||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government to submit a list of parks, playgrounds and open spaces notified under the Karnataka Parks, Playfields and Open Spaces (Preservation and Regulation) Act, 1985 within the jurisdiction of the Bruhat Banagalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). Also, the court directed the government to submit the list of parks notified under provisions of the Karnataka Government Parks (Preservation) Act, 1975. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by the High Court Legal Services Committee seeking directions to improve and properly maintain all the existing public parks, playgrounds, gardens and recreation grounds. The bench also directed the BDA to submit the list of parks in the private layouts under its jurisdiction while pointing out that details of parks, playgrounds and open spaces are essential to give directions to the authorities to maintain these properties properly, including cleanliness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-wants-list-of-parks-in-limits-of-bbmp-and-bda/article34024491.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Plea challenging validity of Waqf Act||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday sought a response from the State and Central governments on a PIL petition questioning the constitutional validity of the Waqf Act, 1995. Petitioner K.S. Subramanyan, an educationist from Bengaluru, has contended that provisions of the Act are contrary to the basic structure of the Constitution of India. A division bench comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice Pradeep Singh Yeruru adjourned further hearing while keeping open the issue of maintainability of the petition. ‘Religious neutrality’ Petitioner has pointed out that the ‘constitutional philosophy is that no single religion should be given preferential status. Religious neutrality, impartiality or forbearance shall be practiced to preserve constitutionalism, its propriety and morality’, the petitioner has contended and added that the ‘Waqf Act is liable to be declared as unconstitutional as being destructive of the basic structure of the Constitution’. Referring to Part III of the Constitution, the petitioner contended that the Waqf Act has been been enacted by twisting the Constitution to accommodate a religion. It has been contended in the petition that enactment of the Waqf Act is contrary to Article 13(2) of the Constitution, which states that the State shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred under fundamental rights and any law made in contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-challenging-validity-of-waqf-act/article34024492.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Peripheral Ring Road under PPP model||The more-than-a-decade-old Peripheral Ring Road (PPR) project found a mention yet again in the budget. This time around, the government talked about taking up the project under public-private partnership. The private party will bear the land acquisition cost. The CM said that the 65-km long and 100-metre wide PRR project, for which the land acquisition process had come to a standstill due to court cases and financial crunch, will be started by calling a tender in the Swiss challenge method. A senior BDA official said that a consortium of Israel-based companies has shown interest in the project. “A high-powered committee headed by the CM will discuss this and the subject will be moved to the State Cabinet. Once it is cleared by the Cabinet, the government will invite proposals from other companies,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peripheral-ring-road-under-ppp-model/article34024500.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No new taxes levied||With the fiscal deficit estimated at Rs. 59,240 crore (3.48% of the GSDP) and total liabilities at Rs. 4,57,899 crore (26.9% of the GSDP) in 2021-22, the government has proposed amendments to the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002, in the current Assembly session. Among the highlights, to please communities, the Budget has proposed to rename the Ashrama schools of Scheduled Tribe communities as “Valmiki Ashrama Shale” and earmarked Rs. 500 crore each to various development boards/corporations, Veerashaiva-Lingayat, and Vokkaliga communities. While Rs. 50 crore has been allocated for the Brahmin Development Board, Rs. 200 crore has been earmarked for Christians, and Rs. 10 crore for tje construction of Yatri Nivas at Ayodhya for the benefit of pilgrims visiting the Ram Mandir that is under construction there. Region-wise, Rs. 1,500 crore has been allocated for Kalyana Karnataka, Rs. 3,000 crore for the development of backward taluks, and Rs. 7,795 crore for the development of Bengaluru city. Under Atma Nirbhar Bharat, it has proposed a new aerospace and defence policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-new-taxes-levied/article34024349.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 7,795 cr. for comprehensive development of Bengaluru||Recently adjudged the most liveable city in the country, Bengaluru has been allotted Rs. 7,795 crore for comprehensive development in the State Budget 2021-22. While presenting the Budget on Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa reiterated his government’s commitment to provide better health and education facilities to citizens. Most of the projects that found mention in the Budget, however, had already been announced as part of ‘Bengaluru Mission 2022’. Launched late last year by Mr. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Bengaluru Development portfolio, the mission includes projects in four key areas – mobility, clean Bengaluru, green Bengaluru and digital services. The objective is to upgrade the city’s infrastructure to address the growing population and increasing number of vehicles. One of the projects – Koramangala Valley Rajakaluve Development and Maintenance (K-100) – has been allotted Rs. 169 crore. The stormwater drain network in Koramangala Valley will be converted into a fresh water canal and developed as a tourist spot. The 248 MLD (million litres per day) sewage treatment plant at K.C. Valley will be upgraded this fiscal at a cost of Rs. 450 crore. Work will be taken up jointly by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB). Tree parks Though ‘Bengaluru Mission 2022’ proposed four tree parks, the Budget mentions only three. There was no mention of the tree park at Turahalli Reserve Forest after the project was temporarily put on hold following protests by citizens and environmentalists. One of the proposed tree parks will be set up on the 105 acres belonging to NGEF at Baiyappanahalli. The existing sheds will be used to portray the rich heritage, culture and industrial glory of the city. The State Cabinet had recently given permission to establish a separate company for solid waste management in the city. The Chief Minister said action will be taken to establish the company under the Companies Act. Funds amounting to Rs. 33 crore have been earmarked for renovation and reconstruction of BBMP schools, with the aim of providing quality education to children from lower socio-economic groups.  Health infrastructure In the backdrop of the fight against COVID-19, several initiatives, such as new primary health centres, have been announced in the Budget. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said a new multi-speciality hospital will be established in north Bengaluru to cater to poor and migrant workers. The Institute of Gastroenterology Sciences and Organ Transplant, one of the first institutes for organ transplantation in the country, is being equipped with 120 beds and equipment at a cost of Rs. 28 crore. To reduce pressure on Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, a sub-centre with 50 beds, will be started at K.C. General Hospital at a cost of Rs. 20 crore. Janarogya Centres to provide primary health care will be established by the BBMP in 57 wards at a cost of Rs. 10 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-7795-cr-for-comprehensive-development-of-bengaluru/article34024504.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Raid on Kannada film producer||As part of an ongoing investigation into a drug racket, the East division police searched the residence and office of Kannada film producer Shankar Gowda at Dollars Colony on Monday night. The search was carried out based on information provided by an accused in the case. The police seized his mobile phone and laptop, and have summoned the producer for questioning. On February 26, the police had arrested three foreign nationals who were allegedly involved in drug peddling and recovered synthetic drugs worth Rs. 3.5 crore from them. They had allegedly named former Bigg Boss contestant Mastan Chandra, whose residence the police had raided. Based on information gathered, the police also raided Gowda’s residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raid-on-kannada-film-producer/article34024496.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KIA second terminal by year-end||Highlighting the ongoing airport developmental activities in the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that construction work of the second terminal building at an expenditure of Rs. 4,751 crore will be completed this year. With the commissioning of the new terminal, the maximum annual passenger capacity of Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru will increase to 60 million. The Budget stated that to support the encouragement of economic activities and tourism, the government is prioritising inter-district air connectivity. While airports in Kalaburagi and Bidar are operational, work on airports in Shivamogga and Vijayapura has commenced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kia-second-terminal-by-year-end/article34024498.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Snippets||The State Budget has allocated Rs. 1 crore for theatrical performance of S.L. Bhyrappa’s novel Parva through Rangayanas throughout the State. The Budget also proposes digitisation of all works from the times of Adikavi Pampa to Muddanna and make them freely available on Wikisource.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/snippets/article34024257.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Sheni Gopalakrishna Charitable Trust: Memorial programme in honour of the doyen of Yakshagana, the late Sheni Gopalakrishna, Harikathe Paaduka Pradhana by Hosabettu Yajnesh, Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple, 4.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34024603.ece
09 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CPI(M) nominee resigns||Vijayamma Philendran., of the CPI (M) who was elected to the post of president of the Chennithala Thripperuthura grama panchayat in the district, resigned soon after her victory in the election held on Monday. She was elected the president with the support of United Democratic Front (UDF) members. CPI(M) sources said that it was averse to accepting the support of the UDF. It was the second time Ms. Philendran resigned from the post. In the local body elections held in December 2020, both the UDF and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance won six seats each, whereas the LDF got four and others two seats in Chennithala Thripperuthura. Ms. Vijayamma was first elected president of the local body on December 30 with the support of the UDF. Following this, the CPI(M) asked her to resign from the post and she tendered her resignation last month, which prompted the fresh election. The post of president in the local body is reserved for scheduled caste woman. As the UDF did not have a scheduled caste woman member, its members had voted for Vijayamma in the elections to the president post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-nominee-resigns/article34024315.ece
09 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF hopes for third consecutive win here||Sulthan Bathery is the second Assembly segment allotted for the Scheduled Tribe category among the three Assembly segments in Wayanad district. The constituency is known as the land of tribespeople and settler farmers and their votes will be a decisive factor in the Assembly elections. Though the segment has favoured the United Democratic Front (UDF) ever since the inception of the Assembly constituency in 1977, the LDF won it in 1996 and 2006. Local body polls The last Lok Sabha and local body polls also revealed that the segment is favouring the UDF. In the Lok Sabha polls last year, the UDF got a margin of 70,465 votes in the constituency. The UDF won a majority in six of the eight grama panchayats in the local body polls recently. However, the LDF won in the Sulthan Bathery municipality and Ambalavayal grama panchayat. I.C. Balakrishnan, the sitting MLA of the Congress, defeated Rugmini Subrahmanian of the CPI(M) with a margin of 11,198 in the 2016 Assembly polls. Mr. Balakrishnan secured 75,747 votes and Ms. Subrahmanian got 65,549 votes. Mr. Balakrishnan had defeated E.A. Sankaran of the CPI(M) with a margin of 7,583 votes in the 2011 Assembly polls. The LDF has decided to field M.S. Viswanathan, who recently resigned from the post of KPCC State secretary and joined the CPI(M). Mr. Balakrishnan is likely to be the UDF candidate for the third time in the segment. There are 2,17,059 voters in the constituency, consisting of 1,10,515 women and 1,06,544 men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-hopes-for-third-consecutive-win-here/article34024273.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi to get 1,000 share bicycles||Kochi Metro Rail Limited and Cochin Smart City Mission Limited are tying up with a start-up firm to introduce 1,000 bicycles that are tailor-made for regional requirements in the Greater Kochi area. 60 terminal points The first lot of 360 bicycles will be launched here on March 13. The hourly rent will be as low as Rs. 2, sources said. They will be berthed at 60 terminal points - at metro stations, in areas that see substantial pedestrian footfall like Marine Drive, Ernakulam Boat Jetty, and the Queens Walkway in Chathiath, said Adith Venugopal of a start-up, My Byk, which places orders with vendors to manufacture bicycles as per its specifications. Each of the 60 terminals will initially have six bicycles each. The service can be utilised through an app-based platform, which will show the nearest terminal and also other terminals. There will be a refundable security deposit of Rs. 500. Once a person who has become a member selects a terminal, a GPS based system will unlock a bicycle that one prefers. It can even be take home for daily/weekly/monthly subscriptions. The KMRL and CSML bore the expense to procure them, while the start-up firm will be in charge of their operation and maintenance. The assembly of the first lot of bicycles is over at the Vytilla Metro Station. A fresh truck-load is awaited on March 9, it is learnt. “Already, Cusat has agreed to provide space for four terminals in its premises, for the benefit of students and others. Cycle-docking stations (terminals) can be set up if residents’ associations place their demand. This could also be done in the islands that will be linked by Water Metro ferries. The registration for the bicycle scheme has begun. The first 300 people who register will be given 50 hours of free rides,” metro sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-to-get-1000-share-bicycles/article34024570.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||In Ernakulam, a test of political theories||When it comes to the Assembly polls, Ernakulam has not experimented much with its choice. Since 1957, when the first election to the State Assembly was held, the Left could send its representative from here only twice. First, it was literary critic M.K. Sanoo, who contested as Left Democratic Front-backed Independent in 1987. Eleven years later, journalist-lawyer Sebastian Paul spread cheer in the Left camp by winning the seat in 1998. On both the occasions, the dissidents in the Congress camp aided the Left front victory. Ernakulam is one Assembly seat where a candidate from the Latin Catholic community is seen preferred over others by both the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF). It is not because Latin Catholics are the dominating community in terms of numbers, but Ernakulam is a constituency in the State where they are present in sizeable numbers and hence they can be given due representation, according to some senior politicians. Margin brought down Incidentally, it was in the 2019 Assembly by-election that the LDF came anywhere close to a win in the constituency, when its candidate Manu Roy bowed out to T.J. Vinod, former Deputy Mayor of Kochi Corporation. Mr. Roy could bring down the margin of the Congress candidate to just 3,673 votes from the earlier whopping margin of 21,989 secured by Hibi Eden. While the detractors of Mr. Vinod and the Left camp find hope in the nearly one-sixth fall in the margin of the Congress candidate, the supporters of Mr. Vinod are quick to point out the steep drop in polling and its reflection in the poll outcome. On polling day, it had rained heavily. Roads resembled canals, and rainwater stayed on the roads for hours together, making the pathways non-motorable. Power outages and flooding had resulted in the suspension of polling in a few booths in the city. A large number of voters chose to stay indoors rather than getting drenched to take part in the poll process. Only 57.89% exercised their franchise, which was significantly lower than the 71.60% of 2016 Assembly elections and the 73.29% of the Lok Sabha elections held in 2019. While the Congress camp tried to find solace in the poor voter turnout for the all-time low margin of its candidate, the Left camp saw it as an indication of erosion in the traditional Congress votes. These theories will be put to test on April 6, when the State goes to polls. Personal responsibility As the Congress is likely to field its sitting MLA Mr. Vinod once again, it will be his personal responsibility to prove that the party citadel remains impenetrable. The 2021 Assembly elections may become a repeat show of the 2019 polls, if the Left Democratic Front decides to give Mr. Roy one more chance to prove his worth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-ernakulam-a-test-of-political-theories/article34024573.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Assam native sentenced to death for rape, murder||Parimal Sahu, a native of Assam, was on Monday sentenced to death for raping and murdering an aged woman at Puthenvelikkara. The order was passed by Murali Gopala Pandala, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Paravur. The case was that the convict, who had taken on rent the outhouse of the building of the deceased, raped and killed her on March 19, 2018. The court awarded the death punishment under Section 376 A of the Indian Penal Code for causing death or resulting in persistent vegetative state of the victim. He was also asked to pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on this count and in default, he will have to undergo simple imprisonment for one year. On the charge of house trespass, the court awarded the Sahu rigorous imprisonment (RI) for three years and a fine of Rs. 10,0000 under Section 449 of the Penal Code. For causing disappearance of evidences, the court punished him to RI for three years and fine of Rs. 10,000. The substantive sentences imposed on the accused will run concurrently. B. Sreeram was the prosecutor in the case. The court directed that the fine amount, if realised, should be paid to the guardian of the son of the deceased. The court also directed that the proceedings of the case should be submitted to the Kerala High Court for confirmation of the punishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assam-native-gets-death-for-rape-murder/article34024327.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Edappally underpass can still be built: Sreedharan||With the fear rife that traffic congestion at the Edappally Junction will worsen following the opening of three flyovers in the Aroor-Edapally NH Bypass during the past two months, technocrat E. Sreedharan, has reiterated his demand for an underpass linking the bypass with Edappally-Guruvayur NH corridor. “The DMRC had, while readying the foundations for the Edappally flyover, maintained sufficient gap so that an underpass could be built perpendicular to the flyover. The only precaution that ought to be taken is that the underpass should not encounter water logging during rains. Foolproof methods are available for this,” he said. The situation at Edappally is such that the flyover built beneath the metro viaduct in the east-west direction takes much fewer vehicles than the road corridor that links NH Bypass with the NH that leads to Guruvayur. This resulted in traffic planners and Kochiites saying that the flyover ought to have been built in the perpendicular direction. Traffic movement was relatively smooth on Monday. But snarls at the junction could get worse in the coming days since motorists from Aroor will be able to travel up to Edappally easily through the three new flyovers (at Kundannoor, Vyttila, and Palarivattom), said Arun Raj, ACP of City Traffic Police, East. Referring to the situation in Vyttila, where traffic movement in the east-west direction is cumbersome, despite the opening of a six-lane flyover, Mr. Sreedharan, who jumped on the political bandwagon recently by joining the BJP, said the foundations of the flyover and metro viaduct might hamper construction of an underpass at the junction linking SA Road with the Vyttila-Pettah Road. Moreover, an underpass might be costlier than a flyover since provision would have to be made for draining away water. “The chaos at the junction could have been prevented if the State government had considered a plan that I suggested of a three-level interchange. Under this, a four-lane flyover linking SA Road and Pettah Road and ending beyond the exit of Vyttila Hub would have been built parallel to a metro viaduct built at the same level on its left side. This could have been done with minimal land acquisition. The flyover parallel to NH Bypass would then come at the second level, above the two structures. A roundabout would have sufficed for vehicles taking a right turn at the junction,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/edappally-underpass-can-still-be-built-sreedharan/article34024572.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Do not regularise temporary staff: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the Chief Secretary to issue in three weeks instructions to all government departments, statutory bodies, including local-self-government institutions, government companies, statutory corporations and institutions like the Institute of Human Resources Development controlled by the government not to regularise temporary employees. The Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice P. Gopinath observed that any regularisation of temporary employees contrary to the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in the Umadevi and others case was illegal. As the court found that orders were being issued contrary to the law declared by the Supreme Court, the Chief Secretary was suo moto impleaded as an additional respondent in the case that came up before it. Appeal dismissed The court passed the directives while dismissing an appeal filed by Joy Joseph and Tom Thomas, watchmen of an engineering college run by the Institute of Human Resource Development (IHRD) in Kottayam, against a single judge’s verdict dismissing their pleas for a directive to regularise their services in the IHRD. The IHRD had submitted that it had not taken any decision regarding regularisation of provisional employees. The court observed that the law laid down by the Supreme Court was the law of the land and any deviation from it was only to be deprecated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-regularise-temporary-staff-hc/article34024320.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Thrikkakara faces shortage of drinking water||The residents of Thrikkakara municipality, facing shortage of drinking water, have called for the augmentation of the water supply system with a new storage tanker and the strengthening of the Periyar valley canal system that can recharge drinking water sources in the municipal area. Frequent disruptions have reduced the supply of drinking water in several areas, said M.M. Nazar, a resident in the TV Centre area and former councillor. He said the situation was not so grim in the area, but it could turn worse as the summer season had only just set in. M.S. Anilkumar, former president of the Thrikkakara Residents’ Council, said a long-term solution would include the setting up of a new storage tanker or providing a link to the municipality from the water reservoir being used by Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT). Encroachments Salim Kunnumpuram, general secretary of the Thrikkakara Municipal Residents’ Associations’ Apex Council, said the authorities must pay attention to the long-standing demand for cleaning up the 16-km Periyar valley canal passing through the municipal area. If the encroachments are cleared and water flow is ensured, drinking water sources in the area can be recharged, relieving dependence on the public water distribution system. A recent memorandum submitted to the municipal authorities said the encroachments could be cleared using the housing scheme announced by the State government for those without land or home of their own. Population growth Kerala Water Authority sources said the municipality was being served by a system that had envisaged about 20,000 to 30,000 residents in the area whereas the population had gone up to over 1.5 lakh. The growth of the municipality has been rapid, with the establishment of new amenities and employment centres such as the Infopark. The municipal area chiefly depended on the Olimugal water storage tank with a capacity of 18 lakh litres, which was not adequate to meet the daily growing demand, sources added. As a result, most of the residential areas were supplied with drinking water every three to four days. The areas in the municipality such as Desimukku had been hit by damage to pipelines, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-faces-shortage-of-drinking-water/article34024576.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||138 cases, 329 recoveries in district||The district recorded 138 new cases of COVID-19 when 4,608 samples were sent for testing. One of the new patients is a health worker. Thrikkakara with 10 new cases recorded the maximum number of fresh cases on Monday. Edappally and Mivattupuzha had 6 each, Kunnathunad 5, Kadavanthra, Kaloor, Kalamassery, and Cheranalloor had 4 cases each. There were 329 recoveries on Monday. A total of 65 new patients were admitted to hospitals/FLTCs on Monday and the total number of patients in the district came down to 6,653. A total of 4,394 fresh samples were sent from the district for testing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/138-cases-329-recoveries-in-district/article34024574.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Drunken youths behind SUV accident||The discovery of a few gadgets and the cover of a knife in an Uttar Pradesh-registered SUV which met with an accident at Perumbavoor on Sunday, which set off a rumour that it was a wireless equipment, has turned out to be nothing but an accident involving drunken youth, one of whom had a criminal case pending against him. Sources in Perumbavoor police said that the gadgets were a mike and an amplifier like the ones used in police vehicles. The three youths who were in the vehicle - all from Kodanad, gave the slip soon after the accident, since they were intoxicated. One of them, who was employed in UP, had brought the vehicle here, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drunken-youths-behind-suv-accident/article34024571.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Sakhi’ help centre for women||Sakhi , one-stop centre for all sorts of assistance to women and children facing assault and abuse, has started functioning in Ernakulam district. The centre, which will function on Kakkanad children’s home campus under the Women and Child Development Department, will provide emergency shelter, medical care, counselling, police assistance and legal aid to women and children falling victim to assault or abuse. The centre will function 24X7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sakhi-help-centre-for-women/article34024575.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Train turns ramp on Women’s Day||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) organised a fashion show in a running train while the Railway honoured women cleaning staff at Ernakulam Junction railway station, in connection with International Women’s Day on Monday. Perhaps for the first time in the history of metro rail services in southern India, Kochi metro hosted a fashion show in a running metro train. Over 20 students from JD Institute of Fashion Technology took part in the fashion show, held in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. Amruta Saju and Shiyas Kareem were the showstoppers. They boarded a train from the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium metro station, along with officials of the metro agency. It was a surprise for metro commuters, as the students walked past them, wearing fashionable clothes. KMRL has given importance to women in operational activities, right from the beginning of the metro service. It employed women personnel as train operators and engineers and also as personnel in charge of operation and maintenance of stations and other metro premises. Among them, the Muttom metro station is managed completely by women, starting from customer service, ticketing, housekeeping and security to station controller. KMRL also launched a trip pass for people working at the Cochin International Airport and issued Kochi-1 card with special offers to women employees of CIAL. They may avail the offers for using Pavan Doot e-bus service that connects Aluva metro station and the airport. Airport employees opting for trip pass will get 50% discount for travel in the buses, which operate at intervals of 40 minutes. The offer is valid for six months. The pass was launched jointly by KMRL Director D.K. Sinha and CIAL Director A.C.K. Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-turns-ramp-on-womens-day/article34024272.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cashew procurement: HC adjourns petition||The Kerala High Court on Monday adjourned to March 17 hearing on a writ petition filed against the government order declining sanction for prosecuting the accused in the corruption case relating to procuring inferior quality raw cashew nuts from abroad by the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation. The petition was filed by Kadakampally Manoj of Kollam. He said the CBI had taken over the investigation in the case following a High Court directive. In fact, the CBI had already completed its investigation and prepared a final report. The CBI sought the sanction under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act for prosecuting INTUC State president R. Chandrasekharan and former managing director of Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation K.A. Ratheesh,both accused in the case. But the government refused the request. The CBI submitted that that the State government had not properly appreciated the evidence forwarded by the CBI and ignored the gravity of the offence. The government wanted to delay the filing of a final report by the CBI against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raw-cashew-nut-procurement-hc-adjourns-petition/article34024325.ece
09 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Lawyer interrogated||Customs officials on Monday interrogated lawyer S. Divya of Thiruvananthapuram in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. It was reportedly on the basis of the statements of Swapna Suresh, one of the accused, that the lawyer was interrogated. Later, Ms. Divya said she had no connection with the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lawyer-interrogated/article34024579.ece
09 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber heartland is a hotbed of possibilities||The gradual shift of Kottayam, historically a United Democratic Front (UDF) bastion, towards the Left during the recent local body elections, could have surprised many. In reality, it was the product of a political churning triggered by choice, happenstance, and improvisations by many players following the death of K.M. Mani, the Kerala Congress patriarch. As the State enters another election season, the rubber heartland with nine Assembly seats is at the centre of political discourses once again. For the two coalitions that aspire to form the next government in Thiruvananthapuram, winning the maximum number of seats here is crucial. The fight for Kottayam has become all the more intense with the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] led by Jose K. Mani giving up its decades-long association with the Congress and joining the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Adding to the turbulent political climate was the move by Mani C. Kappan, the sitting legislator of Pala, to break away from the Left and join the rival front by forming a new party. Battle of Pala The KC(M) has already demonstrated its worth to the LDF by helping the coalition win handsomely in the local body polls. In Mr. Kappan’s case, the outcome of this election will determine his political future as well that of his party, the Nationalist Congress Kerala. All eyes will be on Pala, with Mr. Mani and Mr. Kappan likely to face off there. If Pala was in limelight ahead of the election, Poonjar, a neighbouring constituency, has jostled its way into spotlight with the onset of electioneering. With the UDF shelving an earlier proposal to bring the P.C. George-led Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) on board, the constituency will witness a gritty three-way contest once again. Mr. George is likely to enter into a tacit understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Three KC contestants If P.C. Thomas, who also shares the Kerala Congress legacy, contests as the National Democratic Alliance candidate in Kaduthuruthy, the constituency will witness a rare battle among the three Kerala Congress splinter groups. The Congress will field five candidates, including Oommen Chandy and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan in Puthuppally and Kottayam. The P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress will get three seats, and Mr. Kappan will contest from Pala. In the LDF, the CPI(M) will field candidates in three seats — Kottayam, Puthuppally and Ettumanur — while the KC(M) may contest in four. If the coalition accedes to its demand for Changanassery, the CPI will get the other two seats. The NDA, keen on opening its account, hopes to tilt the balance in its favour in at least constituencies such as Kanjirappally by highlighting the Sabarimala factor and the ‘disenchantment of the State government.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-heartland-is-a-hotbed-of-possibilities/article34024304.ece
09 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Experience takes on youth again in Puthupally||A poll-hardened veteran and former Chief minister, who has represented the seat continuously for five decades, taking on an enterprising, next generation leader—the upcoming electoral battle in Puthuppally can be summed up in these few words. The Assembly segment, a Congress stronghold that is synonymous with Oommen Chandy as Pala was for K.M. Mani, is once again set to witness a fight between experience and exuberance. With the CPI(M) nominating Jaick C. Thomas as candidate to the seat, the seat is now set to witness a reprise of the 2016 elections when the two had contested from the seat. Face off But as the two face off this time, the situation on the ground remains much different. Of the eight local bodies in the constituency, as many as six including Puthuppally—the native panchayat of Mr. Chandy—are now under the Left coalition’s rule. ‘An aberration’ The UDF, however, has sought to shrug off this development as a mere aberration and hopes it will not have much of an impact on Mr. Chandy, who has been representing the seat since 1970. To back the argument, it also points to the massive lead of 24,327 votes that the coalition obtained in the Assembly segment during the 2019 parliament elections. Staring off with family meetings a couple of weeks ago, the side has already swung into the electioneering mode even before officially announcing the candidate’s name. The enthusiasm among the rank and file notwithstanding, Mr. Chandy, however, seeks to tread a cautious path. “I am not ready to take any rival so lightly” was his response to mediapersons when asked how tough the fight would be. Local body elections The LDF, on the other hand, looks to carry on the momentum it has gained in the recent local body elections and cover the ground through systematic campaigning. It counts on the freshness that the candidature of Mr. Thomas will bring in, coupled with the factors leading to its victory in local bodies to tilt the balance in its favour once and for all. The National Democratic Alliance, meanwhile, is awaiting a decision on its candidate to the seat before hitting the ground running. N. Hari, a member of the BJP State committee, and Sreekanth, president of the BJP Puthuppally assembly unit, are among the names included in the coalition’s list of probable candidates. Poll planks Beyond the usual poll planks of development and agriculture, the raging dispute between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara churches is also set to play a crucial role in deciding the final outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experience-takes-on-youth-again-in-puthupally/article34024312.ece
09 March 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||High lands of Kottayam to offer experiential tours||As the tourism sector in Kottayam gradually rebounds from the pandemic-induced slump, the villages on its high ranges are preparing to roll out the welcome mats to the guests. Cfficials said as many as 20 villages located along the rolling tropical hills of Kottayam such as Manimala, Kanjirappally and Erumeli etc. will soon come up with a host of tourism products and services that are cent percent locally owned. As part of it, the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission Kerala has launched efforts to develop the destination code of conduct for these villages so as to include them in its experiential tourism circuits. “Most of these villages have stand-alone visitor attractions like a hilltop or waterfalls. If the tourists are already hiking these places, why not attract them to visit the village too?” asks an official with the RT mission. The initiative, according to him, takes a cue from the success of the similar projects in the village destinations like Kumarakom and Vaikom. The moderate weather prevailing in these hills coupled with the tropical greenery make these foothills of the Western Ghats a perfect destination for day-visits. Under the project, the rural lifestyles, art activities, taste diversity and agriculture will all be developed as tourist attractions. Training sessions For instance, tourists visiting the Ilaveezha Poonchira or Illikkal Kallu in Melukavu or Moonnilavu villages will be offered chance to visit the plantations nearby, interact with the farmers and labourers, learn about their daily life, techniques in extracting and processing the crop. Considering that the local self-government institutions have a key role in making this project a success, the RT Mission has also kickstarted the training sessions for the ward members in these panchayats. This will be followed by the training for the resource persons, organisation of special tourism gramasabhas, mapping of the local tourism resources, and development of accommodation units. Staying carbon-neutral Based on these activities, tourism packages will be developed with special focus on the local development, while also generating employment and staying carbon-neutral to the maximum possible extent. With the accommodation for tourists to Kottayam predominantly located in its backwater region, these packages are also expected to extend their stay at these locations, adds the official.  Most of these villages have their own visitor attractions like a hilltop or waterfalls. Why not attract the tourists to visit these villages too?A Responsible Tourism official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-to-soar-high/article34024311.ece
09 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Efforts on to ensure an eco-friendly contest||With political parties swinging into the election mode for the Assembly polls, the district administration has launched efforts to ensure environment-friendly electioneering in Kottayam. District Collector M. Anjana, also the District Election Officer, called upon the political parties and the public that the Assembly election process should be implemented in a completely eco-friendly manner. “The use of PVC-fluxes, banners, boards, plastic flags, non-recyclable banners, plastic cloth mixed with Korean cloth nylon, and polyester is prohibited in the electioneering activities. Instead, candidates and political parties should take care to make banners and posters out of cotton cloth, reusable and recyclable paper, and polyethylene,” said the official. Apart from writing ‘reusable and PVC-free’ on each material, information such as the period of use, and printing number of the company should be included in the promotional materials. After use, such campaign materials should be handed over to the Clean Kerala Company through the Haritha Karma Sena of the local bodies under the supervision of the respective political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-for-eco-friendly-election/article34024314.ece
09 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No one’s comfort zone||What is in the mind of Koduvally is least predictable these days. The ‘city of gold’ is seemingly inclined to express its political preferences in surprising ways during elections. Once a favourite constituency of the United Democratic Front (UDF) which retained it from 1957 to 2001, Koduvally is no more a comfort zone for the major fronts. The victory of Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independent Karat Razak in the last Assembly elections by a small margin is a reminder of the constituency’s changing political preferences. It was in 2006 that the constituency gave its first rude shock to the UDF. The victory of LDF Independent P.T.A. Rahim with a majority of over 7,500 votes had shaken the UDF fortress. Though the UDF’s V.M. Ummer could capture the constituency in 2011 with a big victory margin of 16,552 votes, things changed again in the 2016 elections. LDF Independent Karat Razak managed to wrest the constituency back with a thin margin of 573 votes, defeating UDF candidate M.A. Razak. The LDF’s political strategy of fielding an Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) rebel gave a headache to the UDF that time. It was the repetition of the strategy adopted by the LDF in the 2006 election too, fielding IUML rebel P.T.A. Rahim. K. Muraleedharan, who contested as a candidate of the Democratic Indira Congress (K), lost the battle then. The UDF camp hopes that the huge victory they secured in 2011 can be repeated by fielding a stronger candidate. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership is also keen on putting up a strong fight. Meanwhile, LDF campaigners pin hopes on the State government’s welfare projects and the entry of Kerala Congress (M) into the front to improve its vote share. Seven local bodies — Koduvally municipality, Kattippara, Kizhakkoth, Narikkuni, Omassery, Thamarassery and Madavoor grama panchayats — are likely to decide the fate of the candidates this time too. Though the BJP had managed to improve its vote percentage from 5.7 to 8.4 in the 2016 elections, both the UDF and the LDF do not see it as a threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-ones-comfort-zone/article34024268.ece
09 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||In Balussery, only ‘socialist candidates’ make the grade||Balussery has been a socialist fortress, whichever front the winning candidate belonged to. The trend started with the socialists in the Congress but later shifted to the Left, as the socialists switched their allegiance to the LDF. It is particularly noted for sending A.C. Shanmughadas to the Assembly for no less than seven times. He won as a Congress candidate in 1970. But in 1980, he was part of the socialist faction of the Congress which had joined the Left bandwagon. By 2001, the group had merged with the NCP. After Shanmughadas, A.K. Saseendran maintained the legacy for another term. But when the constituency was reserved for Scheduled Castes after the delimitation in 2010, the CPI(M) took over the seat from the NCP in exchange for the newly formed Elathur constituency. Since then, Purushan Kadalundy of the CPI(M) has been representing Balussery. The constituency consists of nine grama panchayats of Atholi, Balussery, Kayanna, Koorachundu, Kottur, Naduvannur, Ulliyeri, Panangad, and Unnikulam. Of these, Atholi, Koorachundu, and Unnikulam are at present ruled by the UDF while Balussery, Panangad, Ullyeri, Kayanna, Naduvannur, and Kottur favoured the LDF in the recent local body polls. Lok Sabha polls The constituency has shifted its loyalty between UDF and LDF candidates when it came to Lok Sabha polls. Being part of the Kozhikode parliamentary constituency, Balussery favoured the LDF in 2009 and UDF in 2014 and 2019 (with a considerable increase in the vote share), even though it has been sending LDF candidates to the Assembly in between. Mr. Purushan Kadalundi won the constituency in 2011 with a margin of 9,882 votes, defeating A. Balaram of the Congress. In 2016, he increased the lead and the margin of victory was 15,464 votes and defeated veteran IUML candidate U.C. Raman. The UDF vote share decreased from 43.29% to 38.64% in the five years while that of the BJP increased from 6.16% to 11.07%. With the CPI(M) maintaining the stand that those who had contested twice consecutively would not be entertained, Mr. Kadalundy may not get a third chance in Balussery. On the other hand, the UDF is on the look-out for suitable candidates with charisma to cash in on its success in the Lok Sabha polls and the name of actor Dharmajan Bolgatty is being talked about in this context.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-balussery-only-socialist-candidates-make-the-grade/article34024269.ece
09 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode ‘Pink Riders’ drive home the point on cycle||The number of girls riding bicycles has come down drastically over the past decade, which may be attributed to the increasing safety concerns about girls in society. The “Pink Riders”, the first girls’ cycle collective of Kozhikode was launched on Monday, on the occasion of International Women’s Day aiming to attract more girls into cycling. “Girls are often apprehensive about cycling and social stigma is the reason in some cases. This is an effort to break such conventions”, said Sahir Abdul Jabbar, the cycle Mayor of Kozhikode, after the Pink Ride launch on Monday. The Pink Ride was a cycle rally carried out by the first batch of Pink Riders formed under the aegis of the National Cadet Corps unit in the district. The women cadets of NCC carried out the ride from Vellayil to Puthiyappa and back to Kozhikode beach to mark their launch. The Pink Riders’ collective is being formed under the initiative of the Grand Cycle Challenge of Green Care Mission, which is intended to popularise cycling in the district. Voluntary organisations and residents’ associations too have joined hands with the project. The plan is to form Pink Riders’ groups in every school, club and college in the district. The Grand Cycle Challenge also plans to provide professional cycling training to girls to equip them to be part of competitions. Later, Nandana P. and Meenakshi P.M., two national cycling champions from the district, were honoured with “Cycle Prathibha award” by Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed. Besides, the chief patron of the Grand Cycle Challenge gave away free cycles to students under the Cycle Smile programme, a part of the challenge. Chairman of Green Care Mission K.T.A. Nassar presided over the event. Administrative officer of NCC 30K Battalion Lt .Col. Surendran was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pink-riders-cycle-collective-to-be-formed-in-schools-colleges/article34024270.ece
09 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Last day for voter enrolment today||The last date for getting enrolled in the voters’ list is Tuesday. District Collector and district electoral officer S.Sambasiva Rao has called upon the youngsters to make use of the additional day and be part of the electoral process. They could enrol through their mobile application brought out by the Election Commission or through Akshaya centres, he said. The enrolment can be done through the National Voters’ Service Portalnvsp.in. Choose the icon ‘egistration for new elector in the home page of the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-day-for-voter-enrolment-today/article34024578.ece
09 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NCP weighing options on Saseendran’s candidature||Mounting protests within the party against the candidature of Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran may prompt the central leadership of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to relook at his renomination from the Elathur segment for the Assembly polls. Posters have started appearing in Kozhikode and Kochi against Mr. Saseendran running for the third time from Elathur. Affiliated organisations of the party, including its student, youth, and women wings, have raised a banner of revolt against the State leadership for fielding the 77-year-old leader, whose performance they termed as dismal. MLA for 27 years They point that Mr. Saseendran had been in the electoral fray in the past eight Assembly elections, remained legislator for 27 years, and a Minister in the current Left Democratic Front regime. Senior leaders, including party general secretary Jayan Puthenpurakkal, have also come out against State president T.P. Peethambaran for deftly “stage-managing” the election committee meeting to unanimously back the candidature of Mr. Saseendran. A faction of party workers has even threatened to resign from the party and boycott the election campaign in Elathur if Mr. Saseendran is fielded again. Opposition parties are gearing up to rake up the honey trap case that led to his resignation as Transport Minister in 2017, they say. Other names Fearing a backlash, the State leadership was forced to include the names of Kozhikode district president Mukkom Mohammed and a Kozhikode- based senior journalist, who had earlier held the post of chief of its students and youth organisations, in Elathur. The development also assumes significance as chiefs of the affiliated organisations sought an appointment with party national president Sharad Pawar in Delhi before he announced the names of the candidates. A plausible factor working in their favour is that Mr. Saseendran has been continuously contesting on the party ticket without giving a chance to others. Significantly, the national leadership has been planning to decide on Mr. Saseendran’s candidature after seeking an opinion from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M] State unit. Now, the CPI(M) has decided not to assign seats to members who had contested the Assembly election on two consecutive occasions. Also, the Communist Party of India (CPI) has denied seats to legislators who have completed two terms as MLAs. The party has been offered three seats — Elathur (Kozhikode), Kottakkal ( Malappuram) and Kuttanad (Alappuzha) — for the coming Assembly polls.  Affiliated organisations of NCP, including its student, youth, and women wings, have raised a banner of revolt against fielding the 77-year-old leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncp-weighing-options-on-saseendrans-candidature/article34024318.ece
09 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||245 new cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode continued to report the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State when 245 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. A release from the District Medical Officer said that there were 230 locally acquired infections and the source of infecton of 11 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 60 cases, and Peruvayal and Ramanattukara 11 each. As many as 5,840 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 4.19%. A total of 527 recoveries were reported from the district and the active caseload is 4,360.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/245-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article34024271.ece
09 March 2021||KOZHIKODE/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) workers take to the streets against candidate selection||Public protests by local workers and sympathisers of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] against candidate selection in the Ponnani and Kuttiyadi Assembly constituencies in north Malabar on Monday are likely to leave the party leadership in an unenviable position. The protesters expressed their displeasure at their sentiments not being considered while choosing nominees of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Posters for Siddique The opposition against the proposed candidature of CPI(M) State committee member and Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader P. Nandakumar, a native of Tirur, came out in the open when a large group, including women, took out a procession through Ponnani town. The protesters demanded that local leader T.M. Siddique be made the candidate in Ponnani, one of the sure bets of the LDF in Malappuram. They carried CPI(M) flags and a banner that read “party will correct the leaders; people will correct the party,” and ascribed it to Vladimir Lenin. Earlier, a group of youngsters from Ponnani reportedly attempted to go to the party district committee office in Malappuram on Sunday, but were dissuaded by the local leaders. Mr. Siddique, CPI(M) Malappuram district committee member, is preferred by a group in Ponnani over anyone from outside. They said if Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, the incumbent MLA, was not given another chance, Mr. Siddique should be the candidate. CPI(M) district secretary E.N. Mohandas, meanwhile, said that no party leader or worker was part of the protest. Thin margin In Kuttiyadi, the protesters sought a rethink on the LDF’s plan to give the Assembly segment to the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani. According to sources, the local workers were expecting that K.P. Kunjammad Kutty, a former president of the Kozhikode district panchayat, and a popular CPI(M) leader in the region, would get the ticket. LDF nominee K.K. Lathika had lost the seat to Indian Union Muslim League’s Parakkal Abdulla by a thin margin in the 2016 election. Local party workers were confident that they could reverse the verdict this time round. However, with the arrival of the Kerala Congress (M) faction to the LDF, the seat was proposed to be handed over to the new ally. This disappointed the local cadre and leadership who reportedly expressed their displeasure to the party top brass after a meeting of the district committee on Sunday. Posters appeared in some parts of the constituency seeking Mr. Kutty’s candidature too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-workers-take-to-the-street-against-candidate-selection/article34024319.ece
09 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Surprises seem to be in short supply here||Neither the United Democratic Front (UDF) nor the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is awaiting any major electoral upheaval in Malappuram, the district with the largest number of Assembly constituencies: 16. Known as a stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a key constituent of the UDF, Malappuram district has the history of favouring the LDF whenever the IUML was on the defensive. Now, the IUML looks quite robust within the UDF. And the LDF appears a little too tired to replicate its 2006 show, in which IUML heavyweights like P.K. Kunhalikutty and E.T. Mohammed Basheer were beaten. 12 of 16 for UDF The current political scenario seems to have reinforced the IUML’s confidence in Malappuram. At present, the UDF holds 12 out of the 16 constituencies, and 11 of them are with the IUML. The LDF has four MLAs in the district, including Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. Of the four MLAs, three are LDF-backed Independents. Although the UDF had won 12 seats in 2016, the triumphs in Perinthalmanna and Mankada were by a narrow margin. The IUML’s Manjalamkuzhi Ali had won Perinthalmanna by 579 votes when T.A. Ahamed Kabeer bagged Mankada by 1,508 votes. Both fronts are focussing on these adjoining constituencies. The LDF appears set to repeat its 2016 strategy by offering constituencies to Independents with deep pockets. An array of wealthy persons such as P.V. Anvar (current MLA of Nilambur), V. Abdurahiman (MLA of Tanur), Gafoor P. Lillis, N.A. Mohammed Kutty, and Niyas Pulikkalakath are on the LDF list. Former Malappuram municipal chairperson K.P. Mohammed Mustafa too is set to jump into the LDF bandwagon. Tanur went the LDF way for the first time in 2016, thanks to former Congressman Mr. Abdurahman’s influence. Nilambur too handed over victory to Mr. Anvar. The UDF looks determined to wrest back Tanur and Nilambur at any cost. A lesson for League A tight fight is expected in Tirur and Tirurangaditoo. In 2016, the IUML learned a big lesson in Tirurangadi – that not even the safest seat can be taken for granted. Although the BJP is not a force to reckon with in Malappuram, its vote share has had a moderate increase over the past elections. The presence of SDPI candidates and the stand of the Sunni faction led by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar can be crucial in segments like Mankada and Perinthalmanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surprises-seem-to-be-in-short-supply-here/article34024310.ece
09 March 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Now, petrol as prize in Malappuram||The die-hard enthusiasm for the beautiful game among youngsters in Malappuram is well known. So much so that some go to any extent to send home their message through football. This time, they had a timely one — against sky-rocketing petrol and diesel prices. Even as netizens share trolls on social media about petrol becoming a “precious product”, organisers of Mangattupulam Arts and Sports Club near here offered a unique prize to the best player of a one-day tournament it conducted on Saturday: two litres of petrol.  Pilakkal Pasc football team’s K. Anas, who received the prize, said: “It is a rare accolade. It has more value than what it costs.” Mangattupulam Arts and Sports Club president M. Sameer said that the tournament organisers decided so as a “symbolic protest” against spiralling fuel prices. Mr. Anas’s team lifted the championship by defeating a team from Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-petrol-as-prize-in-malappuram/article34024582.ece
09 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Women’s collective seeks release of scribe Kappan||A group of women staged a protest to mark International Women’s Day at Vengara near here on Monday. They demanded the release of jailed Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan. The protest took place under the banner of the Siddique Kappan Solidarity Forum. ‘Fascist character’ Inaugurating the protest, Vengara grama panchayat president K.P. Haseena Fasal said that the Uttar Pradesh and the Central governments were displaying their “fascist character” by incarcerating the Kerala journalist. Mr. Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police five months ago while he was on his way to cover the Hathras rape-and-murder issue. The government jailed him, slapping on him charges of sedition. The women’s collective demanded that the cases slapped against Mr. Kappan be revoked. Forum executive member P. Ambika presided over the function. Mr. Kappan’s wife Raihanath addressed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-collective-seeks-scribes-release/article34024276.ece
09 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||A ‘different’ protest for justice||A group of differently abled men under the banner of the Differently Abled People’s League (DAPL) registered their solidarity with the mother of the deceased Walayar sisters by getting their heads tonsured at Kottakkal on Monday. “We have chosen the International Women’s Day to do this protest as a mark of solidarity with the Walayar mother fighting for justice,” said DAPL State president Basheer Mamburam. Indian Union Muslim League Kottakkal municipal general secretary Sajid Mangattil inaugurated the protest. DAPL district president Manaf Medappil presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-different-protest-for-justice/article34024275.ece
09 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Anti-defacement squads in Pathanamthitta||The ant-defacement squads under the District Election Authority have started removing unauthorised campaign materials in public and private spaces. About 8,814 campaign materials have been removed, including 4,529 posters, 2,190 banners, and 2,094 flags from public locations, besides 158 posters and 60 flags from private properties. District Collector Narasimhugari T.L. Reddy urged candidates to adhere to COVID norms while submitting their nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-defacement-squads-in-pathanamthitta/article34024313.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPO’s statement to boost govt. stance||A woman Civil Police Officer (CPO) has reportedly told the Crime Branch (CB) that she had witnessed Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials coercing UAE gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the crime. The officer told the CB she was part of Swapna’s police escort detail. The alleged arm-twisting had occurred in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. The statement of the CPO emerged in the public domain on Monday. It seemed congruent with the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s narrative that the ED, at the Centre’s behest, wanted to foist a case on Mr. Vijayan to destabilise the government and rob it of its mandate. Propaganda tool The witness statement also became a handy propaganda tool in the hands of the CPI(M) to counter the Customs’ politically stormy deposition in the High Court that Swapna had “stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of Hon'ble Chief Minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) and Hon'ble Speaker (P. Sreeramakrishnan)”. Opposition charge The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party had used the statement to berate the government. The issue had snowballed into a major political controversy, with the Left Democratic Front marching in protest to Customs offices across the State. The CB had interviewed the policewoman as part of its probe into a “leaked” audio recording of an “accusatory” mobile phone conversation purportedly between Swapna and an unidentified person in November last. She was under preventive detention as a COFEPOSA prisoner at the Attakulangara Sub-jail for Women. She had weekly interviews with her immediate family and lawyers at the jail. The widely circulated audio seemed to suggest that the ED had attempted to coerce Swapna into giving a statement implicating Mr. Vijayan in her questionable financial transactions with foreign nationals. Swapna’s co-accused and former Principal Secretary to Mr. Vijayan, M. Sivasankar, had also made a similar charge against the ED in a court filing last year. The recording also hinted that the ED had invited Swapna to turn approver in the case. However, the rider to the deal was that she should depose against the Chief Minister and other Ministers. “I refused to oblige the ED,” the voice in the questionable recording had stated. The ED has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpos-statement-a-boost-to-govt-charge/article34024244.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccination at 74 centres||District Collector Navjot Khosa has said that COVID-19 vaccine will be administered at 74 centres including 62 government hospitals and 12 private hospitals in the district. Dispelling concerns of vaccine shortage, she said 7,34,500 doses of the vaccine will reach the regional vaccine store on Tuesday. Vaccination will be facilitated through spot registration in three sessions from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Jimmy George indoor stadium. Polling officials were being inoculated at two training centres of the Institute of Land and Disaster Management (ILDM). Facilities were currently in place to inoculate 200 people each at the same time in General Hospitals, District Hospitals and taluk hospitals, 150 people each in other hospitals except primary health centres (PHCs), and 100 people each at PHCs at once. Dr. Khosa added that there were no hindrances in inoculating people aged above 60 years and those in the 45-59 age bracket with co-morbidities in the district. The district recorded 139 COVID-19 cases and 153 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 2,164. The death toll stood at 846, according to official statistics. The district administration placed 1,199 people under quarantine, while 1585 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated self-isolation period. There are currently 16,660 people who are quarantined in their homes and 44 in various institutions in the district. Administered A total of 12,116 people were administered vaccine in the district on Monday. These included 6,200 people aged above 60 years and 412 in the 45-59 age bracket. While the first vaccine dose was administered to 919 health workers, as many as 2,724 workers received the second jab. The inoculation was also given to 1,861 front line workers on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-at-74-centres/article34024666.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Women’s Day observed in capital||Women police officers spearheaded the functioning of 123 police stations in the State on Monday as the Kerala Police marked the International Women’s Day with novelty. These officers assumed the responsibilities of station house officer (SHO), General Diary (GD) in-charge, ‘paraav’ and public relations officer at the stations. They were also deployed in highway patrol vehicles across the State. Women commandos were deployed in the Chief Minister’s escort vehicle as well as his official residence, the Cliff House, here. In the capital district, women police officers manned the Cantonment, Thampanoor and Kazhakuttom stations in Thiruvananthapuram City police district and Kilimanoor, Attingal, Kallambalam, Venjaramoodu, Neyyattinkara and Nedumangad stations in Thiruvananthapuram Rural police district. State Police Chief Loknath Behera presented certificates to police officers who proved their mettle in various fields at a ceremony held at the Kerala Police Headquarters. The male employees of the Kerala Women’s Commission felicitated their female counterparts as part of the Women’s Day observance held in its office. Director V.U. Kuriakose presented chairperson M.C. Josephine a rose as a mark of respect. ‘Koode’ project The district administration launched the ‘Koode’ project for the welfare of women employees at the Civil Station here on the occasion of the International Women’s Day on Monday. Launched as part of the ‘Trivandrum Ahead’ initiative, the project aims at generating ideas to make the Collectorate more women-friendly, ensuring welfare measures for women staff and providing them legal aid. Women’s cell A women’s cell has also come into being at the Collectorate as part of the initiative. The cell comprised District Collector as its chairperson, Sub-Collector vice-chairperson, a senior woman Deputy Collector, a woman councillor and an advocate as its members. Besides District Collector Navjot Khosa and Sub Collector M.S. Madhavikutty, Deputy Collector R. Rajalakshmi, psychologist Priya Mani and advocate Sreeja Sasidharan are its current members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-day-observed/article34024326.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. seeks to put off SSLC, Plus Two exams||The State government has sought the postponement of the SSLC and Plus Two examinations. It has written to the Chief Electoral Officer seeking postponement of the examinations, scheduled to begin on March 17, citing the upcoming Assembly elections. After April 6 Election training and duty for a number of teachers and arrangements for polling in schools, many of which function as polling stations, are learnt to be the reasons cited by the government. It is of the opinion that the examinations could be held after the polling on April 6. Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said he had received the government representation pertaining to the examinations. It would be examined and sent to the Election Commission of India (ECI). A General Education Department official said the ECI response was expected by Tuesday. The Kerala School Teachers’ Association had earlier written to Mr. Meena and General Education Secretary A. Shajahan seeking postponement of the examinations. It had said that training for teachers on election duty would coincide with the conduct of the examinations, affecting the number of teachers on exam duty. Teachers posted as presiding officers would need to attend more than one training. Meanwhile, the Federation of Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association told the Election Commission that the recommendation for postponement of the examinations in the name of the elections could not be justified from the students’ perspective. The Kerala School Teachers Union State committee, in a statement, said the government move was an injustice to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-seeks-to-put-off-sslc-plus-two-exams/article34024322.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Focus on empowerment of women: Governor||Women's empowerment should be given importance on all days and not just on the women's day alone, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said. The Governor was addressing the online celebrations marking the International Women’s Day (IWD 2020-21) organised by the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) and the ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU). The ISRO units honoured playback legend and Padma Bhushan recipient K. S. Chitra on the occasion. Ms. Chitra thanked all the ‘women warriors’ who are engaged in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic across the world. Marginalised women Delivering the special address, District Collector Navjot Khosa said the women’s day celebration will be a true celebration if and only if marginalised women in the society are allowed to fulfill their dreams. VSSC director S. Somanath, who presided, acknowledged the contribution of women in the domain of complex and fault non-tolerant space technology. Dr. S. Geetha, chairperson, IWD-2021 Celebrations, IISU director Sam Dayala Dev, associate directors Roy Cherian and S. C. Sharma, Chief Controller Biju Jacob and Deputy Director Athula Devi spoke. Various programmes based on the theme ‘Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a COVID-19 World,’ also were conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-empowerment-of-women-governor/article34024670.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kannur is the top code violator||Election officials have identified more than 5,500 violations of the model code of conduct in the State till Monday since it came into effect on February 26. Kannur district alone accounted for 63.5% of violations, according to the data. Action was taken in all the cases, officials said. Majority of the violations pertain to the placement of posters and banners without permission followed by complaints about defacement of property. Election officials had received 5,877 complaints in all, of which the Returning Officers/Assistant Returning Officers confirmed 5,584 to be genuine. None in Idukki Of this, 3,546 violations were in Kannur district alone. Kozhikode stood second with 912 violations followed by Kasaragod (377) and Alappuzha (358). The violations in most of the other districts were in double-digits. No violations were detected in Idukki, while Kottayam and Wayanad recorded eight and five respectively. The complaints were filed via the toll-free number 1950, e-mail, in writing and via the cVIGIL app of the Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-is-the-top-code-violator/article34024307.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three arrested with MDMA||The City police busted a drug racket that allegedly supplied synthetic drugs with the arrest of three people found with alleged possession of synthetic drugs worth Rs. 3 lakh that were meant to the peddled among youths in the city. The Fort police recorded the arrests of Sam, 28, of Cherthala and Arun, 24, and Maju, 42, both hailing from Thiruvananthapuram, purportedly with possession of 39 gms of premium psychotropic drug MDMA. Special drive They were apprehended during a special drive being spearheaded by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Vaibhav Saxena in the run-up to the Assembly polls. The District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) team, led by Assistant Commissioner, Narcotics, Pradeep Kumar and Assistant Commissioner, Special Branch, Binu Kumar, tracked down the gang led by Sam after monitoring their movements for several days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-arrested-with-mdma/article34024667.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Textile dealers’ union seeks relief||The Kerala Textiles and Garment Dealers’ Welfare Association has urged all the political fronts to include their suggestions to overcome the ongoing crisis in the textile sector, in their manifestos for the upcoming assembly elections. A zonal conference of the association held in the capital observed that the traders in the sector have been facing mounting losses for the past three years. As soon as they began recovering from the losses due to unprecedented floods in successive years, the COVID-19 pandemic brought in even bigger crises, from which many are finding it hard to recover. The families of the traders and workers in the sector have also been suffering due to this crisis that has hit the sector. The conference requested the co-operation of everyone for the sector to recover from this crisis. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the conference. He said that the government is aware of the crisis that has hit the sector due to the floods and COVID-19. Though the government has taken several steps to alleviate the same, much more needs to be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/textile-dealers-union-seeks-relief/article34024580.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||JNTBGRI joins Global Genome Initiative||The Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI) has joined the Global Genome Initiative (GGI), a collaborative effort to collect the earth’s genomic biodiversity, preserve it in biorepositories and make it available to researchers. JNTBGRI is one among 14 botanic gardens and arboreta worldwide to secure the GGI-Gardens 2020/2021 award administered jointly by the Botanic Gardens Conservation International (BGCI) and the United States Botanic Garden (USBG). First from India The institute at Palode here is also the first organisation from India to join this network, its director Dr. R. Prakashkumar said. GGI aims to ‘capture’ half of the world’s genomic diversity in this manner by 2022. “In connection with the programme, JNTBGRI is now part of the Global Genome Biodiversity Network (GGBN). The GGBN is an initiative to develop a global network of biological repositories and their representatives, a number of institutions with biological repositories organised to form an unincorporated international network,” Dr. Prakashkumar said in a statement. JNTBGRI’s role Under the programme, JNTBGRI will be given initial priority to plant families and genus that are not presently represented in GGBN biorepositories, emphasising species that are endemic to the Western Ghats, JNTBGRI said. This is an exciting opportunity for botanic gardens and the partnership comes at a critical juncture for biodiversity genomics, Dr Morgan Gostel, Director of GGI-Gardens, was quoted as saying in the statement. The collaboration will help to ensure that critical plant genomic information is preserved for future research, Saharah Moon Chapotin, Executive Director of USBG, said. Other recipients include five botanical gardens from the U.S., two from China, one each from Brazil, Philippines, Uganda, Jordan, Australia and Austria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jntbgri-joins-global-genome-initiative/article34024581.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC invites candidates to stick bills on buses||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will make available its buses for electioneering in the forthcoming polls. Candidates who pay Rs. 12,600 and GST for a month can use earmarked spaces on both sides and rear of the buses to paste campaign materials. A total of 104 sq ft on the exterior of the ordinary buses in the fleet will be made available for the purpose. The corporation plans to give incentives to those who book more buses. Parties may also use the buses for campaigning, a KSRTC official said.  Direct apporoach Candidates may directly approach the marketing wing of the corporation to book the slots. The KSRTC is attempting such an experiment for the first time, officials say. Whether the Election Commission will intervene, since the buses are owned by the State-owned transport undertaking, remains to be seen. Five years ago, Railways had ordered the removal of polyvinyl sheets on train coaches promoting a popular tag line of the LDF. The agency that had hired the advertisement space had not obtained Railways’ prior approval. Railways slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 on the agency. Following the Railways’ directive to remove the adverts, the agency approached the High Court and obtained a stay order, and the campaign continued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-invites-candidates-to-stick-bills-on-buses/article34024305.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||In the driving seat of a one-of-a-kind election||As Kerala braces for the April 6 Assembly polls, election officials are locked in a tight race against time and COVID-19. The pandemic has transformed the way elections are conceived and organised, which poses novel challenges for the election officials, said Additional Chief Secretary and Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala, Teeka Ram Meena. “The situation in 2021 is very different from that of earlier elections. The Election Commission has amended many guidelines,” Mr. Meena, who had also helmed the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as CEO, told The Hindu . From establishing thousands of auxiliary pollings booths to introducing postal ballots for additional categories to organising COVID-19 kits, and finding additional manpower, the challenges posed by COVID-19 are humongous, he said. The 40,771 polling booths needed this time are almost ready, he said. The Election Commission’s decision to limit the number of voters to 1,000 per booth required Kerala to come up with 15,730 auxiliary booths. All the booths need to be on the ground floor. Auxiliary booths “The first priority is to accommodate the auxiliary booths in the same building as the main booth. If there is no room, a temporary structure can be erected on the premises,” Mr. Meena said. COVID-19 kits for the personnel containing masks, face shields, gloves, PPE kits, soap and thermal scanners will be provided at all booths. Orders have been placed with the Kerala State Medical Services Corporation for the kits. Four lakh personnel As COVID-19 patients will be allowed to vote in the final hour, every booth should have five PPE kits each for polling officials. Finding enough personnel to man the booths poses another challenge. The requirement has shot up from 2.31 lakh last time to 3.5 lakh. “We have prepared a list of four lakh people which include 30% reserve personnel. We are also taking people from Central government institutions,” Mr. Meena said. Arranging postal ballots for multiple categories including 80-plus and differently abled voters and COVID-19 patients and notified essential services is another challenge. The routine work of preparing the integrated voters’ list and incorporating additions is also in progress. Crowd control, perhaps, offers the biggest challenge of all. “In every district, venues have been specially identified for holding election-related meetings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-driving-seat-of-a-one-of-a-kind-election/article34024306.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||House vandalised||The Kazhakuttom police have launched investigation into the alleged attack on a woman and vandalism of their house late Sunday. A five-member gang purportedly led by habitual offender Ratheesh alias Karikku Ratheesh attacked Shaila, who runs a shop in Chempazhanthy, around 10 p.m. After snatching her gold ornament weighing nearly six sovereigns, the gang allegedly vandalised her house, situated adjacent to her shop, and a car that was parked outside. The attack was linked to a dispute wth the victim’s family, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-vandalised/article34024669.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Court nod to prosecute KSCDC ex-officials||The Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court, Thiruvananthapuram, has allowed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to prosecute three former top officials of Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation Ltd. (KSCDC) and a businessperson on charge of cheating and conspiracy to defraud the exchequer in the procurement of raw cashew during the 2006-15 period. The agency has named K.A. Ratheesh, former managing director, KSCDC, E. Kasim, former chairman, and R. Chandrasekharan, former chairman, as the main suspects of the alleged multi-crore fraud. The CBI’s case is that they had conspired with one Jaimon Joseph, proprietor of M/s JMJ traders, and “unknown others” to defraud the public exchequer of Rs. 500 crore during the tenure of two successive governments. The court has ordered the accused to appear before the CJM on March 28. In October last, the Pinarayi Vijayan government had refused sanction for the CBI to prosecute the suspects on the charge of corruption. The situation had compelled the CBI to push charges of conspiracy and cheating, instead of charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act, which required State sanction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-nod-to-prosecute-kscdc-ex-officials/article34024321.ece
09 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,412 new cases||A dip in testing brought a drop in cases of COVID-19 in the State on Monday. As testing over 24 hours dipped to 39,046, , the cases went down to 1,412. The test positivity rate dropped below 4% for the first time, registering 3.62%. Also, 3,030 persons recovered.  On Monday, 12 deaths were added to the toll. Kollam reported three deaths, Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Malappuram and Kozhikode reported two deaths each, while Kannur reported one death. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases, 245; Kollam 141; Thiruvananthapuram 139; Ernakulam 138; Malappuram 132; Idukki 104; Thrissur 90; Kannur 82; Kottayam 80; Alappuzha 79; Palakkad 55; Kasaragod 48; Pathanamthitta 48; and Wayanad 31 cases.  One person who came from South Africa has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1412-new-cases/article34024323.ece
09 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Collector issues ultimatum||District Collector Navjot Khosa has threatened to issue arrest warrants against heads of offices who fail to furnish details of government employees who were deputed for poll duty during the Assembly elections. Pointing out that some officials were yet to submit the requisite lists at the village offices concerned, Dr. Khosa announced an ultimatum until 12 p.m. on Tuesday to submit the details at the NIC wing in the District Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-issues-ultimatum/article34024668.ece
09 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Action helps women’s empowerment’||Education alone cannot bring about women’s empowerment. A conscious effort from the part of women is necessary for the change, noted Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association (AHSTA) women’s meet held here on the occasion of the International Women’s Day on Monday. Thrissur District Congress Committee General secretary C.B. Geetha inaugurated the Women’s Day celebration of the association. AHSTA women’s forum former chairperson Shini M.K. presided over. DCC Vice-President Dr. Niji Justine presented the keynote address. A discussion on ‘Woman – Yesterday, today and tomorrow’ was held on the occasion. Sangeetha Pothuval, winner of State Sahitya Mitra Award, was felicitated at the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-helps-womens-empowerment/article34024632.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||YC bid to sway candidate selection in its favour||Moreover, the KPCC had to strike a balance between experience and youth. Hence, the KPCC might convince the AICC that it could not meet the 60% benchmark set for youth in candidate selection. The Congress also has to contend with public opposition to some candidates. Posters appeared in various constituencies against candidates. Mullappally Ramachandran was likely to contest from Kannur. Sitting MLAs were unlikely to be disturbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yc-bid-to-sway-candidate-selection-in-its-favour/article34024324.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mob with a message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mob-with-a-message/article34024274.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Missing the buzz||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-the-buzz/article34024634.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready for service||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-for-service/article34024583.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Talks on, action pending||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talks-on-action-pending/article34024309.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For women, by women||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-women-by-women/article34024317.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||POCKET satheesh vellinezhi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocket-satheesh-vellinezhi/article34024308.ece
09 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Question those who sold Vijaya Dairy, says Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Monday criticised the TDP, the YSRCP and the Left parties in Andhra Pradesh for organising protests against the proposed disinvestment of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and said that his party had no doubt in extending support to the ‘Visakha Ukku, Andhrula Hakku’ slogan. While answering the queries pertaining to the Central government’s move to divest its stake in the VSP at a media conference here, a visibly irritated Mr. Veerraju asked the journalists to question ‘those parties who had sold the Vijaya Dairy, the pride of Andhra Pradesh.’ “The A.P. unit of the BJP has already represented the VSP issue to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the other Ministers at the Centre. Instead of getting angry at us, the journalists must go and question those parties who had demolished Vijaya Dairy, a flourishing State-run dairy industry,” Mr. Veerraju quipped before abruptly closing the media conference.  Central funding “The Centre is funding and monitoring six major schemes in the State to make the cities clean under Swachh Bharat Mission, developments with the 14th and 15th Finance Commission grants, and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT),” said Mr. Veerraju.  “We are focusing on educating the people on how the municipalities have been neglected first by the TDP and then YSRCP governments. That’s why we have fielded our candidates in a limited way,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/question-those-who-sold-vijaya-dairy-says-somu/article34024618.ece
09 March 2021||Bhimavaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Vishnu Dental College celebrates graduation day||Management, staff and students of Sri Vishnu Dental College celebrated the 14th graduation day on the college campus at Bhimavaram on Sunday. Padma Bhusan awardee and chairman of AIG Hospitals, Hyderabad, Dr. D. Nageswar Reddy,who was the chief guest for the programme, appealed to the students to focus on research studies. He told dentists to utilise the opportunity to work in Vishnu Rural Satellite Clinics and extend services to the poor in villages. As many as 134 students received their BDS and MDS degrees during the programme, said college principal Dr. M.C. Suresh Sajjan. College chairman K.V. Vishnu Raju, vice-chairman Ravichandran Rajagopal, director Dr. M.A.K.V. Raju, parents and heads of all departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-vishnu-dental-college-celebrates-graduation-day/article34024121.ece
09 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Safety in industries stressed’||The Golden Jubilee of the National Safety Week celebrations, from March 4 to 10, has received overwhelming response from the students of as many as 10 Government Industrial Training Institutes(ITI) and 600 high schools in Chittoor district. Over 5,000 students had participated in the essay, drawing and slogans competitions on the theme “Safety in Factories.” Inaugurating the fifth day celebrations of the Safety Week at the Government ITI here on Monday, Collector M. Hari Narayanan inaugurated the fifth day celebrations. said it was for the first time in Chittoor district that the Department of Factories had involved the students in a big way to raise awareness on safety measures. “A majority of the workforce posted at the field level in the industrial units are students from the ITIs and those with high school education. Creating awareness on the industrial safety measures among this target group is need of the hour, and this would play a crucial role averting industrial mishaps,” the Collector said. Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories M. Sivakumar Reddy said thatthe Safety Week campaign was launched in over 400 industrial units, covering more than one lakh workforce in Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-in-industries-stressed/article34024116.ece
09 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth injured in jumbo attack||Tension gripped several villages of Vedurukuppam mandal of Chittoor district, after a youth was injured in the attack by wild elephants in the early hours of Monday. The youth, who was attacked by the elephant while working on a farm at Tallabailu village, was rushed to SVRR Government Hospital in Tirupati. At the same time, a house in the village caught fire when some youth burnt fireworks in a bid to prevent the elephants from nearing the human habitations. The herd of three wild elephants, locally known as the Bachelor’s Group, which had entered Chittoor district in December last year from the Tamil Nadu forests, had strayed into the Nagari plains, 150 km from their habitat in the forests of V. Kota-T.N. border, in the second week of January, and damaged crops in a large area. In February last, the jumbos attacked two farmers near Puttur, injuring them critically. The same month, they had blocked the Puttur-Chennai NH near Nagari on a couple of nights. Due to sparse forest cover in the region, the wild elephants have been raiding the crops at nights, while taking shelter on hillocks and denuded forests during the day. In spite of repeated appeals by farmers of Karveti Nagaram, Vedurukuppam, Nagari, Puttur and Narayanavanam mandals to protect their crops and habitations from the jumbo attacks, the forest department officials say they find it difficult to accomplish the task of tackling the animals in the plains. In February last, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) G.G. Narentheran said that Rs. 10 lakh was granted by the authorities to chalk out an action plan to drive the animals towards Seshachalam ranges near Tirupati. Poor staffing and non-availability of experts was said to be the reason for the continued delay in accomplishing the task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-injured-in-jumbo-attack/article34024069.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. launches free sanitary napkins for students||On International Women’s Day, the State government has launched Swechaa, a programme for ensuring free supply of 10 sanitary napkins per month to every adolescent girl studying in Class 7 to Class 12 in all government schools, junior colleges and residential institutions in the State from the next academic year. The second component of the programme includes positioning of good quality branded sanitary napkins in all YSR Cheyutha stores in urban and rural areas to be provided at affordable rates to women, according to a GO issued by the Principal Secretary, A.R Anuradha. One woman lecturer shall be chosen in every school/college by the School Education Department as in-charge for implementing the Swechaa programme. She would be responsible for maintaining stocks in the school and distributing them to girl students as per norms. She would also ensure that children are taught methods of safe disposal of used napkins. The Department of Women Development and Child Welfare will be the nodal department for implementation of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-launches-free-sanitary-napkins-for-students-of-class-7-to-class-12/article34024628.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voter search app launched||District Collector and Election Authority Vivek Yadav on Monday launched a mobile application to know the status of a voter. The app has been named as ‘Guntur Municipal Corporation Elections 2021 voter search helpline’. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha was present during the launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voter-search-app-launched/article34024682.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vote us if you want Amaravati to be Capital, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu launched a broadside against the YSRCP government on the final day of campaigning for the elections to urban local bodies. Addressing a series of roadside campaign meetings, Mr. Naidu even vented out his frustration at the people for not opposing the policies of the YSRCP government. “You (the voters) will not act when the situation demands. What are you doing when farmers have been agitating in Amaravati for more than 400 days? Are the people in Guntur so selfish and timid?, asked Mr. Naidu during his campaign. “The dream of having the Capital in Amaravati has been lost to a man. You fear the police as they threaten you. But I warn you, if we (TDP) lose Guntur, then it will appear that we have forfeited our right on Capital Amaravati,’’ he said. The meeting saw some tense moments at Yadava Bazaar, when supporters of the YSRCP tried to take out a rally on the same road where Mr. Naidu was campainging. However, the police intervened and asked the YSRCP supporters to take an alternative route for their rally. Later, Mr. Naidu continued his tirade against the YSRCP government, blaming it for the rise in prices of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vote-us-if-you-want-amaravati-to-be-capital-says-naidu/article34024683.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on ESL writing||English Language Teachers’ Association of India (ELT@I) is hosting a webinar on ‘Developing Writing Skills in an ESL(English as Second Language) Context: Leveraging Technology’ on March 14 between 4.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. Those interested can click on free registration link: https://event.webinarjam.com/channel/eltai44. Certificate will be issued to students and teachers (ELT@I member) only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-esl-writing/article34024626.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP rubbishes ‘report’ on crisis in party||Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has refuted a report aired by a national news channel indicating that there is a crisis in the YSR Congress Party. “The national channel has broadcast news with a heavy accent on sensationalising, throwing objectivity to winds and gave an irresponsible story that there is revolt in YSRCP and the party is in crisis and the Chief Minister is meeting with the core committee. We are shocked and angry about the broadcast which is a blatant act of mercenary methodology. The pride of five crore people is at stake for this action and we will not fall prey to it, “ said Mr. Reddy. Stating that it was an old game and the sly players were at it again,..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-rubbishes-report-on-crisis-in-party/article34024681.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP will win hands down: Sajjala||Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the YSR Congress Party would win the urban local body elections hands down, by wresting 95 % of the wards. Addressing reporterson Monday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy accused TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu of targeting the people with his ‘hate speech’. “The TDP president has lost his cool after the candidates supported by his party suffered a massive defeat in the panchayat elections, including in his home turf of Kuppam. People should boycott Mr. Naidu for being irresponsible and speaking abusively,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-will-win-hands-down-sajjala/article34024619.ece
09 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breast clinic opened at GGH||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Monday inaugurated a breast clinic on the premises of NATCO Cancer Block at the Government General Hospital. Plastic surgeon Sumitha Shankar, who has taken the initiative, said that the clinic is the first-of-its kind in the State. Encouraging women to make use of the services, GGH superintendent Prabhavathy assured them of complete support in arranging for diagnostics such as ultrasound, mammography and in conducting Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology(FNAC). Director of Medical Education, Raghavendra, promised that similar clinics would be established all over the State at hospitals attached to medical colleges. Guntur Medical College principal Babulal said that he would help in getting the accreditation for providing training and fellowships to budding surgeons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breast-clinic-opened-at-ggh/article34024627.ece
09 March 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll campaign helps folk artistes come out of red||Thanks to the campaigning conducted for panchayat and municipal elections, dhol drummers, folk artistes, DJs and orchestra bands from the city, who were hit by COVID-19, made some money. Political parties and candidates hired them for campaigning to reach out to voters. K. Raju and his team, who were performing ‘Puli Veshalu’ at Ramalayam Street, Isukathota, during the Telugu Desam Party election campaigning, said that they charge Rs. 15,000 per day for a group of four persons. Vasudeva Rao, a drummer, said that they charge about Rs. 6,000 per day for ‘Dhol’. He said that their China Waltair-based company provide Dhol, ‘teenmar’, ‘Puli Veshalu’, DJ and even folk dances based on the requirement of the customers. There is a very good demand for DJ groups compared to other entertainment programmes and they also charge higher. The party workers have been hiring these groups to attract young voters. The artists say that due to restrictions on marriages, public gatherings and even other celebrations in the view of COVID-19, most of them had to suffer financially with no work at all. Many of the artists had to take loans for survival, they say. “Even during the second half of the year, there were not many bookings. The elections have helped us to come out of the red to a certain extent. After these polls, we have to await bookings for marriage season this summer,” said Manoj Kumar, a DJ, during an election campaign at Peda Jalaripeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-campaign-helps-folk-artistes-come-out-of-red/article34024691.ece
09 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal girls told to resist practice of early marriage||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday appealed to tribal students to resist family pressure of getting married at an early age. As many as 54 girl students from tribal welfare schools arrived in Kakinada city on Monday to observe the functioning of the Government General Hospital, Rangaraya Medical College, and the Collectorate and later visited the District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram city as part of a study tour. In an interaction with the girl students during the celebration of World Women’s Day, Mr. Muralidhar said that he had observed a prevalence of early marriages in East Godavari Agency, and said the practice should be defied. “The tribal students are not aspiring to achieve success in their career due to lack of awareness regarding their career options, and such hurdles should be cleared,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. The girl students of Classes IX and X shared their experiences of visiting the government offices in the district. District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabuand other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-girls-told-to-resist-practice-of-early-marriage/article34024652.ece
09 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Degree student bags ward in Kurnool||At a time when her contemporaries are busy planning for higher studies, 23-year-old Sapuri Madhuri is drawing strategies for improving amenities in the colonies she will represent in the Municipal Council. Ms. Madhuri, a YSRCP candidate, has been elected corporator of the 35th ward of the Kurnool Municipal Corporation unanimously even as the civic body will go to polls on Wednesday after a decade. She has got a strong support from the residents of the ward and Panyam MLA Katasani Rambhupal Reddy. The BJP and CPI (M) candidates from the ward withdrew their nomination in her favour. The second-year degree student says the poor civic amenities and the negligence in addressing them prompted her to contest the municipal polls and that the ward being reserved for the Backward Classes (women) gave her an opportunity. “Bad roads in our colonies have been a concern and going out of the house means enduring the problems. Funds were sanctioned and contracts given, but the works never got completed. Now, these issues will be given on a priority,” says Ms. Madhuri.  Drinking water Paucity of drinking water is another issue, Mr. Madhuri says, adding that she would do her best to address it at the earliest. “Around 2,500 houses will also be built in the ward very soon,” she says. Ms. Madhuri, apart from discharging her responsibility as a corporator, is also planning to complete her studies. “I had to discontinue studies for some years owing to my ill-health. Now, I am planning to complete it in an open university. Having been elected, I have also fulfilled my father’s dream in a way. He always wanted to contest the municipal polls,” says Ms. Madhuri, daughter of Sapuri Veeraiah, a real estate businessman. “The welfare schemes introduced by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government offer a lot of scope for development. I am sure my daughter will meet the expectation of the people,” says Mr. Veeraiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/degree-student-bags-ward-in-kurnool/article34024616.ece
09 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan disrespected the poor’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has shown utmost disrespect to the women from downtrodden sections of society on Women’s Day by allowing the police to shove the poor staying very close to his house in a concentrated small place, while he was celebrating the day with the rich and well-dressed women in his camp office, alleged Communist Party of India national Secretary K. Narayana. Mr. Narayana on Monday questioned the dual standards in Mr. Jagan’s behaviour with women from among the ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is an autocratic ruler in the true sense and he has been practising it in his own house and in the State in public,” alleged Mr. Narayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-disrespected-the-poor/article34024617.ece
09 March 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Holy dip at 4 Pushkar Ghats on Maha Sivaratri||The Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC) has made elaborate arrangements for Maha Sivaratri that will be celebrated on March 11, allowing devotees to take holy dips in four ghats of the Godavari — Markandeya Ghat, Saraswathi, Kotilingala and Pushkar ghats. On Monday, RMC Commissioner Abhishikth Kishore inspected the ghats and security measures apart from deployment of sanitation staff to collect the water to be dumped in the river and the ghats on March 11. Thousands of devotees from across the State are expected to throng the city to take the holy dip in the Godavari before offering prayers to Lord Shiva by the river. “Professional swimmers will be deployed at each ghat on March 11, while teams of sanitation staff will work round the clock to collect waste left behind by devotees,” said Mr. Kishore. The civic body authorities have also arranged boats to conduct search operations in the event of any devotee going missing in the river during the holy dip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/holy-dip-at-4-pushkar-ghats-on-maha-sivaratri/article34024651.ece
09 March 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rebels may play spoilsport in GVMC polls||With the high-pitched campaign for the GVMC polls coming to a close on Monday evening, the stage is now set for the polls on Wednesday (March 10). One factor that may upset the prospect of a few candidates, especially from the two major contesting political parties, the TDP and the YSR Congress Party, is the rebel factor. For the 98 wards spread across eight zones of the GVMC, 567 nominations were filed. YSRCP is the only party that had put up a candidate in all the 98 wards, followed by the TDP in 94, BJP in 44, Jana Sena Party in 51, CPI (M) in 19, CPI in 6, BSP in 9 and INC in 67. But the worrying factor for the major political parties is the candidates who have filed independently. Of the 567, the independent candidates are around 178, which is said to be a huge chunk. Most of them were once part of the YSRCP or the TDP and since they were not given the B-Forms, have filed nominations as independents. In March, last year, when the urban local body (ULB) elections were called off due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, 342 from the YSRCP and 381 from the TDP had filed the nominations. Many have subsequently withdrawn, but some have decided to fight it out alone, as independents, and many enjoy a good clout in their wards. ‘35% increase in voters’ This could be an upsetting factor, as local leaders call the shots and are directly in touch with the mandate on a daily basis, said a senior YSRCP leader. The TDP leaders also shared a similar concern. There has been a significant increase in the total number of voters from 2007, when the last corporation elections were held. While there were 11,37,331 voters in 2007, the number for this election has gone up to 17,53,927, which includes 8,80,481 women, 8,73,320 men and 126 others.The increase is substantial and it is around 35%, said a senior officer from the GVMC. The increase is attributed to influx from different parts of the country, especially in the PSUs, and they hold the key in some of the wards. Many of them are unaware of local politics and national parties like the BJP are hoping to cash on it.  Voter turnout The voter turnout in Visakhapatnam city and in the district have traditionally been low. In the last two general and Assembly elections in 2014 and 2019, the entire district average was below 68% and in the city it was even lower. Most of the Opposition parties, including the TDP and the BJP-JSP combine, are putting their bets on a higher turnout, as they feel that it could turn the tide in their favour. In ULB elections, a lot depends on bringing the educated middle class and upper middle class to the polling stations, as they are not influenced by any external factors and they could hold the key to fortune for many political parties, said D.V.R. Murthy, head, the Journalism Department, Andhra University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rebels-may-play-spoilsport-in-gvmc-polls/article34024692.ece
09 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women employees take centre stage in Tirupati||On the occasion of International Women’s Day, Indian Oil opened the first all-women operated retail outlet in Rayalaseema near Annamayya Circle in the city, which was formally declared open by Additional Superintendent of Police E. Supraja. According to the Deputy General Manager Bala Subramanyam, this would not only help in generation of employment for women, but also help in increasing customer satisfaction through improved services. At Kadapa, a women’s help desk was opened virtually by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Home Minister M.Sucharita. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan honoured the women police staff, public prosecutors, ward/village women protection secretaries, home guards. On the other hand, women employees at the TTD retiring in the forthcoming calendar year were honoured with shield and shawl. Prominent among them were Deputy Executive Officers V.B. Jhansi Rani (Padmavathi temple) and T.S. Kasturibai (Services). At SVIMS, TTD Joint Executive Officer Sada Bhargavi participated in the event, who was hailed as the first woman bureaucrat in TTD in the last 28 years. Rotary Club of Tirupati too felicitated women who stood as frontline warriors in the fight against COVID-19. Rotary president M. Hemachander and ‘Govindadhamam’ president V. Jayaram Prasad felicitated SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, Ruia General Hospital Superintendent T. Bharati, MCT Additional Commissioner D. Haritha, TUDA Secretary S. Lakshmi, Additional SP E. Supraja, Sapthagiri Grameena Bank Chief Manager J. Sita Manohari, BIRRD Hospital retired nurse P. Bhagyamma. At NTPC BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) in Mannavaram, noted Carnatic vocalist Parasa Sri Sailaja took part as the chief guest and gave prizes to women staff along with the company’s Managing Director T. Baskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-employees-take-centre-stage-in-tirupati/article34024117.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagananna Amma Vodi’ reason to cheer for women||On the International Women’s Day on Monday, many mothers from poor financial background had a profound reason to celebrate as they felt more secure about the future of their children, for whom school education had been like a mirage. They are a happier lot these days as the ‘Jagananna Amma Vodi’ scheme introduced by the State government in the 2020-21 academic year came as a boon for the children who dropped out of schools due to poverty, got a chance to enrol themselves in government schools again.  My mother is a domestic help and father works as a rickshaw puller. It is very difficult for them to afford our education. I am going to school now. Thanks to Jagan Mama,” says Swarna, a fifth class girl from Palakol in West Godavari district. 45.03 lakh enrolled According to Education Department officials, enrolment in the schools has seen a rise after the scheme was launched. As many as 45.03 lakh students have enrolled themselves in government and aided schools across the State this academic year. Many students have shifted from private institutions to government schools, the officials said. As many as 84 lakh students fhave been benefited so far and the government has deposited Rs. 13,121 crore into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The government has also announced that the students can opt for laptops in lieu of the benefits Rs. 15,000 from the next academic year. The students of ninth and tenth classes and Intermediate can exercise the option, the Chief Minister announced recently. “The Jagananna Amma Vodi is one of the best schemes introduced by the State government. We thank the Chief Minister for helping women educate their children and empower them. Many parents from poor financial backgorund are now sending their children to school,” says K. Kanaka Durga, a resident of Y.S.R. Colony in Vijayawada. K. Sindhu Priyadarshini, a dropout, thanks the government for introducing the scheme. “I discontinued my studies when I was in Class III as my mother fell sick. Now, I have joined the National Child Labour Project School (NCLP) the seventh class,” says Priyadarshini, adding that she wants to be a doctor. Donabanda Anuradha and N. Meenakshi, teachers of an NCLP school in Krishna district, say the strength in government schools has doubled after the ‘Amma Vodi’ and many other welfare schemes for students were launched. “Many parents are admitting their children to government schools and the credit goes to ‘Jagananna Amma Vodi’, ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’, ‘Jagananna Vasati Deevena’, and the measures such as introducing English as the medium of instruction’,” says Prabhakar Sastri, headmaster a government school in West Godavari district. Comprehensive study Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) members C.A.V. Prasad and V. Narayana Reddy say that a comprehensive study on the impact of ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme was under way. “We have visited many schools and the response to the scheme is good. The scheme has brought in a change in education system in State,” says Prof. Narayana Reddy, adding that many university students have undertaken research on the scheme. “Such schemes have strengthened the education system,” says V. Srivalli, an intermediate student from Narsapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-amma-vodi-reason-to-cheer-for-women/article34024624.ece
09 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor takes part in meet on 75th I-Day fete||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan participated in the meeting of the National Committee for Commemoration of 75th Anniversary of Independence Day, through a video-conference on Monday. Committee Chairman and Prime Minister Narendra Modi said there were many unsung heroes who contributed to the freedom movement in their own way and their stories should be highlighted as part of the historic event. Former President of India Pratibha Patil, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikharjun Kharge, former Lok Sabha Speakers Meera Kumar and Sumitra Mahajan and BJP national President J.P. Nadda were among the leaders who offered suggestions on the year-long celebrations of the 75th anniversary of the country’s independence. Envoy visits Raj Bhavan Meanwhile, Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’ Farrell along with the Consul General in Chennai, Sarah Kirlew, met Mr. Harichandan at the Raj Bhavan here. Initiatives highlighted Mr. Farrell apprised the Governor of the Australia-India relations and various initiatives taken by Prime Minister Modi for strengthening the same. The envoy said Australia was keen on exploring the opportunities in Andhra Pradesh. Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven, AP Economic Development Board CEO J.V.N. Subramanyam and Mukesh Kumar Meena, Secretary to the Governor, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-takes-part-in-meet-on-75th-i-day-fete/article34024625.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police felicitate GMSKs who helped trace missing boy||The police felicitated Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (GMSKs), who helped them trace a boy who went missing from Palakol in West Godavari district, on Monday marking the International Women’s Day. Narsapuram DSP P. Veeranjaneya Reddy and Palakol CI Ch. Anjaneyulu felicitated S. Jyothi and B. Jahnavi who helped the police in tracing nine-year-old B. Srinivas in July last year. “Srinivas was among the 2,546 children rescued during the Operation Muskaan. We reunited 2,378 children with their families,” said Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Srinivas had been living in an NGO home in Vijayawada for the last four years. Ms. Jyothi and Ms. Jahnavi, who got the photograph of the boy, had visited many houses and traced his mother B. Sri Lalitha and brother Prabhakar, in Palakol town. Following the directions of West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik, the two GMSKs, along with SI J.V.N. Prasad and other staff visited the NGO home in Vijayawada and brought Srinivas to Palakol. Ms. Jyothi and Ms. Jahnavi, had done a good job, said Mr. Anjaneyulu. The GMSKs also extended good service during the panchayat elections in interior villages, said the DSP. “With minimum clues, we undertook the case. As part of our inquiry, we met the officials of Women Development and Child Welfare, Revenue, Police departments and NGO representatives. We traced the boy’s parents who had lodged a police complaint years ago. The report pertaining to the case that appeared in The Hindu helped us identify the parents of the boy,” Ms. Jyothi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-felicitate-gmsks-who-helped-trace-missing-boy/article34024688.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases cross 1,000-mark||The active coronavirus cases in the State has crossed the 1,000-mark after nearly a month, with two more deaths and 74 new infections being recorded in the 24 hours, ending on Monday morning. With the new numbers, the toll went up to  7,176 and the cumulative tally to 8,90,766 .  With 61 recoveries in the said period, the number of active cases stood at 1,009 and it was attributed to the rise in the infections during the past two weeks. Of the total active cases, more than 40% were reported in two districts—Chittoor (293) and Krishna (120). The overall recovery rate was put at 99.08% and the total recovery count has increased to 8,82,581. In total, 25,907 samples underwent test in the past day and 0.29% of them were confirmed positive, while the overall positivity rate of 1.426 crore samples tested thus far stood at 6.25%. Guntur and Nellore districts reported one death each. Meanwhile, Chittoor district continued to witness a spike in infections as it reported 29 new cases in the past day. It was followed by Kurnool (13), Krishna (8), Srikakulam (7), East Godavari (5), Kadapa (5), Guntur (2), Visakhapatnam (2), Nellore (2) and Prakasam (1). Anantapur, West Godavari and Vizianagaram reported no new infections. District tallies The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,515), West Godavari (94,363), Chittoor (87,722), Guntur (75,800), Anantapur (67,815), Nellore (62,509), Prakasam (62,219), Kurnool (60,931), Visakhapatnam (60,127), Kadapa (55,423), Krishna (49,010), Srikakulam (46,267) and Vizianagaram (41,170).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-cross-1000-mark/article34024615.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 ‘Nanis’ did nothing for State: Lokesh||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary Nara Lokesh took a dig at Ministers alleging that they did nothing for the State except hoodwinking the people. During an election campaign in Machilipatnam on Monday, Mr. Lokesh said that the ‘three Nanis’, (Medical and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani), Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) and Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani), have only one work – to criticise the TDP. The trio did nothing for the development of the State and people. It was a misfortune of the people that a Minister reasons that use of colour television was behind the high power bills. Another Minister tricked the people with regard to quality rice. The voters in the constituency of a Minister don’t believe him, he said. The Minister who was adept in building castles in the air could do nothing for the development of Bandar, the TDP leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-targets-ministers-at-bandar/article34024630.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP felicitates woman officers||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang felicitated women officers who extended extraordinary services, on the occasion of International Women’s Day.  Mementos presented Mr. Sawang presented mementos and felicitated them at the A.P. Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Monday. The DGP honoured the women Circle Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors, Assistant Sub-Inspectors, head constables and constables, of all districts. He appreciated the women police officers for extending laudable services and keeping up the reputation of the Police Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-felicitates-woman-officers/article34024684.ece
09 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 YSRCP candidates elected MLCs||YSR Congress Party candidates C. Ramachandraiah, Balli Kalyan Chakravarthy, Duvvada Srinivas, Shaik Md. Iqbal and Md. Karimunnisa have been declared elected uncontested to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council, a press release by Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-ysrcp-candidates-elected-mlcs/article34024686.ece
09 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police seize Rs. 48 lakh cash||The police conducted raid on a house at R.R. Peta, Amaravathi Colony, in Ajit Sgh Nagar area, and seized Rs. 48,44,200 unaccounted cash on Monday. On a tip-off, the team raided on the house of Pilla Kurma Nayakulu. During inquiry, Nayakulu, who runs a welding shop, could not show any documents supporting the amount. The Ajit Singh Nagar police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-seize-rs-48-lakh-cash/article34024689.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP privatisation: Nirmala’s statement sparks protests||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement in Parliament on Monday that the Centre would divest its stake in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has sparked protests by employees at Kurmannapalem on Monday. The Finance Minister was replying to questions posed by Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and Araku MP Goddeti Madhavi in the Lok Sabha. The employees and trade union representatives, who have been organising protests against the decision of the Union government for the past several weeks, stopped traffic on the National Highway at Kurmannapalem on Monday evening after they came to know about the Finance Minister’s statement. The protest is still continuing when the last reports received and the police diverting traffic. Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao, Mantri Rajasekhar and D. Adinarayana demanded that the Centre come out with a statement on why it had failed to allocate captive mines to the VSP, which would take the plant on the road to profits. Refuting the statement of Ms. Nirmala Sitharaman that the State government has no stake in the VSP, they recalled that the State had given 22,000 acres of land for establishment of the VSP and continues to provide basic amenities like power and water to the plant and hence is also a stakeholder. Saying that the steel plant administration office would be picketed on March 9 against the decision, they appealed to all employees to participate in the agitation. Meanwhile, in separate statements on Monday evening, CPI State assistant secretary J.V.S.N. Murthy and CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded that the Centre give up its adamant stand on the issue. Mr. Murthy ridiculed the State BJP leaders for saying that the privatisation of VSP would not take place but failing to do anything on it. He called for united struggle by all political parties to prevent privatisation of VSP. Mr. Ganga Rao demanded that the State government come out with a statement that it was opposed to the privatisation of VSP. The YSRCP and TDP MPs should corner the Union government in Parliament on the issue, he said. He also sought resignation of BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav. He wondered as to how the Jana Sena Party (JSP), which has an alliance with the BJP, seek votes from the people in the GVMC elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-sale-nirmalas-statement-sparks-protests/article34024687.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State gets Rs. 85,576 crore under Sagarmala project||Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways (independent charge) Mansukh L. Mandaviya has said that as many as 92 projects have been sanctioned to Andhra Pradesh under the Sagarmala project at a cost of Rs. 85,576 crore. Some of these projects have been completed, some are under implementation and others under consideration, said Mr. Mandaviya while replying to an unstarred question posed by Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Monday. Giving the breakup, Mr. Mandaviya noted that 22 projects with the theme of port modernisation were initiated at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,717 crore, 54 projects were undertaken at a cost of Rs. 47,854 crore under the connectivity enhancement head, 10 projects at a cost of Rs. 32,053 core as part of port-led industrialisation and nine projects with the theme of coastal community development were initiated at a cost of Rs. 952 crore. The projects undertaken at the Visakhapatnam port are being done under the auspices of the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT). Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) have been prepared for construction of passenger jetties at Barua and Kalingapatnam ports in Srikakulam district and Bheemunipatnam in Visakhapatnam district. Road extension The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the extension of the port connectivity road from Sheelanagar in the city to the Anakapalle–Anandapuram NH-16 bypass road at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,352 crore.  Mr. Mandaviya also explained that the development works on the Centre of Excellence in Maritime, Shipbuilding in Visakhapatnam have been completed at a cost of Rs. 574 crore. Eco-tourism circuit The Hope Island in Kakinada has been developed as an eco-tourism circuit of world-class standards. A DPR is being prepared for construction of a fishing harbour in Nellore district at an estimated cost of Rs. 242 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-gets-rs-85576-crore-under-sagarmala-project/article34024621.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women need to be mentally strong: expert||Meetings and rallies to highlight the achievements of women, calls for giving importance to women and treating them with respect and felicitation of women achievers marked International Women’s Day celebrations at various places in the city on Monday. A human chain was formed by women employees of LIC, on the banner of LIC Women Employees Coordination Committee, in front of the LIC Divisional Office. They raised slogans on ‘Women empowerment’ and against ‘listing of LIC in the stock market’. T. Sunanda, convener of the coordination committee, addressed the women employees. Leela Digumarti, gynaecological oncologist, called upon women to take care of their health through periodical medical tests and by timely vaccinations for cervical cancer and other diseases. Addressing the gathering at a programme organised by the Rotary Club of Visakha Port City, she said in the changing times women face more challenges as they were competing with men and need to be mentally strong and assertive. Later, Meritorious Service awards were given by the club to Dr. Leela, ASHA worker Padma, women constables B. Appalasurya and B. Dev, RK Mission School Principal Prasanna Rani, Visakha Children’s club coordinator Ramadevi and Visakha Valley School past Principal Sharda Reddy. Club president Capt. Kali Prasad spoke. The Union Bank of India, KGH branch, celebrated International Women’s day at Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, was the chief guest. B. Devi Madhavi, HoD Community Medicine, U. Sekhar Rao, Manager Union Bank, KGH Branch, staff of AMC, Union Bank and Post Graduates of the Department of Community Medicine participated. Ashray, a voluntary organisation, in association with HIMA Humanitarian Organisation. P. Mythili, Superintendent, KGH, Nursing staff and women police were felicitated on the occasion. Association president Narava Rambabu, Commissioner of Customs Ravi Shankar and Three Town CI Eswar Rao participated. A seminar on the theme of women empowerment, organised by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Visakhapatnam chapter, was conducted by C.S. Swaroopa Meruva, the first woman chairperson of the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-need-to-be-mentally-strong-assertive-expert/article34024647.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records two new COVID cases||The district recorded two new COVID-19 cases on Monday taking the total tally to 60,639. With no death being recorded, the overall death tally remains at 539. Three persons were also discharged, taking the total discharges to 60,028, since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, last year. The active cases on Monday were 72.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-two-new-covid-cases/article34024693.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,000 police personnel to be deployed for polls||The city police will be deploying about 4,000 personnel for the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) polls on March 10. A force comprising 3,085 men and officers and 850 strong women police, who will be assisted by five platoons of the AP Special Police, will be deployed, according to a note from the Police Commissioner’s office.The city will have 1,619 polling stations at 690 locations, spread across the city.  Hypersensitive locations Among the 690 locations, 143 have been identified as hypersensitive and 242 as sensitive. The deployment will consist of 49 strike forces, 15 special strike forces, 16 flying squads and 60 special strike teams. The routes have also been finalised and the force will deployed from Tuesday night. Meanwhile, the police have intensified vehicle checking for unauthorised flow of liquor and cash and have set-up additional check-posts at strategic points. This apart, special surveillance vehicles will also be deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4000-police-to-be-deployed-for-gvmc-polls/article34024118.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate ortho surgeries performed in city||Two delicate orthopaedic surgeries (therapeutic hip and ankle arthroscopies) were performed by Dr. Abdul D. Khan, Senior Orthopaedic Surgeon at Apollo Hospitals, here, recently. A 29-year-old female presented with right hip pain, with which she had been suffering for the past two years. She was treated with analgesics, physiotherapy and rest but had no relief. She had an MRI scan which showed articular depression of the femoral head along with loose articular fragment in the hip joint. Normally for this problem, no treatment is advised till the patient develops arthritis and eventually needing total hip replacement. Dr Khan did therapeutic hip arthroscopic procedure and removed the loose body and did chondroplasty for the articular injury. The patient mobilised well and was discharged from the hospital within 24 hours. In another case, a 49-year-old female presented with right ankle pain for two years. She was treated with analgesics, brace, physiotherapy and rest but had no relief. She had an MRI scan, which showed moderate arthritis in her ankle. Normally for this problem, an open ankle fusion is advised for this problem but it can give rise to complications including infection, neuro vascular injury and ligament injuries. Dr Khan performed therapeutic ankle arthroscopic procedure and did chondroplasty and debridement of the joint. He also took bone marrow aspirate from the iliac crest and did autologous stem cell implantation in the ankle joint. The patient mobilised well and was discharged from the hospital within 24 hours. The patients are recovering well, Dr. Khan said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-ortho-surgeries-performed-in-city/article34024694.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher suspended for dereliction of duty||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula has suspended a teacher of the Bourthi Government Tribal Welfare Primary School of Choudupalli panchayat in Chintapalli mandal. The Project Officer inspected the school on Monday and found that the teacher had illegally appointed a volunteer to do his duties, by paying him Rs. 5,000 a month, to teach the children in his absence. Dr. Venkateswar also found that the works taken up under the ‘Mana Badi – Nadu Nedu’ programme were incomplete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/article34024695.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lightweight torpedo test-fired successfully||The indigenously-instrumented Advanced Light Torpedo (TAL), developed by the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL), cleared its maiden flight trial with a parachute system from the Indian Navy’s Ilyushin Il-38 maritime patrol aircraft on Monday. This was the country’s first such trial where the indigenous lightweight torpedo was fired from a fixed-wing aircraft. The lightweight torpedo was designed, developed, produced and inducted into services a decade ago and is used against underwater platforms as part of anti-submarine warfare (ASW). To enhance the range of quick acquisition of the target, the Navy scheduled the launch of TAL from fixed-wing aircraft of the Navy, for precise attacks at desired locations. The torpedo, along with Torpedo Release Mechanism and Fire Control System, are designed and developed by the NSTL. The torpedo, on safe separation from the aircraft, descends with the help of a parachute and the TRM detaches the parachute, enabling the torpedo to continue its operation in waters. The parachute is designed by ADRDE, Agra.The TAL can track multiple targets simultaneously using state-of-the-art processor-based signal processing algorithms. The trial team, led by Principal Project Director R.V.S. Subrahmanyam and other members from NSTL and ADRDE Agra, participated in the trial along with the Indian Navy. NSTL Director Dr O.R. Nandagopan congratulated the team and acknowledged the participation of the Indian Navy and other DRDO establishments.   Fact check  It is the country’s first such trial where the indigenous lightweight torpedo was fired from a fixed-wing aircraft  Navy scheduled the launch of Advanced Light Torpedo from fixed-wing aircraft for precise attacks at desired locations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lightweight-torpedo-test-fired-successfully/article34024622.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Women have better abilities than men’||Waltair Division celebrated International Women’s Day by organising various events during the week long celebrations. Quiz competition was organised for women employees and 12 women reached the finals, out of whom three were given first, second and third ranks. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, who participated as the chief guest, said that a girl or a woman faces many challenges in society or at the workplace that makes them stronger. They have better abilities than men. ADRM (operations) C.Suryakumari said women are playing a vital role in various activities and sharing more responsibilities in different spheres along with domestic commitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-have-better-abilities-than-men/article34024690.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Juvenile taken into custody for ‘stealing’ Rs. 25 lakh||The city police on Monday took into custody a juvenile on charges of committing theft of Rs. 25 lakh at the house of his friend. The 15-year-old boy is reportedly addicted to online gambling and other vices and committed the theft to fund his vices. The boy has a friend, who stays in the same locality, and he used to visit his friend’s house often. According to the police, the boy reportdly decided to committed the crime to fund his vices, after he observed that his friend’s father was storing cash in the house. DCP (Crime) Suresh Babu said that when his friend and father were away from home and his friend’s mother was busy with other works, the boy went to his friend’s house and allegedly stole Rs. 8 lakh on February 8. Similarly, on March 4, the boy again entered his friend’s house with a duplicate key and allegedly stole Rs. 17 lakh. Based on a complaint from the victims, the Arilova police registered a case. Investigation revealed that the boy’s mother reportedly purchased gold jewellery worth over Rs. 9 lakh with the stolen money and the boy also allegedly purchased cricket bats, a bike and a few other things worth Rs. 6 lakh. Booty recovered The boy was taken into custody when he was moving with Rs. 2 lakh cash near his home, said CCS ACP Shravan Kumar. The police have recovered valuables worth around Rs. 22.27 lakh, including cash, gold jewellery, cricket bats, a bike and few others. The police also arrested the mother of the boy, and the boy has been sent to the juvenile home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/juvenile-taken-into-custody-on-charge-of-stealing-rs-25-lakh/article34024648.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on labour reforms held||National Human Resource Development Network, Visakhapatnam chapter, organised an interactive meet on ‘Recent Labour Reforms – Reducing Compliance Burden’, here on Monday. Delivering the inaugural address, B. Udayalakshmi, Principal Secretary of Labour, Factories, Boilers and Insurance Medical Services Department, said that recent labour reforms were made, as the laws were outdated and dated back to the colonial period. The basic intention of these reforms is to reduce the compliance burden on employers, she said, adding that the objective of these reforms was to decriminalise non-compliances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-labour-reforms-held/article34024696.ece
09 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Australian High Commissioner visits ENC||Australia’s High Commissioner to India, Harry O’ Farrell, visited the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) at Visakhapatnam on Monday. The High Commissioner along with his delegation interacted with Vice Admiral B. Dasgupta, Chief of Staff, Eastern Naval Command, as part of his visit to the State. The High Commissioner highlighted areas of congruence between India and Australia and the need to further enhance cooperation between both the nations. Enhancement of maritime and naval cooperation to further boost the defence ties was also discussed. The deliberations included the current regional and global security environment. The High Commissioner also visited the Indian Navy’s indigenous stealth frigate INS Shivalik where he interacted with Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti, Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet. The delegation was shown the capabilities of the ship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/australian-high-commissioner-visits-enc/article34024649.ece
09 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Political tensions rise in Fort City||Political tensions rose in the city as the ruling YSR Congress Party and the opposition Telugu Desam Party engaged in a war of words on the last day of campaigning for the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation elections. YSRCP’s Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy alleged that former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju had hit a woman during campaigning in Phoolbagh area, referencing a video clip that was being circulated widely. TDP leaders were quick to rubbish the allegations, stating that Mr. Ashok was in fact trying to help the woman by dousing a small fire that broke out when someone had lighted camphor. Vizianagaram TDP general secretary I.V.P. Raju accused the YSRCP of resorting to ‘character assassination’ of Mr. Ashok, who had a clean image for the last four decades. The woman in the video footage, identified as Hemalatha, reportedly clarified later that Mr. Ashok had not hit her and in fact tried to help her and others by dousing a small flame. “The video footage is clear evidence that Mr. Ashok has done nothing wrong,” said Mr. Raju while addressing a press conference at the TDP office. The BJP and Jana Sena Party also campaigned in 33 wards on Monday, the last day for campaigning. JSP-Vizianagaram general secretary Midatana Ravikumar exuded confidence that the candidates contesting on JSP-BJP tickets would win a majority of the divisions. He said that the people wanted to encourage new leadership in their respective divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/political-tensions-rise-in-fort-city/article34024653.ece
09 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Better society possible only with educated women’||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Monday said that a better society would be possible only by ensuring education for all women. “Educated women would be able to guide their children properly and make them better citizens,” Mr. Jawaharlal said at an event held to mark Women’s Day at the Ananda Gajapathi Auditorium. Speaking as chief guest, he said that he was able to become an IAS officer thanks to the support of his mother. He lauded the cooperation of district women officials including Chief Planning Officer J. Vijayalakshmi, District Women and Child Welfare Officer M. Rajeswari and District Disaster Management Project Manager B. Padmavati in achieving the government’s objectives and effective implementation of the schemes. Meanwhile, the Collector lauded the women’s self-help group of Denkada for bagging a national award. Vizianagaram District Rural Development Agency Project Director K. Subba Rao congratulated the group which received the award from the Union government on the occasion of Women’s Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/better-society-possible-only-with-educated-women/article34024654.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-pitched campaign comes to a close||The high-pitched campaigning for the civic polls to 11 urban local bodies in south coastal Andhra Pradesh ended on Monday evening. As many as 119 candidates are in the fray in 48 wards going to polls in Atmakur, Venkatagiri, Naidupeta and Sullurpeta in SPSR Nellore district, where 52 candidates have been elected uncontested. In Prakasam district, 174 candidates are trying their electoral fortunes in 724 wards in the civic bodies of Ongole, Markapur, Chirala, Addanki, Chimakurthy, Giddalur and Kanigiri, where 24 aspirants have already been elected unopposed. While the ruling party highlighted the host of welfare schemes implemented by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during the campaign, the Telugu Desam Party promised to waive property and water tax arrears and also reduce the tax by 50%. The TDP also promised to reopen the popular Anna canteens. The candidates of the Jana Sena Party and its poll ally Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) highlighted the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation(AMRUT) and other schemes launched by the Narendra Modi government to improve the civic infrastructure and sought a positive vote for change. The Left parties promised to fight for adoption of a resolution against the property tax hike and strive for devolution of more funds and decentralisation of powers to local bodies. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said that the district police were fully geared up to hold free and fair elections in the urban local bodies on March 10. The SP visited, among other places, the Perala Center check post, Masjid Center, Clock Tower Center, RTC Bus Stand and Munthavari Center on Kottapeta Road and gave instructions to the on-duty personnel there and oversaw the security arrangements made for the smooth conduct of the polls. He asked the personnel concerned to be on high alert 24X7 and ensure that there were no untoward incidents with special focus on sensitive polling stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-pitched-campaign-comes-to-a-close-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34024629.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to have gender budget||The Chief Minister said only 60% of women are literate in the State according to the 2011 Census. In order to resolve this, the government introduced Jagananna Amma Vodi scheme and spent about Rs. 13,022 crore in two years and would be providing Rs. 32,500 crore in five years benefiting over 44.50 lakh mothers and 85 lakh students. Through YSR Aasara, 87.75 lakh self-help group women were given Rs. 6,792 crore in 21 months while 24.56 lakh women aged between 45 and 60 years were given Rs. 4,604 crore under YSR Cheyutha scheme. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Disha police stations were established in each district to crack down on those committing crime against women. Crimes against women have dropped by 7.50% in 2020 compared with 2019. So far, chargesheets were filed in 563 offences within seven days of the incidents. Casual leaves for women have been increased to 20 from 15. Help desks Earlier, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy virtually inaugurated women help desks and cyber kiosks in police stations across the State, launched Swechha programme intended to create awareness on menstrual hygiene among girls and flagged off a fleet of 900 Disha patrolling vehicles and 18 Disha crime management vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-have-gender-budget/article34024620.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll preparedness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-preparedness/article34024685.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll fever hots up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-fever-hots-up/article34024623.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Carrying on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/carrying-on/article34024631.ece
09 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Cremation groundkeeper feted||Mutyala Aruna, the keeper of the cremation ground (Vaikunta Ghat) in Bhadrachalam, came in for effusive praise at a felicitation ceremony organised by the Awardee Teachers’ Association on the occasion of International Women’s Day here on Monday. Her inspiring saga of fortitude in surmounting adversity after the demise of her husband, who was the Kati Kapari (cremation ghat keeper), three years ago, and taking up the arduous task of managing the cremation ground against all odds earned her applause from the participants of the ceremony. Speakers showered praises on Aruna for rising above the age-old barriers and tirelessly working at the cremation ground on the banks of the Godavari for the past three years. Services in lockdown They recalled her pivotal services in ensuring dignified funerals for several victims of COVID during the pandemic-induced lockdown and even after that. Commending the services of Aruna, Bhadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police G. Vineeth said she showed exemplary empathy towards orphans apart from taking care of her father and other family members undeterred by hardships. Aruna gave a brief account of her struggle through the difficult times, saying she considers conducting the cremation/burial a “holy mission.” Awardee Teachers’ Association handed her over Rs. 3,000 cash. Government Examinations Assistant Commissioner Vijayalakshmi of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh announced a donation of Rs. 5,000 to Aruna. P. Ravikumari, a retired government teacher, was also felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cremation-groundkeeper-feted/article34024659.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Celebrating the essence of womanhood||Feminine power was celebrated and women across different professions were applauded on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had an interaction with women employees of Raj Bhavan through video conference from Raj Nivas, Puducherry where she is posted as Governor in-charge. Conveying Women’s Day wishes, Raj Bhavan staff congratulated Dr.Soundararajan on receiving the award as one among the ‘Top 20 Global Women of Excellence-2021’ presented at the Ninth Congressional International Women’s Day event at Illinois, USA. The women staff received boxes of sweets and jute bags on behalf of the Governor to mark the occasion. Forest department celebrated the day by organising indoor and outdoor games, dance and singing competitions for the women staff for two days preceding Women’s Day. On Monday, prizes were distributed to the winners by Special Chief Secretary A.Santhi KUmari, Joint Secretary Prashanthi, and PCCF R.Sobha. Fighting adversity Addressing a webinar organised by the National Biodiversity Authority, Ms.Sobha thanked women forest officers who work against all odds in testing conditions. She also shared space with two more women heads of forest departments in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, at a video conference with Union Minister for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar. The Minister applauded when Ms.Sobha informed that the ratio of women in Telangana Forest department is 30 per cent, a note informed. HMWS&SB Women’s Ministerial Staff Welfare Association organised Women’s Day celebrations on the Water Board’s premises, where managing director M. Dana Kishore said modern women are breaking many taboos to ascend the top most portfolios. He hoped women would bring about positive change towards controlling crime against women in society. Telangana State centre of the Institution of Engineers (India) organised a seminar on ‘Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a COVID-19 World’ while Press Information Bureau organised an awareness meet on ‘Choose to Challenge’. Fifty-three women across 17 disciplines including Agriculture, Education, Finance, Fashion, Government Service, Healthcare, Hospitality, Human Resources, Manufacturing, Media, and others were given Women’s Leadership Awards by tHybiz.tv, an online buisness channel, at an event attended by Panchayat Raj secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania. Panel discussion Youngistan Foundation’s Gender Programme hosted an exclusive panel discussion on Sunday on ‘Women in Leadership – Enabling Young Leaders’ in collaboration with Indian School of Business, Telangana State Police’s Women Safety Wing, and Telangana Academy of Skill and Knowledge. DIG (Women Safety Wing) Sumathi Badugula attended the event, and spoke on importance of selecting mentors. A 5-km marathon was organised by Dr.MCR HRD Institute to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-honour-of-feminine-power/article34024557.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Illegal constructions and encroachments led to floods’||A study commissioned by the NITI Ayog said much of the damage reported during the unprecedented floods in the twin cities in October last was due to overflowing lakes, Hussainsagar in the middle of the city in particular, and breaching of storm water drains. Construction over lake beds and encroachments of drainage channels were identified as problems that exacerbated flooding and inundation in the city. The report lamented that since last few decades water bodies had come down drastically from one lakh to 185 within the Greater Hyderabad region. Out of the 185 lakes, surplus weirs and courses were completely closed in respect of 75. “These lakes used to work as flood sink of the city. In absence of these, the city is more vulnerable to any natural disaster,” the report said. The deluge resulted in loss of 33 lives in the city with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation estimating that at least 37,409 families were affected. Municipal Administration Minister (K.T. Rama Rao) pegged the city’s losses at Rs. 670 crore. The report mentioned how parts of the Nadeem Colony abutting Shah HatimTalab had water rise to 12 feet after the downpour on October 13. Devinagar and Chudibazar colonies saw the water rise to 10 feet and similar were the scenes in several other colonies like Hafiz Baba Nagar, Al Jubail Colony, Chandrayanguuta, Ghouse Nagar and other areas. All these localities witnessed water rise to four feet and close to two dozen colonies around LB Nagar too faced a similar fate, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/encroachments-illegal-structures-led-to-floods/article34024551.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre tells CS to act on FGG petition||The Central Government has asked the State to initiate action as appropriate into the Maoist turned gangster Nayeem’s encounter. The Department Of Personnel and Training has addressed a communication to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar enclosing a representation made by the Forum for Good Governance seeking CBI probe into the encounter of the notorious gangster. FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said the Forum had represented the need for a CBI probe into the killing of the gangster and the Centre had addressed a communication to the Chief Secretary seeking appropriate action into the issue. In a letter addressed to the Chief Secretary, he said there were certain valid points in the demand for a CBI probe into the issue. Though the Government had constituted a special investigation team headed by north zone IG to inquire into the issue, it was not able to function effectively due to various reasons. It was widely reported that Nayeem spread his activities to several States and an inquiry into his activities should be conducted in different States. The SIT would face lot of problems in conducting the probe in coordination with different States. Mr. Padmanabha Reddy recalled how Nayeem, a surrendered Maoist and street rowdy assisted police in controlling the Maoists which the police could achieve to some extent. However, as his acquaintance with senior officials grew, Nayeem established his own gang of goons and engaged in anti-social activities. He indulged in extortions, murders, land settlements among others with the cooperation of the government machinery. “It was a deadly combination of police, politicians and goondas which troubled people for over two decades,” Mr. Padmanabha Reddy said adding when Nayeem became too big for the police to handle, he was killed in an encounter. The SIT initially claimed that there were no police officers involved in the case. But when media published photos depicting police officials with Nayeem, cases were registered against 25 officers, some of whom were suspended and some others transferred. Eight politicians including legislators who were associated with Nayeem in his nefarious activities were also identified. “But no action has been taken against them so far,” he lamented adding the SIT was also keeping the contents of diaries seized from Nayeem’s residence a top secret as making public these diaries would see many heads of senior officials roll. He recalled that the FGG submitted a representation to the Chief Secretary seeking CBI probe into the issue, but the request went unheeded. A representation was made to the Governor too, but there was no response so far. Mr. Padmanabha Reddy reiterated his request for CBI inquiry into the issue to find out the truth and prosecute the guilty. “If no action is taken on officials and politicians involved, many more Nayeems will appear leading to anarchy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-tells-cs-to-act-on-fgg-petition/article34024662.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana’s COVID tally crosses 3-lakh mark||Telangana’s COVIDcaseload has surpassed the 3-lakh mark with 111 cases being detected on Sunday. The tally now stands at 3,00,011, according to statistics released by the Health department. The State, which recorded its first coronavirus case on March 2 last year, took 144 days to reach the 50,000-mark and in another 29 days, touched the grim milestone of 1 lakh cases. Thereafter, it took 19 days to record the next set of 50,000 positive cases. That was in August-September 2020 when the viral caseload was seeing a big spurt. The number of people found to be COVID-positive started to decline from November. With that, it took 121 days to reach the subsequent set of 50,000 cases — on Sunday. The number of tests taken to add the last set of 50,000 cases have been comparatively higher — 43,66,082 samples — over the last four months. Telangana is the 12th State in the country to have logged 3 lakh COVID cases. Maharashtra leads the table of infections with over 22 lakh cases, followed by Kerala at 10.77 lakh cases, Karnataka at 9.55 lakh cases and Andhra Pradesh at 8.90 lakh cases, according to information available on covid19india.org.   Grim milestone Telangana is the 12th State in the country to have recorded 3 lakh COVID-19 cases  The quickest it took to reach a set of 50,000 cases was 19 days, around August-September last year The longest that it has taken to log 50,000 cases is 144 days, during the initial phase of the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telanganas-covid-19-tally-crosses-3-lakh-mark/article34024242.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Trampling over gender stereotypes||A man in the driving seat and a woman atop the vehicle rummaging through garbage to segregate it is a ubiquitous sight across various localities in the city where door-to-door waste collection is done. A woman from Jagadgirigutta, however, has broken the glass ceiling in this respect, and assumed the steering wheel of the Swachh Auto Trolley (SAT) which she drives every day to collect garbage. Kogari Nirmala was the helper on the SAT vehicle of her husband Shobhan Babu, collecting garbage from Yellamma Banda area of Kukatpally, and Borabanda areas. “We found the going very tough, and decided that we need to earn separately. My husband taught me how to drive the vehicle, and for the past three years, I have been doing this job alone,” Nirmala shared. Her husband started going out as paid driver on another vehicle. Nirmala covers 300 households every day, taking along all her three children aged five, four and one. “I cannot leave my children at home as they are very young. Even during COVID-19 lockdown, I covered all the households without fail, with my children in tow. I am proud of my job, and indebted to my husband for encouraging me to take the wheel,” she said. Nirmala was one of the 10 women felicitated by Y.S.Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, on the occasion of International Women’s Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crushing-gender-stereotypes/article34024558.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sykes opens new 500-seater facility; to hire 800 people||Multichannel demand generation and customer engagement services provider Sykes has opened a new, 500-seater facility in Hyderabad. A release, on the opening of the 44,000 sq ft facility in Kokapet, said the company would be offering an additional 750-800 jobs in the next 12 months. This is the US firm’s fourth centre in the city and sixth in the country. It currently employs 2,000 people in India, of which 1,850 are in Hyderabad and the rest in Bengaluru. Country Head Dishant Bhojwani said “amid the pandemic Sykes India experienced rapid growth based on servicing strategic clients who have played important roles in supporting customers during the global lockdown. Their explosive customer growth has fuelled our business, which has required Sykes’ continued expansion in the country to keep pace with demand. We have a strong focus in India.” The firm had in October announced the opening of a 33,000 sq ft centre of excellence. The release said Sykes serves clients and brands for varied industries, including banking, communication, technology, telecom and retail. It has operations in the United States of America, Canada, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sykes-opens-new-500-seater-facility-to-hire-800-people/article34024661.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ode to Mah Laqa Bai Chanda and Hasin Lika Begum||On International Women’s Day, the quadrangle of MAM Government Model Junior College is filled with students. Students having food, chatting on phone, sitting under the trees, some entering the college and others exiting. According to historians, the college is located exactly at the site which was a training ground created by Urdu language’s first major woman poet: Mah Laqa Bai Chanda. While the maqbara (funerary pavilion) on the foothills of Maula Ali is well known, the garden and the mansion known as Khassa Rang Mahal have become part of folklore. “Which is the old building where this school started functioning?,” we ask a teacher sitting near the library block of the junior college. “No idea. This used to be a school and then it was turned into a junior college,” says the faculty member who has been working for the past four years in the college. According to historians, the school building is where Mah Laqa Bai Chanda ran her academy to train girl students. The 1914 municipal map created by Leonard Munn and his cartographers points to the location as Gardens Hasin Lika Begum. The whole sheet is dedicated to the garden of the woman who was adopted by Mah Laqa Bai Chanda and who inherited her estate. “Husn Laqa Bai was raised in impeccable manners, cultivated and educated, a good judge of culture and a font of generosity. Her grand manor house and garden is still extant on Nampally road and she had a second garden in Lingampally,” writes Scott Kugle translating from a 19th century biography of Mah Laqa Bai Chanda. “When my mother started studying in the school sometime in the 30s, parts of the old building were already ruined. But it is a great coincidence that her jagir and garden are home to two educational institutions. While the garden has a school and a college, Osmania University has been built on her jagir,” says historian Sajjad Shahid whose family has old links to the school. The training ground for dance and music created by one of the first empowered woman poet in the Deccan is now the stomping ground for generations of girls and women taking their rightful place in the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ode-to-mah-laqa-bai-chanda-and-hasin-lika-begum/article34024556.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||DPH hospitalised for cardiac evaluation, stable||Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, who has been in the thick of COVID-19 management and vaccination programme, was admitted to a private hospital on Monday morning for cardiac evaluation. He underwent several tests and is stable. Discharge in 2 days The senior official is expected to be discharged in a day or two from Apollo Hospitals in Jubilee Hills where he is undergoing treatment. From the time the first COVID case was detected in the State on March 2 last year, Dr Srinivas Rao played a crucial role in planning and managing operations to check the spread of the infectious disease, tracing and isolating COVID patients and suspects. Since the Health department was at the centre of pandemic management, there was tremendous work pressure on him as Director of Public Health (DPH). After video discussions with Union Health Ministry, he used to convey changes in COVID management protocols to his subordinates. During the peak of the pandemic, Dr Srinivasa Rao and employees of the Health department clocked more than 18 hours of work a day. The cases started to come down from November 2020. However, it did not reduce the workload of Health staff. Preparation for COVID vaccination began in December and with that the DPH and the Health department once again plunged into work. After the DPH’s hospitalisation, Health staff opined that medical check-ups should be conducted for the entire department as they have been under tremendous pressure over the past one year. They also hope additional staff would be recruited to bring down burden of work on each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dph-hospitalised-for-cardiac-evaluation-stable/article34024548.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Need to remodel drainage system in city: study||A study commissioned by the NITI Ayog has underlined the urgent need for expanding and remodeling the drainage system in the State Capital. Nalas, drains, water courses and flood plains should be clearly delineated and boundaries fixed in new developments. There should be strict enforcement of relevant byelaws/regulations in the new layouts, the NITI Ayog said. An underground drainage system should be constructed to flush water from any place, whether it is at high or low elevation till the final place of discharge like the Musi river in Hyderabad’s case. The problems in the twin cities including the October last year floods found mention in the report filed by the committee constituted by the NITI Ayog for formulation of strategy for flood management works in the entire country and river management activities and works related to border areas 2021-26. The report said Hyderabad urgently needs to expand and remodel its drainage system. Besides lakes and canals, wetlands and watersheds would play a crucial role in absorbing excess rainfall. “But regrettably, rapid urbanisation in the twin cities has resulted in loss of a large portion of the wetlands,” the report said. Quoting an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment in 2016, it said 3,245 hectares of water bodies were lost in Hyderabad between 1989 and 2001. In the long term, the effect of flooding due to deluges could only be mitigated if urban planners take into account the hydro-geology and ensure that construction, development and land occupation do not take place in a way that would reduce the area of wetlands. Engineering solutions like linking all the 185 tanks in and around Hyderabad with modern technology to divert the flow of water during the deluge coupled with measures to control floor (rainwater) flow by restoring nalas and removing encroachments would help prevent flooding and inundation. The report lamented that Hyderabad and even Telangana State did not have disaster management plans. They are not fully utilising the Doppler radar which could give advance and precise warnings. “The focus is on disaster response, even while allowing unplanned growth,” the report said.  The focus is on disaster response, even while allowing unplanned growth. NITI Ayog report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-to-remodel-drainage-system-in-the-city-study/article34024550.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Environment and health conference on April 24||Pure Earth Foundation, a charitable society, is organising its second Pure Earth Environment Conference (PEEC) with ‘Environment and Health’ as the focal theme on April 24. PEEC is a bi-annual conference to promote research and innovation in the field of environment, natural resources and social related issues to educate the younger generation towards the scientific and technological aspects of sustainable development and environmental conservation. “Our aim is to encourage a serious discussion around environmental conservation and sustainability, which is an urgent issue of our times,” said PEF president and former DGP M.V.Krishna Rao in a press release on Monday. Those keen to participate or submit research papers can reach out to the organisers atpureearthfoundation @gmail.comor call on any of the two numbers: 95739-47170/ 95601-80633. The venue for the conference is National Institute for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/environment-and-health-conference-on-april-24/article34024549.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Film screening at Sri Sarathi Studios||Hyderabad Film Club, Sri Sarathi Studios and Federation of Film Societies of India are screening Bangladesh documentary film ‘The day I became a woman’ and Malyalam film ‘Stand Up’ at Sri Sarathi Studios Preview Theatre, Ameerpet, on Tuesday at 6 p.m. This is as part of ‘Women's Film Festival - 2021’ which was kicked off on Monday with noted actress and director of Annapurna Film and Media - Amala Akkineni, former Vice-Chancellor of Telugu University A Manjulatha, Unicef's Sudha Murali and Sriprasadtiya group of companies director M. Smitha being guests at the inaugural function. It was followed by screening of Telugu Film 'Rallalo Neeru' directed by the Kiranmayee Indragani, said HFC secretary Bh.S.S. Prakash Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/film-screening-at-sri-sarathi-studios/article34024553.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two passengers held for smuggling gold||Enforcement authorities at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, detained two passengers in separate incidents on Monday while they were trying to smuggle in gold. In the first case, Shaik Masthan, an Indian national who arrived from Kuwait was caught with 160 grams of yellow metal bars. He arrived at RGIA by Jazeera airlines flight no J9-1403 in the wee hours of Monday. “On arrival he was detained by the Air Intelligence Unit of Customs department as he concealed the gold on his body,” an airport official told The Hindu.  In another case, the sleuths of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence detained an air passenger who concealed 2.3 kg gold in a life jacket. The accused passenger in question arrived from Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-passengers-held-for-smuggling-gold/article34024560.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Azadi ki Amrit Mahotsav event also in Warangal||The State government has decided to celebrate the nationwide ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate 75 years of Indian Independence in a befitting manner as per the schedule drawn by the Centre over 75 weeks from March 12 to August 15. After attending a video conference addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who headed the national committee for the celebrations, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced allocation of Rs. 25 crore for the fete in the State at a meeting with senior officials. He also constituted an organising committee headed by Advisor to government (Culture) K.V. Ramanachari - which will include as members secretaries of General Administration Department, Finance, Cultural Affairs, Municipal Administration, Panchayatraj and Education, Director of Municipal Administration and Commissioner of Panchayatraj. Mr. Rao issued directions to the officials on proceeding with the programme. It will start with inaugural programmes at Public Gardens in Hyderabad and Police Ground at Warangal on March 12. He would be the chief guest for the event in Hyderabad and Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Warangal. Hoisting of national flag, marchpast by police contingents and release of balloons in air will form part of cultural performances with a national fervour on the occasion. The celebrations should be held in a festive atmosphere. Tall flags like the one at Sanjeevaiah Park here should be installed at 75 important centres across Telangana. Essay writing, elocution and painting competitions with the theme of nationalism and kavi sammelan should be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/azadi-ki-amrit-mahotsav-programme-in-warangal/article34024547.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Call to graduate voters to exercise franchise||Minister of Information and Technology K. T. Rama Rao and Health Minister Eatela Rajendra on Monday skipped a meeting organised to mobilise graduates to vote for Telangana Rashtra Samiti candidate in the election of Member of Legislative Council from Graduates Constituency. Holding the fort, Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav spoke at length about what the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government has done to help women in various walks of life. “What the State government could do about women’s reservations we have done for local bodies. But for legislative bodies like Parliament and Assembly, the Central government has to bring in an Act,” said Mr. Yadav who spoke about the woman Mayor and 50% reservations for councillors in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. Pegged as an interactive session, the meeting was sparsely attended and many teachers and students of institutions run by Exhibition Society made the quorum. “There are 93 nominations but only our party has fielded Surabhi Vani Devi, who is daughter of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao. If she is elected, she will raise women’s issues in the Council,” said Mr. Yadav canvassing for votes on her behalf. “This year we have 5.3 lakh voters in the Council elections. We want the polling percentage to be higher than 40% which has become the norm in Hyderabad,” said Mr. Yadav. Earlier, some of the faculty members of colleges run by Exhibition Society raised issues, including the how privatisation of education will take the field out of bounds for women. “There is discrimination against women in the pharmaceutical industry’s manufacturing sector. We have a large number of students who are women and this unwritten policy makes them ineligible for jobs. We want this to change,” said P. Hyma who teaches at Vanita Pharmacy Mahavidyalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-for-higher-graduate-voter-turnout/article34024563.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Celebrating COVID heroes||Frontline warriors who worked tirelessly to tackle COVID-19 pandemic were felicitated by Health Minister Eatala Rajender at a programme held at Continental Hospital here on Monday to mark International Women’s Day. In total, 30 doctors working at various healthcare institutions, 15 staff members of the hospital, five police officers and three district medical officers were felicitated. Besides, three staffers of Mahaprasthanam and ESI graveyards, who helped dispose of bodies of COVID patients, were also felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/celebrating-covid-heroes/article34024554.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Handhold 10 women each, Kavitha tells achievers||Telangana Jagruthi president and TRS MLC K. Kavitha has asked every successful woman in her chosen field to help at least 10 women each to tread the path of success. Ms. Kavitha participated in Women’s Day celebrations at different places in the city on Monday, including events held by Dalit Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DICCI). At the DICCI event, she said the decision-making capacity of women would increase with their economic empowerment. She said the State government was helping Dalit women entrepreneurs through T-PRIDE programme. National president of DICCI Narra Ravi Kumar, Telangana chapter president Aruna Dasari, Dalit Stree Shakti convenor Gaddam Jhansi, Kuchipudi dancer Deepika Reddy, mountaineer Malavath Poorna and Balanagar DCP Padmaja took part in the event. At the women’s campus of Mallareddy institutions, Ms. Kavitha asked women to raise their voice and keep questioning the system on atrocities, excesses and disparities. She pointed out that social evils such as child marriages had come down considerably with the help of government measures. Parliament quota At another event held at Telangana Bhavan, TRS general secretary Tula Uma, GHMC Mayor G. Vijayalakshmi, MLC Akula Lalitha and others demanded 33% quota for women in Parliament. They complimented the State Government for introducing quota for women in agricultural market committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/handhold-10-women-each-kavitha-tells-achievers/article34024657.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to promote agri-tech startups||The State government has decided to identify agriculture-based tech startups in the State to give further opportunities to them for bringing digital transformation in the rural ecosystem. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said there were plenty of opportunities for startups to collaborate with the government in this direction. He was participating in a meeting where six startup companies presented their solutions for the agriculture sector. The government itself could become a partner, consumer and first customer of the startups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-promote-agri-tech-startups/article34024561.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS leads in seedling plantation||The State has added another feather in its cap by ensuring plantation of highest number of seedlings during the financial year 2019-20 thanks to the ambitious Harita Haaram programme. According to Union Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Babul Supriyo, Telangana reported planting of 38.17 crore seedlings, over 20 % of the seedlings planted across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-leads-in-seedling-plantation/article34024562.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police warn of booking cases||In view of mass circulation of videos of Bhainsa violence in social media, police of Hyderabad and Rachakonda commissionerates warned of booking criminal cases against unsocial elements found spreading rumours along with videos in social media and trying to fan communal violence in the State capital. They asked WhatsApp group admins to keep a watch on postings in groups and immediately delete controversial posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-warn-of-booking-cases/article34024564.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free vaccine to cooperative bank staff||Chairman of Telangana State Co-operative Apex Bank Ltd, K Ravinder Rao, said that the State government has decided to provide COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to all the cooperative bank employees. The announcement was made at International Women’s Day programme organised by NABARD in Karimnagar town on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-vaccine-to-cooperative-bank-staff/article34024660.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Last Date||Last date for submission of online applications for admission into first year Intermediate courses (Arts, Science and Vocational) in social welfare residential educational institutions for the academic year 2021-2022 has been extended up to 10.03.2021. Candidates are instructed to visit TSWREIS websitetswreis.infor prospectus, online application and other details, a press release informed here on Monday..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-date/article34024555.ece
09 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Campaign for Graduate MLC elections gains pace||Electioneering for the March 14 Legislative Council election to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates Constituency reached its peak with the contestants of the main political parties and the independent candidates stepping up their campaign in both online and offline modes to boost their poll prospects. Almost all the main contestants are making optimum use of social media by posting creative slogans to drive home their message in a bid to connect with the tech-savvy graduates. The high voltage election campaign by the contestants on social media is mainly centered around the issues of unemployed youth such as jobs and unemployment allowance and the service matters of employees including the long-delayed pay revision. Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) founder M. Kodandaram, who is in the fray from the Graduates Constituency, on Monday canvassed near the district court seeking the support of advocates, who played a key role in separate Telangana movement under the TJAC. The leaders of the CPI (ML-New Democracy) accompanied him. CPI State assistant secretary and former Kothagudem MLA K. Sambasiva Rao campaigned for the party candidate Jayasaradhi Reddy, backed by the CPI (M), at various government and private offices as well as educational institutions in Khammam on Monday. BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay conducted a whirlwind election campaign in Bhadrachalam, Kothagudem and Khammam on Monday to garner support for the party candidate G. Premender Reddy. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka’s cycle yatra as part of the campaign to drum up support for the party candidate Ramulu Naik passed through several villages in Laxmidevipalli mandal on the second day on Monday. Villagers mainly women displayed empty LPG cylinders at several places en route the cycle yatra expressing their solidarity with the yatra. The ruling TRS cadres led by the local corporators extensively conducted door-to-door campaign in various divisions of Khammam Municipal Corporation to muster support for the party candidate and sitting MLC P. Rajeshwara Reddy. Meanwhile, the MRPS district committee has extended its support to Telangana Inti Party president Cheruku Sudhakar, who is contesting the MLC election from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates Constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/campaign-for-graduate-mlc-elections-gains-pace/article34024566.ece
09 March 2021||MOGILICHERUVU TANDA (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Tribal oustee suffers cardiac arrest, dies||In a shocking incident, an oustee — 35-year-old tribal Banothu Hanumanthu — of this tribal habitation, attached to Etigaddakishtapur village suffered a cardiac arrest and died at the government hospital at Gajwel on Monday. He is survived by his wife and three children — a 14-year-old boy and two girls aged 10 and 7. This Tanda would get submerged under Mallannasagar in the next few months. The residents of this tribal habitation are under tremendous pressure for the past five days to vacate the village and a majority of residents are reluctant to vacate the village and they made it clear to the officials time and again. Unable to bear the pressure some of the villagers decided to shift to the new Rehabilitation and Resettlement colony that is coming up at Mutrajpally and on Sunday they hired transport vehicles to shift their belongings. However, at the last minute they decided against making the shift as the amount offered to them as compensation was low. On Monday, some Revenue officials started measuring the open places in the Tanda. This increased the pressure on Mr. Hanumanthu, who developed a cardiac problem and was immediately shifted to government hospital where he died. “Mr. Hanumanthu has lost two acres land for a canal few years ago and he did not get compensation for that. Now he is losing another three acres of land, for which officials said that he would not get any compensation as it was assigned land. Further, his mother was also not given any package. All this has increased pressure on Mr. Hanumanthu leading to his suffering a cardiac arrest,” Banothu Raju, another residents of the Tanda told The Hindu . “Mr. Hanumanthu lost about two acres of land in Pranahitha- Chevella canal about a decade back and he was reportedly not paid compensation as it was government land. A cheque has been drawn up in his name and we have already shown it to him and told him that it would be handed over to him along with others. His death was not related to payment,” said a revenue officer, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribal-oustee-suffers-cardiac-arrest-dies/article34024565.ece
09 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Women push to nutrition security||The Deccan Development Society (DDS) felicitated four ‘Extraordinary Ordinary Women’ of Zaheerabad Region on International Women’s Day. DDS director P.V. Satheesh explained that the four women — Anithamma, Kasturamma, Sarala and Mogulamma — led a simple life, turning hurdles in their way into opportunities for progress and self-reliance. Considering the theme of ‘Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world”, DDS co-director Jayasri said though coronavirus has shackled the whole world, especially cities and the corporate food world, there was little effect in villages, thanks to decades of self-sustenance and traditional practices of saving seeds, having nutritional and organic food. “Not just that, you sent out a strong message by donating surplus grains to migrant workers and single women during the corona crisis. This reflects the nutrition security which you were promoting for communities to adopt. 2023 being declared International Millet Year, it is time for all of us to push it further and standardise it,” Ms Jayasri asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/women-push-to-nutrition-security/article34024658.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Event on university campus ends in scuffle||The Bhagat Singh Chatra Ekta Manch on Monday alleged that Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) members disrupted their programme — marking International Women’s Day — in Delhi University’s North Campus. The students’ body, BSCEM, said the programme was disrupted before activist Nodeep Kaur could address the gathering. “Instead of stopping the attack on students, the Delhi Police detained four students present at the spot. After a united protest, the students were released,” the organisation said. ABVP refutes claims However, the ABVP led Delhi University Students’ Union refuted the claims. They said objectionable slogans were raised at the gathering and when DUSU members questioned the organisers, a scuffle broke out between them. “On seeing the anti-army posters, a few people led by DUSU joint-secretary Shivangi Karwal questioned the organisers about the motive of the event. In reaction to the questions, the men present on the spot attacked the DUSU members. She then asked the administration to remove the anti-army posters from the campus and spoke to the proctor regarding the same,” the students’ body said. A PCR call was received regarding quarrel following which a team reached the spot, an officer said. The police separated the two parties. Later, both the parties left the spot. The police said till now no complaint has been received at Maurice Nagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/event-on-university-campus-ends-in-scuffle/article34024361.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||On Women’s Day, DCW honours ISRO scientists, elderly protester||The Delhi Commission for Women held an awards ceremony on International Women’s Day to honour women from across various fields, including the all-women Air India crew who flew on the longest flight, ISRO scientists and 80-year-old Mohinder Kaur who had taken part in the ongoing farmers’ protest, among others. Speaking at the event, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “We often believe that extraordinary people take up extraordinary work. However, it is the ordinary citizen who takes up the initiative who do extraordinary work. The latter is often ignored by the people but the Delhi Commission for Women has taken up the responsibility of highlighting their work.” Mr. Kejriwal also reiterated the policies implemented by his government in a bid to make the city a safer space. “About 1.5-2 lakh CCTV cameras have been installed across Delhi, and we are getting every nook and corner covered. I think Delhi will soon become one of the few places in the country that will have such a huge network of CCTV cameras,” the Chief Minister said. “The Delhi government’s policies in the past five to six years have adopted a women-centric approach with its motive to provide relief to the working women in light of inflation and economic crisis. When free access to buses was provided to women, several women and students benefited. They were also benefited when electricity and water was made free,” he said. An acid attack survivor from among the audience appealed to the Chief Minister to ban the sale of acid in the city. The survivor was assured by the CM that the matter would be looked into. Eighty five-year-old Shanta Balu Pawar, a martial arts performer trainer, 11-year-old environmental activist Licipriya Kanguzam, acid attack survivor and activist Laxmi Aggarwal were some of the others who were awarded apart from officials from the Delhi Police, Indian Army and Indian Air Force. Safety, security DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said: “The commission has handled 1 lakh cases in the last five years and more than 4.5 lakh calls have been attended by the DCW’s 181 helpline. When we started out the DCW, budget was Rs. 3 crore and now it has increased to Rs. 40 crore. We have started a war to ensure safety and security for every women in Delhi and the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/on-womens-day-dcw-honours-isro-scientists-elderly-protester/article34024360.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Plea to put off judicial exam filed before HC||A plea filed before the Delhi High Court has sought to postpone Delhi Higher Judicial Service Main Examination (2019), which is scheduled for March 13-14, till the COVID-19 vaccination drive for lawyers is complete. The petitioner — one of the exam candidates — said he is suffering from severe medical conditions that leave him at a risk of serious complications if he contracts the virus. The petitioner said he is a meritorious, middle-aged person and is suffering from severe health problems such as cancer. He had undergone radiation therapy with administration of chemotherapy doses and currently has extremely weak immunity. Violation of rights The plea claimed that the notice is violation of the fundamental rights by forcing the candidates, like the petitioner, to risk their health and safety in the current situation of COVID-19 pandemic. The petition sought quashing of February 18 notification issued by the Delhi High Court notifying the schedule of the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-to-put-off-judicial-exam-filed-before-hc/article34024356.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Scindia could have been CM, now a backbencher: Rahul at IYC meet||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress last March, could have become Chief Minister but now he will remain a backbencher in the BJP, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is learnt to have told members of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Monday. However, IYC president B.V. Srinivas denied that Mr. Gandhi made “any individual-specific remark” while delivering the inaugural address of the two-day national executive of the Youth Congress. ‘Plant by someone’ “This [reference to Mr. Scindia] is a plant by someone. Rahul ji only spoke about strengthening the organisation,” Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu . Sources, however, insisted that Mr. Gandhi made the remarks in the context of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh “rewarding” only their own members. “He [Mr. Scindia] would have become the Chief Minister had he stayed with Congress but Mr. Scindia has become a backbencher in the BJP. He could have worked with workers to strengthen [the party]. I had told him ‘one day you will become the Chief Minister’ but he chose another route,” a source quoted Mr. Gandhi as saying. “Write it down, he will never become Chief Minister there,” the source quoted Mr. Gandhi as saying and then appealing to the Youth Congress members to work tirelessly irrespective of “who comes in or who leaves the party”. Mr. Gandhi also said Youth Congress members would be encouraged to contest civic body elections in the immediate future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/scindia-could-have-been-cm-now-a-backbencher/article34024365.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teachers ask CM to rescind order merging DU college with AUD||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Monday wrote to the Delhi government, demanding an immediate rescindment of its orders regarding the merger of College of Arts with the Ambedkar University. It stated that the merger was in violation of statutory provisions of the Delhi University. Stating that the Delhi government had not been disbursing salaries of staff in the 12 colleges funded by it, the letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal read: “The Delhi government has a woeful track record of not being able to maintain higher education institutions that are currently under its governance. This has been visible in the context of the 12 Delhi University colleges that are 100% funded by the government.” DUTA president Rajib Ray said: “The Delhi government has not consulted the stakeholders — UGC, DU and College of Arts — before coming up with unilateral decisions. De-affiliation from Delhi University and merger with Amedkar University will have serious implications in the service conditions of the employment. The proposals of de-affiliation and merger ought to have been first discussed in both the Academic Council and Executive Council of Delhi University.” The teachers’ body further urged Mr. Kejriwal to not “subvert the democratic functioning of institutions of DU” with arbitrary orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duta-writes-to-cm-demanding-rescindment-of-merger-orders/article34024362.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police felicitates 37 women||On the occasion of International Women’s Day, Delhi Police honoured 22 women personnel and 15 civilians for their remarkable efforts during the pandemic. At the police headquarters, Commissioner of Delhi Police S.N. Shrivastava honoured the women officers for going beyond the call of duty during the lockdown, and other women from various fields such as medical services, social services, entrepreneurs, trainers and good Samaritans, who have made significant contribution to society, read a statement. The police organised a number of events, including lectures on gender sensitisation, and installing sanitary pad-dispensing machines in washrooms. “We wanted to make a statement on Women’s Day in two ways — one, by letting women officers take command roles and manage priority policing today, and second, by felicitating women officers who have done exceptional work,” said Mr. Shrivastava. Major traffic junctions, PCR vehicles and functioning of police stations were commanded by women on Monday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-felicitates-37-women/article34024357.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Over 35,500 take COVID-19 vaccine in city||A total of 35,738 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Monday and there was one minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 20,123 were people who are 60 years of age and above and 2,710 people were between 45 and 59 years of age. The rest were healthcare workers and front-line workers.  The city witnessed 239 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,41,340, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Three deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 10,924. A total of 47,689 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,28,686 people have recovered and there are 1,730 active cases. The number of active cases has shown a slight increase over the last 10 days. “We are trying to see if any clusters [of cases] are there, and we are missing out on them. As of now, we haven’t found anything major,” a Delhi government official said about the development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-35500-take-covid-19-vaccine-in-city/article34024358.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Body of baby found under pile of sand||A decomposed body of an unidentified newborn baby was found under a pile of sand at National Media Centre on Raisina Road in Central Delhi on Monday afternoon, the police said. A PCR call was received at 1.40 p.m. regarding the incident following which a team rushed to the spot. The body was sent to a nearby government hospital’s mortuary where it has been preserved for the purpose of identifying the parents of the infant. It seems that the body was buried at Yamuna Khadar. Case registered A case of concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body under Indian Penal Code Section 318 has been registered at the Parliament Street police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/body-of-baby-found-under-sand-pile-on-raisina-road/article34024364.ece
09 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Tax-free budget in Punjab||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday presented tax-free budget for the year 2021-22 with a total outlay of Rs. 1,68,015 crore. The outstanding debt of the State in 2021-22 is likely to be Rs. 2,73,703 crore. The government proposed to waive off the loans to the extent of Rs. 1,186 crore of 1.13 lakh farmers and Rs. 526 crore of landless farm workers in the next phase during 2021-22, for which an allocation of Rs. 1,712 crore has been made. The proposals also include free transport facility in the government-run buses for school, college students and all female passengers for which an allocation of Rs. 170 crore has been provided. Mr. Badal, presenting the budget in the ongoing Assembly session, said the report of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission shall be submitted soon. “Anticipating the same, I have made the necessary provisions in my budgetary estimates...it takes time for any government to examine and assess any recommendations but I am proactively laying the timelines for my government to act on the recommendations of the Commission. I announce to implement those recommendations of the commission accepted by the government from 1.7.2021.,” he said.  Free electricity Mr. Badal said the government would continue to provide free power to farmers for which an amount of Rs. 7,180 crore has been provisioned. He added that an outlay of Rs. 11,861 crore has been earmarked for school education. He also proposed to raise the old age pension from Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 a month.  Previous govt. flayed Hitting out at the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janta Party government, Mr. Badal said “I was astonished by the extent to which the preceding government had bankrupted our State and essentially mortgaged our people’s future...I haven’t the slightest hesitation in making the assertion, that the actions of the previous Akali-BJP regime, were for all practical purposes an attempt to reduce this State to a form of slavehood.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tax-free-budget-in-punjab/article34024538.ece
09 March 2021||Guwahati,||Himanta calls the shots in BJP’s candidate selection||The BJP does not seem to be looking beyond Finance, Health and Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for ideas in poll-bound Assam. A majority in the first list of 70 candidates announced by the party on March 5 are known to be loyalists of Dr. Sarma. Such has been his clout, party insiders say, that many aspirants backed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and some new faces reportedly preferred by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal were ignored. Party insiders said Dr Sarma’s loyalists have been fielded from four of the 11 constituencies from where the sitting MLAs were dropped. His loyalists also got tickets from as many seats taken from ally Asom Gana Parishad, including Barhampur that has been former Chief Minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta turf for three decades. At least 15 of the new faces and current BJP legislators who have been fielded came along with or followed Dr. Sarma from the Congress in 2015. While Amiyo Bhuyan (Bihpuria seat) is said to be the only one among Mr. Sonowal’s proteges to have been nominated, at least three RSS-backed candidates — former Deputy Speaker Dilip Paul, Ashok Kumar Sarma and Jagadish Dutta — did not get a ticket for the Silchar, Nalbari and Lakhimpur seats respectively. Ashok Sarma was replaced by Jayanta Malla Baruah, a former Congress MLA. Calculated move Ahead of the elections, Dr Sarma said he was not keen on contesting from his pocket borough of Jalukbari unless the party leadership wanted him to. The speculations that he could move to Delhi for a bigger role in the Narendra Modi government got traction when the BJP nominated Biswajit Daimary from the Panery Assembly seat. Mr. Daimary, who switched over to the BJP from its former ally Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) in 2020, is a Rajya Sabha member. Some party leaders believe, if he wins the election, Dr. Sarma could replace him in the Rajya Sabha. According to another school of thought, Dr. Sarma could very well break a “tradition” by becoming Assam’s first Brahmin Chief Minister if the BJP and its allies retain power. The BJP has not named its “CM face”, as State party president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said this was immaterial for a party in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/himanta-calls-the-shots-in-bjps-candidate-selection/article34024300.ece
09 March 2021||Jaipur,||Vasundhara Raje’s yatra depicts her strength in BJP||A two-day “temple yatra” undertaken by former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje in the Bharatpur region has depicted her strength within the Bharatiya Janata Party, with two dozen MPs and MLAs rallying behind her. Despite a rift visible in the Opposition party, Ms. Raje affirmed that the BJP would uproot the Congress government with people’s support. The recent visit of party national president J.P. Nadda to Jaipur has apparently failed to patch up the differences between the rival camps. With Ms. Raje’s supporters raising the demand for projecting her as the chief ministerial face in the 2023 election, the yatra has sent a clear message that she could not be sidelined any longer. The yatra was timed to coincide with Ms. Raje’s birthday on Monday. However, the legislators of her camp taking part in the tour were asked by the BJP to attend the Assembly proceedings during the ongoing budget session.  Suggestion rejected Addressing her supporters at the Adi Badrinath temple in Bharatpur on the yatra’s second day, Ms. Raje rejected the suggestion that her tour in the eastern Rajasthan districts and adjoining areas in Uttar Pradesh had anything to do with politics. “This is not a show of strength, but a show of devotion,” Ms. Raje said. She said she would keep working for all communities while following the “dharma niti” (path of religion) and would again let the lotus bloom in the desert State, getting inspiration from her mother, the late Vijaya Raje Scindia. The yatra undertaken in the region where the BJP had won only one seat in the 2018 Assembly election gave an indication that the two-time Chief Minister is reluctant to leave Rajasthan. The central leadership, with which Ms. Raje had recently raised her grievances, apparently wants her to play a more active role in national politics.  Protests planned The State unit has also chalked out a plan to organise dharnas and demonstrations at the block level from March 9 to 14 to protest against the Congress government’s alleged failure on all fronts. State president Satish Poonia said the Congress had lost the moral right to govern in view of its inability to ensure development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vasundhara-rajes-yatra-depicts-her-strength-in-bjp/article34024539.ece
09 March 2021||Jammu,||No time for campaigning in Bengal: Farooq||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Monday said he does not have time to campaign for the Trinamool Congress in the upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections. “I do not have time for campaigning,” Mr. Abdullah told reporters when asked if he would join West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee during the campaigning for the upcoming State Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-time-for-campaigning-in-bengal-farooq/article34024301.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra’s debt rises to Rs. 6,15,170 cr.||Maharashtra Finance Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday presented a Budget for 2021-22 with a revenue deficit of Rs. 46,177.59 crore for 2020-21 owing to a shortfall in estimated revenue receipts amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In his Budget speech, Mr. Pawar said he was unable to announce freebies owing to the State’s strained financial situation. In the last two years, the State’s debt has increased by Rs. 1,64,056 crore. According to the Budget estimate (2021-22), debt has risen to Rs. 6,15,170 crore compared with the revised estimate (2020-21) of Rs. 5,38,304 crore. The debt stock percentage compared with the Gross State Domestic Product stands at 20.6%. In the previous fiscal, it was 20.2%. Mr. Pawar said the State is yet to receive over Rs. 30,000 crore as compensation from the Centre for implementing the Good and Services Tax. “Since Parliament has passed the law, we expect to receive the amount before March 31. In case we do not, the deficit will further increase,” he said. Mr. Pawar said he expected revenue receipts worth Rs. 3,68,986.86 crore in 2021-22 and the revenue deficit to dip to Rs. 10,225.66 crore. “We have tried to focus more on capital expenditure and cut down on revenue spend. We would have liked to slash taxes on fuel to give relief to citizens, but we can’t as we are staring at reduced revenue generation,” he said. The Budget has, however, proposed to increase the excise duty on liquor. Country liquor will be classified into two categories — branded and non-branded — and State Excise Duty will be levied at 220% of manufacturing cost or Rs. 187 per litre, whichever is higher, only on branded country liquor. VAT to be hiked It has also proposed to increase the VAT on the sale of liquor as prescribed in Schedule B of the Value Added Tax Act from the existing 60% to 65%, and the VAT as prescribed in Section 41 (5) of Act from the 35% to 40%.  We have tried to focus more on capital expenditure and cut down on revenue spend Ajit Pawar Maharashtra Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-debt-rises-to-rs-615170-cr/article34024297.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||State to provide interest-free crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh||Appreciating the hard work put in by farmers to keep the State’s economy afloat during the pandemic, State Finance Minister Ajit Pawar in his Budget speech on Monday announced a slew of schemes for farmers. Mr. Pawar said zero-interest crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh would be provided to farmers who repay loans on time. “This scheme will take off from the upcoming kharif season,” he said. The Finance Minister also announced a Rs. 2,000-crore scheme for strengthening agricultural produce market committees. Mr. Pawar said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government backed the farmers demanding the repealing of the Centre’s three new farm laws. The agriculture sector was the only one in the State to register positive growth in 2020-21. Mr. Pawar said the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited will be given a share capital of Rs. 1,500 crore every year to provide electricity connections to agriculture pumps. Concession on power bills He announced a 33% concession for farmers with pending electricity bills who clear 50% of their arrears by March 2022. The additional 50% of the bill would be waived, he said. “A total of Rs. 30,411 crore will be waived, which amounts to 66% of the original pending bills of 44.37 lakh farmers,” he said. The Budget has allocated Rs. 2,100 crore for the creation of markets and value chain projects under the ‘Hon’ble Balasaheb Thackeray Agribusiness and Rural Transformation Project.’ The Budget proposed to set up at least one new nursery in each taluka. About 500 new Punyashlok Ahilya Devi Holkar vegetable nurseries will be developed under the scheme. A total of Rs. 600 crore will be provided to four agricultural universities to promote research. Under the Sharad Pawar Gram Samrudhi Yojana, grants will be provided to rural beneficiaries for construction of cowsheds, poultry sheds and composting. The Late Gopinath Munde Sugarcane Workers Corporation is proposed to charge Rs. 10 per tonne of sugarcane crushed as a contribution by sugar factories. The State will also contribute an equal amount to fund schemes under this corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-to-provide-interest-free-crop-loans-up-to-rs-3-lakh/article34024296.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||‘Nothing new in Budget, attempt to appropriate Central schemes’||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the State government’s Budget only attempts to appropriate the Centre’s ongoing schemes rather than introducing fresh projects. “The State government has conveniently forgotten to mention that several schemes it announced today had already been announced by the Centre,” Mr. Fadnavis told reporters. It is a disappointing attempt to appropriate the Centre’s schemes, the BJP leader said. “I was surprised to find that there was no announcement of one-time-settlement for farmers with outstanding loans of up to Rs. 2 lakh. Some 45% of farmers who were not covered in previous crop loan waiver got nothing from the Budget,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis also pointed out that there was no announcement about relief to consumers from “inflated” electricity bills. The announcement of waiver on interest for crop loans of Rs. 3 lakh (if principal is repaid in time) was also misleading because 80% of farmers have small land holdings and their loans do not exceed Rs. 1 lakh, the ex-chief minister said. “The Budget also gives an impression of being focused on certain areas such as Mumbai. The ongoing projects for which the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is paying were presented as if the State was spending money on them,” he claimed. The Budget ignored the poor completely, the BJP leader alleged. He added that the scheme to develop eight important temples in the State was an ongoing scheme, introduced by previous the finance minister, Sudhir Mungantiwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nothing-new-in-budget-attempt-to-appropriate-central-schemes/article34024298.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi’s economy likely to suffer 5.6% hit in GSDP due to COVID’||The city’s economy is expected to suffer a contraction of 5.6% in its Gross State Domestic Product due to the impact of COVID-19, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal said during his inaugural address for the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s budget session here on Monday. ‘Biggest challenge’ It was an unprecedented year due to the impact of the virus on all sectors, he said, adding that COVID-19 was the biggest challenge faced by the people of Delhi, which both the State government and the Centre had to collaborate to face. “My government, together with the Central government, garnered all resources to ensure preventive and curative actions to safeguard the life of citizens of Delhi,” he said. Measures taken The L-G then outlined measures taken by the Delhi government in dealing with the pandemic, including raising the number of hospital beds, setting up of plasma banks and the home isolation model. The House, which commenced proceedings by paying homage to farmers, who had died during the ongoing protests against three farm laws, as well as victims of a natural disaster in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli, then progressed with Deputy Speaker Rakhi Bidlan to commemorate International Women’s Day. He also highlighted the Delhi government’s work in various fields during 2020-21 in sectors, including education, social welfare, rehabilitation of slum-dwellers and successfully meeting the demand of water in the city. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, termed Mr. Baijal’s address a “bundle of lies” and a “tale of broken promises”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhis-economy-likely-to-suffer-56-hit-in-gsdp-due-to-covid/article34024294.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Education one of the best performing departments’||Presenting the Outcome Budget in the Delhi Assembly on Monday, Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Manish Sisodia said that although the COVID-19 pandemic necessitated schools to be shut during the pandemic, the government, with the help of basic technology ensured that educational activities were conducted for a total of 229 days in a session which normally lasts for 220 days. He stated that about 98% students received worksheets and 83% of them have given these worksheets back after completing them. He added that 89-90% students in Class XI and XII attended online classes conducted for twelve subjects. The budget showed that at the Class-12 level, the pass percentage in government schools has improved to 97.92% in 2019-20 from 94.24% the previous year and the Class 10 pass percentage of government schools has improved to 82.61% in 2019-20 as compared to 71.58% the previous year. The education department was one of the best performing departments of the Delhi government as the budget showed that of 44 critical indicators of the Directorate of Education, 84% were on track, while in the Directorate of Higher Education 84% of the 61 critical indicators were on track. For the Directorate of Training and Technical Education, 80% of 129 critical indicators were on track. The Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21, also tabled on Monday, stated that the expenditure incurred by the Delhi government per student annually on education has increased from Rs. 50,812 in 2016-17 to Rs. 78,082 in 2020-21. It added that the total expenditure on education, including sports, arts and culture, increased from Rs. 6,555 crore in 2014-15 to Rs. 15,102 crore in 2020-21 and that the share of expenditure on education to the total budget of the Delhi government has increased from 21% in 2014-15 to 23% in 2020-21. Listing new initiatives taken in the field of technical education, the Economic Survey said that the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University has been established in 2020 to provide quality education in applied sciences and skill education in various disciplines of education. University will not only focus on imparting higher education to its students but will also promote entrepreneurship development initiatives so that inspiring ecosystem, favourable for adoption of innovative practices be created to help setting up of business incubators leading to creation of job providers instead of job-seekers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/education-one-of-the-best-performing-departments/article34024292.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||80% critical indicators of 56 health schemes on track: govt.||The Outcome Budget has stated that 80% critical indicators of 56 schemes and programmes of the Health sector are “on track”. It said that 496 Mohalla Clinics have been established against a target of 750 and, on an average, each clinic handles 97 patients a day. The report also said that 1.2 lakh institutional deliveries were facilitated through ASHA workers. The Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21 said that the total fertility rate (TFR) of the city is among the lowest in the country. “TFR of 1.5 in Delhi, is among the lowest in India. On the same lines, the crude death rate of 3.3% in Delhi is the lowest in the country,” it said. It said that infant mortality rate, neo-natal mortality rate and under-five mortality rate of Delhi are 13, 10, and 19 respectively and is lower compared to national levels of 32, 23, 36 respectively in 2018. The report said that the sanctioned bed capacity in medical institutions in Delhi is 54,321. “About 14,000 new beds are planned to be added by way of completion of ongoing/new projects and remodeling/expansion of existing hospitals,” the report said. The Outcome Budget said that 79% of the critical indicators of 19 schemes and programmes of the Environment department are “on track”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/80-critical-indicators-of-56-health-schemes-on-track-govt/article34024293.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Outcome Budget mentions free ration, financial help||The Outcome Budget has stated that the Delhi government provided free dry ration to 71 lakh existing ration card holders from April to November last year, during the pandemic. Additionally, 60.4 lakh non-ration card holders were provided 5 kg dry ration for free in April and May during the lockdown. Free cooked meals were also provided by the government to both existing ration card holders under the Public Distribution Scheme (PDS) and those who did not possess ration cards, several of those being migrant workers, according to the Outcome Budget presented at the Delhi Assembly on Monday. According to the Outcome Budget, 4.49 lakh senior citizens were also provided financial assistance in 2020-21 against 4.64 lakh senior citizens who were provided financial assistance in 2019-20. Additionally, the document also states that financial assistance to 1.06 lakh people with special needs was provided in 2020-21 as against 95,324 in 2019-20. One-time financial assistance provided by the Social Welfare Department also saw an increase to 11,145 families in 2020-21 from 10,729 families in 2019-20. The Outcome Budget also stated that 2.75 lakh women in distress were given monthly financial assistance in 2020-21 as against 2.66 lakh in 2019-20. The Women and Child Development Department also received 33,241 applications under the Ladli Scheme till December 2020 against an annual target of 65,000, according to the Outcome Budget. While 62% of programmes and schemes are on track for the Social Welfare Department, the WCD department has 60% of the schemes on track, according to the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/outcome-budget-mentions-free-ration-financial-help/article34024295.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Not in Mahajot because Cong. no different from BJP’||Spearheading the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, while he was the general secretary of the influential All Assam Students’ Union, catapulted 41-year-old Lurinjyoti Gogoi from a village in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district as a jatiyatabadi or nationalist leader in 2019. He quit the union and became the first president of the newy floated Assam Jatiya Parishad in December 2020. The AJP’s candidate for the Duliajan and Naharkatiya Assembly seats, he told The Hindu why India needs regionalism amid the onslaught of national parties. Excerpts from the interview:    How much of an issue is CAA, which the BJP says is irrelevant today?  CAA is the biggest issue, a political injustice against the people of Assam where people have always been sentimental about being overrun by foreigners. The BJP came to power claiming to end the migrant vote bank politics of the Congress but ended up catering to another set of Bangladeshis – the Hindus with other non-Muslims added to their agenda as an afterthought. CAA will put an additional load that will threaten our identity, culture, language, economy, our very existence. People of Assam cannot let that happen, so they are against the BJP and other political entities that support CAA directly or indirectly.  You spurned the offer to join the Congress-led Mahajot or grand alliance to increase the chances of defeating the BJP. Was it the right decision?  It was definitely the right decision. There is hardly any ideological difference between Congress and the BJP. Congress pampered and protected illegal foreigners for decades, the BJP has followed them by catering to another set of foreigners that suits their religious agenda. And AIUDF (All India United Democratic Front headed by Maulana Badruddin Ajmal), the main ally of the Congress, is as communal as the BJP, complimenting each other. We have fundamental ideological differences with the main Mahajot parties, hence the decision to maintain distance from them. Our brand of regionalism is not compatible with neither.  How is the AJP different from the AGP, both birthed by the same organisations?  Our parent organisations may be the same, but we have learnt what not to do and what not to be from the AGP, which betrayed their ideology and the people of Assam. Our vision while forming AJP was very clear; to give people a regional option that will stand up to the imposition of policies and injustice by Delhi, economic exploitation, destruction of the federal system, deprivation and pushing people into a communal quagmire, not just be a puppet. We want to give people quality, inclusive politics to protect the democratic values and ensure no one suffers from an identity crisis because of the threat to land, culture and language.  The linguistic threat in Assam invariably means Bengali, associated with the Hindus believed to be pro-BJP, and there is a perception that the anti-CAA sentiment is anti-Bengali. Is it? That is a theory propounded by those who want Hindu Bengalis and others from Bangladesh to settle in Assam. Most Bengali Hindus know the BJP has fooled them with CAA, which has done them more harm than good. Did BJP bail out any Bengali Hindu D (doubtful) voter or prevent anyone from languishing in detention centres during their five-year reign? CAA is not about Hindus, Muslims, Bengalis or non-Bengalis. We are absolutely clear that all post-1971 people must go or be settled elsewhere in India. The pre-1971 Bengali Hindus are very much our own. We have given tickets to them in eastern Assam (considered an Assamese domain). The anti-Bengali label is just to discredit the anti-CAA movement.  What are your chances?  Our party has rekindled hope for the people who had banked on the Congress and BJP for all-round development. Under BJP, they have seen productivity dip, prices rise, democratic values erode, crime graph go up, freedom of speech taken away. Some 20-30% of people who voted for the BJP last time have come to us, so have the Congress supporters. We are being welcomed in minority areas too. We hope to be in a position of strength.  We will ensure no one suffers from an identity crisis because of threat to land, culture and language||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-in-mahajot-because-cong-no-different-from-bjp/article34024299.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Masked masterpiece||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/masked-masterpiece/article34024537.ece
09 March 2021||Hong Kong,||‘Hong Kong fully welcomes poll reforms’||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam on Monday said the city’s government “fully welcomes” changes to the city’s electoral system that will substantially increase central government control over Hong Kong politics and exclude critics of Beijing. Chinese authorities have said the draft decision before China’s National People’s Congress would mean the largely pro-Beijing committee that elects Hong Kong’s leader would also choose a large part of the legislature to ensure the city is run by “patriots.” The Election Committee would also have the right to vet candidates for the Legislative Council, weeding out any people suspected of being insufficiently loyal to China and the ruling Communist Party. Currently, half of Hong Kong’s legislature is directly elected by voters, although the mass resignation of opposition legislators to protest the expulsion of four of their colleagues for being “unpatriotic” means the body is now entirely controlled by Beijing loyalists. “There are loopholes in the electoral systems, there are also flaws in the systems in Hong Kong,” Ms. Lam said at a news conference after she returned from the National People’s Congress in Beijing. “I fully understand that this is not a matter that can be addressed entirely by the government.” “I’m glad that the central authorities have, again, exercised their constitutional powers to help address this problem for Hong Kong,” she said. She declined to elaborate on the views she had shared with the central authorities regarding electoral reforms, and said many pieces of legislation in Hong Kong would have to be amended. The NPC, China’s ceremonial legislature, will all but certainly endorse the draft decision, though it may not take immediate legal effect. The planned electoral changes have drawn criticism in Hong Kong and abroad, including from the United States. U.S. criticism On Friday, State Department spokesperson Ned Price denounced them, saying, “These are a direct attack on Hong Kong’s autonomy, Hong Kong’s freedoms, and the democratic processes, limiting participation, reducing democratic representation, and stifling political debate in order to defy the clear will of the people of Hong Kong and to deny their voice in their own government and governance.” On the same day, China rallied its allies at the UN, with Belarus speaking in support of the changes. “That a large number of developing countries have once again joined hands to raise their voices for justice at the UN Human Rights Council fully reflects that facts speak louder than words and will always prevail,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Monday. “China’s determination to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests is unwavering.” Unconfirmed reports say the legislation will expand the size of the Legislative Council from 70 to 90 and the Election Committee from 1,200 to 1,500. Seats on the committee now reserved for directly elected district counsellors will be eliminated, further cementing Beijing’s control over the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-fully-welcomes-poll-reforms/article34024059.ece
09 March 2021||Yangon,||Three demonstrators killed in Myanmar||Three demonstrators were killed in Myanmar on Monday, witnesses said, while shops, factories and banks were closed in the main city Yangon in protests against last month’s military coup. Security forces were also deployed at hospitals and universities, state media said. Two of the victims died of gunshot wounds to the head in the northern town of Myitkyina, the witnesses said. It was not immediately clear who fired on the protesters although both police and the military were at the scene. Photos posted on Facebook showed the bodies of two men lying on the street. Witnesses said they were taking part in a protest against the coup when police fired stun grenades and tear gas. Several people were then hit by gunfire from nearby buildings. One witness, who said he helped move the bodies, said two people were shot in the head and died on the spot. Three people were wounded. “How inhumane to kill unarmed civilians,” said the witness, a 20-year-old man. “We must have our right to protest peacefully.” At least one person was killed and two injured during a protest in the town of Phyar Pon in the Irrawaddy Delta, an activist and local media said. Police and military have killed more than 50 people to quell the daily demonstrations and strikes against the February 1 coup, according to the United Nations. On Monday, demonstrators gathered in Yangon and Mandalay and several other towns. Protesters in Dawei, a coastal town in the south, were protected by the Karen National Union, an ethnic armed group engaged a long-running war with the military. In some places, they waved flags fashioned from htamain (women’s sarongs) or hung them up on lines across the street to mark International Women’s Day while denouncing the junta. Walking beneath women’s sarongs is traditionally considered bad luck for men. Call to stop work Witnesses reported sounds of gunfire or stun grenades in many districts of Yangon on Sunday night as soldiers set up camp in hospitals and university compounds. It was not clear whether anyone was hurt. At least nine unions covering sectors including construction, agriculture and manufacturing have called on “all Myanmar people” to stop work to reverse the coup and restore Ms. Suu Kyi’s government. Allowing business and economic activity to continue would help the military “as they repress the energy of the Myanmar people”, the unions said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/three-demonstrators-killed-in-myanmar/article34024063.ece
09 March 2021||New York,||Meghan says she thought of suicide, alleges royal racism||Prince Harry’s wife Meghan Markle on Sunday said she contemplated taking her own life after joining the royal family, and raised allegations of racism in the monarchy during an explosive television interview. Explaining the couple’s dramatic exit from royal life, Ms. Meghan said she was denied help during her mental health crisis, was targeted by lies, and that there was official concern about the skin colour of her unborn son. Ms. Meghan, whose father is white and mother is Black, spoke out in an interview with Oprah Winfrey that immediately became one of the most extraordinary chapters in recent royal history and was set to rock the British institution. “I... just didn’t want to be alive anymore. And that was a very clear and real and frightening constant thought,” she told Ms. Winfrey, describing the impact of a torrent of vitriol from hostile tabloids and social media. Asked if she had had suicidal thoughts while pregnant, Ms. Meghan replied “Yes. This was very, very clear.” Recalling how she felt at the time, she said that “I’m scared, because this is very real.” On Archie’s skin tone Ms. Meghan, 39, also told of royal “concerns” about “how dark” her son’s skin would be, saying Prince Harry revealed to her official conversations over Archie’s appearance, as well as the security he would be entitled to, ahead of his birth on May 6, 2019. “In those months when I was pregnant... we have in tandem the conversation of ‘he won’t be given security, he’s not going to be given a title’ and also concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he’s born,” Ms. Meghan said. “That was relayed to me from Harry, those were conversations the family had with him,” she said. After the couple’s surprise decision to move to North America, the former television actress has been portrayed in some British newspapers as headstrong, calculating and spoiled, and the couple reckless and selfish for quitting royal life. The two-hour interview with the queen of U.S. television was the biggest royal tell-all since Prince Harry’s mother Princess Diana detailed her crumbling marriage to his father Prince Charles in 1995. Prince Harry, 36, revealed the deep divisions within his family, saying he felt “really let down” by how his father had handled the situation. But he also said Prince Charles — the heir to the throne — and his older brother William were “trapped” by the conventions of the monarchy. “They don’t get to leave. And I have huge compassion for that,” he said. Ms. Winfrey reportedly sold the interview to U.S. broadcaster CBS for $7-9 million. ‘It’s a girl’ Royal fans were offered a treat when the couple revealed the gender of their second child. “It’s a girl!” the couple chimed in tandem.  Taking aim squarely at senior royals, Ms. Meghan flatly denied reports — feasted on by the gossip press — that she made Prince William’s wife Kate cry before her wedding, saying the reality was the opposite. “Everyone in the institution knew it wasn’t true,” Ms. Meghan said. “The reverse happened,” Ms. Meghan added, saying that Duchess Kate “was upset about something, but she owned it, and she apologised.” “A few days before the wedding, she was upset about something pertaining — yes, the issue was correct — about flower girl dresses, and it made me cry, and it really hurt my feelings.” Ms. Meghan called the claims “the beginning of a real character assassination” and “a turning point” in her relations with the royal family. “I came to understand that not only was I not being protected but that they were willing to lie to protect other members of the family”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/meghan-says-she-thought-of-suicide-alleges-royal-racism/article34024061.ece
09 March 2021||Kabul,||Afghan women leave journalism in droves||Nearly 20% of Afghan women journalists have quit or lost their jobs in the past six months, a media watchdog group said Monday, as a wave of murders targeting the press has intensified in the war-torn country. The Afghan Journalists Safety Committee said that more than 300 women had left the industry in recent months, citing the “wave of targeted killings” as one of the main reasons — along with financial difficulties caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The report comes as the world marks International Women’s Day and less than a week after three female media workers from Enikass TV were gunned down by militants in the eastern city of Jalalabad in an attack claimed by the local Islamic State group affiliate. Another woman working for the station was murdered in December. On Monday, Enikass said it had asked all remaining women staffers to stay home until security improves. “I love journalism but I also love to live,” Nadia Momand, a presenter at Enikass, said. “I’m not going to go out again unless they send me an armoured vehicle.” “There is no protection for them,” said Zalmai Latifi, the broadcaster’s director. “We also decided not to hire any additional women employees,” he added. The watchdog noted in a statement that “Afghanistan is celebrating International Women’s Day this year at a time where security threats against journalists and media workers, especially women in the media, have intensified”. Rights crushed Journalists, religious scholars, activists and judges have all been victims of a recent wave of political assassinations across Afghanistan, forcing many into hiding and some to flee the country. The killings have been acutely felt by women, whose rights were crushed under Taliban rule from 1996 to 2001 — which included a ban on them working. Intelligence officials have previously linked the attacks against women to demands at ongoing peace talks in Doha — between the Kabul government and the Taliban — for their rights to be protected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-women-leave-journalism-in-droves/article34024055.ece
09 March 2021||Malabo,||Toll from military camp blasts in E. Guinea rises to 30: report||The death toll from accidental explosions at a military camp in Equatorial Guinea rose to 30 on Monday, media reports said, after 10 more bodies were found in the ruined site. Six hundred people were injured in the blasts, which also flattened homes near the camp on the outskirts of the economic hub of Bata, State television TVGE said, adding that it expected the toll to rise. It showed images akin to a war zone, in which rescue workers and civilians struggled to remove bodies from smoking ruins. Three children aged three and four were brought out alive and taken to hospital. A string of four huge explosions occurred in mid-afternoon on Sunday, hitting the Nkoa Ntoma camp, which houses special forces and gendarmes and their families, as well as homes nearby. President Teodoro Obiang Nguema, who has ruled the small central African state for 42 years, has blamed the accident on stubble-burning by local farmers and on “negligent” supervision of the camp’s munitions depot. “My uncle, who is an officer at the camp, has just called to say that this morning he found the bodies of five members of his family, which were totally burned,” a Bata resident said. “Anyone living in a radius of two to four km of the explosions has been unable to return home.” Bata is home to 8,00,000 of E. Guinea’s 1.4 million people, most of whom live in poverty despite the country’s oil and gas wealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/toll-from-military-camp-blasts-in-e-guinea-rises-to-30-report/article34024062.ece
09 March 2021||Istanbul,||Uighur women stage a march in Istanbul against Chinese camps||Several hundred Muslim Uighur women in Turkey staged an International Women’s Day march along the Bosphorus on Monday demanding the closure of mass incarceration camps in China’s Xinjiang region. The protesters chanted “stop the genocide” and “close the camps” as they marched within a few hundred metre’s of China’s walled-off consulate in Istanbul. “Rape is a crime against humanity,” said one poster, in reference to a BBC report alleging systemic rape and forced sterilisation of women at the camps — which China says are vocational training centres designed to counter extremism. Rights groups believe at least one million Uighurs and other Muslim minorities have been incarcerated in camps spread out across the vast northwestern region. Most of the demonstrators held up sky blue flags of Uighur separatists’ self-proclaimed state of East Turkestan. Uighurs speak a Turkic language and have cultural ties with Turkey that make it a favoured destination for avoiding persecution in Xinjiang. But many in the 5,00,000-strong community fear that Ankara’s dependence on Chinese investments could jeapordise their future status in Turkey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uighur-women-stage-a-march-in-istanbul-against-china-camps/article34024064.ece
09 March 2021||Baghdad,||After historic visit, Pope leaves Iraq for Rome||Pope Francis on Monday wrapped up his historic whirlwind tour of Iraq that sought to bring hope to the country’s marginalised Christian minority with a message of coexistence, forgiveness and peace. The pontiff and his travelling delegation were seen off with a farewell ceremony at the Baghdad airport. At every turn of his trip, Pope Francis urged Iraqis to embrace diversity — from Najaf in the south, where he held a historic meeting with powerful Shia cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, to Nineveh to the north, where he met with Christian victims of the Islamic State group’s terror and heard their testimonies of survival. In Iraq’s south, the Pope convened a meeting of Iraqi religious leaders in the deserts near a symbol of the country’s ancient past — the 6,000-year-old ziggurat in the Plains of Ur, also thought to be the birthplace of Abraham, the patriarch revered by Jews, Christians and Muslims. The gathering brought religious representatives across the country rarely seen together, from Muslims, Christians, Yazidis and Mandaeans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-historic-visit-pope-leaves-iraq-for-rome/article34024056.ece
09 March 2021||Madrid,||59 migrants from Morocco scale fence to enter Spain||Dozens of migrants stormed into Spain’s North African enclave of Melilla on Monday, scaling the high, razor-wired fence that separates it from Morocco, local authorities said. Over 150 migrants rushed to the border fence and 59 managed to get across, the office of Spain’s central government said in a statement. Three police officers and two migrants were lightly injured, it added. The migrants were taken to a health centre, where they will be tested for the novel coronavirus and they will then have to undergo a quarantine. Melilla and Ceuta, another Spanish territory in North Africa, have the European Union’s only land borders with Africa, making them popular entry points for migrants seeking a better life in Europe. But while the overall number of migrants reaching Spain rose last year, the number crossing the land border into Ceuta and Melilla plunged by 72% compared with 2019 to 1,755, according to Interior Ministry figures. During the first two months of 2021, a total of 389 migrants entered the two territories, compared to 969 during the same time last year. The last major breach of the border fence by migrants occurred in January when nearly 90 migrants made it into Melilla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/59-migrants-from-morocco-scale-fence-to-enter-spain/article34024057.ece
09 March 2021||NEW YORK,||US--MED-Virus Outbreak-Vaccinated Guidance||Fully-vaccinated Americans can gather with other vaccinated people indoors without wearing a mask or social distancing, according to long-awaited guidance from Centers for Disease Control. The recommendations also say that vaccinated people can come together in the same way with people considered at low-risk for severe disease, such as in the case of vaccinated grandparents visiting healthy children and grandchildren.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-med-virus-outbreak-vaccinated-guidance/article34024058.ece
09 March 2021||Sirte,||Libya PM urges parliament to vote for new cabinet||Libya’s Prime Minister-designate Abdulhamid Dbeibeh urged lawmakers on Monday to vote for his new unity government, a crucial step toward December elections and stability in the country. The oil-rich African nation descended into chaos after dictator Muammar Gaddafi was killed in 2011. A UN-supervised process aims to unite the country after an October ceasefire between forces loyal to two rival administrations, each backed by foreign powers, based in the east and west of the country.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/libya-pm-urges-parliament-to-vote-for-new-cabinet/article34024060.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The contours of the endgame in Afghanistan||The peace process in Afghanistan has reached a critical turning point. As when then U.S. President Barack Obama announced the exit of U.S. forces from Afghanistan (and the Taliban famously exulted – ‘you may have the watches, but we have the time’), and more recently, when the Doha Agreement was concluded a year ago between the U.S. Government and the Taliban. Now, a more decisive step is in store. A U.S. review Afghan social media and political circles are rife with details, corroborated by official sources in Afghanistan, that the U.S. Secretary of State, Antony J. Blinken, has unveiled the initial conclusions of the review by the United States of its strategy in Afghanistan in a letter he has addressed simultaneously to Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and the head of the Afghan High Council for National Reconciliation of Afghanistan, Abdullah Abdullah. Mr. Ghani has been virtually read the riot act by Mr. Blinken, whose letter confirms the intention to fully withdraw all U.S. military forces from Afghanistan as early as May 1, as specified in the Doha Agreement. Mr. Ghani has been warned that without them, the security situation will deteriorate and the Taliban could make rapid gains. Despite the Doha Agreement, the Taliban has not ended its ties with the al-Qaeda and other similar terrorist groups. Nor have intra-Afghan negotiations progressed. The policy review ordered in Washington DC by U.S. President Joe Biden has been shrouded in secrecy. What appeared in the U.S. media indicates that some within the U.S. Administration are voicing the need to defend American values. Protagonists in the Pentagon are passionate about keeping a modicum of U.S. military presence in Afghanistan. Mr. Biden has long held, even as Vice-President, that Pakistan is strategically more important to the U.S. than Afghanistan, and that U.S. troops should be pulled out of the Afghan battlefield as soon as possible. Donald Trump was doing nothing different from his predecessor, only in his inimitable way, which Mr. Biden wishes to distance himself from and leave a narrative of orderly exit. The ongoing review had raised hopes in Kabul of a turnaround in U.S. policy. That is not happening in substance. The U.S. is anxious to proceed to a final settlement rapidly on terms visible from the very outset of the peace process. The continuation of Zalmay Khalilzad as the Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation at the State Department was an early sign that, in substance, U.S. policy is going to remain unaltered. The U.S. maintains that its objective is to bring about a just and durable peace through political negotiations in a manner that Afghanistan remains united, sovereign, and democratic, and preserves the gains made over the past two decades. This is a tall order, as it contradicts the abiding U.S. priority, to cut its losses and be out of Afghanistan at the earliest. The conundrum for the U.S. is that it cannot disengage from Afghanistan, if that is its priority, without accepting Pakistan’s terms. These would not be acceptable to Afghan patriots who want freedom for Afghanistan to choose its political direction. If training, combat support, and the supply of weapons are stopped from Pakistan, the Taliban could be on its knees. The U.S. Government is wary but resigned about Pakistan’s negative role. Instead of pressuring Pakistan, it is seeking Afghan acquiescence for a power-sharing arrangement with the Taliban, enabling the exit of U.S. soldiers. The road map The U.S. Government is advocating ‘a new, inclusive government’ in Afghanistan, which implies an immediate 50% share for the Taliban in an interim government, as a quid pro quo for a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire. This will be without reference to a mandate from the people as elections will be held only in the future, after the principles guiding Afghanistan’s future constitutional and governing arrangements are worked out. As a prelude to the ceasefire, the U.S. has proposed to the Taliban to reduce violence for three months, intended to head off the Taliban’s threatened spring offensive. When the intra-Afghan negotiations envisaged under the Doha Agreement stalled, Russia offered Moscow as an alternate venue. Instead, the United Nations is being asked to convene, with Turkey being asked to host a meeting of foreign ministers or envoys from China, India, Iran, Pakistan, Russia, and the U.S. to discuss a unified approach to supporting peace in Afghanistan. Mr. Ghani is being encouraged to work closely with a broad consultative group, for which the core leaders identified are Abdullah Abdullah, former President Karzai, and an important former Mujahideen commander, Professor Abdul Rasul Sayyaf  . The objective of this exercise is to build consensus on specific goals and objectives for negotiations with the Taliban on power-sharing, governance, and essential supporting principles. The implications for India India remains fully committed to Afghanistan. Despite the policy flux there, bilateral relations are flourishing. There have been frequent and productive high-level exchanges between Indian and Afghan leaders. The Afghanistan acting Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Haneef Atmar, is visiting New Delhi on March 22. India is to be part of the future consultation process on Afghanistan. Invites to prominent elders and senior Afghan leaders such as Abdullah Abdullah, Ustad Ata Muhammad Noor, and General Abdul Rashid Dostum over the past few months have helped India reconnect with the political spectrum in Afghanistan. India has stayed the course with a long-term commitment to supporting state institutions in Afghanistan, expanding its development partnership, working with all communities across the country, and asking leaders of all Afghan ethnicities to remain together. That policy has been well-received by most of the Afghan people and government, it was well-suited to the time, and it has served India well. The moment has now come to directly engage with those leaders on the ground who will determine the course that the peace process will take. The patriotic Afghan people admire their erstwhile leaders, President Najibullah and Commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, who were committed to building the nation. Prints and postcards of their portraits are still popular in the streets and bazaars of Kabul. Their photographs are displayed on the windscreens of many Kabul taxis. Such people look to India as a friend and expect solidarity. If the American plan results only in a ‘reduction in violence’ and not its complete cessation, and U.S. forces are pulled out, India must step up to assist materially those who want to defend the Afghan republic. It should explore commonalities with key countries in dealing with the rapidly evolving situation. When in the late 1990s no country was willing to help the democratic forces in Afghanistan, India and Iran had scaled up their support. That time is again at hand. Jayant Prasad is a former Ambassador of India in Afghanistan and a former Director General of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-contours-of-the-endgame-in-afghanistan/article34024048.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Ensuring trust in the electoral process||The Election Commission of India has announced dates for elections to five Legislative Assemblies. It is a matter of grave concern that the petition challenging the electoral bonds scheme, which deals with the vexed issue of election funding, continues to languish in the Supreme Court. The delay in adjudicating on the case filed in September 2017 is inexplicable in light of the observation by the apex court that the matter gives rise to “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country.” No transparency The political system in India has traditionally been hostile to the idea of transparency in electoral financing. Political parties have zealously opposed any examination of the linkages between their governments’ policies and decisions, and the interests of their major donors. When the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government announced the launch of a new instrument of political party funding to ostensibly ensure greater transparency and eliminate black money from the system, it was hoped that the issue of anonymous financing would be squarely dealt with. However, using the money bill route to bypass the Rajya Sabha, the government introduced regressive amendments to laws, including the Income Tax Act of 1961, the Companies Act of 2013, and the Representation of the People Act of 1951, to introduce electoral bonds which allow donors to anonymously donate unlimited amounts of funds to political parties. Under the scheme, an electoral bond, issued in the nature of a promissory note, can be bought by any Indian citizen or company incorporated in India. The scheme allows parties to receive these bonds without the public, the Election Commission or even the Income Tax Department knowing the identity of the donors. It has legitimised opacity and opened the floodgates for anonymous donations to parties, dealing a severe blow to voters’ right to know. People’s ability to track donations by big businesses and expose quid pro quo has been undermined. Expressing its opposition to electoral bonds in the Supreme Court, the Election Commission has contended that they will have an adverse impact on transparency in political party financing and would make it impossible for the constitutional body to ascertain whether donations received were in compliance with the statutory framework governing political parties. In 2016 and 2017, amendments were made to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), 2010, with retrospective effect to bail out the BJP and Congress, which were found guilty by the Delhi High Court of having received contributions from foreign sources in violation of the FCRA. In conjunction with these amendments, which enabled Indian subsidiaries of foreign companies to make donations to political parties, electoral bonds allow anonymous financing by foreign entities opening Indian elections to the influence of foreign interests. Money laundering One of the stated objectives of introducing electoral bonds was to address the problem of black money and large cash donations. Proponents of electoral bonds have argued that since bonds can only be purchased via cheques, demand drafts, direct debit or electronic clearing, they will stem the flow of black money. The problem with this assertion, however, is that it completely overlooks the crux of the problem: the provision of the Income Tax Act under which political parties were exempted from disclosing sources of donations of less than Rs. 20,000. Most parties claimed that a majority of their income was received in denominations smaller than Rs. 20,000 thus doing away with the requirement to disclose the source of donation. It is an open secret that most of the anonymous donations received by parties were large cash contributions, which were ‘broken down’ and shown as multiple small donations. If the government was serious about addressing the malaise of black money, it should have done away with the provision of non-disclosure of sources. Instead, amendments to the Income Tax Act in 2017 only lowered the stipulated ceiling of anonymous contributions from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 2,000. Creative accountants can easily neutralise the impact of a lowered ceiling by multiplying the number of unattributed cash donations by a factor of 10, enabling donors to continue to anonymously pump cash into the system. In fact, electoral bonds are likely to abet money laundering since the amendments to the Companies Act in 2017 removed the cap of 7.5% on political contributions by a company as a percentage of its average net profits of the preceding three years. This allows for black money to be easily routed through shell companies to purchase electoral bonds, an apprehension also expressed by the Election Commission. Even the Reserve Bank of India flagged serious concerns about the electoral bonds. Big money in electoral politics The rationale given by the government for providing anonymity to donors of electoral bonds is to allow donors to use legitimate funds to support political parties by protecting them against the wrath of rival parties, especially the party in power. But as bonds are issued only through the State Bank of India, it would not be difficult for the party in power to access information about the identity of purchasers and details of bonds sold to them, and match those to deposits in political party accounts. It is no surprise, therefore, that the lion’s share of donations through bonds have been cornered by the BJP – it bagged 95% of bonds issued in the first tranche in March 2018 and approximately 60% of bonds sold till March 2019. Bonds worth nearly Rs. 6,500 crore have been sold so far. They have consolidated the role of big money in electoral politics. Information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act shows that bonds with the highest denomination value of Rs. 1 crore are the most preferred by donors and constitute 92% of the total value of bonds sold till October 2020. Electoral bonds militate against every known principle of transparency and lend themselves to use by special interest groups, corporate lobbyists and foreign entities to acquire a stranglehold on the electoral process and governance at the expense of citizens. To ensure public trust in the electoral process, it is critical that the Supreme Court immediately adjudicates on the matter. If bonds are to be retained as an instrument for contributing to political parties, donations must be made transparent and parties should be obligated to file reports with the Election Commission and other oversight bodies disclosing the names of donors and amounts received. This information must also be placed in the public domain. These steps are necessary to safeguard democracy and ensure that elections do not become a mere formality. Anjali Bhardwaj and Amrita Johri are associated with the National Campaign for Peoples’ Right to Information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ensuring-trust-in-the-electoral-process/article34024053.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Pursuing the American dream with ‘WFA’||For companies and workers facing woes dealing with United States immigration, there is good news and a practical solution. Work-from-anywhere. For years, high-skilled economic migrants seeking to relocate to the U.S. have faced uncertainty due to lack of clarity and flexibility in the H-1B visa programme. This uncertainty grew even worse under the Trump administration, with visa denial rates rising significantly. In addition to the negative effects this had on individual migrants and their families, restrictions on the H-1B policy led to economic costs. In recent research with coauthors Dany Bahar and Britta Glennon, we find that (former) U.S. President Donald Trump’s June 2020 Executive Order limiting entry of migrants to the U.S. during the COVID-19 pandemic led to an estimated loss of around $100 billion in valuation for publicly traded Fortune 500 companies. As the U.S. adjusts to a new administration, there are signs that the immigration climate might improve. U.S. President Joe Biden has made reforming the immigration system a priority in his coming term. However, with the ongoing pandemic and economic crisis, uncertainty remains. In the meantime, high-skilled workers facing immigration woes can take advantage of another emerging employment trend — companies offering their employees the ability to work-from-anywhere (WFA). I will first shed light on the Biden administration proposal to fix the H-1B programme and then describe how WFA can mitigate immigration woes. U.S. immigration reform In January 2020, Mr. Biden had floated a proposal to overhaul the U.S. immigration system, expanding pathways for legal immigration for both family-based and employment-based migrants. Crucially, for high-skilled migrants, Mr. Biden’s proposal would remove country-specific quotas for employment-based visas, and would exempt anyone with a STEM PhD from a U.S. institution from all quotas to receive a green card. In addition, current H-4 visa holders (i.e., spouses and children of H-1B visa holders) would become eligible for work permits. However, it is important to note that this is still just a proposal. There is a long road ahead before the proposal becomes the law of the land, needing to pass through both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. Given partisan divisions in the U.S. legislature, it is quite unlikely that the proposal in its current form will ever become law. With U.S. immigration unlikely to change in the immediate future, those hoping to access U.S.-based opportunities do have an alternative: embrace work-from-anywhere. The difference Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, companies were beginning to explore remote work options. The pandemic accelerated this trend across all industries for millions of workers. Unlike a traditional work-from-home (WFH) model that allows workers to WFH a few days every week and from an office for the rest of the week, work-from-anywhere grants individuals the choice to live in their preferred locations. This gives them the flexibility to live in a town, city, or country, far away from where the company or its customers have a physical office. As I discussed in a recent Harvard Business Review article (https://bit.ly/3sTwXjs), work-from-anywhere can benefit workers, organisations, and society at large. Workers can relocate to their hometown, be closer to family and friends, manage dual career situations and move somewhere where they can enjoy better weather or a better cultural and culinary fit. Workers can also benefit by moving to (or continuing to live in) a lower cost-of-living location. Organisations can benefit from work-from-anywhere as well, and research I conducted at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) found that worker productivity under a work-from-anywhere policy was 4.4% greater than when workers were in a traditional work-from-home environment (https://bit.ly/2OvrC2Y). As more of the workforce shifts to remote work, organisations can also reduce and reimagine the utility of the physical office, reducing real estate costs. Society, too, can benefit, as daily work commutes are a major source of carbon emissions; the USPTO estimated that shifting to remote work cut emissions by their employees by more than 44,000 tons. In another article, I argue that work-from-anywhere can help talent move back from congested large cities to smaller towns. A case study Companies of all sizes and in all kinds of industries are embracing work-from-anywhere. It is most popular among start-ups, where WFA allows new companies to access a global pool of talent with relatively low investment in office space. That said, larger, more established companies are beginning to explore work-from-anywhere and hybrid remote models as well. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) made headlines during the pandemic when it announced that its 400,000-plus employees will be 75% remote by 2025. TCS has rolled out a ‘25-25 remote-work model’: 25% of the workforce will be in a physical office at any one time, and workers will only be expected to work from an office for 25% of their working hours. In a recent Harvard Business School case (https://bit.ly/2OB7Y5v), I explored the changes being implemented by TCS. In this 25-25 model, TCS workers are mostly ‘location independent’. This enables TCS clients to access the best talent within TCS, independent of the location of talent. The model also offers TCS employees an opportunity to simultaneously work on multiple projects around the globe, without relocating to the client site or worrying about immigration. The TCS Chief Operating Officer N.G. Subramaniam recently joined my Harvard class to share the internal debates on how to effectively implement this model. Current priorities include ensuring remote workers interact informally with peers and receive mentorship from senior managers. Thought also needs to be given on navigating through the regulatory changes needed to enable work-from-anywhere. The TCS example shows how work-from-anywhere can help Indian companies and workers mitigate the challenges of immigration. While U.S. immigration policies may change for the better, high-skilled workers should view work-from-anywhere as a viable alternative to physical relocation, allowing them to work globally without queuing up for an H1-B visa. Prithwiraj Choudhury is the Lumry Family Associate Professor at the Harvard Business School, where he studies the Future of Work. He can be reached at @prithwic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pursuing-the-american-dream-with-wfa/article34024049.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cow and conciliation||It’s axiomatic that the right to life would include the right to livelihood which, in turn, would include the right to food and dietary preferences, circumscribed by reasonable restrictions of law, customs, care for the public order, morality, health, etc. Beyond this, the state has no business peeping into one’s kitchen. Food is a matter of cultural conditioning and individual choice. Therefore, one group’s taboos should not translate into another’s prohibition, as there would always be some to whom one or the other food would be an anathema. On the question of beef, Gandhi said, “I have pledged to serve the cow, but how can my religion also be the religion of the rest of the Indians? It will mean coercion against those Indians who are not Hindus. How can I force anyone not to slaughter cows unless he is himself so disposed?” Thus, as it behoves a secular state, Article 48 of the Constitution seeks to prohibit the slaughter of cow, calves, milch and draught animals for preserving and improving the breeds in order to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines. Prohibition of cow slaughter As far as Muslims are concerned, the sagacious have always been for the prohibition of cow slaughter. Babur was said to have left a testament instructing Humayun to forbid this practice in order to conciliate his Hindu subjects. Besides, Tazkiratul Waqiat , the memoirs of Jauhar Aftabchi, Humayun’s page, bears witness that Humayun had a principled aversion to beef, and he proscribed it by a royal proclamation. Akbar not only reinforced this prohibition but also encouraged a more vegetarian fare. Howsoever lax the enforcement, the prohibition of cow slaughter remained a state policy through the longevity of the Mughal empire. In 1887, Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, the father of Islamic modernity, praised the people of riot-prone Meerut for abjuring cow sacrifice during Eid. In a recent biography of him, Shafey Kidwai writes, “The sacrifice of cow is a divisive practice destined to foster enmity, and Sir Syed exhorts the Muslims to abandon it for the sake of friendly relations with the majority community”. And during the Khilafat Non-Cooperation Movement, prominent Muslim leaders made fervent appeals to their co-religionists to renounce cow slaughter in order to conciliate their compatriots. However, despite the symbiosis between politicians and ulema, the sentiment against cow slaughter had no corresponding reflection in theological reformulation. Insofar as it had a religious sanction, for an argument to carry such conviction as to delegitimise it, the counter reasoning too had to be religious. Beef is just another permissible (halal) meat, sans any religious merit, for a Muslim. However, an egregious interpretation was devised which reasoned that since it was not forbidden in Islam, if the Muslims abjured it in deference to the religious sentiments of Hindus, it would be tantamount to unwittingly subscribing to a false faith. Such a convoluted argument contravenes the fundamental principles of Sharia which, though commonly considered divine, consists of legal derivations made by fuqaha (Islamic jurists) in the light of the Quran and the prophetic precedent known as Sunnah. The principles of Islamic jurisprudence have two methodological premises: Maqasid (objectives) and Maslaha (public welfare). Imam Abu Is’haq al Shatibi (d. 1388) defined the Maqasid as, “the attainment of good and welfare, and warding off evil, injury and loss of creatures.” Maslaha denotes the prohibition or permission of a thing according to the necessity and circumstances, on the basis of whether it serves the public interest. Violating doctrine of Sharia Evidently, the Indian fuqaha , conditioned as they were by imperial hubris, erred about the cow, for their position fomented enmity between the communities, and thus violated Maqasid and Maslaha . Maulana Maududi, the chief ideologue of Islamism in India, said that if cow slaughter were to stop for appeasing Hindu sensibilities, there would be demands to stop the azaan (call to prayer) as well. Such truculence bred the animus which the Indian Muslims could ill afford. Though Muslims are not the only ones to consume beef, if a mere suspicion of a Muslim doing so evokes a strong emotion, it is because of the historical memories of it being used as an instrument of power. No wonder it remains germane to the contemporary reshaping of the power matrix. A theological denunciation of cow slaughter is an imperative for peace, and self-preservation of Muslims. In 1891, when the British monopoly over tobacco in Iran threatened the country’s independence, the Grand Ayatollah declared tobacco antithetical to Islam. One wonders why the ulema and organisations such as the All India Muslim Personal Law Board haven’t campaigned to make cow slaughter repugnant to Muslims for their own sake, and for the sake of public welfare — Maslaha . Najmul Hoda is an IPS officer. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cow-and-conciliation/article34024051.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||In pursuit of power||At the meeting of China’s National People’s Congress, the unicameral legislature, and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, a broad political advisory body, on March 5, Prime Minister Li Keqiang spoke of the U.S.’s attempt to contain China and of Beijing’s attempts to win the economic, technological and strategic competition against the U.S. He unveiled plans to transform China into a manufacturing superpower by 2025 by upgrading its global competitiveness in eight core areas: rare earth materials; robotics; aircraft engines; new energy vehicles; high-end medical devices; major equipment in shipbuilding, aviation and high-speed rail; agricultural machinery; and applications of BeiDou. Major announcements How will China do this? It will “fix weak links of components, software and fundamental systems” by boosting expenditure on basic research and raising investment in research and development over the next five years. It will try to attract more foreign talent and explore “science and technology immigration.” Value addition in the digital economy will be expanded to 10% by 2025. Though China has made considerable advances in 5G, artificial intelligence, drones, bio and financial technologies, progress has been patchy in high-end technologies for manufacturing engines for its fifth-generation aircraft, miniaturisation of nuclear reactors for aircraft carriers or semiconductors and microchips. Other major announcements included expansion of the Chinese military budget. China will continue to modernise its navy, missile and strategic forces to challenge the U.S.’s dominance in the South China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. Disregarding external criticism, China will strengthen its grip on Hong Kong by overhauling its election laws to ensure that “patriots govern” it. Similarly, Beijing will push its efforts to assimilate China’s ethnic minorities such as Uighurs, Tibetans, Mongols and others. Public protests will be dealt like “fight on a battlefield,” it was added. A U.S. State Department spokesperson reacted strongly saying the Biden administration would “harness collective action against Beijing for rights abuses”. The European Union (EU) urged Beijing to be careful in tinkering with Hong Kong’s electoral system saying that it was ready to take additional steps to prevent serious deterioration of political freedoms and human rights. China will make more efforts to augment its economic partnership with the EU, ASEAN, Japan and South Korea. It has already signed the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership with a number of Asian countries and the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment with the EU. It is working to sign free trade agreements with Japan and South Korea. China is hoping to lure these countries away from the U.S. by offering increased market access. Mr. Li proposed an economic growth rate of 6% for 2021 to cut down on debt and disorderly investments. Domestic consumption will be increased by amending the hukou system providing residency permits in the cities to the rural migrants. China’s Five-Year Plan for 2021-25 calls for the construction of a Polar Silk Road aimed at extracting natural gas below the melting rice in the Arctic and establishing a faster shipping route to Europe via the North Arctic. Meeting targets Chinese leaders are accustomed to pronouncing ambitious targets at important meetings to maintain high national fervour and seek greater attention from global investors and business leaders. Often, the targets are imprecisely spelt out without any specific plans of implementation. No one is allowed to question if these targets have been missed. For instance, one target was to achieve a “moderately well-off society by 2021”. Mr. Li himself admitted that 600 million Chinese had an income of just 1,000 yuan. Whether these targets will be achieved is anybody’s guess, but according to Professor of Chinese Politics, Carlos Minzer, these pronouncements are likely to help President Xi Jinping secure a third term next year. Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-pursuit-of-power/article34024052.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Snakes and ladders||Soaring political rhetoric has already set the tone for an intensely competitive Assembly election in West Bengal. The ferocity of the combat between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the challenger BJP is set to go further north. The BJP’s dramatic rise in 2019, when its vote tally crossed 40%, made its ambitions for power realistic, but also prompted drastic corrective measures by the Trinamool, which has been in power since 2011. The BJP has been trying to overcome its leadership deficiency by recruiting defectors, primarily from the TMC. It still cannot match the ground game of the Left Front that is in alliance with the Congress and the ISF under the new umbrella of the Sanjukta Morcha. The Morcha’s rally on February 28 was not surpassed by the BJP’s on March 7, which was addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is leading from the front. The absence of a recognisable chief ministerial candidate, and its patchy presence in much of the State are challenges to the BJP, but winning this election is within its reach. A large segment of the BJP voters remain silent and could mobilise themselves, if one goes by the 2019 experience. The dynamics of politics has changed since then, with new factors at play. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has rolled out new welfare schemes and reached out to regions and social groups that tilted towards the BJP. By declaring her candidacy from Nandigram, where she will take on former colleague Suvendu Adhikari who defected to the BJP, she has shown that she is on the offensive. The violence and corruption by her party cadres meanwhile continue to shadow her spirited fight, and that is going to be a focal point of the BJP offensive. Mr. Modi’s speech on Sunday called for a regime change. The second prong of the BJP strategy is communal polarisation, which seems to have been assigned to second-rung leaders who are frequently making not-so-veiled references and insinuations about dangers posed by Muslims. Ms. Banerjee’s appeal among Muslim voters could be unsettled by the mainstreaming of the Muslim outfit that goes by the misleading name of the Indian Secular Front by the Left Front. The Left has always accused the BJP and the TMC of competitive communalism but its new tactic has thrown open various possibilities. If the Morcha claims a segment of the anti-incumbency votes, it will weaken the BJP; if it splits TMC votes, it will help the BJP. And if a sharp communal polarisation emerges, it could benefit the TMC and the BJP. It was for drama effect that actor Mithun Chakraborty, who joined the BJP on Sunday, likened himself to a cobra that can kill in one strike, but disconcerting signs of violence are writ large in West Bengal. Violent language easily translates to violent action, as Bengal’s history has shown over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/snakes-and-ladders/article34024045.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||An alarming diktat||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya’s assent to a law regulating private sector hiring portends a potentially perilous slide in India’s investment climate and its socio-economic framework. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act of 2020 seeks to ensure that 75% of all jobs with gross monthly salaries of up to Rs. 50,000 are provided to the State’s own residents. The clamour for preserving economic activity for ‘sons of the soil’ is a recurrent theme now — Andhra Pradesh (AP) had passed a similar law in 2019, and the Madhya Pradesh CM has promised one to reserve 70% private sector jobs. Haryana’s law could face legal challenges like AP’s did, as it ostensibly flies in the face of the Constitution, especially Article 19(1)(g) and Article 16(2). Operationally, the law imposes onerous and contentious responsibilities on key personnel of firms in the State, including those with as few as 10 employees. There are three critical action points for businesses, attached to severe monetary penalties for perceived non-compliance. They need to register every employee earning Rs. 50,000 on an official portal and employing 75% of locals in such jobs (presumably by removing existing non-Haryanvi employees beyond the 25% limit). Most preposterous is seeking exemptions to the law — firms can hire outsiders by proving that local candidates for a desired skill are not available. Apart from the power to enter firms’ premises for inspections, officials will decide if a firm can hire an outsider or should train local candidates instead, till they become proficient enough. Even if this harks back to an ‘Inspector Raj’ system, the process would dissuade employers from operating in the State, thus defeating the idea of boosting local jobs when unemployment is running high. But this is not just about ‘Happening Haryana’ becoming a difficult place to do business. A single disruption in the Gurgaon back office operations of a global firm or the supplies of auto components, on account of the new law, would be damaging to India’s already fragile reputation as a stable, trustworthy investment destination with a talented workforce. A possible investor exodus aside, this runs counter to the Prime Minister’s ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ and ‘One Nation One Market’ slogans. Rising unemployment could spur more States to follow suit, and the logic could be extended to internal capital flows next. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar has already pointed out that Bihar’s deposits into the banking system are not matched by credit disbursals into the State. It is time the Centre dissuades such legislation which threatens to not only unleash a sort of ‘work visa’ regime for Indians within the country but also damage crucial workplace diversity. Immobilising a much-vaunted young workforce and rupturing the social fabric with this push for insularity would be the start of an unstoppable slide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-alarming-diktat/article34024046.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Chou leaves Hanoi after secret visit||The Chinese Prime Minister, Mr. Chou En-lai, left Hanoi today [March 8] after an unannounced four-day visit officially described as a “severe warning to the American aggressors.” Mr. Chou said during a speech while here that “the Chinese people will not be afraid to make the greatest sacrifice to aid the Indo-Chinese people until final victory.” Mr. Chou arrived here last Friday at the head of a communist party and government delegation including the top-ranking military officials, the Chief of Staff and Deputy Chief of Staff of the Army. For security reasons, an embargo was placed on the news of his arrival. Speaking before several thousand residents of Hanoi, Mr. Chou declared: “the Vietnamese, Laotian and Cambodian peoples are brothers-in-arms united in life and death. We shall fight together, we shall win together. The United States will be defeated.” Mr. Chou said his country had made “adequate preparations” to meet the continued U.S. war efforts in Indo-China. The U.S. Government must be responsible for all the “serious consequences” arising from such military action, he warned. He did not specify the preparations China has made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chou-leaves-hanoi-after-secret-visit/article34024050.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Cairn wins nod from U.S., U.K., other courts for $1.4 bn award||Courts in five countries including the U.S. and the U.K. have given recognition to an arbitration award that asked India to return $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy plc — a step that now opens the possibility of the British firm seizing Indian assets in those countries if New Delhi does not pay, sources said. Cairn Energy had moved courts in nine countries to enforce its $1.4 billion arbitral award against India, which the company won after a dispute with the country’s revenue authority over a retroactively applied capital gains tax. Of these, the December 21 award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands has been recognised and confirmed by courts in the U.S., the U.K., the Netherlands, Canada and France, three people with knowledge of the matter said. Cairn has begun the process to register the award in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and Cayman Islands, they said. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government asset such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, they said. The tribunal had on December 21 ruled that the Indian government had breached an investment treaty with the U.K. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 5 indicated the Centre’s intent to appeal against the award when she said it was her ‘duty’ to appeal in cases where the nation’s sovereign authority to tax is questioned. “The issue at stake is... not a matter of domestic tax law; it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the State... violate international law,” the tribunal had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cairn-wins-nod-from-us-uk-other-courts-for-14-bn-award/article34024036.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||OTTs don’t pose a threat: Bijli||Even as it is coming out of a challenging year due to the pandemic, multiplex giant PVR plans to add more than 30 new screens in the coming fiscal, marking its entry into newer cities such as Thiruvananthapuram, Bhubaneswar and Patna, said joint MD Sanjeev Kumar Bijli. Mr. Bijli said he expected to go back to FY20 growth levels in the coming year. “The line-up of films is very strong — English, Hindi and regional... I do imagine that with the curve flattening, and the vaccinations going up, people will get more confidence to come and watch new films at the cinemas... so if not Q1, I would say we would be looking at bouncing back at least by Q2,” he added. “Last year was very, very challenging. A lot of businesses, especially ours, got badly hit because we were the first ones to shut down and the last ones to open in October and that too with capacity restrictions, which have now been lifted in a majority of the States,” Mr. Bijli said. “However, now we’ve got a great line-up of films starting from March 11, so it’s looking very promising, of course, hoping that the numbers don’t go up as far as COVID cases are concerned,” he added. On competition from OTT platforms on which some films were released during the pandemic, he said those times ‘were over’. “Movies were sold to OTT because producers didn’t have an option as cinemas were shut... But now you see a lot of excitement [from] producers, actors and the whole community to release their films on the big screen,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/otts-dont-pose-a-threat-bijli/article34024029.ece
09 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Life insurance firms’ new business rose 21% in Feb.||Life insurers have reported a 21% rise in new business, or the first-year premium, for February, bolstered by market leader LIC’s good show as it returned to the positive zone after showing a decline since November. The first year premium of the 24 insurers stood at Rs. 22,425.21 crore. LIC saw a 24.18% rise in the first year premium to Rs. 12,920.57 crore. However, for the 11 months of FY21 ended February, its first year premium was 3% lower at Rs. 1,56,068.64 crore. For the same 11 months, all life insurers together grew 0.6% to Rs. 2,34,861.30 crore. Private insurers posted a 16.93% increase in new business to Rs. 9,504.64 crore, while for the period till February this fiscal, they registered an 8.56% increase to Rs. 78,792.66 crore, according to figures released by insurance regulator IRDAI. The life insurance sector usually tends to see an accelerated demand during February and especially March as customers rush to purchase new policies for tax breaks. The performance comes in the backdrop of India witnessing a pick up in economy despite rising fuel prices. Non-life insurers — comprising general, standalone health and two specialised PSU insurers, who have been performing better on the back of the economic revival as well as growing demand for health policies — posted a 14.2% rise in gross direct premium underwritten in February to Rs. 15,767 crore. For the 11 months up to February, the increase was 3.67% to Rs. 1,79,435.73 crore. Standalone private health insurers registered gross direct premium underwritten of Rs. 1,426.26 crore (Rs. 1,395.60 crore) during February and a 7.4% increase up to February to Rs. 13,534.99 crore. General insurers reported Rs. 13,159 crore in gross direct premium underwritten, or an increase of almost 9%. For the 11 months of this fiscal, they posted a rise of 2.47% to Rs. 1,54,156.55 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/life-insurance-firms-new-business-rose-21-in-feb/article34024030.ece
09 March 2021||new delhi,||‘Centre likely to amend telecom licence norms’||The government is likely to amend the telecom licence norms this month to incorporate the guidelines of national security directive (NSD) on telecommunication sector that will help in controlling installation of network equipment from China and other non-friendly countries. Under the provisions of this directive, the government will declare a list of trusted sources and products for installation in the country’s telecom network. “DoT is almost ready to amend licence conditions to incorporate guidelines of NSD. It should be done in the coming week,” an official source said. Notably, Chinese telecom gearmaker Huawei has had its run-ins in the past with the governments of Canada and the U.S. The U.S. has alleged that the firm did not comply with its cybersecurity and privacy laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-likely-to-amend-telecom-licence-norms/article34024038.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Ola unit can make 10 mn 2-wheeler EVs’||Mobility firm Ola said its electric two-wheeler facility, coming up in Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu, will have a capacity to produce 10 million scooters a year, accounting for some 15% of the world’s total production of e-two-wheelers. “Our aim is to be a world-leading sustainable mobility company,” said Bhavish Aggarwal, chairman and group CEO, Ola. “We are building the largest e-two-wheeler plantwith a 10-million annual capacity that will comprise about 15% of the world’s two-wheeler manufacturing capacity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ola-unit-can-make-10-mn-2-wheeler-evs/article34024031.ece
09 March 2021||new delhi,||BBB may get to select infra financier’s MDs||The Banks Board Bureau (BBB) may be entrusted with the job to select MDs and DMDs of a proposed Rs. 1-lakh crore development financial institution (DFI) being set up to accelerate infrastructure financing, said sources. The infrastructure financier, to be called the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development, is to anchor the ambitious National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). About 7,000 projects have been identified under the NIP with a projected investment of Rs. 111 lakh crore during 2020-25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bbb-may-get-to-select-infra-financiers-mds/article34024035.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Banks wrote off Rs. 1.2 lakh cr. in 9 months’||Banks have written off bad loans to the tune of Rs. 1.15 lakh crore during the first three quarters of the current fiscal (FY21), the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. “As per RBI data, scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) have written off loans of Rs. 2,36,265 crore, Rs. 2,34,170 crore and Rs. 1,15,038 crore during FY2018-19, FY2019-20 and the first three-quarters of FY2020-21, respectively,” Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banks-wrote-off-rs-12-lakh-cr-in-9-months/article34024481.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Retail to bring in 25 mn new jobs by 2030’||About 25 million new jobs will be created by the Indian retail sector by 2030, as per Retail 4.0 Report released by Nasscom in partnership with Technopak. According to the study, Retail 4.0 would result in a significant rise in the size of the domestic market, in job creation and exports. The changing demand and supply drivers are likely to accelerate the growth momentum, with the India retail market reaching up-to $1.5 trillion by FY30. “As India leaps forward to become a digitally-transformed nation, the country’s retail sector has emerged as one of the most dynamically-evolving, rapidly digitising sectors, with the second-largest consumer base in the world, from fifth largest in 2020,” as per Nasscom. Over the last decade, as per the study, the Indian retail market size has witnessed a massive threefold growth, accounting for $800 billion, contributing 10% to India’s GDP in FY20 and 8% to the total workforce with more than 35 million employees. “The growth has been backed by sustained digital transformation,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-to-bring-in-25-mn-new-jobs-by-2030/article34024039.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Google to support 1 million rural women entrepreneurs in India: Sundar Pichai||Google CEO Sundar Pichai on Monday said the company would help one million women in villages to become entrepreneurs by providing business tutorials, mentorship and accelerator programmes. It said Google.org would provide $25 million in grants globally to enterprises that work to empower women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-to-support-1-million-rural-women-entrepreneurs-in-india-sundar-pichai/article34024034.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Staff bid for Air India disqualified||The Air India employees’ consortium has been disqualified from the bidding process for the privatisation of the national carrier, as per an internal mail. Transaction adviser EY wrote to the employees’ grouping on Sunday informing it of the decision. “The expression of interest and the supporting documents submitted by you... have been found to not fulfil the eligibility requirements... and is liable for disqualification.” Partnering with a Seychelles-based fund, a group of 200 employees had put in an EoI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/staff-bid-for-air-india-disqualified/article34024033.ece
09 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||New India revels again in an impressive triumph of the collective||Four of India’s top five batsmen didn’t fire consistently. The pacers hardly had any role to play. But it didn’t matter eventually. India still bounced back in style after a hiccup in the opening Test to roll England over and seal its spot in the World Test Championship final against New Zealand. The best thing to emerge from the 3-1 series triumph, from India’s perspective, was that, just like in Australia, several cricketers put their hands up in crunch situations. It wasn’t just one or two big players carrying the team. Thanks to the multitude of contributors, the team dazzled. Sweeping success Rohit Sharma set the ball rolling with his sweeping success en route 161 in the second Test in Chennai. As captain Virat Kohli admitted later, the opener’s knock was instrumental in turning the tide in India’s favour. Even though Rohit couldn’t muster runs of a similar scale in Ahmedabad, his knocks in the final two Tests proved crucial in setting the platform for India’s victories. With Cheteshwar Pujara, Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane being unable to deliver consistently with the willow, the onus was on Rishabh Pant, R. Ashwin, Axar Patel and Washington Sundar to rise to the occasion. And they did so in style. Ashwin may have been adjudged the ‘Player of the Series’ for his all-round performance, but Pant arguably had the biggest impact on the series. The left-handed batsman carried his form from Australia and unsettled England’s spinners, especially Jack Leach, in the series-opener. After an unbeaten fifty in the second Test, the final Test offered a glimpse of his maturity as a batsman. After being patient until India closed in on England’s first-innings total, Pant turned belligerent to stun even the likes of James Anderson and Ben Stokes and take the game away from the tourists. His glove-work improved drastically as the series progressed, justifying his claim to being the country’s top wicketkeeper-batsman.  While Pant was pounding the England bowlers, the Tamil Nadu duo of Ashwin and Washington nonchalantly stamped their authority with the willow. Washington, especially, underlined his utility as a batting all-rounder. He may have run out of partners to be deprived of a deserving hundred twice in the series, but his contribution indicated that he will have many more opportunities to reach the milestone in the future. Ashwin, the off-spinner, yet again flummoxed a hapless England line-up. His 32 scalps, which helped him surpass the 400-wicket mark along the way, were a testament to his artistry and his desire to strive for excellence all the time. He had a surprising but able ally in Axar. The Gujarat left-arm spinner ended with 27 wickets in just three Tests in his debut series at an astounding average of 10.59. As head coach Ravi Shastri said, not only did Axar ensure India didn’t miss Ravindra Jadeja but he has also created a happy headache once Jadeja regains fitness. With the young guns blazing to glory, it looks like Shastri and Kohli will have to deal with a problem of plenty in all departments for the next few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-india-revels-again-in-a-triumph-of-the-collective/article34024106.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panchal shows the way for Gujarat||Gujarat skipper and opener Priyank Panchal showed the way with a masterly 134 and set up his team’s massive 117-run victory over Andhra in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare tournament at the Feroze Shah Kotla ground here on Monday. Opting to bat, Panchal’s knock off 131 balls was dotted with 10 boundaries and two sixes as his knock took Gujarat to 299 for seven in 50 overs. Bhui shows resolve In response, Andhra lost wickets at regular intervals and its innings folded at 182 in 41.2 overs. Ricky Bhui (67) was the only one who showed some resolve on a batting pitch. Medium-pacer Arzan Nagwaswalla removed the Andhra openers and sent back skipper Hanuma Vihari for a duck to keep the rivals on the backfoot. Leg-spinner Piyush Chawla, who scalped Bhui, finished with three wickets. In fact, the match never really rose as a contest. The hero Panchal was clearly the hero of the day. He added 80 runs for the second wicket with Rahul Shah (36, 3x4), 53 for third wicket with Het Patel (28, 2x4) and another 57 with Ripal Patel (35, 2x4, 2x6) to keep Andhra at bay. He was the last Gujarat wicket to fall in the 49th over.  The scores: Gujarat 299 for seven in 50 overs (Priyank Panchal 134) bt Andhra 182 in 41.2 overs (Ricky Bhui 67, Arzan Nagwaswalla 4/30).   Tuesday’s fixtures (quarterfinals): Delhi v Uttar Pradesh; Mumbai v Saurashtra .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/panchal-shows-the-way-for-gujarat/article34024127.ece
09 March 2021||St. John’s,||West Indies takes series||All-rounder Fabian Allen clobbered three sixes off the penultimate over to lead West Indies to a three-wicket win against Sri Lanka in the final T20I here on Sunday. Chasing a target of 132, the two-time World champion was off to a blazing start as Evin Lewis (21) and Lendl Simmons (26) added 37 in 4.4 overs before the former was dismissed. The host lost its way thereafter as Chris Gayle (13), skipper Kieron Pollard (0), Dwayne Bravo (0) and Rovman Powell (7) all flopped. Only Nicholas Pooran (23, 18b, 2x6) made a meaningful contribution as the West Indies slipped to 105 for seven in 16.5 overs. With 20 runs needed off 12 balls, Allen smashed spinner Akila Dananjaya for sixes off the first, third and sixth deliveries to finish things in style. He remained unbeaten on 21 off just six balls. Earlier, former skipper Dinesh Chandimal hit his fifth T20I half-century, an undefeated 54. Ashen Bandara, 22 and on his debut tour, hit an unbeaten 44 with three fours and two sixes, the only maximums the team hit.  The scores:   Sri Lanka 131/4 in 20 overs (D. Chandimal 54 n.o., A. Bandara 44 n.o.) lost to West Indies 134/7 in 19 overs (L. Simmons 26; L. Sandakan 3/29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-takes-series/article34024037.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Myntra is Super Kings’ fashion partner||Chennai Super Kings on Monday announced a tie-up with Myntra, India’s leading fashion and lifestyle destination as its official fashion partner, ahead of the 2021 Indian Premier League season that starts next month. As part of this association, Myntra’s logo will feature on the front centre of the CSK team’s jersey. Gukesh triumphs D. Gukesh won the Vidit Chess Tour [online] on Sunday night, defeating Aronyak Ghosh 3-2 through Armageddon in the final. “It was a tough tournament with players of the likes of S.L. Narayanan, Prag [Praggnanandhaa], Commonwealth champion Abhijeet Gupta. Playing in rapid format is not my forte. So, to win it in such a format was satisfying. And more so, having to come through the qualifiers wasn't any easier,” Gukesh told The Hindu.  Dharshan delights Dharshan, a Class X student of CEOA School (Madurai) was one of the star performers with five individual medals (four silver and a bronze) in the recently concluded State shooting championship. He won silver medals in the air rifle 10m (ISSF) men, junior men and youth men categories. Dharshan also won a silver in the 50m rifle prone (NR) junior men’s category. He was also part of the gold-medal winning team in the 10m air rifle (ISSF) junior men and men’s category and 50m small bore free rifle prone junior men’s squad. Dharshan’s solitary bronze came in the 50m rifle prone (ISSF) event of the junior men’s category. TN players in India team Three Tamil Nadu players — D. Mariappan, K. Karthik and S. Balachandar (reserve) — have been selected for India's maiden participation in the Regional Qualification for the BNP Paribas Team Cup for Wheelchair Tennis at Vilamoura, Portugal (May 9-16). V. Shekar from Karnataka is the other member. The three started playing under the free coaching scheme for Wheelchair Tennis Players initiated by TNTA with support of SDAT. TNTA President Vijay Amritraj said, “I am very excited that India is participating in the Regional Qualification event for World Team Cup for Wheelchair Tennis and thrilled that three of the four players are from Tamil Nadu. I wish them all the best and hope they return with laurels.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/myntra-is-super-kings-fashion-partner/article34024510.ece
09 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||India women look to regroup after the drubbing in first ODI||Harmanpreet Kaur is often identified as the one who played the spectacular knock of 171 against Australia. Her 100th ODI, against South Africa on Sunday, however, was not so memorable as India slipped from a position of strength to defeat. It will be unfair to blame the 32-year-old Harmanpreet for causing the U-turn in the match with that lofted drive when she was in full flow during a classy essay of 40. It was a collective failure, to consolidate on the foundation. The beautiful playing conditions in the afternoon made the Indian bowling look toothless. Having dominated South Africa in the past, the Indians know how to get back into the driver’s seat in the next four ODIs, all to be played at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium. Vice-captain Harmanpreet said after the match that the players needed to be “pricey” with their wickets and have good partnerships to render justice to the team’s ability. “Next match we will try to play long,” said Harmanpreet. Considering the resolve, it will be interesting to see the response from the team to the challenge of getting even, in the second ODI on Tuesday. If anything, the reverse for the host has ignited a lot more interest in the women’s series, which should augur well for the game. The temptation could be to chase, on winning the toss, from the way things unfolded in the opener. How the pitch behaves henceforth would also be watched with keen interest. South Africa, finding itself in good competitive rhythm, would attempt to consolidate on the gains from the eight-wicket victory. “We will try to do what best we can do as a team,” assured Harmanpreet. You can expect the Indian team to lift itself and play hard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-look-to-regroup-after-the-drubbing-in-first-odi/article34024105.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||MCFC pips Goa on penalties||Fortune favoured a rusty Mumbai City FC side as it beat FC Goa 6-5 on penalties after a goalless draw to reach the final at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Monday. It will be Mumbai City’s maiden appearance in the summit clash. Captain Amrinder Singh was the hero for the Islanders as he produced six crucial saves before being substituted by Phurba Lachenpa after extra-time. In the shootout, the Goa players missed four spot-kicks, three of which were not even on target. Substitute goalkeeper Naveen Kumar's three penalty saves went in vain for Goa. Mumbai dominated possession in the first half. However, the Gaurs shifted gears and came close to scoring in the 27th minute. Noguera got the ball from Saviour Gama, dribbled past an opposition player and took a shot. Amrinder produced a decent save, and when Redeem Tlang fired the ball coming off the rebound back on target, Ranawade put his body on the line to save it. Mumbai didn't attempt a single shot on target all game. Despite Hernan Santana, Hugo Boumous and Ahmed Jahouh missing from the spot, Rowllin Borges netted the winner for the side.  The result: Mumbai City FC 0 drew with FC Goa 0. Mumbai won 6-5 in penalty shootout.   Tuesday’s match: Second semifinal, second leg: ATKMB vs NEUFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-city-shoots-out-goa/article34024107.ece
09 March 2021||London,||Bale and Kane to the fore||Two goals apiece from Harry Kane and Gareth Bale helped a resurgent Tottenham Hotspur beat Crystal Palace 4-1 and move into sixth spot in the Premier League on Sunday. The on-loan Bale provided more evidence that he has rediscovered his spark with Tottenham’s first and second goals either side of Christian Benteke’s equaliser on the stroke of halftime. Outshone But he was outshone by the magnificent Kane, who ended with two goals and two assists. Kane’s first goal, which put Tottenham 3-1 ahead shortly after halftime, was a sublime curler from distance and his second was a tap-in before he was substituted. Tottenham’s third successive league win lifted it above Liverpool and West Ham with 45 points from 27 games, two points behind fourth-placed Chelsea. Palace’s first defeat in four games left it in 13th place with 34 points from 28 games, eight points above third-from-bottom Fulham.  The results: Premier League: Manchester City 0 lost to Manchester United 2 (Fernandes 2-pen, Shaw 50); Tottenham 4 (Bale 25, 49, Kane 52, 77) bt Crystal Palace 1 (Benteke 45+1).   LaLiga: Real Sociedad 1 (Merino 10) bt Levante 0.   Serie A: Sampdoria 2 (Bereszynski 78, Gabbiadini 80) drew with Cagliari 2 (Joao Pedro 11, Nainggolan 90+6); Napoli 3 (Insigne 8, 76, Osimhen 65) bt Bologna 1 (Soriano 73).   Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld 0 Union Berlin 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bale-and-kane-to-the-fore/article34024139.ece
09 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Chaos reigns as FC Bengaluru United pips Bengaluru FC||An injury-time winner from Ronaldo Oliviera helped FC Bengaluru United (FCBU) edge out Bengaluru FC (BFC) 3-2, but the exciting BDFA super division football league match ended in an all-out brawl which required police intervention. Immediately after the final whistle, BFC defender Harpreet Singh was shown the red card for arguing with the referee. While leaving the pitch, a frustrated Harpreet kicked fourth official Kamala Kumar, a tournament official stated. Kumar, not one to turn the other cheek, sought payback. This ignited a brawl which involved members from the BFC camp — players, coaching staff and team officials — BDFA officials, referees and even a few spectators. Running for cover Head referee Suresh Devaraj, assistant referees R. Mohan and Maria Tony and Kamala were escorted to the referee room. Just when things seemed to calm down, a BFC official entered the room and got into a physical altercation with a referee. The crowd which gathered outside the room to watch the melee ran for cover when a raging unidentified man flung a huge stone through the glass panes and into the room. The stone did not hit anyone in the crowd or the referees. BDFA officials, however, stated that the unsavoury happenings left a referee with minor injuries. The police was called to settle matters, and to safely escort the referees to their homes. BDFA officials stated that action will be taken against all offending parties based on the referee’s report.  The on-field action was electric, with BFC needing a win to clinch the title. BFC fought hard, but a sweetly-struck volley from Ronaldo Oliviera deep into injury-time gave FCBU three points and a spot on the top of the points table. Tempers flared when BFC was denied a couple of claims for handball. And when Harpreet got the marching orders, the red mist descended.  The results: Bangalore Dream United FC 2 (Dorjee 52, John Karen 54) bt Income Tax 1 (Amal 17).   FC Bengaluru United 3 (Daniel Carr 17, Robert Primus 75, Ronaldo Oliviera 90+5) bt BFC 2 (Sivasakthi 58, D. Lyngdoh 90+3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chaos-reigns-as-fc-bengaluru-united-pips-bengaluru-fc/article34024486.ece
09 March 2021||Villupuram,||Elangovan stars in United CC-B’s win||D. Elangovan’s four-wicket haul helped United CC-B beat New Young Indian CC by four-wickets in the Villupuram DCA second division recently.  The scores:   II div.: New Young Indian 100 in 22.5 overs (D. Elangovan 4/26) lost to United-B 102/6 in 20.1 overs.   III div.: Suriya G.O.I. 159 in 24.4 overs (V. Rajasekar 38, S. Vijaya Raja 28, P. Karunakaran 45, A. Jayabalan 3/28, M. Mohan Raj 3/35) bt TVS 58 in 12.2 overs (S. Ravindharan 4/26, B. Thilakar 3/3).   VRSCET 218/7 in 25 overs (D. Jaiganesh 54, G. Mothish 33, A. Kumar 38, Naveen Raj 3/28) bt Siga Management-A 63 in 17.2 overs (G. Jeevananthan 3/10).   LMCC 200/6 in 25 overs (M. Vishwaraja Pillai 32, S. Prabhu 25, D. Narendiran 39, S. Jayakuppuraj 38, G. Kumar 3/34) bt Power 117 in 24.2 overs (A. Vjayaraj 28, B. Paranthaman 32).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/elangovan-stars-in-united-cc-bs-win/article34024125.ece
09 March 2021||PUNE,||Jadhav and Deepika are best at the trials||Pravin Jadhav and Deepika Kumari emerged as the best recurve archers in the selection trials at the Army Sports Institute, Pune, on Monday. Jadhav, who secured a grand total of eight points, topped the table ahead of Atanu Das (7.5) and Tarundeep Rai (6). The trio had secured a team silver medal in the 2019 World championships to earn India three quota places in the Olympics. Deepika had bagged a lone quota place in the women’s section in a continental qualification event in 2019. As per the Archery Association of India (AAI) guidelines, the top three men and the top woman in the trials will be eligible to compete in the Tokyo Olympics. Jadhav, who scored 2727 in the ranking round, won six out of seven one-on-one matches (one of the major components in selecting the archers). Das won two matches, while Rai won three. Deepika Kumari picked up 2689 points in the ranking round and won four matches. All four who earned quota places for the country also got one point apiece for their special contribution. Interestingly, the second and third place winners among women, Ankita Bhakat and Komalika Bari respectively, were also from Jharkhand and won four matches apiece. Chance for team quota The Indian women will get an opportunity to bag a team quota place at the Final Team Qualification event scheduled to take place in Paris from June 18 to 21. Deepika, Ankita and Komalika will represent the country and if they earn the quota, they, like the men, will take part in the Olympics in the team event as well as in three individual slots.  Top three: Men: 1. Pravin Jadhav (8), 2. Atanu Das (7.5), 3. Tarundeep Rai (6).   Women: 1. Deepika Kumari (9), 2. Ankita Bhakat (7), 3. Komalika Bari (5.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jadhav-and-deepika-are-best-at-the-trials/article34024123.ece
09 March 2021||Mumbai,||India women to meet England in one-off Test||BCCI secretary Jay Shah on Monday announced that the India women's team will take on England in a one-off Test match, which will be held later this year. The last Test match that Mithali Raj and her team played was against South Africa at Mysuru in December, 2014. India is currently playing a five-match ODI series against South Africa in Lucknow — after almost 12 months of COVID-19 enforced break. This series will be followed by a T20 series. Shah took to Twitter to make the announcement on International Women's Day. "On the occasion of International Womens Day, I'm pleased to announce that TeamIndia, @BCCIWomen will play a one-off Test match against @ECB_cricket later this year. The "women in blue" will be donning the whites again," tweeted Shah. Shah did not announce the venue of the Test on the occasion but it is expected to happen during the tour of UK, sometime in June or July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-to-meet-england-in-one-off-test/article34024134.ece
09 March 2021||Doha,||Dealing with a bad knee the Federer way||Roger Federer never seriously contemplated retirement while he was away from the tennis tour for more than a year. He did have a hard time dealing with the need for a repeat operation on his bad right knee, though. “I was down. Obviously I couldn’t believe I had to do a second one,” Federer said on Sunday ahead of his appearance at the Qatar Open. “This is definitely a moment where you maybe question a little bit more.” Federer’s first procedure on his right knee occurred in February 2020. That knee kept swelling up after bike rides or walks with his four children; he announced in June that he had had a second surgery. Monitoring the comeback The 20-time Grand Slam champion will monitor how this comeback goes over the next several months and then assess things. “I know it’s more on the rare side for almost a 40-year-old to come back after almost a year being out. And I was surprised how long it took. But I took a decision quite early with the team that I wanted to take the time, no rush, to get back onto the tour,” he said. “Important is that I’m injury-free, pain-free, and I can actually enjoy myself out there on tour. So we’ll see how it goes now. I’m curious myself to find out.” Target Wimbledon What seemed clear from Federer’s session with reporters on Sunday: Wimbledon is what matters the most to him at this point. He has won a men’s-record eight titles at the All England Club and came oh-so-close to a ninth in the 2019 final there, holding two championship points before eventually losing to Novak Djokovic in a fifth-set tiebreaker. Wimbledon was cancelled last year for the first time since 1945 because of the coronavirus pandemic. It is scheduled to be played June 28 to July 11. “So from this standpoint, it’s still a building up to being stronger, better, fitter, faster and all that stuff. I hope, then, by Wimbledon, I’m going to be 100%, and from then on, then the season really starts for me. Everything until then, it’s just ‘Let’s see how it goes’.” He is curious what travel and tournament life will be like during a pandemic — “bubble life, quarantines all around, the whole mask situation” — and, most of all, how his repaired knee handles competition. “That’s really the only concern I have: Is the knee going to hold up? As of now, I’m not sure,” Federer said. “I did everything I possibly could.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dealing-with-a-bad-knee-the-federer-way/article34024137.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Samarth, Padikkal make it no-contest||Much before the result was formalised, Karnataka’s openers firmly shut the door on Kerala and paved the way for an 80-run win at the Air Force Ground, Palam, here on Monday and a place in the semifinals of the Vijay Hazare tournament. Opting to field in perfect batting conditions proved Kerala’s undoing. Nothing went right for Sachin Baby and his men as R. Samarth (192, 158b, 22x4, 3x6) and Devdutt Padikkal (101, 119b, 10x4, 2x6) laid a 249-run foundation as Karnataka posted a towering 338 for three in 50 overs. In reply, Kerala was never in the hunt. Barring the resistance offered by Vathsal Govind (92, 96b, 6x4, 3x6) and Mohammed Azharuddeen (52, 34b, 5x4, 6x2) during their sixth-wicket stand of 92 runs, there was no bright spot for Kerala. Medium-pacer Ronit More (5/36) scalped three of the top four Kerala batsmen — Robin Uthappa (2), Rohan Kannumma (0) and a well-set Vathsal — to ensure the chase was never really on. For Kerala, S. Sreesanth (10-1-73-0) and Basil Thampi (7-0-67-0) undid all the good work done early on by off-spinner Jalaj Saxena (10-1-34-0) who opened the bowling. Medium-pacer N.P. Basil (8-0-57-3) was the only successful bowler. Panchal stars for Gujarat In the other match, Gujarat skipper and opener Priyank Panchal showed the way with a masterly 134 and set up his team’s massive 117-run victory over Andhra in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare tournament at the Feroze Shah Kotla ground here on Monday. Opting to bat, Panchal’s knock off 131 balls was dotted with 10 boundaries and two sixes as his knock took Gujarat to 299 for seven in 50 overs. In response, Andhra lost wickets at regular intervals and its innings folded at 182 in 41.2 overs. Medium-pacer Arzan Nagwaswalla removed the Andhra openers and sent back skipper Hanuma Vihari for a duck to keep the rivals on the backfoot. He added 80 runs for the second wicket with Rahul Shah (36, 3x4), 53 for third wicket with Het Patel (28, 2x4) and another 57 with Ripal Patel (35, 2x4, 2x6) to keep Andhra at bay.  The scores: Karnataka 338/3 in 50 overs (R. Samarth 192, Devdutt Padikkal 101) bt Kerala 258 in 43.4 overs (Vathsal Vinod 92, Mohammed Azharuddeen 52, Ronit More 5/36) .   Gujarat 299 for seven in 50 overs (Priyank Panchal 134) bt Andhra 182 in 41.2 overs (Ricky Bhui 67, Arzan Nagwaswalla 4/30).   Tuesday’s fixtures: Delhi v UP; Mumbai v Saurashtra .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samarth-padikkal-make-it-a-no-contest/article34024128.ece
09 March 2021||BENGALURU,||High-end sports infrastructure proposed||The Karnataka government proposed to develop international-standard sports infrastructure for football, hockey, shooting, swimming and tennis through public-private partnerships in Devanahalli, near Bengaluru. The objective, according to the State budget tabled on Monday, was to prepare for “Mission Olympics,” but neither the time frame nor the monetary outlay was specified. Calls to the P.N. Ravindra, commissioner, Department of Youth Empowerment & Sports, went unanswered. A national-level university sports meet in Bengaluru in 2022 found a mention, but without any details on the planned expenditure. It was also proposed to establish a sports science centre for rural sportspersons and a sum of Rs. 2 crore was earmarked for it. One Moraji Desai residential school in each of the four revenue divisions in the State will be upgraded as a sports school of excellence to train students from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. An amount of Rs. 5 crore for the current year was allotted for the same. The stadium in Mandya city will be spruced up at the cost of Rs. 10 crore, it was stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/high-end-sports-infrastructure-proposed/article34024487.ece
09 March 2021||Hyderabad:,||Wah Ms Zara wins Royal Lancer Plate||Wah Ms Zara (P. Ajeeth Kumar astride) claimed the Royal Lancer Plate, the main event of Monday’s (March 8) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Sarasam Madhusudan Reddy. N. Ravinder Singh trains the winner. Ajeeth Kumar rode two more winners on the day.  1. LUCKY SCOT PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): FATUMA (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Bold Bidding (Akshay Kumar) 2, Garnet (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Paladino (Afroz Khan) 4. 2, 2 and Sh. 1m, 13.69s. Rs. 15 (w), 5, 5 and 92 (p). SHP: 19, THP: 251, FP: 47, Q: 14, Tanala: 1,484. Favourite: Bold Bidding. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  2. MANDATE PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Maiden, 4-y-o & uoward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): N R I SUN (Akshay Kumar) 1, Just Incredible (B.R. Kumar) 2, Win Vision (Chouhan) 3 and Due Diligence (Surya Prakash) 4. Not run: Viking Sun. 1-1/2, sh. and sh. 1m, 11.78s. Rs. 11 (w), 6, 6 and 8 (p). SHP: 27, THP: 27, FP: 48, Q: 35, Tanala: 134. Favourite: N R I Sun. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  3. ROYAL REVIVE PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): VIJAYS SIMHA (Chouhan) 1, Spicy Star (A.A. Vikrant) 2, Ayur Shakti (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Kesariya Balam (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Crazy Horse. 3/4, hd. and 1-1/2. 1m, 38.67s. Rs. 12 (w), 8, 11 and 23 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 56, FP: 68, Q: 67, Tanala: 1,163. Favourite: Kesariya Balam. Owners: Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupte rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  4. ROYAL LANCER PLATE (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): WAH MS ZARA (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, N R I Power (B.R. Kumar) 2, Pontius Pilate (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Havelock Cruise (Deepak Singh) 4. 3/4 , Nose and Hd. 1m, 24.64s. Rs. 133 (w), 26, 11 and 24 (p). SHP: 40, THP: 29, FP: 902, Q: 451, Tanala: 5,479. Favourite: Havelock Cruise. Owner: Mr. Sarasam Madhusudan Reddy. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  5. RAZIA SULTANA PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): PLATINUM CLAASZ (Abhay Singh) 1, Angel Tesoro (B.R. Kumar) 2, Dancing Doll (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Mr. Shanghai (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Hd, hd. and 1/2. 1m, 26.83s. Rs. 196 (w), 50, 8 and 12 (p). SHP: 33, THP: 35, FP: 3,091, Q: 1,093, Tanala: 34, 124. Favourite: Blickfang. Owner: Mr. Syed Abdul Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  6. MANDATE PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CASTLEROCK (Ajeeth Kumar) 1, Lifetime (P. Gaddam) 2, Flying Jet (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Star Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 4. Not run: One For All. 2, nk. and Sh. 1m, 12.48s. Rs. 23 (w), 9, 28 and 7 (p). SHP: 124, THP: 34, FP: 2,154, Q: 980, Tanala: 4,738. Favourite: Battle Ready. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Dilip Thomas rep. Rajagiri Rubber & Produce Company Ltd. Trainer: S. A. Shehzad Abbas.  7. RAZIA SULTANA PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SUBLIME (Chouhan) 1, Linewiler (N.B. Kuldeep) 2, Lockhart (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Augenstern (G. Naresh) 4. Not run: Four One Four. 5-1/4, 2-1/4 and sh. 1m, 24.64s. Rs. 11 (w), 8, 16 and 12 (p). SHP: 50, THP: 29, FP: 114, Q: 87, Tanala: 728. Favourite: Sublime. Owner: Mr. Sudarshan Singh Rathore Kanwar. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  8. HEARTBREAKER PLATE (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated up to 25 (Cat. III): BEDAZZLED (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Jo Malone (Koushik) 2, Minnelli (Surya Prakash) 3 and Kintsugi (B.R. Kumar) 3. (There was a dead heat for third place) Not run: Sheldon. 2-1/2, 1 and Dht. 1m, 40.61s. Rs. 30 (w), 11, 14, 8 and 8 (p). SHP: 54, THP: 19 and 19, FP: 748, Q: 441, Tanala: 2,643 and 1,762. Favourite: Red River. Owner: Mr. Syed Abdul Subhan. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 4,14, 427 (1 tkt.) and 30%: 19,734 (9 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 33, 430 (c/o), (ii) 39, 253 (3 tkts.). Treble: (i) 204 (150 tkts.), (ii) 4,276 (7 tkts.), (iii) 451 (187 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wah-ms-zara-wins-royal-lancer-plate/article34024040.ece
09 March 2021||Paris,||Djokovic beats Federer’s record for most weeks at the No. 1 spot||Novak Djokovic set a new landmark of 311 weeks as world number one on Monday, one week longer than Roger Federer whose tally of a record 20 Grand Slam titles is now firmly in the Serb’s sights. Djokovic, 33, won his 18th major at the Australian Open in February. With Federer turning 40 in August, the Serb has time on his side. He is also a year younger than Rafael Nadal who also has 20 majors. “It really excites me to walk the path of legends and giants of this sport,” said Djokovic, in a statement released by the ATP. “To know that I earned my place among them by following my childhood dream is a beautiful confirmation that when you do things out of love and passion, everything is possible.”  He has spent 88 weeks at number one, across two different stints. Djokovic reclaimed the top ranking from Nadal in February 2020 and finished as year-end number one for the sixth time, tying the record set by Pete Sampras. Federer, who returns to action in Doha this week after more than a year out of action to recover from two knee operations, slipped out of the top five on Monday to sixth. His place was taken by Stefanos Tsitsipas. Djokovic made his top 100 debut in July 2005, just weeks after Nadal had won his first Roland Garros. He was top 50 in June 2006, top 20 for the first time in October 2006 and top 10 by March 2007. He first became world number one at the age of 24 on July 4, 2011, the day after winning Wimbledon for the first time, beating Nadal in the final. Ranking plunge Only a six-month injury absence in 2017 saw his ranking plunge, all the way to 22 the following summer. It was just a blip — Djokovic was back at number one again by November and with the exception of November 2019 until January last year, when Nadal reclaimed pole position, he has been rock solid. Few would bet against Djokovic, who in 2016 was the first man to break the $100 million prize money barrier, ending his career with more Slams than Federer and Nadal. In head-to-heads, he leads Federer 27-23 and has won all six of their last meetings at the majors, including 2019’s epic Wimbledon final where he saved two match points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovics-all-new-landmark/article34024108.ece
09 March 2021||KOLKATA,||BFI to take reality check following virus strike||Even as Ashish Kumar recovers from COVID-19 in Spain, the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) plans to adopt a practical approach regarding upcoming exposure trips. Team back home The Indian boxers, barring Ashish, have returned home from the Boxam tournament in Spain. According to a BFI source, all of them have tested negative for COVID-19. It is learnt that Ashish, who was asymptomatic, will stay in Castellon for a week. The BFI knows it will be difficult to trace how Ashish, who had to withdraw from the 75kg final following his positive result, contracted the virus. It also understands that boxers’ performances will drop without quality competition and training in the run-up to the Olympics. India had to keep up with the competition-training schedule followed by other countries, said R.K. Sacheti of BFI. “For example, the USA has been participating in various competitions in Europe despite the COVID situation. Everything is driven by the Olympics,” he said. Turkey next The Indian boxers are scheduled to travel to Turkey for another exposure trip later this month. The BFI has received other invitations from Europe and America and will take a call soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-to-take-reality-check-following-virus-strike/article34024124.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||ATKMB, NEUFC eye maiden final berth||NorthEast United FC will be looking to pick up from where Idrissa Sylla had left off by scoring the equaliser in the added-time against ATK Mohun Bagan, in the first leg of the second semifinal of the Indian Super League. The Guinean striker, who came in as a late 67th minute substitute, kept the hopes alive for NorthEast with his spectacular header that saw the match ending 1-1. The second leg of the semifinals, which comes up in Fatorda Stadium on Tuesday, is expected to be a keen affair as NEUFC and Mohun Bagan look to secure their maiden entry to the final. Ironically, ATK’s stupendous record of winning three titles in the previous six seasons stands void after it merged with Mohun Bagan. Antonio Lopez Habas, who took ATK to the title conquest in the previous season, will have to realign his forces in search of a fresh record. Cause for concern The cause of worry for Habas may be the fact that his team’s otherwise impregnable defence has been struggling recently. The team had conceded just 11 goals in 18 matches but failed to keep that tidiness in the last three games where it had conceded five and also remained winless in the process. Habas hoped his boys will rise to the challenge in the decisive second-leg. “There is no pressure. It’s all about a big opportunity and this opportunity wouldn’t come again. We have to give our best and enjoy the semifinals,” he said. For NEUFC’s interim head coach Khalid Jamil, everything has been quite upbeat as his team remained unbeaten in the last 10 matches. “We have to focus on getting the result as it is a do-or-die game,” Jamil said. “I have told the boys to enjoy this pressure. “Both teams have to fight for a result because there is no ‘away goal’ rule this time. So, it is the same for our opponent as well,” Jamil added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-neufc-eye-maiden-final-berth/article34024136.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||He is omnipresent||Sat, that is the Paramatma, decided to become many, and created Tejas (fire). When fire decided to become many, water (Ap) was born. When water became many, Anna (Prithvi) was the result, for the earth yields of its abundance when there is copious rain. Tejas and water are non-sentient. So, the Sat, that is the Supreme Brahman, entered into them, and made possible their division into many other things. And thus creation continued, said Veliyanallur T.S.R. Narayanachariar in a discourse. The three fundamental elements were Tejas, water and food, and they were combined in such a way that aspects from each of them were present in all entities in the universe. Take the Sun and the moon, for instance. Their red aspect comes from Tejas, the white comes from water and the dark comes from anna. In other words, everything has some aspect of each of the other elements. With regard to the Panchabhutas, we find elements of each in each of the others. Why then do we call one thing Vayu, or something else Agni? It is because of the predominant character of the element. It is not that one is not present in the other. So if, for example, we identify Vayu, it is because here air is the dominant element. The dominant element is fifty per cent, while the other four elements are only one-eighth each, in the composition of Vayu. The Sat, upon which one must meditate, is subtle. If you dissolve salt in water, the water has a salty taste, whether you drink from the top of the glass, the middle of the glass or the bottom of the glass. But you do not see the salt which has dissolved in the water. Likewise, the Sat, that is the Supreme One, is omnipresent, but is not perceived. The guidance of an Acharya, therefore, becomes imperative for everyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/he-is-omnipresent/article34024104.ece
09 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Audit, MoF triumph||Ministry of Finance and Delhi Audit won the men’s and women’s titles respectively in the inter-ministry badminton tournament at the AIIMS Gymkhana.A set of wrong results were carried in these columns on Monday. The error is regretted.  The results (finals):   Men: Ministry of Finance bt Delhi Audit 3-1 (Saurabh Sharma bt Himanshu Saroha 22-20, 8-21, 21-14; Sachin Rawat bt Vijay Sharma 21-11, 21-14; Amarjeet & Shanker lost to Himanshu Saroha & Tushar Sharma 13-21, 11-21; Sidharth Nandal bt Tushar Sharma 21-13, 7-4 retd.)   Women: Delhi Audit bt Ministry of Finance 2-0 (Sheetal Kargeti bt Lalita Dahiya 26-24, 24-22; Sheetal Kargeti & Swati Sharma bt Lalita Dahiya & Sanjeeta 21-19, 21-18) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-audit-mof-triumph/article34024535.ece
09 March 2021||Rome,||Another high for Bajrang||Olympics-bound Indian wrestler Bajrang Punia pulled off a two-pointer in the last 30 seconds of the gold medal bout to defend his title at the Matteo Pellicone ranking series event. The result also pushed him back to the World No. 1 rank. Up against Mongolia's Tulga Tumur Ochir, Bajrang was trailing 0-2 till the final moments of the 65kg final but managed to level the scores, 30 seconds from the whistle. Since the last scoring point came from the Indian he was declared winner. Bajrang was second in the rankings before the event and is now on top of the table with 14 points. Vishal Kaliramana too impressed in the non-Olympic 70kg category by winning a bronze with a 5-1 win over Syrbaz Talgat from Kazakhstan. Meanwhile, Narsingh Pancham Yadav, who recently made a return to competitive wrestling after a four-year doping ban, lost his bronze play-off 5-0 to Kazakhstan's Daniyar Kaisanov. India returned with seven medals from the first ranking series event in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrang-wins-gold-and-number-one-rank/article34024041.ece
09 March 2021||Dubai,||ICC events for women to have more teams||The ICC tournaments for women cricketers will have more teams from 2026 onwards, with the governing body on Monday announcing its expansion plan for the game to mark the International women’s day. The ICC said the T20 World Cup will have 12 teams instead of 10 from the 2026 edition. The ODI World Cup will also be expanded — from eight teams to 10 — from the 2029 edition. “We have been building momentum around the women’s game for the last four years,” said ICC Chief Executive Manu Sawhney in a statement. “The results speak for themselves with the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup 2020 attracting record numbers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-events-for-women-to-have-more-teams/article34024485.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||WTC final in Southampton: Ganguly||India will play its inaugural World Test Championship final against New Zealand at Southampton's Ageas Bowl Stadium from June 18-22, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly confirmed on Monday. Initially, the final was supposed to be held at the Lord's but Southampton — with a five-star facility inside the stadium — will make it easier for both the ICC and the England and Wales Cricket Board to create a bio-bubble for the two teams. "The final will be held at Ageas Bowl," Ganguly replied to a query from PTI . India qualified for the marquee clash after beating England 3-1 in the Test series recently. The BCCI president, who has been on a medical break, is expected to travel to UK to watch the final match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wtc-final-in-southampton-ganguly/article34024109.ece
09 March 2021||KOCHI,||Railway volleyball coach passes away||Railway volleyball coach Rajesh Tiwari passed away in his room in the KIIT University hostel in Bhubaneswar on Monday. Rajesh, a former Railway player who hails from Madhya Pradesh, had come to Bhubaneswar for the ongoing Senior Nationals as the coach of the Indian Railway men's team. Rajesh, who must be below 50, was found dead in the room in the afternoon, said Bijoy Babu, the assistant coach of the Kerala men’s team, from Bhubaneswar. Match postponed Railways, the runner-up in the last edition, was scheduled to play Kerala in a men's league match on Monday evening and the match has now been postponed to Tuesday morning.  Rajesh Tiwari found dead in his room in the KIIT University hostel in Bhubaneswar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/railway-volleyball-coach-passes-away/article34024126.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Yudheeswaran, Gurjapneet shine for Guru Nanak-A||Yudheeswaran’s four-wicket haul and Gurjapneet Singh’s hat-trick helped defending champions Guru Nanak-A register a 10 wicket-win over Avichi Arts and Science in the seventh Pavit Singh Nayar Memorial all-India inter-collegiate T20 tournament on Monday. The tournament was inaugurated by India and Tamil Nadu cricketer Vijay Shankar.  The scores:   Avichi Arts & Science 87 for nine in 20 overs (V. Harish 44, R. Keerthivasan 31, Yudheeswaran 4/7, Gurjapneet Singh 3/11) lost to Guru Nanak-A 89/0 in 4.4 overs (S. Aravind 45 n.o., S. Arun 39 n.o.).   The New College 103 in 19.4 overs (G.S. Dayanithi 3/20) lost to Gobi Arts & Science, Gobichettipalayam 104/1 in 12.4 overs (R. Vineeth 64 n.o.).   MCC 130/9 in 20 overs (A. Mohammed Rafeek 44) lost to SSN 131/7 in 18.5 overs (M. Monish Raj 30).   Bharath Arts & Science 129 in 19.1 overs (M. Vijayakumar 49) lost to RKM Vivekananda 130/4 in 17.1 overs (Md. Adnan Khan 43, R. Vimal Kumar 76).   Guru Nanak Stars 194/5 in 20 overs (N. Sunil Krishna 71, C. Saffin 39, V. Abishek 36) bt SMVEC, Puducherry 102 in 19.4 overs (J. Venkataramanaa 28, S. Jagadeeswaran 25, R.M. Seshan 3/22).   MVIT, Puducherry 119/5 in 16 overs (M. Sudarshanan 3/19) bt Mar Gregorios 112/5 in 16 overs (Jaya Surya Prabha 59, G. Ilango 3/17).   Loyola 172/7 in 20 overs (M. Vishal 36, S. Rithik Easwaran 45, Tushar Raheja 35, Paul Raj 4/36) bt Presidency 135/5 in 20 overs (P. Surendiran 63, Logesh 38).   Pachaiyappa’s 162/4 in 20 overs (J. Ranjith Kumar 38, S. Sanjay 39, A.S. Santhosh 35 n.o.) bt SGC, Puducherry 142/8 in 20 overs (G. Dilip 36, Rishi Rajendran Raut 48 n.o.).      K. Pachayiappan (80) and A. Sharath Kishan (64) helped Bharath CC beat Mani Memorial CC by 68 runs in a KDCA second division match recently.  The scores:   I div.: Friends XI (Tbm) 153 in 28 overs (Suneel Albert 35, A.K. Rajagopal 4/24) lost to Jai CC 158/5 in 25.5 overs (Prasanna Venkatesh 45, B Satish Kumar 31).   II div: Bharath CC 218/6 in 30 overs (K. Pachayiappan 80, A Sharath Kishan 64) bt Mani Memorial CC 150 in 30 overs (Vimal 39, Janakiraman 4 /34, Srikumaran 3/23) .      B. Haresh bowled Pattabiram CA to a 62-run win over Ebenezer CA with a six-wicket haul in a Thiruvallur DCA second division contest recently.  The scores:   I div.: Seshadhri MCC 81 in 29.3 overs (B. Akshai 39 n.o, R. Rohit 3/25, M. Mathivanan 4/18) lost to Standard CC 87/2 in 11.4 overs (R. Ram Arvindh 58 n.o.).   II div.: Pattabiram CA 180/4 in 30 overs (M. Vinith Kumar 89 n.o, B. Haresh 26) bt Ebenezer CA 118 in 21.3 overs (G. Bala Pratap 33, B. Haresh 6/35).   III div .: Sri Vaishnavi CC 192/6 in 30 overs (Sai Sabarisha 29, C. Venkata Prashanth 43, R. Vijay 26 n.o, P. Sajith 48 n.o, V. Tharun Kumar three for 50) lost to Aththis CC 196/5 in 28.3 overs (S. Sourav 30, N. Gowrishankar 27, P. Harshaa 56 n.o, V. Tharun Kumar 40 n.o).   IV div .: Universal CC 114 in 28.2 overs bt Lucas TVS RC 56 in 19.4 overs (M. Ramesh 27 n.o., K. Nagaraj 5/16) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yudheeswaran-gurjapneet-shine-for-guru-nanak-a/article34024508.ece
09 March 2021||Atlanta,||Team LeBron wins All-Star game||Damian Lillard nailed a game-ending three-pointer from just inside half-court as LeBron James improved to 4-0 as an NBA All-Star game captain with a 170-150 win over Team Durant here on Sunday night. Giannis Antetokounmpo captured the Kobe Bryant MVP Award with a game-high 35 points.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-lebron-wins-all-star-game/article34024122.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 07:48 IST,||Sudoku — March 8, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-8-2021/article34016364.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 07:50 IST,||Sudoku — March 9, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-9-2021/article34024735.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Strength and street cred||Balancing the large aluminium vessel heavy with fresh fish on her head is a skill Aleyamma John has perfected over 45 years. “At 26, I began selling fish door-to-door to make ends meet. After my husband, John, fell ill, it is my earning that helped raise my three daughters and son. My husband was a fisherman and we had our own boat and nets. But all that was sold to meet his medical expenses,” she says. In a chequered kaili lungi , long blouse and a thorthu thrown over her shoulder, Aleyamma is a picture of resilience. Her weatherbeaten face is wreathed in smiles as she pulls out a smaller aluminium container from the large one she keeps the fish in, turns it over and sits on it to talk about life. Hailing from a fishing community at Vettukadu, Aleyamma recalls her mother walking from the beachside village to the city, 10 kilometres away, every day. “Many women in my generation followed in their footsteps. Rain or shine, we had to reach the city and back again. No buses would permit us to travel with our wicker baskets of fish.” The day still starts early with Aleyamma making her way to the Vettukadu or Vizhinjam, near Kovalam, to buy the catch of the day. But now, she and two others take an autorickshaw to the city and then walk to the homes of their regular customers. Each of them has a route, and they sell the fish and clean it for the buyer. “Earlier, we used to go to the Karamana river at Edapazhanji and have a bath after we were done for the day. Nowadays, kind householders permit us to use the washroom on their premises and also store the fish in an icebox. In the evening, we sit by the roadside at Vazhuthacaud to sell the fish. That is when officer-goers stop by.” Aleyamma is grateful that she was able to get her children educated and married. Her son and one son-in-law is in West Asia. “One grandson studies engineering and another works for a company in Technopark. My children are better off than where we started from. I keep reminding them that they must save for a rainy day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/strength-and-street-cred/article34024277.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Sing, hit that button, and sway||“While we watch India defeat England in cricket and wait for the IPL, it seems like life has become normal. I think it’s important we remind ourselves that life hasn’t returned to normal,” says VJ, host, DJ Nikhil Chinapa. Discussing how rural India is still struggling, and people are desperately trying to make ends meet, borrowing from friends, family and whoever can help, he adds, “As a country we need to look around to see if there is something we can do to help the people in need.” Nikhil is hosting Open Up India Concert, UNDP’s (United Nation’s Development Programme) upcoming fundraising event, where he will be encouraging people to press on a button that says ‘Donate’. The concert features an eclectic line-up of musicians, including Vasu Raina, Raghav Meattle, Zephyrtone and Lucky Ali. Funds raised will go towards workers in the informal sector. “According to reports by the International Labour Organization, COVID-19 has brought economic activity almost to a standstill, particularly in the informal sector where 450 million people or more than 80% of the labour force works,” says Shoko Noda, Resident Representative – UNDP India. For this campaign, the organisation is focussing on Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Assam, “as these three States have a high population of informal sector workers who have lost their jobs,” adds Shoko. “Everybody can’t do everything but everybody can do something,” says Nikhil, over phone from Mumbai where he is shooting for Wild Villa . The donation button will be live throughout the show, which will be live streamed. Nikhil and the participants will be shooting for it remotely from their respective locations. Open Up India Concert will take place on March 13 between 7 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. For details and tickets log on to www.insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sing-hit-that-button-and-sway/article34024278.ece
09 March 2021||March 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The face of hope||On March 27, 2020, when the country was in lockdown, Saira Beegum went into labour. Subhakumari S., an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker from Chavara in Kollam, stepped in to make arrangements for a safe delivery. As Shahina Bilal turns one, Subha is as excited as her parents, Bilal and Saira, migrant labourers (called ‘guest labourers’ in Kerala) from Assam. With 486 houses under her purview Subha had her work cut out during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since 2006, ASHA workers, a trained community of female health workers, has been acting as a link between the healthcare system and society at the grassroot level. Of the one million ASHA workers in the country, Kerala has 26,221. “They worked alongside the police, health workers and volunteers to contain the spread of the pandemic and have been an integral part of Rapid Response Teams (RRT). They had to arrange for quarantine facilities, food and medicines and extend special care to the elderly, pregnant women and children. It was heartening to see how many of them went out of the way to help the people under their care,” says Seena K.M., senior consultant (social development), National Health Mission. Priya V., a 38-year-old ASHA worker in Thiruvananthapuram, recalls how they were working all through the lockdown. She says, “We would go on foot to visit houses of the elderly to give them their supplies of medicines, food, provision kits and so on. Initially, we did face problems in some places while putting up stickers on houses in which there was a patient with COVID-19 or quarantined residents. But we persevered.” Each Panchayat had its own set of challenges. Sindhu P.P., an ASHA worker from Kannur, knew that migrant labourers in her ward would go hungry once the hotels were closed. So she rushed to start a community kitchen in one of the hotels and with the help of donors provided food for the migrant labourers for three months. “Even before March, awareness sessions were conducted and we were organised into smaller teams called Rapid Response Teams,” says Sindhu. A Valsala, ASHA worker in Perinad Grama Panchayat in Kollam, asserts that awareness sessions on how to tackle the pandemic began in January when the world was awakening to the pandemic. Her journal records that it was on January 4 that a medical student from China reached her Panchayat for a wedding. “I rushed to their house and found him wearing a mask. It was a novelty for me. As the workshops progressed, we were taught about quarantine (a new word for all of us), home isolation, oxymeters etc,” says Valsala, adding, “First, we made a list of all houses with relatives staying abroad. The work was carried out meticulously in stages. So by the time there was an outbreak in March with 530 residents traced as primary contacts, we were well-prepared. The area was declared a containment zone and within 21 days, we were able to declare the place COVID-free.” Ushakumari S. from Kottarakkara in Kollam says that the pandemic tested their resilience. The 48-year-old, with eight years of experience, was in the news for taking a COVID-19 patient, Ramla Beevi, to the hospital for the second antigen test. According to Seena, over 750 ASHA workers have tested positive so far. “ I donned a PPE kit and cleaned and fumigated the houses of COVID-19 patients since many were scared about contracting the virus. Every ASHA worker would have hundreds of such instances to talk about,” says 42-year-old Rajana Mohan, district general secretary of the ASHA Workers Federation (CITU) in Kannur. Priya says their hard work during the pandemic has earned them a new-found respect. “ I learnt that during a crisis, wealth and privilege do not matter. It is a shoulder to lean on that matters the most. And many a time, it was an ASHA worker who was there to support, console and motivate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-face-of-hope/article34024279.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||Pandemic impacts Delhi’s per capita income as it dips by 5.9%||The per capita income of the people of Delhi has fallen by 5.91% (at current prices) to Rs. 3,54,004 during 2020-21, compared to Rs. 3,76,221 in 2019-20. Also, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) (at current prices) fell by 3.92% in 2020-21 to Rs. 7,98,310 crore from Rs. 8,30,872 crore in 2019-20, as per the Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21 tabled in the Delhi Assembly on Monday. This was due to the effect of COVID-19 and the series of lockdowns, which disrupted the economy across the world, according to the survey report. Less business, revenue “Because of COVID-19 pandemic, business was less in the market and because of this revenue was less for the government. So, the financial condition was weak, and we couldn’t spend on some schemes as we had expected to,” Finance Minister Manish Sisodia said. Experts said that the fall in income and GSDP shows that there was less money in the hands of people, which reduced their purchasing power, and it also shows that investments had reduced. “The actual per capita income will be even lesser, as this data does not take into account the unorganised sector, such as daily wage labourers, who were heavily hit during the pandemic. Also, the unorganised sector has not recovered compared to organised sector,” said Arun Kumar, former Professor at Economics Department of JNU. At this stage, he said, the Delhi government should work to “generate employment” and spend more money on health, education, or small infrastructure projects, which generates employment. He also said that the government should also try to look for an “urban employment scheme” on lines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to (MGNREGA). “The year 2020 witnessed unrivalled turmoil with the novel COVID-19 virus and the resultant pandemic emerging as the biggest threat to economic growth in a century. The pandemic has been unique in its wide-ranging effects on almost every section of the economy and the society,” the report said. But the government expects the economic condition to pick and register growth. “In 2021-22, a sharp recovery of real GSDP of Delhi with a double-digit growth is expected based on a low base effect and inherent strengths of the economy,” the report said. The report also said that Delhi has maintained its consistent revenue surplus which was Rs. 7,499 crore during 2019-20 (Prov.) as compared to Rs. 6,261 crore during 2018-19. Also, about 30.74 lakh Foreign Tourist Arrivals (FTAs) was recorded in Delhi during 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pandemic-impacts-delhis-per-capita-income-as-it-dips-by-59/article34024288.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||4% increase in number of vehicles on road||The Capital’s vehicular population saw an addition of more than five lakh vehicles till March 31 last year, registering an increase of over 4%, according to the Delhi Economic Survey 2020-21. Even as the total number of vehicles registered in the city went up to 1.18 crore from 1.13 crore — consisting of almost 67% two-wheelers followed by cars — ridership aboard public buses increased slightly but the average number of passengers on the Delhi Metro dipped sharply. According to the survey, the daily ridership of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses increased to 33.31 lakh in 2020-21 compared to 30.15 lakh in 2019-20. Before the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, the survey stated average daily passenger journeys aboard the Delhi Metro to be about 57 lakh. These were suspended from March 22, 2020 to September 6, 2020. Since September 7, 2020, when train service resumed in a graded manner, the average daily passenger journeys have presently decreased to about 10 lakh, according to the survey. While the DTC operated 3,849 buses on 437 city routes and eight NCR routes according to the Delhi Economic Survey 2019-20, in 2020-21, the DTC’s fleet size reduced to 3,762 buses plying on 448 city routes and seven NCR routes. On the other hand, the fleet size of cluster buses increased from 1,803 to 2,910 in addition to an increase in daily ridership from 12.24 lakh to 17.71 lakh. During 2019-20, 10.58 crore free trips in DTC and 8.72 crore free trips in cluster buses were made by women passengers Projects undertaken Meanwhile, after the Kashmere Gate ISBT, the Sarai Kale Khan and Anand Vihar ISBT projects are scheduled to be redeveloped by the Public Works Department (PWD). The agency is also undertaking the construction of eight infrastructural projects in the city, including flyover, bridges and corridors. There are 58 operating bus depots in the city and, according to the survey, construction of 12 more are in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-increase-in-number-of-vehicles-on-road/article34024289.ece
09 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Direct payment to farmers will worsen current crisis’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday termed the Centre’s proposal on direct payment to the farmers, bypassing the commission agent ( arhtiyas ), as another provocation that will further aggravate the current crisis over the farm laws. He said the apathetic attitude of the Central government would not help resolve the situation. “The matter had to be resolved by the Centre and the farmers, with the Punjab government having no role to play as the farmers’ associations had rejected any political interference,” said the Chief Minister. “Instead of amicably resolving the issue, the Central government was fuelling further angst among them,” said Capt. Amarinder, adding that by seeking land record for making e-payment to the farmers directly from the Food Corporation of India, the situation would worsen. “Punjab had a time-tested system in place in 1967, with farmers getting paid through the arhtiyas with whom they had excellent relations and on whom they could depend in times of adversity,” he said. “How can farmers rely on corporate houses in times of crisis,” he asked. The Chief Minister stressed that the Centre should have taken the farmers into confidence before bringing the controversial Ordinances. “Had the Centre been sincere about finding a viable solution to this problem, it would have either consulted the Punjab government or our farmers, as our State alone contributes over 40% of foodgrains to the national pool,” he said.  ‘Legal recourse’ The Chief Minister, in response to a question, said Governor V.P. Singh Badnore should immediately forward the State’s Amendment Bills against the farm laws to the President. “If the President refuses, it will open the doors for us for legal recourse,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/direct-payment-to-farmers-will-worsen-current-crisis/article34024285.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Transport Dept. and PWD miss cut-off’||Both the Transport Department and the Public Works Department (PWD) failed to reach the cut-off target of 75% progress in critical indicators, according to the Outcome Budget 2020-21. Twenty-four programmes related to the Transport sector were included in the exercise. These were divided into 248 output/outcome indicators of which 34 were critical indicators. The department was on track regarding 24 (71%) of these. Thirty-seven programs related to the PWD were included in the exercise. These were divided into 446 output/outcome indicators of which 52 were critical indicators. PWD was on track regarding 38 (73%) of these.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/transport-dept-and-pwd-miss-cut-off/article34024290.ece
09 March 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. passes Bill penalising fraudulent conversions||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Monday passed a Bill that penalises religious conversion through marriage or any other fraudulent means and provides for a prison sentence of up to 10 years. While the Opposition Congress questioned the need for a new law, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said unlike the 1968 legislation, the present Act provides for annulment of marriage and a harsher sentence. The Act also provides for fine of up to Rs. 1 lakh. After the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 was passed by a voice vote, some BJP MLAs chanted ‘Jai Shri Ram’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-passes-bill-penalising-fraudulent-conversions/article34024286.ece
09 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Fill vacancies in minorities commission’||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to expeditiously fill the vacancies in the National Commission for Minorities (NCM), including its chairperson in a time-bound manner. Justice Prathiba M. Singh directed the Centre to file a report within a week on the status of specific appointment along with the timeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fill-vacancies-in-minorities-commission/article34024355.ece
