10 March 2021||Nistula Hebbar,||Uttarakhand CM Rawat resigns||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday tendered his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya. Former Chattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh and Rajya Sabha member Dushyant Gautam, sent by the BJP’s national leadership as observers to Dehradun, will conduct a meeting of the legislature party on Wednesday morning to elect a new leader who will become the Chief Minister. Complaints within party This brings to an end the crisis surrounding Mr. Rawat’s continuance in the post. There were complaints from his own party MLAs and others about his style of functioning and administration. Uttarakhand has had a record of not having a single Chief Minister, except N.D. Tiwari, to have completed a full term since its formation. Mr. Rawat, in a presser held after he submitted his two-line resignation letter to Ms. Maurya, said he was “nine days short of completing four years at the helm” and that he was grateful to the BJP and the people for having got an opportunity to serve the State. Mr. Rawat’s continuance had become a question mark after the central observers submitted a report that underlined serious concerns over his chief ministership.  From being tardy in implementing the ‘Chardham yatra’ projects to not being accessible to his own partymen, to facing a corruption charge wherein the Uttarakhand High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry against him (later stayed by the Supreme Court but still being examined), there were a multiplicity of reasons for his removal. Mr. Rawat was summoned to New Delhi on Monday after a State core committee meeting in Dehradun on Saturday evening. He was given marching orders when he met BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-resigns/article34032340.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI’s initial candidates’ list has 7 new faces||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran has unveiled the initial list of candidates for the Assembly elections on April 6. The CPI is contesting in 25 Assembly segments. The CPI has finalised the names for 21 constituencies. At least 12 sitting MLAs, including Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan and Deputy Speaker V. Sasi, figure in the first list. The CPI has excluded Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, Forest Minister P. Raju and Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman. They had contested the Assembly elections three times. Incumbent Vaikom legislator C.K. Asha is the only woman on the initial list. The State executive council finalised the list after considering the panel of names submitted by district committees and made some additions and deletions. There are seven new faces in the list. They are P. Prasad (Cherthala), Vazhoor Soman (Peerumade), P. Balachandran (Thrissur), Suresh Raj (Mannarkkad), K.T. Abdul Rahman (Ernad), Ajith Koladi (Tirurangadi) and Dibona Nasar (Manjeri). The others are G.R. Anil (Nedumangad), P.S. Supal (Punalur), G.S. Jayalal (Chathannur), C.K. Asha (Vaikom), Muhammad Muhsin (Pattambi), Chittayam Gopakumar (Adoor), E.K. Vijayan (Nadapuram), R. Ramachandran (Karunagapally), V. Sasi (Chirayinkeezhu), K. Rajan (Ollur), V.R. Sunil Kumar (Kodungalloor), Eldho Abraham (Muvattupuzha), T.T. Simon (Kaipamangalam), and E. Chandrasekharan (Kanhangad). The CPI is yet to name its candidates for Chadayamangalam, Haripad, Paravoor and Nattika. By one account, the State executive council considered increasing women representation. The CPI has batted for 33% women reservation in Assembly and Lok Sabha seats. The party might consider women candidates for Nattika and Chadayamangalam. The executive council reportedly criticised the Left Democratic Front’s overemphasis on the Kerala Congress (M). The ruling front had assigned the new entrant an outsize number of seats in Kottayam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpis-initial-candidates-list-has-7-new-faces/article34032741.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Experts term surge in new cases ‘temporary variation’||The State recorded 3,851 new COVID-19 cases in the last seven days, around 750 more than the previous week. The rise has been significant in Bengaluru Urban where the number of new cases rose to 2,465 from 1,875 in the previous week. While this increase has prompted the authorities to further intensify surveillance and step up testing, especially in the border districts, COVID-19 experts said the rising numbers are “temporary variations” and are not a cause of concern as of now. On Saturday (March 6), there was a sudden spike when the city reported 444 cases, more than double the figure the previous day. Concerned over this, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had directed the BBMP to increase its daily testing from the current 30,000 to 40,000.  BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad attributed Saturday’s sudden spike in the numbers to a backlog in testing. However, admitting that Bengaluru Urban is witnessing a gradual surge in the last one week, the Commissioner said, “This is mainly because people are becoming complacent now. Besides, movement of people from high risk States of Kerala and Maharashtra is a major reason for the increasing numbers. Also, this is the wedding season and a lot of social gatherings are happening where people are not following precautions.” M.K. Sudharshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said the TAC had a detailed discussion on the rising cases. “According to mathematical modelling, the marginal rise in numbers is a temporary phenomena and not a cause of concern. We cannot say this is the beginning of a second wave as of now. However, we are keeping a watch,” Dr. Sudharshan told The Hindu on Tuesday. Pointing out that the cluster outbreaks in the city were primarily due to inter-State arrival, he said testing, tracking and tracing has been intensified in the border districts. “Freedom from COVID-19 comes at a price. We can win over it only with appropriate behaviour, either voluntarily or by enforcement and vaccination,” he said. V. Ravi, former senior professor and head of Neurovirology at NIMHANS who is also TAC member, said the current fluctuations in the numbers are “within acceptable limits”. Attributing the rise in Bengaluru to cluster outbreaks, Dr. Ravi, who is also the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-COV-2 in the State, said, “The surge is random. If we look at the overall picture right from March last year, we had a huge surge and the numbers reduced. This surge is within the acceptable limits and such variations keep happening.” “The situation does not warrant panic as of now, but certainly warrants COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-term-surge-in-new-cases-temporary-variation/article34032368.ece
10 March 2021||GUNTUR,||Jagan seeks appointment with PM on steel plant revival||On a day of intense protests in Visakhapatnam, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday dashed off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give an appointment to explain all the options to revive and put Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (Visakhapatnam Steel Plant), Visakhapatnam, back on track. The development comes a day after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her reply in the Lok Sabha said the Centre would go ahead with the plan of 100% disinvestment of Government of India’s equity in RINL along with RINL’s stake in subsidiaries/joint ventures through strategic disinvestment by way of privatisation. Mr. Jagan said that he would lead an all-party delegation, including the representatives of trade unions, to represent directly the concerns being expressed by the people of Andhra Pradesh, employees and various stakeholders. “I assure you that the Andhra Pradesh Government will closely work with the Government of India under your able leadership in making this happen, and together we can revive the plant for unlocking greater value to society and in particular to the people of Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Jagan said in the letter. While making references to an earlier letter written in February, Mr. Jagan said he had mentioned the problems being faced by RINL, Visakhapatnam, and suggested various solutions to revive the same and requested to reconsider the decision of 100% strategic disinvestment. “RINL, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, is a Navratna Company. It is the largest public sector industrial unit in the State creating employment opportunities for close to around 20,000 people directly and many other indirect employment opportunities in Vishakhapatnam,” Mr. Jagan said. While drawing attention to the fact that the plant had a good performance between 2002 to 2015 earning profits with positive net worth, Mr. Jagan said the plant had pragmatically turned-around in 2002 after being reported to BIFR as a sick company. The company had around 19,700 acres of land currently and the valuation of the lands alone could exceed Rs. 1lakh crore. Owing to the unfavourable steel cycle globally, the company was making losses since 2014-15 and was finding it difficult to service the debt. One of the major structural issue that also lead to high cost of production was the absence of captive mine thereby affecting the profitability. “Due to all these factors, I can emphatically say that the plant will again become a profitable venture given some support from the Government of India instead of taking the disinvestment route by implementing some turnaround measures such as allotting captive iron ore mines to bring down the input costs, swapping high cost debt with low cost debt, converting debt into equity through equity conversion and monetization of vacant land. I request you to consider the following measures for revival of RINL Visakhapatnam,” Mr. Jagan said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-seeks-appointment-with-modi-to-discuss-steel-plant-revival/article34032243.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Over 72% rise in UAPA cases registered in 2019||There has been an over 72% increase in the number of persons arrested under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities [Prevention] Act) in 2019 compared to year 2015, data provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the Lok Sabha show. As many as 1,948 persons were arrested under the UAPA in 1,226 cases registered across the country in 2019. From 2015 till 2018, the cases registered under the Act annually stood at 897, 922, 901 and 1,182 respectively, while the number of arrests was 1,128, 999, 1,554 and 1,421. In 2019, the highest number of such cases were registered in Manipur (306), followed by Tamil Nadu (270), Jammu & Kashmir (255), Jharkhand (105) and Assam (87) cases. The highest number of arrests in the same year were made in Uttar Pradesh (498), followed by Manipur (386), Tamil Nadu (308), Jammu & Kashmir (227) and Jharkhand (202). Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, in a written reply, said, “Cases under the UAPA are investigated by the State police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA). As far as the NIA is concerned, so far 48 special courts have been constituted across the country for the speedy trial of terror-related cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-72-rise-in-uapa-cases-registered-in-2019/article34032337.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||ACB conducts raids on nine officials across 11 districts||In a massive operation, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials, probing a disproportionate assets case, conducted raids on the residences and offices of nine government officials across 11 districts in Karnataka, including Bengaluru, Belagavi, Chickballapur, Mysuru, and Yadgir. As many as 52 teams carried out the searches at 28 places, said officials. After several hours of search and recovery, the ACB officials on Tuesday evening unearthed huge disproportionate assets, stated an official release. In total, over 3.6 kg of gold jewellery and 35 kg of silver articles, cash amounting to several lakhs, household items (in some cases valued at crores of rupees), vehicles, and documents were seized. Imported liquor valued at Rs. 7.5 lakh was seized from one official’s house. Another official had over 50 files related to office stuffed with cash amounting to Rs. 2.4 lakh. Bank accounts have also been frozen and investigation is under way. The officials under the scanner include Krishne Gowda, project director, Nirmiti Kendra, whose residence in Kolar and office in Chickballapur were raided; Hanamantha Shivappa Chikkannanavar, Deputy Chief Electrical Inspector, Belagavi circle; and Subramanya K. Vaddar, Joint Director, Town and Country Planning, Mysuru. Residences of their relatives were also searched. The others whose houses and offices were raided were Munigopal Raju, Superintendent Engineer, CESC, Mysuru; Channaveerappa, a first division assistant at an RTO office in Mysuru; Raju Pattar, Accounts Officer, Gescom, Yadgir; and K.M. Pratham, Deputy Director, Factories and Boilers, Davangere Division. In Bengaluru, teams searched the residences and offices of Victor Simon, police inspector, BMTF, and K. Subramanyam, junior engineer, BBMP. All the seized properties will be subjected to further verification to ascertain their known source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-conducts-raids-on-nine-officials-across-11-districts/article34032369.ece
10 March 2021||Hyderabad,||CM promised better PRC after MLC polls: govt. staff||Representatives of various Telangana employees associations met Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday at Pragati Bhavan and said the Chief Minister had assured them that their interests would be protected, including better benefits than the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, the leaders claimed that the government would not do any injustice to them and they had faith in the Chief Minister regarding PRC recommendations. Election code They said the Chief Minister was unable to make any statement on the Pay Revision Commission due to the election code and were hopeful that Chief Minister would not let them down. They claimed that the Pay Revision Commission announcement would come right after the MLC elections and reminded that in 2014 Telangana employees got the best Pay Revision Commission in the entire country. They said the Chief Minister had assured them that they would get better pay scales than the Andhra Pradesh employees. Moreover, the promotions too were given expeditiously compared to others. Enhancement of retirement age would also be a reality apart from pensions to the CPS employees. According to them, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao also agreed to bring back all Telangana employees from Andhra Pradesh and orders to this effect were also given to the officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-promised-better-prc-after-mlc-polls-govt-staff/article34032715.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC questions delay in setting up environment regulator||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government to explain why it had not set up an “independent environment regulator” to oversee green clearances. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati to find out and report to the court. The lapse was highlighted by advocate Prashant Bhushan, who said the top court had ordered the setting up of a national environment regulatory body to ensure independent oversight of green clearances way back in July 2011 in Lafarge Umiam Mining Private Limited v. Union of India, commonly known as the ‘Lafarge mining case’. “Environment impact assessment has been made into a farce,” Mr. Bhushan submitted. “Do you know we found that the Wildlife Board of India has not met in six years?” Chief Justice Bobde exclaimed. “All government regulations have been dismantled...” Mr. Bhushan voiced his concern, in reply. In 2011, the court had asked the Centre to appoint a national regulator for appraising projects, enforcing environmental conditions for approvals and to impose penalties on polluters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-questions-delay-in-setting-up-environment-regulator/article34032374.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Expedite process for free water supply: Dana Kishore||Managing Director of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board M.Dana Kishore has directed officials to take measures to expedite the process for implementation of the scheme to supply 20,000 litres of free drinking water per month. During a review meeting on Tuesday, he said an Aadhaar biometric device is being organised for every section of the water board jurisdiction to simplify the Aadhaar linking process for domestic consumers. Already, meter readers trained by water board are visiting door to door to complete the process for the domestic slum consumers. Domestic non-slum consumers have the facility at Mee-Seva centres to link their Consumer Account Numbers with Aadhaar. Linkage To ensure the linkage, the consumer should carry his Aadhaar card along with any bill copy issued by the water board in the past six months. Those without functional meters and whose meters are not working, will be eligible for the scheme from the date when they arrange for meters. Mr. Kishore fixed targets for managers of the water board to identify consumers without meters in the domestic category, and said by the month end each manager should ensure installation of 300 meters and new meters to replace the dysfunctional meters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/expedite-process-for-free-water-supply-dana-kishore/article34032717.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel flags Centre’s meagre pensions||The Centre must increase the “meagre” pensions provided for poor senior citizens, widows and disabled people, said the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Rural Development in its report submitted to the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The panel also slammed the government’s “laxity in raising the amount”, pointing out that recommendations to increase the sums had been made in the last two years as well. “The relevance of a marquee Scheme like National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) in reaching out to the poor and downtrodden section of society does not go amiss in the eyes of the Committee,” said the report. Panel baffled “However, the Committee is baffled to observe the meagre amount of assistance ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 500 per month under the different components of this Scheme,” it added. The committee pointed out that it had previously urged the increase of these miniscule pensions in its reports on the Department of Rural Development’s (DoRD) demand for grants in 2019-20 and 2020-21. “However, to the utter dismay of the Committee, nothing much has been forthcoming so far. The Committee does not endorse the non-serious approach of DoRD on this issue. In view of this laxity, the Committee again vehemently recommends the DoRD to look into this issue with utmost sincerity and hasten their processes for bringing an increase in the assistance amount under NSAP,” said the committee eport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-flags-centres-meagre-pensions/article34032335.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||‘Delkar’s suicide note names UT administrator’||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the suicide note left behind by Mohan Delkar, Lok Sabha MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, mentioned the name of the Union Territory’s administrator Praful Khoda Patel along with other officials who allegedly troubled him leading to his death. Speaking in the Assembly, Mr. Deshmukh announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team to probe the death of Delkar who was found dead in a Mumbai hotel. The minister also read out certain points from the suicide note. “He (Delkar) was a seven-time Lok Sabha MP. It means that he was a very popular and strong leader in his region. His suicide note mentions that he was troubled by certain officials and the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Mr. Patel, who was Home Minister of Gujarat when Narendra Modi was the Chief Minister, is the administrator of this UT,” Mr. Deshmukh said. The minister further said that Delkar’s suicide note clearly mentioned that the reason why he was committing suicide in Maharashtra was that he expected justice from this State’s Chief Minister. “We have formed an SIT to investigate the case. We will not let any person responsible for this to go scot free,” he added. Mr. Deshmukh in his statement also referred to the deceased MP’s wife Kalaben’s and son Abhinav’s pleas seeking justice for him. The Home Minister said that both of them had requested the State government to reveal the truth behind Delkar’s death. “His son has alleged that the local administration harassed and humiliated his father,” he said. The issue of Delkar’s death was raised by State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab who was replying to the allegations of Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis after the latter demanded suspension of Mumbai Police API Sachin Vaze in the case of death of Mansukh Hiren. Hiren was linked to the vehicle found with explosives outside the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delkars-suicide-note-names-ut-administrator/article34032870.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Seven schoolchildren shifted to hospital after complaints of dizziness||Seven children from the RCM Missionary School at Gudivada in Krishna district were shifted to hospital from school on Tuesday after they complained of giddiness and drowsiness. The children, all from 1st Class, went out of their classroom before lunch break and returned saying they had a reeling sensation. The teacher asked them to wash their faces to get rid of drowsiness, but when the problem persisted, the paediatrician from a hospital attached to the school was called to examine them. The affected children were then shifted to the hospital. Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao, along with Chief Minister’s Programme Coordinator Talasila Raghuram, Krishna district Superintendent of Police Ravindranath Babu and Joint Collector K. Madhavilatha, rushed to the school and took stock of the situation. The Minister spoke to the school authorities, the parents of the children and the doctors treating the children. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said RCM school was a reputed institution, known for its discipline and its 70-year-old existence. He said blood test and a few other tests were conducted on the children. He said the doctor who first examined the children said all of them showed symptoms of drowsiness. The Minister said since they had not eaten their lunch yet, there was a possibility of them eating some chocolate or biscuits brought from outside. He said, however, food and water samples had been sent for testing. He said there was no cause of worry as the doctors had said that the children would be normal once the drowsiness faded. Late in the evening, the Joint Collector said five of the seven children had completely recovered after they went into deep sleep and they would be sent home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-schoolchildren-shifted-to-hospital-after-complaints-of-dizziness/article34032250.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 69K crore ‘Deshbhakti Budget’ for Delhi||Finance Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday presented a Rs. 69,000 crore ‘Deshbhakti Budget’ for the 2021-22 fiscal, replete with provisions seeking to inspire patriotism in the run-up to the 75th Independence Day, free COVID-19 vaccination, and a vision for “India at 2047”. He also announced that the Delhi government aims to bid for hosting the 2048 Olympic Games. It is a dream project and part of the AAP government’s vision for the country, he said. The education sector got the lion’s share of funds — Rs. 16,377 crore — in the budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-69k-crore-deshbhakti-budget-for-delhi/article34032589.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC questions delay in setting up environment regulator||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government to explain why it had not set up an “independent environment regulator” to oversee green clearances. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati to find out and report to the court. The lapse was highlighted by advocate Prashant Bhushan, who said the top court had ordered the setting up of a national environment regulatory body to ensure independent oversight of green clearances way back in July 2011 in Lafarge Umiam Mining Private Limited v. Union of India, commonly known as the ‘Lafarge mining case’. “Environment impact assessment has been made into a farce,” Mr. Bhushan submitted. “Do you know we found that the Wildlife Board of India has not met in six years?” Chief Justice Bobde exclaimed. “All government regulations have been dismantled...” Mr. Bhushan voiced his concern, in reply. In 2011, the court had asked the Centre to appoint a national regulator for appraising projects, enforcing environmental conditions for approvals and to impose penalties on polluters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-questions-delay-in-setting-up-environment-regulator/article34032333.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Centre’s environmental nod for Kadapa Steel Plant||The Union government on Tuesday gave necessary environmental clearances to the Kadapa Steel Plant in the State. The Union Forest and Climate Change Ministry has given the clearance to the project. The State government sought permission in a proposal dated December 20, 2020. Revised proposals were sent on January 29, 2021. The government enclosed the environmental impact assessment copy with the proposal. The government conducted EAC meetings on December 30 and 31, and again February 10 and 11 in the villages. The steel plant will be constructed at Sunnapurallapalle and Pedda Nandaluru villages in YSR Kadapa district. The government had decided to set up the steel plant as a joint venture and selected the partners as per the SBICap recommendations. Liberty Steel India was selected as the JV partner. The first phase of the works would incur an expenditure of Rs. 10,082 crore, while Rs. 6,000 crore would be spent in the second phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centres-environmental-nod-for-kadapa-steel-plant/article34032330.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC questions delay in setting up environment regulator||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government to explain why it had not set up an “independent environment regulator” to oversee green clearances. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati to find out and report to the court. The lapse was highlighted by advocate Prashant Bhushan, who said the top court had ordered the setting up of a national environment regulatory body to ensure independent oversight of green clearances way back in July 2011 in Lafarge Umiam Mining Private Limited v. Union of India, commonly known as the ‘Lafarge mining case’. “Environment impact assessment has been made into a farce,” Mr. Bhushan submitted. “Do you know we found that the Wildlife Board of India has not met in six years?” Chief Justice Bobde exclaimed. “All government regulations have been dismantled...” Mr. Bhushan voiced his concern, in reply. In 2011, the court had asked the Centre to appoint a national regulator for appraising projects, enforcing environmental conditions for approvals and to impose penalties on polluters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-questions-delay-in-setting-up-environment-regulator/article34033072.ece
10 March 2021||MEDAK,||Woman set ablaze succumbs||A woman who was seriously injured after Putnala Sadath, a cattle trader, poured petrol and set her ablaze succumbed to burn injuries at the Osmania Hospital in Hyderabad in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to Chandana Deepthi, Superintendent of Police, Medak, the 42-year-old woman had financial dispute with Sadath. When she asked him to return the money he owed her on Sunday night, a dispute ensued and it was alleged that he doused her with petrol and set her ablaze. She was shifted to Osmania hospital where she breathed her last. Ms Chandana Deepthi said the accused was arrested and a probe is on. It was stated that the accused owed the woman Rs. 10,000. She met him on Sunday to get the amount. The accused took the victim to a toddy shop where they consumed toddy and later took her to an isolated spot and set her ablaze by dousing her with petrol. Cases under Section 302 and SC/ST Atrocities Act was registered against Sadath and he was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-set-ablaze-succumbs/article34032723.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||KTR accuses centre of bias||The Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said the Central government depended on Telangana for revenues while giving little in return. Despite that there was stable government, visionary leadership, safety of women, employment to youth and irrigation projects in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ktr-accuses-centre-of-bias/article34032714.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||For the devout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-the-devout/article34032719.ece
10 March 2021||Kolkata,||Defections from TMC mar poll landscape||The defection of 88-year-old four-time Trinamool Congress MLA from Singur Rabindranath Bhattacharya to the BJP could not have come at a worse time. Mr. Bhattacharya known as “master moshai (teacher)” is not only respected for his integrity, but he was also the face of the protests against forcible land acquisition at Singur for the Tata Nano small car project. Singur was synonymous with the TMC’s fight against land acquisition and was crucial to Mamata Banerjee’s ascent to power in 2011. Mr. Bhattacharya said the TMC had “abandoned” him and he refused to buy the argument that he was denied ticket because of his age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defections-from-tmc-mar-poll-landscape/article34032791.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Recoveries outweigh new infections in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 9,927 new COVID-19 cases which took the caseload to 22,38,398, while 56 fatalities pushed the death count to 52,556, a health official said. On the other hand, 12,182 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 20,89,294, he added. There are 95,322 active cases in the State now. After several days, the number of active cases declined a little. On Monday, there were 97,637 active cases. Pune city reported the highest 1,110 new cases, taking its tally to 1,01,389. Mumbai city recorded 1,012 new cases taking its tally to 3,35,595, while two deaths took the fatality count to 11,510. Mumbai division, which includes surrounding satellite towns, added 1,940 new cases and 11 deaths. It increased the cumulative infection figure in the region to 7,44,060 and the death toll to 19,901. Nashik division’s COVID-19 tally stands at 3,04,620 with a death count of 5,318. The number of cases recorded in the Pune division so far stands at 5,43,514 and deaths at 11,810. Kolhapur division has logged 1,20,513 cases and 4,080 deaths till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recoveries-outweigh-new-infections-in-maharashtra/article34032871.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Ruckus over demand to arrest API||Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday witnessed noisy scenes as Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded the arrest of an Assistant Police Inspector (API) in the Mansukh Hiren death case. Heated exchanges between MLAs of the ruling Shiv Sena and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party led to the House being adjourned several times before it was finally adjourned for the day. Mr. Fadnavis demanded action against API Sachin Vaze in connection with the death of Hiren who was in possession of the SUV laden with explosives, which was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, Antilia, on February 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruckus-over-demand-to-arrest-api/article34032872.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||All-party meet on Cauvery issue soon||The State government will convene an all-party meeting to discuss the Cauvery issue that has emerged following Tamil Nadu’s decision to start work on the link scheme transferring surplus water in the Cauvery basin to the Vaigai and the Gundar. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol announced this in the Legislative Council on Tuesday, after the Opposition parties accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of going slow on it in light of the elections in Tamil Nadu. The issue was raised in the Legislative Assembly as well. The Council saw the Opposition parties mounting an attack on the BJP for “playing politics” on the issue. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil asked why the government was delaying filing a petition in the Supreme Court and said the BJP was “sacrificing Karnataka’s interests by trying a new alliance with the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu.” “The file is with the Chief Minister. We will shortly convene an all-party meeting where technical and legal experts would also be called in. You [Opposition members] can provide inputs to the government,” he told the Legislative Council. Unhappy with the government’s reply, members of the Congress and the Janata Dal (S) walked out of the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-party-meet-on-cauvery-issue-soon/article34032366.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||White wonders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-wonders/article34032371.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||More vaccine doses for State||The State would receive 21,68,830 doses of vaccines soon, said a release issued by the Health Department here on Tuesday. These will be Covishield vaccines manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The Thiruvananthapuram region will receive 7,34,500 doses, Ernakulam 8,53,330 doses, and Kozhikode 5,81,000 doses. According to the information, the entire vaccine lot is expected to arrive on Tuesday itself. On Monday, the State had received 48,960 doses of Covaxin vaccine. Now that vaccine stocks are aplenty, Kerala intends to speed up the vaccination process, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-vaccine-doses-for-state/article34032743.ece
10 March 2021||Chennai,||EC orders suspension of SP Kannan||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday ordered the immediate suspension of former Chengalpattu Superintendent of Police D. Kannan, who was earlier in the day transferred to a non-election post in accordance with the directions of the poll watchdog. Mr. Kannan’s name figured in the case of a woman SP being harassed by an officer in the rank of Special DGP. In a letter to the Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary, ECI Secretary Malay Mallick called for reporting compliance of the suspension order by 11 a.m. on Wednesday. The Home Department had issued an order transferring Mr. Kannan and posting him as SP, Commercial Crimes Investigation-CID, Chennai. E. Sundaravathanam, an IPS officer who was transferred from the post of Deputy Commissioner, Traffic, North, Chennai city, was posted as SP, Chengalpattu. The ECI, which ordered his transfer on March 8, said the Chief Electoral Officer of Tamil Nadu had forwarded the report of the State Home Department, where it was mentioned that the officer was being investigated by the Crime Branch-CID in a case registered under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. “Considering the gravity of the case and the report of the Home Department of Tamil Nadu, the Commission has directed that D. Kannan be placed under suspension immediately and disciplinary proceedings be initiated against him,” Mr. Mallick said. Mr. Kannan was charged with attempting to stop the woman SP from proceeding to Chennai to file a complaint against a top officer. He later said he had acted on the instructions of the top officer. In another order, ECI Director Pankar Srivastava instructed the Chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, New Delhi, to transfer K.G. Arunraj, an IRS officer, from Tamil Nadu and attach him with the CBDT headquarters. The order was given after a “review of the electoral preparedness” in Tamil Nadu, which goes to the polls next month.  Kannan was charged with attempting to stop the woman SP from proceeding to Chennai to file a complaint against a top officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-orders-suspension-of-sp-kannan/article34032511.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of duty!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-of-duty/article34032332.ece
10 March 2021||Kolkata,||Eastern Railway building fire: death toll rises to nine||The death toll in a fire that broke out at the Eastern Railway headquarters in Kolkata on Monday evening rose to nine on Tuesday. The blaze broke out on the 13th floor of the 14-storey building located on Strand Road. Seven people, including four firefighters, were found dead late on Monday evening while two persons had gone missing. Two more bodies were recorded in the early hours of Tuesday. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee along with Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra had reached the spot late on Monday evening and took stock of the rescue operations. She also visited the State-run SSKM Hospital where the bodies were taken after midnight. The deceased included four firefighters who were identified as Girish Dey, Gaurav Bej, Aniruddha Jana and Biman Purakait, as well as assistant sub-inspector from the Kolkata Police’s Hare police station Amit Bhawal. Three railway officials — Deputy Chief Commercial Manager (DCM) of Eastern Railway Partha Pratim Mondal, Sanjay Sahani, security officer of DCM, and Utpal Acharya, a railway employee, died in the fire. One body is yet to be identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eastern-railway-building-fire-death-toll-rises-to-nine/article34032793.ece
10 March 2021||Mangaluru,||MCC to supply treated sewage water to Pilikula Golf Club||The council of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has given its approval to supply 10 lakh litres of “secondary filtered” sewage water to Pilikula Golf Club daily. It will be supplied from the tertiary Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Pilikula by charging Rs. 1 per 1,000 litres. However, earlier the club had sought the MCC to charge Rs. 1 per 2,000 litres. But the council in its meeting decided to fix the same fee per 1,000 litres. The club had sought “secondary filtered” sewage to maintain its lawn. The council has decided that the club should lay a 200 m long pipeline required to get the treated water on its own under the supervision of the engineers of the corporation. According to Ganeshan R., Superintendent Engineer and Deputy Commissioner (Development) at the corporation presently the civic body supplied 25 MLD (million litres a day) of treated sewage from its plant at Kavoor to Mangaluru Special Economic Zone Ltd for industries under its jurisdiction. The Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Kavoor has the processing capacity of 45 MLD. Once the project of supplying treated sewage to the club is through it will become the second institution in Mangaluru to re-use the treated sewage.  The tertiary STP is outside the compound wall of Pilikula Biological Park (zoo) which has been facing the issue of untreated sewage water being let into its premises now and then since past three years. The Director of the park H. J. Bhandary told The Hindu that in the latest case, the sewage water was let into the park a fortnight ago posing risk to the health of animals under captivity. According to Mr. Bhandary during the past three years two sambar deers had died consequent to drinking sewage and four tigers had developed infections on their paws after stepping on the sewage accumulated in their moats. Sewage has killed at least 50 trees in the park. The sewage is being let into the park due to its maintenance issues. Mr. Ganeshan said that the issue has been addressed sometime ago and the flow to the park has been plugged. The sewage could have flowed out recently in case if there was an excess flow of sewage to the tertiary STP. Mayor Premananda Shetty said that he would look into whether the issue has been completely addressed or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mcc-to-supply-treated-sewage-water-to-pilikula-golf-club/article34032848.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||First Kolkata nearby||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea to “prohibit” the conduct of West Bengal Assembly election in an “unequal manner” in eight phases and direct a CBI probe into the use of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as a rallying slogan in the run-up to the poll. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, initially asked the petitioner, advocate M.L. Sharma, to approach the High Court or the Election Commission of India (ECI). The court, at one point, said, “In a given case, it is a corrupt practice in appealing for votes using religion” and the petitioner would be better advised to approach the ECI. The court finally and categorically told Mr. Sharma that it was dismissing his case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-kolkata-nearby/article34032790.ece
10 March 2021||Guwahati,||Second Kolkata nearby||The Mizoram government has declined to provide details or the number of Myanmar nationals who have crossed over since March 1 seeking asylum after the coup in the neighbouring country. The government is also awaiting instructions from the Ministry of Home Affairs on how to handle the foreign nationals who had fled fearing a military crackdown. The Tatmadaw, or Myanmar military, had taken over the country after a coup in February. “There is no proper instruction from the Centre, and it is not fair. I am ready to help the people in my individual capacity and from the government on humanitarian grounds,” Mizoram’s Environment and Transport Minister T.J. Lalnungtluanga told The Hindu on Tuesday. He represents the Champhai South Assembly constituency that has borne the brunt of the refugee crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-kolkata-nearby/article34032792.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Bomb scare: NIA team meets Crime Branch chief||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday met the Mumbai Crime Branch chief in connection with the probe into the vehicle with explosives found near Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, last month, an official said. The NIA said on Monday that it had taken over the case on the orders of the Union Home Ministry. The NIA team met Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe and discussed the investigation conducted into the case so far. The Crime Branch started the investigation after a Scorpio with gelatin sticks was found on Carmichael Road near Antilia on February 25. The NIA too started a parallel probe the same day.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bomb-scare-nia-team-meets-crime-branch-chief/article34032873.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Ravi Pujari’s police custody extended till March 15||The special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime court on Tuesday extended gangster Ravi Pujari’s police custody till March 15 in a case of firing outside a hotel in suburban Mumbai in 2016. Pujari was extradited to India in February 2020 and produced before the court on February 23 after being brought from Bengaluru. The case against him is that his gang members fired a few shots at complainant, owner of the hotel in Vile Parle, on October 21, 2016. They are alleged to have given Pujari’s contact details to the owner but he didn’t call the gangster. The shooter and seven others were arrested. On February 23, Mumbai’s Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe had told reporters that 49 cases had been registered against Pujari in various parts of the city. “The Mumbai Police had submitted strong evidence against Pujari in connection with 10 cases before a Senegal court and requested his extradition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ravi-pujaris-police-custody-extended-till-march-15/article34032874.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Toolkit’: court extends protection from arrest||A Delhi court on Tuesday ext- ended protection from arrest till March 15 to Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, both accused in the ‘toolkit’ case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-accused-get-protection-from-arrest-in-toolkit-case/article34032591.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two beaten to death by mob in Azadpur Mandi||Two men were beaten to death by a mob in north Delhi’s Azadpur Sabzi Mandi on Tuesday over suspicion of theft, the police said, adding that one body was found stuffed inside a jute bag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-beaten-to-death-by-mob-at-azadpur-mandi/article34032592.ece
10 March 2021||YADGIR,||Grandsons of former MLA found dead||Two grandsons of Hampayya Nayak, former MLA of Manvi, were found dead near a stream in Ballatagi village of Sirwar taluk in Raichur district on Monday. The victims were identified as Varun, 9, and Tanay, 5. They were sons of Shivanand Nayak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grandsons-of-former-mla-found-dead/article34032692.ece
10 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Internet curbs continue in violence-hit Bhainsa||Bhainsa, a small town in Telangana’s Nirmal district, remained by and large peaceful on Tuesday with no untoward incidents, post-Sunday’s communal clashes in which at least 10 persons, including a journalist and three police personnel, were injured. Prohibitory orders and suspension of Internet services continue to be in force. The clashes broke out on Sunday evening after a heated argument between a motorcyclist belonging to one community and people from another community. Within a short time, two groups had gathered. They threw stones at each other and set houses, vehicles and small business establishments on fire. Review today Internet services were suspended to stop locals from sharing photos and videos of the incident on social media. The services could be restored later in the night on Tuesday, a police official said. Prohibitory orders, enforced under Section 144 of the CrPC, were also likely to be reviewed, he said. There was no problem in supply of essentials, including water and milk. “Normality returned to Bhainsa on Monday itself, but we are yet to take a call on restoring Internet services,” said the district’s in-charge Superintendent of Police, Vishnu S. Warrier. He said they had registered 15 cases against several people for rioting, arson and bodily offences. Fourteen persons, including two municipal councillors — one from AIMIM and an Independent — were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. “At least 20 more suspects involved in the violence are absconding and six special teams, comprising 60 personnel, have been formed to nab them,” the officer said.  28 suspects questioned Another 28 suspects who took part in Sunday's violence were taken into custody and were being questioned, another officer said. “Based on available evidence and eye-witness accounts, the role of eight persons in custody has already been proved and they will soon be remanded,” he said on condition of anonymity. Heavy contingents of police were deployed to maintain law and order in the town. According to Mr. Warrier, over 600 police personnel from the neighbouring districts had been deployed from Sunday evening.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/internet-curbs-continue-in-violence-hit-bhainsa/article34032254.ece
10 March 2021||Kolkata,||‘Model Nandigram’ is Mamata’s poll promise||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday started her campaign in Nandigram with a promise of delivering a “model Nandigram”. Raising the slogan “ Bhulte paari nijer naam, Bhulbo na Nandigram [Can forget my name but won’t forget Nandigram]”, she said she chose to contest from here because the constituency was a symbol of struggle. “Tomorrow, I will file nomination from Haldia... if you don’t want me to contest then I will leave,” she said. At the workers’ convention, Ms. Banerjee said she had decided to contest from Nandigram when the sitting MLAs had resigned. “I could have easily contested from Bhawanipore, which is my home, but I chose Nandigram which is a symbol of protest,” she said. April fool taunt The Chief Minister said the voting in Nandigram was on April 1 and they should make “April fool” of those offering money. “Take money from them but do not vote for them,” she said referring to her political opponents. She also said she would build a home in Nandigram. “I have rented a two-room house in Nandigram and will come to live here every two months.” Senior Trinamool Congress leaders have started scouting for a house for Ms. Banerjee. The Chief Minister is likely to spend a few days in Nandigram before the constituency goes to the polls. While Ms. Banerjee refrained from any mention of her opponent Suvendu Adhikari, she accused him of creating “communal divide”. “Those creating the 70% and 30% divide should keep in mind that we are 100% together. In Nandigram when the violence erupted some people had given call of Azan and some had blown conch shells,” she said. She referred to the recent remarks of Mr. Adhikari calling her an “outsider” (bahiragata) and said the person accusing her is a resident of Medinipur while she hailed from Birbhum. Mr. Adhikari had said the Chief Minister was an ‘outsider’ in Nandigram and had not visited the constituency in the past five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/model-nandigram-is-mamatas-poll-promise/article34032268.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||ACB searches premises of nine Karnataka officials||In a massive operation, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials, probing a disproportionate assets case, conducted raids at the residences and offices of nine government officials across Karnataka, including in Bengaluru, Belagavi, Chickballapur, Mysuru, and Yadgir. As many as 52 teams, headed by jurisdictional SPs and DCPs, carried out the searches at 28 places, said officials. The officials under the scanner include Krishne Gowda, project director, Nirmiti Kendra, whose residence in Kolar and office in Chickballapur, were raided; Hanamantha Shivappa Chikkannanavar, Deputy Chief Electrical Inspector, Belagavi circle; and Subramanya K. Vaddar, Joint Director, Town and Country Planning, Mysuru. Residences of their relatives were also searched, said an ACB official. The other officials whose houses and offices were raided are Munigopal Raju, Superintendent Engineer, CESC, Mysuru; Channaveerappa, a first division assistant at an RTO office in Mysuru; Raju Pattar, Accounts Officer, Gescom, Yadgir; and K.M. Pratham, Deputy Director, Factories and Boilers, Davangere Division. In Bengaluru, teams searched the residences and office of Victor Simon, police inspector, BMTF, and K. Subramanyam, junior engineer, BBMP. ACB officials recovered cash, movable and immovable properties as well as gold and silver jewellery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/acb-searches-premises-of-nine-karnataka-officials/article34032246.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Covaxin enhanced immune response ’||Covaxin, India’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, showed enhanced immune response as well as better reactogenicity (reaction symptoms) and safety outcomes in the phase 2 trial, interim results that have now been published in the journal Lancet Infectious Diseases said. The publication comes days after Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech said the vaccine demonstrated an interim clinical efficacy of 81% in its later phase 3 clinical trial. Developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it is a two dose vaccine, given 28 days apart. Tracing the vaccine’s performance, the research article said in the phase 1 trial, Covaxin (BBV152) “induced high neutralising antibody responses that remained elevated in all participants at three months after the second vaccination. In the phase 2 trial, BBV152 showed better reactogenicity and safety outcomes, and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses compared with the phase 1 trial,” the study said. However, the results from the Phase 2 study do not permit efficacy assessments, the authors said. “The evaluation of safety outcomes requires extensive phase 3 clinical trials. We were unable to assess other immune responses (that is, binding antibody and cell-mediated responses) in convalescent serum samples due to the low quantity,” they said. Besides interim results of the double-blind, randomised, multi-centre, phase 2 trial, the publication also covered a 3-month follow-up of the phase 1 trial. The publication in the Lancet journal said the phase 2 trial to evaluate immunogenicity and safety of the vaccine was conducted in 380 healthy children and adults (aged 12–65 years) at nine hospitals in India. Two-intramuscular doses of the vaccine were given four weeks apart. “Due to the difference in dosing regimens between phase 1 (two doses given two weeks apart) and phase 2 (two doses, 4 weeks apart) trials, neutralisation responses were significantly higher in the phase 2 trial than in the phase 1 trial. Immunological differences between men and women, and across age groups were not observed,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-enhanced-immune-response/article34032294.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea against 8-phase Bengal poll dismissed||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea to “prohibit” the conduct of West Bengal Assembly election in an “unequal manner” in eight phases and direct a CBI probe into the use of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ as a rallying slogan in the run-up to the poll. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, initially asked the petitioner, advocate M.L. Sharma, to approach the High Court or the Election Commission of India (ECI). The court, at one point, said, “In a given case, it is a corrupt practice in appealing for votes using religion” and the petitioner would be better advised to approach the ECI. The court finally and categorically told Mr. Sharma that it was dismissing his case.  Mr. Sharma had arraigned Union Home Minister Amit Shah and West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari as respondents. His petition said the CBI should launch a probe under the Indian Penal Code and the Representation of the People Act. They raised the religious slogan of ‘Jai Shri Ram,’ creating disharmony and it was “an attack upon the citizen of India for provoking, effecting their mind to fight among themselves and to give vote in their favour for electoral benefits”, he said. The plea said the eight-phase poll was declared “without disclosing valid reasons, respondent cannot declare voting in different style/phase/manner to facilitate political demand for a specific party, that is, BJP”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-8-phase-bengal-poll-dismissed/article34032275.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Wear masks properly or get off plane’||Flight passengers who exhibit stubborn reluctance to wear their masks properly, could now get offloaded immediately or be placed in the “no-fly” list, as per a fresh guidelines issued by the Delhi High Court. “It is made clear that masks should be worn as directed by governmental instructions, covering the nose and mouth, and not worn merely covering the mouth or below the chin,” Justice C. Hari Shankar ordered. Alarming situation Justice Shankar said he was constrained to pass the order because of an alarming situation, which he witnessed during the Air India flight from Kolkata to New Delhi on March 5, 2021. “It was noticed that, though all the passengers had worn masks, many passengers had worn the masks below their chin and were exhibiting a stubborn reluctance to wear their masks properly,” the judge said. He said that this behaviour was seen not only in the bus transporting the passengers from the airport to the flight, but also within the flight itself. It was only on repeated entreaties made by Justice Shankar himself to the offending passengers that they condescended to wear their masks properly. When the cabin crew was questioned in this regard, they said they had directed all the passengers to wear masks, but were helpless when they did not comply. “To the perception of the court, such a situation, in the present scenario, when the country is seeing a resurgence of COVID-19 cases, after they had shown signs of ebbing, is completely unconscionable,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wear-masks-properly-or-get-off-plane/article34032279.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC seeks response on petition against new IT Rules||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a petition challenging the new IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, claiming it seeks to regulate online news portals by imposing government oversight and a vaguely worded ‘Code of Ethics’. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notices to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) and Ministry Of Information & Broadcasting on the plea filed by Foundation for Independent Journalism, a trust that owns digital news portal The Wire.  The petition argued that the new IT Rules issued on February 25, 2021, were “palpably illegal” in seeking to control and regulate digital news media when the parent statute nowhere provided for such a remit. It said the new IT Rules had “profound and serious harms for digital news media” and was destructive of their rights. Other petitioners in the case include M.K. Venu, Director and Founding Editor, The Wire , and Dhanya Rajendran, founder & Editor-In-Chief, The News Minute . The plea stated that the IT Rules, 2021, introduced two distinct sets of regulations — one, due diligence norms to be followed by ‘intermediaries’ and two, ‘Code of Ethics’ ought to be adhered to by ‘publishers’, along with a three-tier compliance mechanism. While ‘intermediaries’ were recognised and regulated by the IT Act, the plea said that the new IT Rules laid down a separate ‘Code of Ethics’ for the two kinds of publishers — publishers of news and current affairs content, and publishers of online curated content. “...the parent (IT) Act does not recognise digital news media as a separate category of entities and does not seek to subject them or their content to any set of special regulations,” said the plea filed through advocates Prasanna S., Vinoothna Vinjam and Bharat Gupta. “The content to be regulated by the parent Act, as offences, was limited to sexually explicit material, child pornography, showing private parts of individuals, cyber terrorism, etc. to be prosecuted and tried by normal courts,” it added. “The IT Rules, 2021, expand the scope of the Act even further by providing for a Code of Ethics and a three-tier regulatory system to administer a loose-ranging Code of Ethics, that contains wide and vague terms as ‘half-truths’, ‘good taste’, ‘decency’,” the petition said. “The IT Rules, 2021, provide for an oversight mechanism, including the setting up of an Inter-Departmental Committee which has the power to hear grievances regarding compliance with the said Code of Ethics, as well as the power to recommend to the Ministry of I&B, draconian measures such as ordering the deletion, modification of content or blocking the same,” the plea contended.   ...the loose-ranging Code of Ethics contains wide and vague terms as ‘half-truths’, ‘good taste’, ‘decency’ Plea filed in HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-seeks-response-on-petition-against-new-it-rules/article34032296.ece
10 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to enforce strict road safety laws||With Odisha losing young lives on account of road accidents, the State government has decided to enforce Motor Vehicles Act strictly. Of the total persons who died in road accidents in Odisha in 2019, 76% victims belonged to the age group of 18-45, while 41% of deaths took place as two-wheelers riders did not have helmets. A high-level meeting, chaired by Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, reviewed reasons leading to road accident deaths. The meeting was attended by District Collectors and Superintendent of Police from all districts. “In 2019, 2,397 two-wheeler riders had died in road accidents as they had not worn helmet. A total of 5,333 persons lost their lives in road accidents in 2019. They constitute 41% of total deaths that occurred on road,” said Madhusudan Padhi, State Commerce and Transport Secretary. The number of deaths fell by 11% in 2020 compared to 2019. Experts believe the drop in number of deaths was due to the lockdown. There was less movement of vehicles for a considerable period in 2020. Chalking out plans Mr. Mohapatra asked the District Collectors and SPs to come up with a strategy for bringing down the road accident deaths. “Rumbles should be fixed at places where major roads connect national highways. Safety instructions must be put up at rumbles,” he instructed. A decision was taken to reduce the time taken in rushing ambulances to accident spots. A senior police officer would be supervising the rescue and admission of accident victims at the nearest hospital within an hour of the accident. According to State Transport Secretary, 286 black spots (accident-prone spots) identified in 2016 have been attended. Moreover, 435 and 275 black spots identified in 2017 and 2018 respectively have also been taken care of. Work is going on regarding 335 black spots pinpointed in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-govt-to-enforce-road-safety-laws-strictly/article34032597.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army to showcase counter-terror skills||At Exercise Dustlik-II between India and Uzbekistan from March 10-19, the Army will showcase its Counter Insurgency (CI) and Counter Terrorism (CT) skills. The focus will be on people-centric intelligence based surgical operations, incorporating technological advancements to minimise collateral damage, a defence source said. The broad aim of the exercise is CI,CT operations in mountainous, rural and urban scenarios under United Nations (UN) mandate and the Army will share the experiences and lessons it has gained in Kashmir, an Army source said. A lot of technology has been incorporated in CI, CT operations and efficiency has considerably gone up in operations which also helps in minimizing collateral damage which would also be showcased, the source stated. India has a series of joint exercises scheduled in the next financial year beginning April 2021 including with Central Asian Republics — Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan — in addition to Mongolia and Russia as part of its growing engagement with the region. “Uzbekistan is important to India for security and connectivity to Central Asian region and also Iran,” a defence source said, underscoring the importance and adding that it is also one alternative India has with respect to Afghanistan. The Army’s 13 Kumaon regiment, also called the Rezang La battalion for its heroic action in the 1962 war with China, has been nominated from the Indian side for the company level CI, CT exercise being held at Chaubatia, near Ranikhet in Uttarakhand. The validation exercise is scheduled on March 17 and 18 and the closing ceremony on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-showcase-counter-terror-skills/article34032290.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.S. plan for Afghanistan raises concerns||The inclusion of India in the United States’s latest strategy of regional talks on Afghanistan was welcome but it did not remove several misgivings New Delhi had about Washington’s policy over the conflict that was revealed over the weekend during U.S. Special Envoy Zalmay Khalilzad’s talks with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and a letter written by U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken to Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani, sources said. Mr. Khalilzad is understood to have apprised Mr. Jaishankar of Mr. Blinken’s missive, after which he travelled to Islamabad for meetings with Pakistan’s Army Chief General Qamar Bajwa. He “thanked Pakistani counterparts for their assistance and asked for Pakistan’s continued commitment to the peace process,” U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said. According to the letter to Mr. Ghani, which was published by Afghan agency Tolo News, and has not been denied by the U.S. or Afghan governments, Mr. Blinken’s plan is to ask the United Nations to convene a meeting of “Foreign Ministers and Special Envoys from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India and the U.S.” to discuss a “unified approach” on Afghanistan. For New Delhi, which has protested being left out of regional formulations in the past both in the original Moscow process, and in the United Nation’s April 2020 “6+2+1” that included Afghanistan’s “immediate neighbours” only, the U.S.’s suggestion is a relief. Even so, experts question what such a group would achieve. “It seems the U.S. just wants to accelerate its exit from the conflict by proposing this grouping at the U.N. It is a mystery what the U.S. expects to discuss around a table with China, Russia, Iran and Pakistan, all of which it is otherwise at odds with, and is seeking to contain or sanction. How will it help India?” asked Kabir Taneja, Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation. Equally puzzling is the U.S.’s plan to ask the government of Turkey to host a senior-level meeting of “both sides in the coming weeks to finalise a peace agreement.” Role for Turkey Officials said the new emphasis for an Istanbul process over the current process in Doha, might indicate a greater role for Turkey, as well as Turkish troops as a part of a proposed “NATO stabilisation force”, something that New Delhi might have concerns about, given close ties between Turkey and Pakistan. Other parts of the Blinken letter and the Afghan policy proposals that have been outlined in Mr. Khalilzad’s conversations could also be a source of concerns, some of which would be raised during the coming visit of U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin to Delhi next week, although it is unclear whether the first Quad summit, including U.S. President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expected to be held on March 12, will cover the U.S.’s latest moves in Afghanistan. For example, the U.S. has pushed for a road map to a “new, inclusive government” in Kabul, which indicates its desire to replace Mr. Ghani’s government with an interim one that would include the Taliban’s nominees. “There seems to be a certain inevitability in these proposals for Afghanistan, which suggests that the U.S. has already decided that the Taliban has a legitimate place in Kabul,” an official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-plan-for-afghanistan-raises-concerns/article34032297.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Entry for ‘Futurescapes’ painting contest closes today||A huge canvas is being provided for budding artists to showcase their talent. JSW Paints in association with The Hindu Young World is conducting ‘Futurescapes’, a painting competition for school students from class 3 to 12. Open for students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana along with Union Territory of Puducherry, the entries for the preliminary round must be submitted by March 10. Topics The topics for the competition for the Sub-Junior (Classes 3 to 5) category are ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’ and ‘My Favourite Animal’. For the Junior (Classes 6 to 8) category, the topics are ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun with Family’ and ‘Wildlife Safari’. The Senior (Classes 9 to 12) category will have the topics ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’ and ‘Clean and Green India’. Participants may choose one of the three topics in their respective categories and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons or colour pencils. Markers or sketch pens can be used only for outlining purposes. Next, the participants must visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/jswpaints to complete the online registration and upload a scanned copy of their works. A Unique Registration Number will be generated after the uploading is completed, which must be written on the frontside of the physical copy along with the topic. On the backside, details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, state, category of participation, parent’s name, registered e-mail address and mobile number must be written. The physical copies of the paintings with these details must be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process with “JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021” written on the top left corner of the envelope. The physical copies of the works must reach the respective offices by March 10. Participants from Bengaluru and neighbouring districts may send physical copy of paintings to The Hindu, 19 & 21, Bhagwan Mahaveer Road (Old Infantry Road), Bengaluru – 560001. For details and clarifications, schools, parents or students may contact Raghavendra Desai on mobile; 9986196254. They may also call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Those participants who qualify for the finale will be intimated through the registered e-mail address. Each participant may submit only one painting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/entry-for-futurescapes-painting-contest-closes-today/article34032376.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Explosives near Ambani house: NIA meets Crime Branch chief||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday met the Mumbai Crime Branch chief in connection with the probe into the vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month, an official said. The NIA had said on Monday that it had taken over the case. The team of the Central agency met Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe and discussed the investigation conducted so far. The Crime Branch started the investigation after a Scorpio with gelatin sticks was found on Carmichael Road near Mr. Ambani’s residence on February 25. The NIA too started a parallel probe the same day. The SUV was found to have been stolen from the possession of Thane-based automobile spare parts dealer Mansukh Hiren, who said he had already filed a police complaint. But the mystery deepened when Hiran’s body was found from a creek on March 5. Subsequently three FIRs registered in connection with the incident were transferred to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad for investigation. On Monday, the NIA said it was taking over the probe, on the orders of the Union Home Ministry, in the case related to the recovery of explosives from the Scorpio. Vimla Hiren, wife of the auto parts dealer who died mysteriously last week, has alleged in her statement to the ATS that Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze might have killed her husband. On Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis also cited her statement in the Maharashtra Assembly and demanded that Vaze be arrested. The police officer did not offer comment immediately on the allegations. Ms. Hiren recorded her statement before the ATS on March 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explosives-near-ambani-house-nia-meets-crime-branch-chief/article34032797.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Closing border roads is ridiculous’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday termed ‘ridiculous’ the action of the authorities to close majority of the roads connecting Kerala in Dakshina Kannada district to prevent the spread of COVID-19 when people from Kerala can enter Karnataka through all other roads in other districts. Also, it asked how the State government can compel people from Kerala, even if they have RT-PCR negative reports, to travel extra distance to enter DK district by keeping only four roads open of the 27 roads connecting Kerala with DK district when the Centre’s guidelines mandate keeping open the roads connecting State borders. However, the court made it clear that its observations should not be construed as suggesting that roads in other districts connecting Kerala also should be closed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty made these oral observations during the hearing of a PIL petition filed B. Subbaya Rai, a Mangaluru-based advocate. “Can you ask people entering Karnataka from Kerala via flights to come to a particular airport,” the Bench questioned. “What the government should do is to provide facilities to check RT-PCR test reports at every entry point from Kerala,” it said. Further hearing has been adjourned till March 18 to consider the legality of closure of roads. Earlier, the government counsel told the Bench that the decision to keep only four roads open was taken by the District Disaster Management Authority to ensure that only those with RT-PCR negative reports were allowed to enter the district from Kerala as per the government’s February 16 circular. It was clarified by the government counsel that closure of roads bordering Kerala is only in DK district as a large number of people commute using these roads and no roads connecting Kerala have been closed in any other districts. However, the Bench pointed out that neither did the February 16 circular propose closure of border roads nor had the technical advisory committee on COVID-19 made such recommendations though the government has now supported DK district authority’s decision to keep open only four roads where facilities to check RT-PCR report are made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/closing-border-roads-is-ridiculous/article34032241.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana HC awards jail term to Siddipet Collector, RDO||Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao of the Telangana High Court has sentenced two top revenue officials to simple imprisonment ranging from three to four months, after holding them guilty of contempt of court in a case relating to acquisition of land for the Mallannasagar reservoir. P. Venkatrami Reddy, who served as Siddipet district Collector till August 31, 2018 and is continuing in the post from June 10, 2019, was awarded the jail term. The judge also imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 while instructing him to pay Rs. 25,000 to the petitioners towards costs within four weeks. The judge awarded simple imprisonment of four months to Jayachandra Reddy serving as Special Deputy Collector Land Acquisition Kaleshwaram project Unit III cum RDO of Siddipet. He was fined Rs. 2,000 and also directed to pay Rs. 50,000 to the petitioners towards costs. The jail term for the two officers was suspended for six weeks. Another officer Krishna Bhaskar, IAS, who served as Siddipet Collector from August 30, 2018 to June 9, 2019, was held guilty of wilful disobedience of the HC order in writ petition no. 19572 of 2018 along with the two other officials. Mr. Bhaskar, presently serving as Sircilla Rajanna district Collector, was imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000. Contempt of court Mr. P. Venkatrami Reddy and Mr. Jayachandra Reddy were also held guilty of not complying with the interim order issued by the court in a contempt of court case pertaining to the writ petition. After hearing contentions of the counsels of the petitioners and the government, the judge delivered the verdict stating that the authorities had dispossessed the petitioners of their lands despite the interim orders issued by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-hc-awards-jail-term-to-siddipet-collector-rdo/article34032239.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Parliament stalls again over fuel price hike||For the second consecutive day, both Houses of Parliament failed to function on Tuesday, with relentless protests from Opposition members after their demand for a debate on the frequent hike in fuel prices was rejected. Rajya Sabha saw two adjournments before the House was closed for the day at 2:10 p.m. Tuesday was the first sitting of both Houses of Parliament as per the pre-COVID timings and seating arrangements, with members sitting in their respective chambers instead of being spread out in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers. The first adjournment in the Upper House came within 20 minutes of its convening as opposition members began protests when Deputy Chairman Harivansh once again refused to concede to their demand for suspending the business of the day to debate the rising fuel prices. “You all are well aware of the ruling given by the Chairman on the issue; he has already said that there are many opportunities to discuss the fuel hike in the course of the session and separate time cannot be set aside for it,” Mr. Harivansh said. Leader of the Opposition Malikarjun Kharge said the fuel hikes have had a cascading impact on the prices of essential commodities and there should be a separate discussion on the consequent scarcity. He said, at least, the government should assure the House that the prices will be scaled back to the 2013-14 levels. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tried unsuccessfully to convince the Opposition to clear the Statutory Resolution and the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to replace an ordinance in this regard, saying its passage is essential. The Bill has already been passed by the Lok Sabha. However, senior Congress MP Anand Sharma said according to the tradition in the House, no government bill is taken up when the Opposition is demanding a discussion over an important issue. “Opposition has a right to take up the issue,” he said as several opposition members kept raising slogans demanding a discussion on the rising fuel prices. Similar scenes were witnessed in Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-stalls-again-over-fuel-price-hike/article34032270.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Cyber volunteer programme rolled out, MHA informs LS||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that a “cyber volunteer” programme has been rolled out for “cyber hygiene promotion” and the services of volunteers would be utilised by the State police as per requirement. The MHA, through its cyber crime grievance portal- cybercrime.gov.in, aims to raise a group of “cyber crime volunteers” to flag “unlawful content” on the Internet. Various groups, including the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), have expressed concern that the programme enables a culture of surveillance and could create potential social distrust by encouraging civilians to report the online activities of other citizens. Privacy matters Biju Janta Dal Member of Parliament Pinaki Misra asked whether “concerns of infringement of privacy due to surreptitious and malafide intrusion into an individual’s online activities are addressed in this programme and its operating protocol.” Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said in a written reply, “The challenges of cyber space are many which flow from its vastness and borderless character. ... Cyber Crime Volunteer Framework has been rolled out as an initiative as a part of cyber hygiene promotion to bring together citizens to contribute in the fight against cybercrime in the country and assist State/UT LEAs (law enforcement agencies) in their endeavour to curb cyber crimes. The volunteers will be enrolled and their services utilized by the respective State/UT Police Authorities, as per their requirement.” The Minister observed in another reply that the MHA had operationalised the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal on August 30, 2019 to provide a centralised mechanism to the citizens for online reporting of all types of cyber crime incidents, with a special focus on cyber crimes against women and children. The reply said that as per the data maintained, since its inception, 3,17,439 cyber crime incidents and 5,771 FIRs have been registered up to February 28 in the country. The conversion of complaints received into FIRs stood at 1.81%. The Minister stated in a third reply that the government had approved the setting up of 1,023 Fast Track Special Courts (FTSCs), including 389 exclusive POCSO Courts, for expeditious trial and disposal of cases related to rape and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “As per published information, the conviction rate for the POCSO cases in 2019 was 34.9%,” the reply stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyber-volunteer-programme-rolled-out-mha-informs-ls/article34032273.ece
10 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Former CM Mahanta will not contest Assam Assembly poll||Former Assam Chief Minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta will not contest the upcoming Assam Assembly election, his wife and former MP Jayashree Goswami Mahanta said late on Monday. The Asom Gana Parishad, (AGP), of which Mr. Mahanta was the founder-president in 1985, had denied ticket to him. The two-time former Chief Minister has been representing the Barhampur constituency in central Assam’s Nagaon district since 1991. His pet seat went to AGP’s ally BJP following a seat-sharing agreement in New Delhi on March 5. The BJP has fielded Jitu Goswami, a loyalist of Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-cm-mahanta-will-not-contest-assam-assembly-poll/article34032277.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Four leaders behind fake CD: Jarkiholi||Former Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who resigned over an alleged “sex-for-job scandal” last week, claimed on Tuesday that “four leaders” were behind the conspiracy to defame him, but refused to disclose their names. Mr. Jarkiholi, who came out in the public for the first time after activist Dinesh Kallahalli withdrew his complaint over the issue, claimed that the CD allegedly showing him in a compromising position with a woman was “fake”. “The conspiracy to create this CD was hatched on the fifth floor of a building next to Orion mall in Bengaluru and on the fourth floor of another building near the Yeshwantpur police station,” the BJP MLA alleged, adding that the woman in the CD was paid Rs. 5 crore and given two flats abroad. Mr. Jarkiholi said the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy was one of the first to call him after the CD was leaked. “The Chief Minister and even the high command of the BJP have supported me. I have no enemies in the Congress as well. But a day after I took charge as Minister, a big leader challenged me publicly that I will not last in the department. That leader is behind the conspiracy.” He said his “family’s respect” was at stake and he would fight to preserve that. Mr. Jarkiholi said the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy was one of the first to call him after the CD was leaked. “If he had a grudge that I was key in toppling his government, he would not have done that. The Chief Minister and even the high command of the BJP have supported me,” he said, adding that he chose to resign on his own. “I have no enemies in the Congress as well,” he said. “But a day after I took charge as Minister, a big leader challenged me publicly that I will not last in the department beyond three months. That leader is behind the conspiracy.” Mr. Jarkiholi turned emotional as he said his “family’s respect” was at stake and he would fight to preserve that. “I will wage a legal battle to the finish and ensure those behind this conspiracy and created this fake CD are sent to jail,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-leaders-behind-fake-cd-jarkiholi/article34032319.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||TRS has totally ignored education: Union Minister||Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Tuesday lambasted the TRS government for “ignoring” education sector and observed that the government was no different from that of the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal and hence, it was time for “people to throw them out”. “I am shocked at the neglect of the education sector and the fact that thousands of teacher and lecturer posts have not been filled in the last six years. How can you ignore education which is the basic tenet of the young? What is happening here? Teachers are the biggest assets of the country and worshipped in our culture,” he said. The Minister was speaking on ‘Fast tracking change towards a resurgent India: Role of intellectuals’ organised by the ‘Forum for Nationalistic Thinkers’ in support of BJP MLC candidate N. Ramchander Rao. Stating that he did not want to dwell much on a government which “anyway is on its way out”, Mr. Pokhriyal however charged that crores of rupees released by the Centre under various schemes have not been reaching the common people in the State. Development and jobs in Telangana have been “confined to a single family and their kith and kin but nothing for the people”, he said. He also took a swipe against the critics of BJP claiming that “talking about secularism has become a fashion and those professing it don't even know what they are talking about”. The Indian culture and ethos find more echo in nations like Indonesia and Mauritius than our own country, he said. The Minister hailed the candidature of Mr. Ramchander Rao and was confident of he winning the support of the educated voters. Earlier, former AP Chief Secretary L.V. Subrahmanyam, BJP vice president Vivek Venkatswamy and others also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-has-totally-ignored-education-union-minister/article34032721.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai couple, daughter booked for forging COVID-19 report||A couple and their daughter were booked on Tuesday for allegedly tampering with their COVID-19 positive test report to travel from Mumbai to Jaipur, an official said. An FIR was lodged at Khar police station against Lakhmichand Thawani (53), Leena Thawani (51) and Diya Thawani on the complaint of BMC H/West ward official Dr. Omprakash Jaiswal. Dr. Jaiswal stated that, on February 26, the three got themselves tested and the report returned positive, but the three claimed they were not infected and sent images of a tampered report through cell phone, said the Khar police station official. “Jaiswal found out the report was forged and called up the trio, who told him they had left to catch a flight to Jaipur. However, with the help of Aarogya Setu app, airport officials found out the three were COVID-19 patients and were sent back home,” he said. They were charged under Sections 188 (disobeying the order of public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection), 465 (punishment for forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-couple-daughter-booked-for-forging-covid-19-report/article34032798.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Congress Kerala unit chief opts out of fray||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran on Wednesday hinted in New Delhi that he might not contest the Assembly elections in Kerala. A party insider said the KPCC had considered fielding him from Kannur. However, he had reportedly demurred. High command backing The party also felt Mr. Ramachandran would be hard-pressed to campaign amidst his State-wide duties as KPCC president. Mr. Ramachandran's decision not to be in the fray reportedly has the Congress high command’s backing. Moreover, Mr. Ramachandran’s candidature would have opened the door for another round of intra-party bickering for the KPCC president’s post. Party workers had dropped K. Sudhakaran and K. Muraleedharan, both MPs, as possible names for the position. Mr. Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy were in the national capital to finalise the candidates’ list. Both Mr. Chennithala and Mr. Chandy are in the fray. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) would take a final call on the list submitted by the leaders. The national leadership is armed with its assessment of individual candidates and constituencies in Kerala. Names of Babu, Joseph The names of former Excise Minister K. Babu and Congress veteran K.C. Joseph reportedly cropped up in New Delhi deliberations. Both are reckoned to be close to Mr. Chandy. Here, an anti-corruption court had exonerated Mr. Babu of wrongdoing in the bar bribery case that had rocked the previous Oommen Chandy government. The AICC was poised to announce the candidate list by March 11. The national leadership has sworn by youth and women representation. It had also directed the KPCC to eschew seat-sharing based on group equations. Instead, the AICC said it would only assign seats based on the individual candidate's winning chances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-congress-chief-opts-out-of-fray/article34032249.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mullaperiyar case hearing on March 16||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to a request made by the Centre to postpone the hearing of a case concerning the safety of the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar Dam. ‘No adjournments’ A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar scheduled the hearing for March 16, but made it clear that no further adjournment requests would be entertained by the court. Recently, Tamil Nadu had filed an affidavit affirming that the dam was safe hydrologically and protected from earthquakes. Countering Kerala’s allegations of non-cooperation and lack of concern, Tamil Nadu accused its neighbour State of adopting an “obstructionist attitude”. Tamil Nadu, in fact, said the installation of instruments to protect the dam structure and warn of dangers to the Earth Dam and the Baby Dam had been hanging in a limbo since 2015. Forest permission This was solely because the Kerala’s forest department had refused permission to cut 23 trees. In January, Kerala had accused Tamil Nadu of adopting an “obsolete” gate operation schedule, dating back to 1939, at the dam. In its affidavit, Kerala had in turn informed the court of a Central Water Commission (CWC) inspection report which said that 70% of the installed instruments for monitoring the safety and health of the Mullaperiyar dam were not working properly. The affidavit filed by Kerala said Tamil Nadu was yet to install the two seismoaccelerographs recommended to monitor tremors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mullaperiyar-case-hearing-on-march-16/article34032256.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Jyotiraditya’s comeback to Rahul’s comment||BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday came out with a repartee to former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi’s comment that Mr. Scindia would be never made a chief minister by the BJP and would now be a backbencher. “I wish the kind of concern that Rahul ji is expressing now was expressed when I was in the Congress. I won’t say anything more than this,” Mr. Scindia told reporters outside the Parliament House. Mr. Gandhi had made the comment while addressing the national executive of the Indian Youth Congress in the capital on Monday. “He [Mr. Scindia] would have become the chief minister had he stayed with the Congress but he has become a backbencher in the BJP,” a source quoted Mr. Gandhi as saying. “Write it down, he will never become CM there,” he added. He appealed to the IYC members to work tirelessly irrespective of “who comes in or who leaves the party”. Last March, Mr. Scindia’s switch to the BJP, along with 22 supporters who were lawmakers in the M.P. Assembly, triggered the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led government. Both Mr. Scindia and Mr. Gandhi, considered to be close friends at one point, carefully avoided sharp words against each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jyotiradityas-comeback-to-rahuls-comment/article34032599.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Panel flags Centre’s meagre pensions||“However, to the utter dismay of the Committee, nothing much has been forthcoming so far. The Committee does not endorse the non-serious approach of DoRD on this issue. In view of this laxity, the Committee again vehemently recommends the DoRD to look into this issue with utmost sincerity and hasten their processes for bringing an increase in the assistance amount under NSAP,” said the report. The panel also pulled up the DoRD for delays and disparities in the payment of wages and unemployment allowances under the flagship MGNREGA scheme. “At the time of economic distress caused due to COVID-19 pandemic in particular, there was an increase in the demand of work under MGNREGA. However, inordinate delay in the release of [the 40% component of] funds for skilled/semi-skilled workers under MGNREGA is a huge discouraging aspect and does not go in consonance with the underlying spirit of the scheme,” said the report. The panel noted “the callous approach of the State governments in the proper implementation of the provision of unemployment allowance”, finding that the provision is not implemented in letter and spirit at the grass root level. Another issue with MGNREGA that was flagged in the report is the disparity in wages in different States. “It is still beyond comprehension as to how is it possible that a single scheme having the provision of hundred days of guaranteed work to willing person from the rural settings can have different yardstick when it comes to the payment modalities across the length and breadth of the country,” said the report, noting that the Constitution provides for equal pay for equal work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-flags-centres-meagre-pensions/article34032258.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 72% rise in UAPA cases registered in 2019||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha, said, “Cases under the UAPA are investigated by the State police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA). As far as the NIA is concerned, so far 48 special courts have been constituted for the speedy trial of terror-related cases.” Under the UAPA, getting bail is rare and the investigating agency has up to 180 days to file a charge sheet. In a separate reply, the Minister said: “After abrogation of Article 370, the number of terrorist incidents in Jammu and Kashmir have reduced significantly.” The data provided shows that in J&K, 244 terrorist incidents were reported and 221 terrorists killed in 2020, while in 2019, the numbers were 594 and 157 respectively. Till February 28 this year, there were 15 incidents and eight terrorists killed. The government had declared 42 organisations as terrorist organisations and listed their names in the First Schedule of the UAPA, the Minister said and added that “terrorism has largely been sponsored from across the border.” Earlier, a reply by the government in the Lok Sabha shows that only 2.2 % of cases registered under the UAPA between 2016-2019 ended in convictions by court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-72-rise-in-uapa-cases-registered-in-2019/article34032260.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttarakhand CM Rawat resigns||Several names are making the rounds as his likely successor, including Education Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, Satpal Maharaj, and MPs Anil Baluni and Ajay Bhat. Of these, Mr. Dhan Singh Rawat’s name has the support of the outgoing Chief Minister as well, according to those in the know. Sources in the BJP said that Mr. Trivendra Singh Rawat’s successor was likely to be another Rajput leader, rather than a Brahmin, as the Congress was being led by former Chief Minister Harish Rawat and political and caste equations were delicate at this point, barely months away from the Assembly polls. Rajputs constitute around 27% of the electorate and Brahmins around 11%. While changing a Chief Minister so late in his term is not usually the norm in the BJP, the party’s experience in Jharkhand, where refusal to change Raghubar Das, another unpopular Chief Minister, before the polls, had led to a rebellion in the party ranks and the BJP’s subsequent defeat in the Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-resigns/article34032261.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||SC questions delay in setting up regulator||In that order, the court had explained the need for an independent regulatory mechanism, saying the “identification of an area as forest area is solely based on the declaration to be filed by the user agency [project proponent]. The project proponent under the existing dispensation is required to undertake EIA by an expert body/institution”. The court had made it clear that till such mechanism was put in place, the Environment Ministry (MoEF) “should prepare a panel of accredited institutions from which alone the project proponent should obtain the Rapid Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and, that too, on the Terms of Reference to be formulated by the MoEF”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-questions-delay-in-setting-up-regulator/article34032262.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC gives parties double airtime on DD, AIR||The Election Commission on Tuesday issued an order allotting national parties and recognised State parties in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry double the usual broadcast time on All-India Radio (AIR) and Dooordarshan (DD) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Like it did for the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections, the Election Commission said the pandemic had increased the importance of non-contact based campaigning, so it doubled the amount of airtime the parties are allotted on AIR and DD for the ongoing elections to the five Assemblies. Started in 1998, the practice involves free use of state-owned media by national parties and recognised State parties in an equitable manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-gives-parties-double-airtime-on-dd-air/article34032263.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm laws discussion in U.K. is ‘gross interference’||Discussion on the farm laws by the British Parliament amounts to “gross interference” in the domestic affairs of India, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told British High Commissioner Alex Ellis on Tuesday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the envoy was summoned and a diplomatic note of protest was handed over to him. “Foreign Secretary made clear that this represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country. He advised that British MPs should refrain from practising vote bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy,” the MEA said. The demarche came a day after the U.K. Parliament discussed the laws. The High Commission in the U.K. in a statement had said the discussion was aimed to ‘mislead’ the British Indian community about the laws and the status of the minority communities in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-discussion-in-uk-gross-interference/article34032264.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC stays arrest warrant against Bharati Ghosh||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the arrest warrant issued against BJP candidate Bharati Ghosh till the conclusion of the West Bengal Assembly election. The non-bailable arrest warrant was issued against the former IPS officer in connection with the 2019 Lok Sabha election. A three-judge Bench, comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, S. Abdul Nazeer and Hemant Gupta, ordered the authorities to not take any coercive action against Ms. Ghosh. The court listed the matter for further hearing after two months. Ms. Ghosh, who has been fielded by the BJP from the Debra constituency of West Midnapore district, had moved the court for a stay of the arrest warrant and quashing of the FIR lodged against her in connection with the Lok Sabha poll violence case.  She said that despite the Supreme Court’s protection earlier in 2019, the State government had continued to frame her in cases propelled by “ulterior political motives”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stays-arrest-warrant-against-bharati-ghosh/article34032265.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ministers, MPs trade charges amid furore||The Lok Sabha’s early adjournment on Tuesday after frequent disruptions over the issue of rising fuel prices did not prevent Ministers and Opposition MPs from clashing on issues to do with poll battles in other States and the farmers protests during a very short run Question Hour. Former Union Minister and Akali leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal protested the new norms by Food Corporation of India (FCI) that make it necessary for farmers to present their land records details before any direct transfer of e-payments, pointing out that 40% of Punjab farmers were small land holders and tenant farmers. “The new norms are an attack on the federal structure and the state’s powers,” she said. Responding to Ms. Badal, Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said while the new norms were being accepted in the rest of the country, only Punjab was objecting to them. BJP MP Sunita Duggal’s question on fishery policy and programmes was used by Fisheries Minister Giriraj Singh to launch a few broadsides at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who had demanded a Ministry for fisheries during a recent campaign trip to Puducherry. Mr. Singh said Mr. Gandhi needed to be educated on how many and what kind of government departments and Ministries existed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministers-mps-trade-charges-amid-furore/article34032266.ece
10 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Activist gets bail in case linked to CAA protests||The presence and the movement of a left-linked student activist in Uttar Pradesh could be controlled by imposing suitable conditions, the Allahabad High Court has noted, as it granted him bail in a case linked to the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act here last year. Nitin Raj, U.P. vice-president of the All India Students Association (AISA), was booked in January last year by the Thakurganj police on charges of participating in a dharna against the CAA-NRC at the Hussainabad Clocktower here. The accused including Mr. Raj were also charged with obstructing the smooth flow of traffic and posting inflammatory posts on social media. Mr. Raj was booked under Sections 145, 147, 149, 188, 353, 283, 427 and 505 (B) of the IPC, Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendments Act and Section 66 of the I.T. Act. He was arrested and sent to jail but was released on March 16. On January 12, he surrendered again before the trial court and has been in prison since. Counsel for the student activist submitted that he was falsely implicated. The additional advocate general opposed the bail saying the student activist had created law and order situation at and around a heritage site and also obstructed the smooth flow of traffic, while also getting into altercations with the local police. “The presence and the movement of the applicant could be controlled by imposing suitable conditions. The applicant is also not having any previous criminal history and is stated to be student and charged offences are punishable with less than 7 years imprisonment,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activist-gets-bail-in-case-linked-to-caa-protests/article34032280.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aircrew allowed to fly 48 hours after vaccine||Pilots and cabin crew will not be permitted to fly until 48 hours after their COVID-19 vaccination, the DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) ordered on Tuesday. “Aircrew will be ‘medically unfit for flying’ for 48 hours after vaccination. If there are no symptoms after 48 hours, the aircrew is fit to resume unrestricted flying duties,” the regulator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aircrew-allowed-to-fly-48-hours-after-vaccine/article34032291.ece
10 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram awaits Centre’s direction on refugees||The Mizoram government has declined to provide details or the number of Myanmar nationals who have crossed over since March 1 seeking asylum after the coup in the neighbouring country. The government is also awaiting instructions from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on how to handle the foreign nationals who had fled fearing a military crackdown. The Tatmadaw, or Myanmar military, had taken over the country after a coup in February. “There is no proper instruction from the Centre, and it is not fair. I am ready to help the people in my individual capacity and from the government on humanitarian grounds,” Mizoram’s Environment and Transport Minister T.J. Lalnungtluanga told The Hindu on Tuesday. He represents the Champhai South Assembly constituency that has borne the brunt of the refugee crisis. Mizoram’s Home Minister Lalchamliana declined to quantify the refugees who have trickled into the border districts of Champhai, Hnahthial, Serchhip and Siaha. “We are officially not disclosing details and the number of people who came from Myanmar, as the matter is highly sensitive involving two neighbouring countries. We have communicated the details to the MHA,” he said. River route Locals said more than 100 Myanmar nationals have entered Mizoram since March 1, mostly wading across the shallow Tiau river that flows along much of the State’s 404 km border with the coup-hit country. The border district authorities had initially put up some of the refugees in community halls, providing them food and security. But they have since maintained silence on the whereabouts of the refugees. “The government has instructed us not to speak to the media,” Champhai Deputy Commissioner Maria C.T. Zuali said. Officials in State capital Aizawl said there have been no “fresh influx” since Monday evening. Tighter vigil along the border by the Assam Rifles personnel was one of the reasons, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-awaits-centres-direction-on-refugees/article34032292.ece
10 March 2021||Kolkata,||EC transfers Bengal DGP||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday transferred West Bengal DGP Virendra and appointed P. Nirajnayan as the new DGP. Mr. Nirajnayan is an IPS officer of 1987 batch and has served in the CBI. In its order, the ECI said Mr. Virendra should not be given any post which directly or indirectly relates to the conduct of the poll. Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy expressed reservations over the EC decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-transfers-bengal-dgp/article34032321.ece
10 March 2021||Pune,||Mughal-era gold coins found in Pune||Over 200 Mughal-era gold coins, dating back to the early 18th century, have been seized from the possession of a family of construction workers in Pimpri-Chinchwad in Pune district, the police said on Tuesday. Some members of the family had found the coins while working at a construction site, said Pimpri-Chinchwad Police Commissioner Krishna Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mughal-era-gold-coins-found-in-pune/article34032799.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Yoshihide, Modi vow to boost ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Suga Yoshihide held a telephonic conversation on Tuesday during which they discussed deepening collaboration bilaterally as well as under the Quad framework to enhance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. The two leaders expressed satisfaction at the positive momentum in India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership in the last few years, guided by mutual trust and shared values, according to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). “Had a fruitful conversation with PM Suga Yoshihide on the progress of India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership,” Mr. Modi tweeted after the telephonic talks. The Japanese government, in a read-out of the talks, said the two leaders exchanged views on the regional situation and in this context, Mr. Suga had expressed serious concerns regarding the “unilateral attempts” by China to change the status quo in the East and South China Sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yoshihide-modi-vow-to-boost-ties/article34032295.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||2.4 cr. doses administered||The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered has crossed 2.40 crore on Tuesday, according to the Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-cr-doses-administered/article34032298.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,||Jacobites opt to wait and watch||The Jacobite Syrian Christian Church will extend help to whichever political formation that helps it out of the crisis it is facing in view of the rival Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church citing a court order and demanding control of a few hundred churches where members of the Jacobite faction are in majority, it was decided at the church synod at Puthen Cruz, near here, on Tuesday. Even as there were reports that the Jacobite Church had expressed its willingness to extend support to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, taking into account the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help settle the issue, the synod members preferred a wait-and-watch approach, it is learnt. The synod is in the process of taking a decision as the major political formations are yet to state their stance. However, there is a consensus that the Church will reciprocate any tangible help extended by any front or party to afford justice to us. Unlike in previous elections, the NDA has made a major presence in the Assembly poll scene. “Moreover, the meeting convened by Mr. Modi and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders reaching out to us are seen as a turning point in the dispute between the Jacobite and Orthodox factions,” says Kuriakose Mar Theophilos Metropolitan, spokesperson of the Jacobite Church. The meeting convened by Mr. Modi helped clear the air of misunderstanding that the Jacobite Church is a foreign one, while the rival faction was an Indian Church. The wait-and-watch approach does not mean the Church is floating a political party of its own. On the contrary, a clear stance will be taken in the coming days. Discussions are going on in Church fora, following which a consensus will evolve.A declaration will be made even if no formation comes forward to help us, says the metropolitan. The Church is thankful to the Left Democratic Front for the cemetery Bill and its support reflected in the local body polls. “We would have further extended support if an Ordinance to protect churches too was issued,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jacobites-opt-to-wait-and-watch/article34032244.ece
10 March 2021||NALGONDA,||Murders for insurance gang busted||A seasoned agent in the life insurance business, along with his associates and accomplices from insurance agencies, hospitals, village leaders and families of victims, reportedly committed five murders and portrayed them as accidents, or forged documents and portrayed natural deaths as accidents, to claim Rs. 1,59,40,000 in the past nine years. The most-recent murder was on February 24, following which the police based on suspicion arrested prime accused and main conspirator Dheeravath Raju, which also led to exposing the past crimes. Nalgonda Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath produced the accused before media persons on Tuesday. Mr. Raju was an agent with an insurance firm in Nalgonda town. Using his knowledge on claim settlement, he opened a life policy of a suicide victim at Palakeedu, paid the first premium, obtained death certificate from the village secretary and managed insurance inquiry officers to claim Rs. 14 lakh as settlement. He had transferred Rs. 30,000 to the victim’s wife and used the rest. In other crimes, Mr. Raju either targeted patients, alcoholic workers or partners engaged in extra-marital affairs, and entered into discreet agreements with their family members, Mr. Ranganath explained. In 2013 Rupavath Deva, a tuberculosis survivor from Jatavath Thanda, in 2015 Parangi Somaiah, another tuberculosis survivor from Kondrapole, the same year Dheeravath Lalsingh, an epilepsy patient from Kallepalli village, and in 2016 Daida Hussain from Kondrapole, were killed by blunt blows to the chest and later run over by vehicles to show them as deaths by accidents. In 2017, Sapavath Thulya of Rallavagu Thanda died a natural death, however, the accused and his aides entered into an agreement with the victim’s family members and portrayed it as an accidental death to claim a large amount. Only in Tenali and Dachepalli of Andhra Pradesh, the accused’s attempts were foiled by the authorities and in one case he was also sent to jail. In all the cases, relevant first information reports (FIRs), post-mortem reports and other procedures were ensured, so as to satisfy the claim procedures. Only in three separate incidents in Nalgonda some Rs. 1.8 crore worth claims could not be claimed. Mr. Ranganath informed that the accused — Dheeravath Raju, Kanchi Shiva, Mandadi Sai Sampath, Devireddy Harika and Vemula Kondal — were booked for murder, cheating and forgery and remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. However, another 32 persons, including insurance officials, agents, a banker, village leaders and persons who took a share in the various claim settlements, were also identified. An elaborate investigation is on. Regarding lapses in police procedures, Mr. Ranganath said disciplinary proceedings will be initiated against the then police officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/murders-for-insurance-gang-busted/article34032317.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||LVPEI crosses 50,000 cornea distribution||An eye bank at L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI), Hyderabad, has crossed 50,000 cornea distributions. Around 61,063 corneas were distributed through LVPEI Network Eye Banks, of which 50,000 were from Ramayamma International Eye Bank (RIEB) at the institute’s Hyderabad campus. They have eye bank facilities in Bhubaneswar, Visakhapatnam, and Vijayawada. The institute’s management said 40% of the corneas distributed in for sight-restoring corneal transplant surgeries last year were provided by their eye banks network. “We have partnered with The Hans Foundation for setting up eye banks in other states of India where they are needed the most,” said Prashant Garg, head of Eye Banking Services, LVPEI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lvpei-crosses-50k-cornea-distribution/article34032725.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Black buck rescued, three apprehended||The South Zone Task Force, in collaboration with the Forest Department, acted on a tip-off and apprehended three persons, confiscated deer meat and rescued a black buck. The accused allegedly used to hunt and sell the animal carcasses to buyers. According to the police, the accused are Chavan Shanker Baba (36), Mohd Zubair (26), and Mohd. Salmanuddin (27). A fourth accused, identified as Imran, a resident of Bodhan, is absconding. Police said that Chavan’s income from farming was inadequate and so he began to hunt deer and other wild animals. He allegedly sold these wild animals to buyers. Later, he came in contact with Zubair, who is allegedly a mediator for wild animal meat lovers. Zubair allegedly came in contact with Salmanuddin and told Chavan of his contact’s interest in consuming deer meat. Later, Chavan allegedly hunted two deer and stored the meat. Salmanuddin allegedly hired a four-wheeler and drove to Nizamabad, where he met the other two and bought a live deer for Rs. 15,000. The trio then went to Chata, where they bought deer meat allegedly for Rs. 7,000. They allegedly sold a portion of the deer meat to the fourth accused Imran. According to the police, Chavan and Zubair were involved in 10 similar offences. The three-year-old female black buck which was rescued was handed over to the Nehru zoo authorities, said Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/black-buck-rescued-three-apprehended/article34032737.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||MP gets notice for remarks against ex-CJI||Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra was served notice on a privilege motion moved against her by BJP MP Nishikant Dubey for her comments against a former Chief Justice of India during a debate on motion of thanks to the President’s address last month. Ms. Moitra has been asked to file response by March 25. Mr. Dubey had filed a privilege motion notice against her on February 10. Ms. Moitra’s remarks were later expunged. She tweeted, “What better way to end Women’s Day than to learn I have apparently been served notice for speaking truth in parliament about ex CJI accused of sexual harassment being rewarded by misogynistic patriarchy with seat in RS! Thank you God, for this badge of honour!” Mr. Dubey said, “Members believe that using the parliamentary protection, they can say anything against anyone and get away. I want this perception to change.” “I am grateful to the Speaker for admitting the motion, ” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-gets-notice-for-remarks-against-ex-cji/article34032271.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||States told to ramp up vaccination||Principal Secretary to Prime Minister P.K. Misra on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting by to review the status and progress of vaccination against COVID-19 across the States and UTs. He directed the States/UTs to expand their capacity by operationalising as many health facilities as possible as vaccination centres, across the public and private sectors. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered crossed 2.4 crore on Tuesday, according to the Health Ministry. Mr. Misra also noted that administrations should ensure equitable and easy access to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-ramp-up-vaccination/article34032284.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild flags media strategy||The Editors Guild of India on Tuesday said the recent revelations about a Group of Ministers (GoM) report on the government’s media strategy was an example of its “increasingly draconian attitude” towards any criticism. The guild said in a statement it was shocked at the manner in which the GoM prepared its report “with an embedded toolkit to control the narrative about the government in the media”. “The report, which was prepared at the end of 2020 and has recently emerged in media, further illustrates the government’s increasingly draconian attitude against any critique and inquiry by the press. The suggestions from the GoM report hint at increased surveillance and targeting of writers and journalists who depart from the government’s narrative,” the guild said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-flags-media-strategy/article34032285.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Cong.: dismiss Uttarakhand government||The Congress on Tuesday said the President should immediately dismiss the BJP government in Uttarakhand as the resignation of Trivendra Singh Rawat was a feeble attempt to “cover up the misdeeds and corruption of the past four years”. All India Congress Committee in charge of Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav said that the BJP should seek a fresh mandate in Uttarakhand. It alleged that Mr. Rawat’s resignation was an admission by the BJP that “nothing happened in the State except corruption”. Speaking to reporters at the party headquarters, Mr. Yadav claimed that not only the Nainital High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry against the Rawat government over allegations of corruption, several scams too had emerged in the past four years. Irregularities in hosting the ‘Kumbh’ in Haridwar, alleged corruption in mid-day meal scheme in government schools and recruitment of forest guards were cited as “scams” by Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-dismiss-uttarakhand-government/article34032325.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,||DMDK leaves AIADMK-BJP front after 3 rounds of talks||The Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) on Tuesday quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance after three rounds of unsuccessful seat-sharing talks with the AIADMK for the April 6 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, DMDK founder Vijayakant said the two parties could not agree on the number of seats and identify the constituencies. “At the [party] district secretaries’ meeting, there was a consensus. Based on that, we have decided to leave the AIADMK-BJP alliance,” he said. “It is Deepavali today for the DMDK. The AIADMK will lose its deposit in every seat. AIADMK leader K.P. Munusamy acted as the PMK’s sleeper cell in the AIADMK,” claimed DMDK deputy general secretary and Mr. Vijayakant’s brother-in-law, L.K. Sudhish. While the AIADMK disapproved of his comments and described the DMDK’s exit as unfortunate, a few second-line leaders of the BJP took a softer stand, saying Mr. Vijayakant must reconsider his decision. DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant had, all along, insisted that the party should be treated “with respect” and on a par with the PMK, which was allotted 23 Assembly seats. This was the party’s stance even during the last Lok Sabha elections when it dragged its feet protesting at being given four seats as opposed to the PMK’s seven. The DMDK originally demanded 41 seats, but subsequently climbed down to 25 and then to 23. Sources in the party said the AIADMK was unwilling to go beyond 13-15 seats, and had reportedly said it would fund the candidates directly. An aspiring DMDK candidate from southern Tamil Nadu claimed the party leadership lost the trust of the AIADMK after failing to spend the money set aside for each Parliamentary seat in a transparent manner. “The money given by the AIADMK to fight the election was not utilised fully. The AIADMK leadership realised this, and has now refused to give our party any money to fight the polls. Instead, they said they would take care of the expenses themselves. This is one of the main reasons why things have not worked out,” he claimed. DMDK deputy general secretary B. Parthasarathi, however, denied the charge and insisted that the issue was the allotment of seats and not funding. He told The Hindu that the decision to leave the alliance was taken by Mr. Vijayakant. “We could not come to an agreement, and our leader decided that we should leave the alliance. What we do next — whether we contest the polls alone or join some other alliance — is up to our leader. We will know in due course,” he said. Later in the day, the DMDK leadership held discussions with leaders of the Makkal Needhi Maiam on the possibility of fighting the election together. The DMDK is also reportedly considering going it alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-seat-sharing-talks-fail-dmdk-leaves-aiadmk-bjp-front/article34032377.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||First Quad summit on March 12||The first ever summit of the leaders of the Quadrilateral Framework or ‘Quad’ will take place virtually on March 12, the Ministry of External Affairs announced on Tuesday. United States, Japan, India and Australia comprise the Quadrilateral Framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-quad-summit-on-march-12/article34032322.ece
10 March 2021||Kanpur,||Two missing youths found dead in UP's Unnao||Two youths, missing for the past two days, were found dead at Chandan Ghat in the Gangaghat area of neighbouring Unnao district on Tuesday, police said. The deceased were identified as Sandeep Pal (27), and his friend Abhilash Shukla (26), residents of Chakeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-missing-youths-found-dead-in-ups-unnao/article34032598.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||“Delkar’s suicide note names Dadra & Nagar Haveli administrator”||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday that the suicide note left behind by Mohan Delkar, Lok Sabha MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, named the Union Territory’s administrator Prafful K. Patel and a few officials, who allegedly troubled him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delkars-suicide-note-names-dadra-nagar-haveli-administrator/article34032283.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||ISRO develops radar for joint earth observation satellite mission with NASA||ISRO has completed development of a Synthetic Aperture Radar capable of producing high-resolution images for a joint earth observation satellite mission with the U.S. space agency NASA. The mission is targeted to be launched in 2022.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isro-develops-radar-for-joint-earth-observation-satellite-mission-with-nasa/article34032251.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 69K crore ‘Deshbhakti Budget’||Finance Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday presented a Rs. 69,000 crore ‘Deshbhakti Budget’ for the 2021-22 fiscal replete with provisions seeking to inspire patriotism in the run up to the 75th Independence Day, free COVID vaccination, and a vision for “India at 2047”. 2048 Olympics Mr. Sisodia also announced that the Delhi government aims to bid for hosting the 2048 Olympic Games. It is a dream project and part of the Aam Aadmi Party government’s vision for the country, he added. The education sector got the lion’s share of funds — Rs. 16,377 crore (24%) — in the 2021-22 budget, followed by the health sector at Rs. 9,934 crore (14%). A total of Rs. 9,394 crore (13%) has been pledged towards transport, roads and bridges. This was the seventh budget tabled by Mr. Sisodia. He presented his first budget — totalling Rs. 37,750 crore — in June 2015. Last year’s budget was Rs. 65,000 crore.  “As part of a series of patriotic events that will begin in Delhi from March 12 for the next 75 weeks, programs will be organised to highlight Delhi’s role in the freedom movement, its journey in the last 75 years and the vision of Delhi in 2047,” he said. A separate budget of Rs. 10 crore each has been allocated to conduct programmes to honour Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar. Another Rs. 45 crore has been set aside for installing the Tricolor at 500 locations across the Capital. In addition to setting up the city’s first Sainik School and a Delhi Armed Forces Preparatory Academy, Rs. 25 crore has been allocated towards providing yoga and meditation services to the public, through teachers trained by the government. In the allocations for the health sector, Rs. 50 crore has been pledged towards providing free COVID-19 vaccination at government hospitals through the Aam Aadmi Free Covid Vaccine scheme. A 100 Mahila Mohalla Clinics, meant exclusively for women patients, has also proposed in the budget. “I am happy to report that last year’s budget was Rs. 65,000 crore while this year’s budget is Rs. 69,000 crore — an increase of almost 6%. Despite tough times, the increase in budget is commendable,” said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Our aim for 2047 should be that the per capita income of Delhi is equal to that of Singapore. For that, we will have to increase the per capita income 16-fold and we will do whatever it takes to achieve that,” he added. Meanwhile, the Delhi BJP called the budget a “jugglery of figures and numbers” and accused Mr. Kejriwal of seeking credit for projects launched by previous governments. “The most unfortunate part of the whole budget is that there is hardly any allocation for developmental projects that can be taken up during the next one year,” said Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. “The government has taken credit for opening hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar, but these hospitals had been started by previous governments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-69k-crore-deshbhakti-budget/article34032282.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||NHRC seeks police report on custodial torture of activist||The National Human Rights Commission on Tuesday asked the Haryana Police to submit a report on the alleged illegal detention and custodial torture of trade unionist Shiv Kumar. The NHRC asked the Sonipat Superintendent of Police to submit the report within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-seeks-police-report-on-custodial-torture-of-activist/article34032286.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||ED conducts searches in drug, fake passport cases||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday conducted searches at 12 locations, including the premises of MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, in Punjab and Delhi in connection with drugs smuggling and fake passport racket cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-conducts-searches-in-drug-fake-passport-cases/article34032288.ece
10 March 2021||Srinagar,||Al-Badr militant killed in Sopore encounter||Security forces killed a self-styled chief of the Al-Badr militant outfit in an encounter in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Tuesday. “Al-Badr “chief” Gani Khawaja was killed in an encounter in Sopore’s Tujjar area, said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/al-badr-militant-killed-in-sopore-encounter/article34032299.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flag marches conducted as part of poll preparation in city||The city police, along with personnel from the Central Industrial Security Force and the Border Security Force, took out a flag march on Tuesday in several areas. Led by the respective Deputy Commissioners, the march was taken out to create confidence among the voters to come out and vote on election day without any fear. The police said 65 personnel from the Central forces and close to 300 police personnel took part in the march in each area. The troops went through thickly populated residential areas. A senior police officer said, “As a symbol of showing dominance over the poll-bound constituency and to instil confidence among the voters to exercise their right to vote without fear or coercion, a massive route march was organised. Adequate precautionary measures are being taken at vulnerable booths here. Similar route marches will be conducted in other places in the city in the coming days.” With the model code of conduct coming into force, the police have booked 31 cases so far for violations and around 19 cases were booked for carrying unaccounted cash and valuable things within city limits. Over 1,695 licensed arms were surrendered to the police for safekeeping. As many as 11 anti-social elements were arrested and 1,221 were bound over Section 110 of the CrPC for peaceful conduct of the election, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-marches-conducted-as-part-of-poll-preparation-in-city/article34032496.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Question of feasibility raised over DMK, AIADMK proposals||The DMK’s electoral promise of providing Rs. 1,000 a month and the AIADMK’s of giving Rs. 1,500 a month, along with six cooking gas cylinders, to housewives have raised the question of the feasibility of such proposals, considering the fiscal situation of Tamil Nadu. As the two parties have considered the size of the beneficiaries based on the approximately 2 crore rice-drawing ration cards in the State, the AIADMK’s dole would mean an expenditure of Rs. 46,000 crore a year and Rs. 24,000 crore a year for the DMK. (For the purpose of this calculation, the cost of a cooking gas [liquefied petroleum gas] cylinder has been taken as Rs. 825). More announcements The two principal parties, known for their competitive populism, are expected to come out with more announcements as the Assembly election draws closer. As the State government, in early February, came out with a waiver scheme for crop loans taken from cooperative institutions, further promises in this area may cover the loans taken from commercial banks. Assuming that around 30 lakh farmers have taken loans and if the ceiling is fixed at Rs. 1 lakh, the cost would be Rs. 30,000 crore. The DMK has already spoken about the waiver of educational loans, whose outstanding amount is estimated to be about Rs. 14,000 crore. Asked if the new proposals would replace the existing schemes and freebies, a key member of the AIADMK’s manifesto drafting committee said they would be in addition to what was already being provided by the government. When reminded of the Election Commission of India’s (EC) guidelines that manifestos should reflect the rationale behind such promises and broadly indicate the means to meet the financial requirements for it, he said resources would be found for the new schemes, just as they were being done for the current set of measures. The subsidy bill of the State government in 2019-20 was about Rs. 20,144 crore. It is bound to be much more this year due to the impact of the pandemic. An example of this is the few rounds of cash support that were provided along with essential commodities through the public distribution system (PDS) free of cost for three months. If one is to add the cost of the new proposals with that of the existing subsidy bill, the overall figure may touch a minimum of Rs. 88,000 crore and a maximum of Rs. 1.2 lakh crore, which would be 33% to 46% of the revenue expenditure. For the year 2021-22, as per the budget estimate, the revenue expenditure is around Rs. 2.6 lakh crore. If one adds salaries and pensions to that, the government would be left with little money for any development expenditure, veteran civil servants said. A perusal of the medium-term fiscal plan, tabled on the floor of the Assembly last month, did not reveal a rosy picture with regard to key fiscal parameters. As per the Budget estimates for 2020-21, interest payments alone are expected to be nearly one-fifth (19.67%) of the total revenue receipts against the ideal 12%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/question-of-feasibility-raised-over-dmk-aiadmk-proposals/article34032516.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How many promises made in AIADMK 2016 manifesto were fulfilled? A status check||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s promises of six free LPG cylinders annually per household and Rs. 1,500 a month to homemakers has turned the focus on the ruling party’s 2016 Assembly election manifesto. The AIADMK government’s performance, in relation to the 2016 manifesto, is a mixed bag. While it has implemented several promises and has also taken some measures beyond the manifesto, it has not taken action on several others that had captured widespread attention then.  Among the promises fulfilled were the removal of the legal bar on jallikattu, the creation of a Tamil Chair at the Harvard University, a waiver of crop loans availed from cooperative institutions, the target of crop loans of Rs. 40,000 crore over five years, free electricity up to 100 units, bimonthly, for domestic consumers and an increase in the supply of free electricity up to 200 units for handloom weavers and 750 units for powerloom weavers, both bi-monthly. To give an illustration of the benefit of the steps taken, crop loans to the tune of Rs. 42,600 crore were disbursed to approximately 50 lakh farmers till February 2021. More importantly, the government came out with a second round of crop loan waiver, which was not mentioned in the manifesto. The supply of free set-top boxes (STB) was another assurance that attracted people. According to the government, 35.2 lakh standard definition (SD) STBs were distributed through local cable operators since September 2017, as part of a programme of the Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation. An important promise in the area of general administration was the creation of taluks and revenue divisions. Six districts, nine revenue divisions and 32 taluks were established. As stated in the manifesto, market guideline values with regard to land were “rationalised,” and a 33% reduction in the rates came into effect in June 2017. An AIADMK spokesperson said in the water sector, the formation of the Cauvery Water Management Board and Water Regulation Committee in 2018 was “certainly a high point”, in addition to the launch of work on the Avinashi-Athikadavu groundwater recharge and drinking water supply scheme. What was more important was the ‘Kudimaramathu’ scheme, regarded by Mr. Palaniswami as one of the most important measures of his regime. It was taken up in a big way. Contrary to five medical colleges assured in the manifesto, the government opened 11. The horizontal reservation of 7.5% for NEET-qualified government schools students in admissions to medical courses and the 10.5% reservation for Vanniyars within the quota for Most Backward Classes can be called “bonuses” of the present regime, said the spokesperson. Pending promises If the list of promises kept is long, the other is not short either. The distribution of cellphones to ration cardholders, phased prohibition, return to old pension scheme for government staff, provision of Pongal gift coupons to ration cardholders for use at Co-optex retail outlets, free Wi-Fi at public places, establishment of the Ambedkar Foundation to propagate ideals and thoughts of Ambedkar and the establishment of Amma banking cards figure prominently in the list of missed promises. On the restoration of the old pension scheme to replace the present contributory pension scheme, a committee, headed by former IAS officer T.S. Sridhar, was formed, and it gave a report which is yet to see the light of the day. The DMK has been saying that it will restore the old pension scheme in the event of capturing power. There were differences within the government over the treatment of the Pongal gift coupon — should it be an add-on item or a replacement of the existing scheme of free sarees and dhotis. And this led to the abandoning of the proposal. As for the Amma banking cards, the idea was to form a bank on the lines of Mahila Bank and even NABARD was approached to give a consultancy report. But after Jayalalithaa’s death, there was not much progress, said a former official. Despite the establishment of medical colleges, critics point out that the government has failed to secure exemption for State students from the NEET, which is yet another major issue being pursued by the Opposition. In the infrastructure sector, the proposal for an elevated highway between Meenambakkam and Chengalpattu is yet to fructify. The Global Investors’ Meet, which was supposed to take place once in two years, has taken place just once in the last five years. Issues such as retrieval of Katchatheevu and dual citizenship for refugees from Sri Lanka are still in the conceptual stage.  In the water sector, the formation of the Cauvery Water Management Board and Water Regulation Committee in 2018 was certainly a high point AIADMK spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-2016-manifesto-check-a-mixed-bag/article34032474.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMDK’s decision to quit ties unfortunate’||It is unfortunate that the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) has chosen to quit the AIADMK-led alliance, D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister and the ruling party’s organisation secretary, said on Tuesday. The Minister told presspersons that the AIADMK had been allotting seats for the Assembly election to its allies on the basis of each party’s influence, strength and votes obtained in the previous polls. “Each party can ask for the number of seats that it wants. But it would not be proper for anyone to question the number of seats allotted to others. They [DMDK] have no moral right to make any claim,” Mr. Jayakumar said.  ‘Part ways as friends’ “If no agreement is reached on seat-sharing, you can part ways as friends. That’s what my party believes in,” the Minister said, adding that all the three rounds of negotiations with the DMDK were held “cordially”. On DMDK deputy general secretary L.K. Sudhish’s remarks against the AIADMK, the Minister said he could have given a “fitting reply” to the DMDK functionary for what the latter, despite remaining within the alliance, had said about the ruling party a week ago. “But I did not respond to his observations in view of the alliance ‘dharma’. They [DMDK] should not make comments without having a sense of gratitude towards the AIADMK, which had helped them gain political recognition,” Mr. Jayakumar said, referring to the electoral deal between the two parties in the 2011 Assembly election and the DMDK getting recognised later as a State party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdks-decision-unfortunate/article34032514.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arrested deputy registrar of MIT yet to be suspended||It is a week since the Deputy Registrar of Madras Institute of Technology, the Chromepet campus of Anna University, was arrested. Yet till date neither he nor his accomplice, an administrative staff, have been suspended, say University employees. On March 3, the Central Crime Branch arrested E. Parthasarathy for cheating around 100 persons promising government jobs in exchange for money ranging from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh. The CCB had arrested his son and his accomplices in 2019 but continued investigating the case. Colluded with criminals It transpired that Mr. Parthasarathy had colluded with the criminals in creating fake seals and post-covers of the university. University staff, including faculty, say as per the university rules, Mr. Parthasarathy and his accomplice, an administrative staff, should have been suspended. However, till date no action had been initiated against them. They point out to the university statute which states that an employee who has been detained whether on criminal charge or otherwise for longer than 48 hours would be deemed to have been placed under suspension by an order of the competent authority with effect from the date of detention. Even if the person is provided bail, the person would continue to remain under suspension until the competent authority revokes the suspension, the statutes say. University faculty said it is over 150 hours since he was arrested but the university had not yet issued the suspension order. “This means if and when he is released on bail he can return to his position, which will be in violation of the university rules,” a faculty pointed out. A senior official said he would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrested-mit-deputy-registrar-yet-to-be-suspended/article34032491.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GST squads formed to prevent the illicit movement of goods||Chennai GST zone has formed sufficient flying squads, road patrolling teams, e-way bill verification and static surveillance teams in each Commissionerate, covering the entire districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, in order to stem the flow of unauthorised goods which are likely to be used to lure voters. According to an official release, all teams will keep a watch on warehouses registered in their respective jurisdictions and are authorised to prevent the stocking of goods like sarees, white goods, kitchen items and cash. All the Commissionerates in the Chennai GST zone will be working in close coordination with various expenditure monitoring teams constituted by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs and the law enforcement agencies constituted by the Election Commission. A control room has been set up and people in Tamil Nadu are requested to contact 044-28331001 or 9444311909 for complaints. Residents of Puducherry are requested to call 0413-2221999 or 8300505535.  People in Tamil Nadu are requested to contact 044-28331001 or 9444311909 for complaints||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gst-squads-formed-to-prevent-the-illicit-movement-of-goods/article34032498.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light rain likely in parts of south coastal Tamil Nadu till March 13, says IMD||Some parts of the south coastal Tamil Nadu may experience light rain till March 13, according to the Meteorological Department. A cyclonic circulation over the Comorin area and adjoining Sri Lanka extending up to 0.9 km above mean sea level would influence the rain. A few areas in the State had a break from heat. During the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Manimutharu and Papanasam in Tirunelveli district, Pechiparai, Thirupathisaram, Kanniyakumari and Nagercoil in Kanniyakumari district recorded 2 cm rain. Chittar in Kanyakumari district recorded 1 cm of rain. On Tuesday, Thirupathisaram received 1 cm rain till 5.30 p.m., said officials. N.Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said isolated light rain may continue over the south coastal region. Though the rest of the State may experience only dry weather this week, the day temperature may stay close to normal for the month. Strong easterly winds are still continuing to prevail over the State and may prevent rapid rise in maximum temperature. As the day time is increasing and equinox on March 20 - when day and night are of equal length - is closer, people, particularly those who are outdoors, may feel discomfort. Rain over the southern coastal parts may ease after March 12, he added. On Tuesday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degree Celsius. Those at Meenambakkam and Ennore registered 32.1 degree Celsius, which is close to normal for the period. Chennai may have a partly cloudy sky during the morning and the sky may clear later. The maximum temperature may be around 34 degree Celsius till Thursday. The Meteorological Department has recently added an automatic weather station at Goodwill Primary School in Villivakkam and plans to expand its network to collate more weather data and provide precise forecasts and study changes in urban meteorology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-rain-likely-in-parts-of-south-coastal-tamil-nadu-till-march-13-says-imd/article34032985.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Early screening, care can help lower risks of gestational diabetes, say doctors||Gestational diabetes puts women at a greater risk for developing diabetes later in life. This was why early screening, counselling, appropriate diet and behaviour modification and postpartum follow-up was critical, doctors said. With the National Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) Day being observed on March 10, doctors, while acknowledging that awareness on GDM had made a marked improvement over the years, pinpointed the need for early screening. V. Seshiah, former professor of diabetology, Madras Medical College and founder-patron of Diabetes in Pregnancy Study Group India, said awareness of GDM was definitely better now as obstetricians and gynaecologists were concerned about it. “My concept is that we should screen all pregnant women. We recommend screening in the first trimester, around six to seven weeks of pregnancy. If we diagnose GDM in the first trimester, we can take care of both mother and child,” he said. He added that GDM puts the woman at risk for developing diabetes in the future. “Within 10 years, 50% of them can develop diabetes. Children born to them can develop diabetes and obesity. In my experience, in 90% of women who develop GDM, the levels can be controlled with medical and nutritional therapy,” he added. Usha Sriram, head of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Voluntary Health Services, said when it came to GDM, care before, during and after the pregnancy was important. “The fact is that we now screen for GDM early in pregnancy. Women could have abnormal glucose early in pregnancy. It is slowly becoming a standard of care and women are being screened at the first antenatal check-up. Women planning pregnancy or those who are pregnant should be aware of GDM. This is where a lot of work is to be done, especially among young people,” she said. In the present time, pre-diabetes, over weight, family history of diabetes, polycystic ovarian syndrome and sedentary lifestyle could put women at the risk of GDM. “This is why checking for blood sugar levels is recommended,” Dr. Sriram said. She added that once diagnosed with GDM, women should stay healthy and within the recommended weight gain range during pregnancy. “After the pregnancy is over, follow-up is vital,” she said. Prevention is key, she said. Anand Moses, former director, Institute of Diabetology, Madras Medical College, said the prevalence of GDM was on the rise. “It varies from 10% to 15% among pregnant women. This is why we recommend universal screening for pregnant women, as in many cases, GDM can be managed with diet control. They need to split meals and avoid simple sugars,” he said. Follow-up post delivery was lacking, he said.  GDM varies from 10% to 15% among pregnant women. This is why we recommend universal screening for them Anand Moses Former director, Institute of Diabetology, Madras Medical College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-screening-and-proper-care-can-help-lower-risks-of-gestational-diabetes-say-doctors/article34032497.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to stay law providing quota to Vanniakula Kshatriya||The Madras High Court on Tuesday refused to stay the operation of the recent State legislation providing 10.5% internal reservation to the Vanniakula Kshatriya community within the 20% quota earmarked for Most Backward Classes (MBCs) and Denotified Communities (DNCs) in education and public employment. The court, however, issued notice to the State government on the main petition to declare the law as unconstitutional and called for a counter-affidavit within six weeks. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the litigant had not made an overwhelming case for the grant of interim orders except for claiming that the law had been passed solely with a view of garnering the votes of a particular caste group during the impending Assembly election. The petitioner said the intention was evident from the fact that the law was passed in the Assembly just minutes before the election date was announced by the Election Commission of India (EC). P. Vijayakumar, a daily wager from Dindigul, had also said in his petition that the internal reservation was provided without any quantifiable data on the population of the Vanniakula Kshatriya (including Vanniyar, Vanniya, Vannia Gounder, Gounder or Kander, Padayachi, Palli and Agnikula Kshatriya). The first Division Bench said those issues could be decided only after a counter-affidavit was filed by the government. When his senior counsel, V. Karthic, contended that the enactment of the Tamil Nadu special reservation of seats in educational institutions including private educational institutions and of appointments or posts in the services under the State within the reservation for the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities Act, 2021 was nothing but a political ploy, the Chief Justice said: “The court should not get involved in politics.” The judges directed Advocate-General Vijay Narayan to take notice on behalf of the State and ensure that a counter-affidavit was filed within six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-stay-law-providing-105-quota/article34032508.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kanniyakumari can be a mini-Singapore’||Kanniyakumari has the potential to be a “mini-Singapore” if projects are not opposed by Opposition parties, said Pon. Radhakrishnan, former Union Minister and BJP candidate for the April 6 Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha bypoll. A former MP from the constituency, he told The Hindu on Tuesday that no development activities were undertaken in the district in the last two years and all work initiated by him as MP had not seen any progress. “This time, there will be development. Educated youth especially are worried about their future and jobs. This has to be addressed. Compared to other districts, there is a reluctance among youngsters here to become entrepreneurs. This is because till now they have not been given the confidence that they can achieve something in life,” he said. Youngsters have to become job creators and be guided on starting small businesses based on their education and experience. They must take the businesses to higher levels over time. “Compare the district to Sivakasi, which has grown exponentially in just a few years…,” he said. Asked why he lost in 2019, Mr. Radhakrishnan said probably people of the constituency did not have the confidence that he would deliver on his promises. “Maybe they thought I wouldn’t do much. But after the last election, people, without any religious, political or caste divides have been saying that they got cheated the last time due to [the Opposition’s] negative propaganda,” he said. According to him, religious divide in the district spanned over 40 years, and the DMK that has been trying to let it fester for political gain. “We don’t see any discrimination. Everyone in the constituency are citizens of Kanniyakumari. The BJP will celebrate if people are together,” he said. The BJP will work to turn 100 youngsters into role models. “We will help them start businesses, procure licences and loans; marketing will be taught. We are ready. They should come forward,” he said. Projects on hold He said a coconut park was proposed to be established, but had been put on hold. An ESI hospital for which he had taken efforts to acquire land did not materialise, he said. For setting up a rubber park with a research centre, the Tamil Nadu government had asked him to buy 400 acres of land. “How will we acquire 400 acres? All these are pending. If these are all done, the district will become a mini Singapore. We just need five years to implement all this. For that we need MLAs who don’t oppose projects or mislead people,” he said. “Take all MPs from 1989 to 2014, and all MLAs too. In all these years, none of them have done even 10% of the development work done by me in my tenure,” he said. “I challenge them to bring the book published by me on my achievements and debate on it,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-can-be-a-mini-singapore/article34032480.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu rice millers appeal to poll panel||The Tamil Nadu Rice Federation has requested the State Election Commission to instruct officials concerned not to harass farmers, millers and traders while transporting paddy, rice or other agricultural produce and cash meant for purchase. Samba crop was still being harvested and most farmers preferred to make cash transactions, they said. D. Thulasingam, president of the federation, said there had been incidents at several places when trucks carrying rice and paddy were detained by officials. “A lorry driver with Rs. 80,000 cash was stopped near Thiruporur and then the officials asked for the original bill, which was sent to the spot and the vehicle was released later. Around Chennai, we have marketing committee yards where rice and paddy is procured at Villupuram, Senji, Tiruvannamalai, Chengam and Ulundurpet and if the trucks are stopped, it would affect the movement of rice, which is an essential commodity,” he said. Federation secretary A.C. Mohan said they had submitted a petition to the Election Commission asking them to direct officials not to harass those genuinely going about with their business. “We have asked the 2,800 millers in the State to ensure that their staff carry an authorisation letter stating the purpose for which cash in excess of Rs. 50,000 is being carried along with their GST registration copy and ID proofs. The officials can cross check with the farmers or wholesalers and allow vehicles to proceed,” he said. V. Ravichandran, a farmer from Nannilam, who welcomed the suggestion, said though transactions happened at their farm gates, they would have problems when they go to their banks to deposit the amount. Aadhaar trail “We would also have to face unnecessary questioning when we go to nearby towns to buy farm inputs including seeds and fertilizers where also transactions happen in cash. The officials must accept the Aadhaar trail since we procure items after providing Aadhaar numbers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-rice-millers-appeal-to-poll-panel/article34032986.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||236 fresh cases, 3 deaths in Chennai||Chennai accounted for a little over 40% of the 569 fresh cases of COVID-19 recorded in the State on Tuesday. The city also accounted for three of the four fatalities reported in the State. The fresh cases took Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of cases to 8,56,246. While Dharmapuri and Kallakurichi had nil new cases, 26 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. In Chennai, 236 persons tested positive for COVID-19. Chengalpattu and Coimbatore had 48 and 55 cases respectively, while there were 30 cases in Tiruvallur, 28 in Kancheepuram and 20 in Thanjavur. The cases in other districts are: Salem (19), Tiruppur (16), Namakkal (7), Erode (6), the Nilgiris (5) and Tiruchi (13). Five returnees from UAE, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and Kerala were among those who tested positive for the infection in the State. As of date, 4,073 persons were undergoing treatment - 1,876 in Chennai, 352 each in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore, 111 in Tiruppur, 78 in Erode, 36 in the Nilgiris and 194 in Tiruvallur. Another 510 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 8,39,648. The four fatalities took the toll to 12,525 — all of them were aged above 70 years and had co-morbidities. This included a 78-year-old woman from Chennai who had obesity and diabetes. She was admitted to a private hospital on March 7 with complaints of fever and cough for four days, and difficulty in breathing for a day. She died on the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 55,134 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, 1,79,55,850 samples were tested in the State. Testing of U.K. returnees continued in the State. A total of 3,070 persons had returned from the U.K. between January 8 and March 9 of which 2,638 were traced and tested. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan conducted an inspection at T. Nagar bus terminus and Thana Street in Purasawalkam. The importance of wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and handwashing was explained to the public in these areas. He directed officers to impose spot fine on those who did not wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/236-fresh-cases-3-deaths-in-chennai/article34032505.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Makkal Needhi Maiam to release its first list today||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan was on Tuesday declared the chief ministerial candidate by leaders of alliance parties, including All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK) founder R. Sarathkumar and Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK) leader Ravi Pachamuthu. The AISMK and the IJK have been allotted 40 seats each in the alliance, named ‘Makkalin Mudhal Kootani’. The first list of MNM candidates would be released today. ‘Ditched by Congress’ MNM leaders said Mr. Haasan was “hugely disappointed” that the Congress decided to remain in the DMK-led alliance. They claimed the Congress had held discussions with the MNM for forming an alliance. The leaders claimed the two parties came close to clinching a deal, but some Tamil Nadu Congress Committee leaders convinced the All India Congress Committee leadership that joining hands with the MNM was a bad idea. Mr. Haasan was miffed when asked why political parties, including the Aam Aadmi Party that was expected to join the alliance, were not gravitating towards the MNM as Tamil Nadu’s ‘alternative’. “Gandhi’s alliance did not include the kings and the queens at first. They joined much later. It was a people’s alliance. You will see how people respect us,” he said. Mr. Haasan said he was not picking on DMK president M.K. Stalin. “I was accused of going soft on him. What do I do? What is there to choose between the two (Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Mr. Stalin). I will criticise both of them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makkal-needhi-maiam-to-release-its-first-list-today/article34032518.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to field candidates in 174 seats||The DMK is all set to field candidates in 174 Assembly constituencies with the seat-sharing exercise with almost all allies being completed on Tuesday. The party allotted three seats to Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, whose candidates will contest on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. With this, the DMK has finalised seat sharing arrangements with 11 parties in the Secular Progressive Alliance. Till now, the DMK has allotted 25 seats to the Congress, six each to VCK, CPI and CPI (M). The alliance leader also allotted six seats to Vaiko’s MDMK, which will contest on the DMK symbol. The IUML will contest in three seats and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi in two seats, The Tamizhaga Vaazhvurimai Katchi, the Aadhi Tamizhar Peravai Katchi and the Makkal Viduthalai Katchi will contest one seat each on the DMK symbol. With this, the DMK is likely to contest in 186 seats including the five parties contesting on its symbol] as of Tuesday. The Congress and DMK held talks on Tuesday on identifying seats for the Congress. Following, another round of talks on Wednesday, the seats are likely to be announced, sources said. On Tuesday, Manithaneya Jananayaka Katchi general secretary Thamimun Ansari and Mukkulathor Puli Padai founder Karunaas, who had extended their support to the DMK only on Monday, withdrew their support to the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-field-candidates-in-174-constituencies/article34032845.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks govt. response on plea seeking a ban on slaughter of cows, calves||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to file its counter affidavit to a public interest litigation (PIL) petition which had sought a prohibition on slaughtering cows, calves, milch and draught cattle. The court granted six weeks’ time for the filing of counter affidavit by the Animal Husbandry Department and two more weeks for the petitioners to file a rejoinder, if they prefer. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justices Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed State government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to take notices on behalf of the official respondents. The direction was issued on the PIL petition filed jointly by animal rights activist Gouhar Azeez of Palavakkam here and Akhil Bharat Krishi Goseva Sangh (ABKGS), a public trust based at Wardha in Maharashtra.  Preservation Act The petitioners stated that the Tamil Nadu Animal Preservation Act of 1958 provides for preservation of bulls, bullocks, cow and calves by regulating their slaughter. The Act prohibits slaughter of those animals without a certificate issued by a competent authority that the animal was fit for slaughter. Similarly, the Tamil Nadu Bovine Breeding Act of 2019 regulates bovine breeding activities and permits slaying of bovine unfit for breeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-plea-seeking-a-ban-on-slaughter-of-cows-calves/article34032983.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to contest in 174 seats||The DMK is all set to field candidates in 174 Assembly constituencies with the seat-sharing exercise with almost all allies being completed on Tuesday. The party on Tuesday allotted three seats to the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, whose candidates will contest on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. Till now, the DMK has allotted 25 seats to the Congress, six seats each to the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the CPI, and the CPI (M). The alliance leader also allotted six seats to Vaiko’s MDMK, which will contest on the DMK symbol. The IUML will contest in three seats and the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi will contest in two seats. The Tamizhaga Vaazhvurimai Katchi, the Aadhi Tamizhar Peravai Katchi and the Makkal Viduthalai Katchi will contest one seat each on the DMK symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-field-candidates-in-174-seats/article34032510.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks EC’s response on plea seeking scrutiny of manifestos||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Election Commission of India (EC) to respond to a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to it to fix a deadline for political parties to submit their manifestos for time-bound scrutiny. The petition was to direct the EC to analyse if the manifestos conform to the code of conduct and if it reflects the rationale of the promises made. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy granted time till March 15 for EC counsel Niranjan Rajagopalan to file a counter-affidavit to the petition filed by Coimbatore Common Cause, a private society, represented by its secretary K. Kathirmathiyon.  No timeline The petitioner’s counsel, S. Sathia Chandran, said the EC had so far not fixed a timeline for the submission of manifestos. The society said the legislature, despite being the principal organ of the State, had been witnessing an irreversible deterioration. This was because of parties that gained a majority by hoodwinking the electorate by making false promises with no rational basis. To woo voters, parties came up with promises without giving any thought to their feasibility, the petition added. Guidelines When a case opposing the distribution of freebies was taken to the Supreme Court, it had in 2013 directed the EC to hold consultations with parties on the issue of election manifestos and frame guidelines governing its contents. Accordingly, the EC had inserted a provision in Part VIII of the Model Code of Conduct making it mandatory for parties to explain the rationale behind the promises made by them. It was also made mandatory for the parties to submit hard copies as well as soft copies of their manifestos to the Chief Electoral Officers (CEO) before the elections. The petitioner said during the 2016 Assembly election, the Commission censured two parties in the State for not having explained the rationale behind the electoral promises made by them. But the action was taken only after the results were declared. Therefore, it was necessary to carry out the exercise in a time-bound manner, the petitioner’s counsel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-ecs-response-on-petition-seeking-scrutiny-of-manifestos/article34032509.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murdering 70-year-old||A 45-year-old man was arrested by personnel from the Kundrathur police station after he murdered a 70-year-old woman and surrendered. The police identified the victim as Malarkodi, wife of Akathilagam, 75, a Siddha practitioner. They were estranged and lived in different portions of the same house in Nandambakkam. One Mani alias Navarathina Mani, who came to Akathilagam for treatment, began staying in the house. He continued lodging there even after the death of Akathilagam. Malarkodi sold off the property recently and the portion in which Mani was staying was pulled down. Angered by this, he confronted the woman and an argument ensued. Late on Sunday, an inebriated Mani bludgeoned Malarkodi to death while she was asleep. He then went to the police station and surrendered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-70-year-old/article34032492.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five men held for arson in Choolaimedu||Personnel from the Choolaimedu police station have arrested five persons for setting a garment shop on fire in Choolaimedu in January. According to the police, Petram, 55, ran a garment shop in a building owned by one Nizam. On January 4, he was informed that his shop was up in flames. He lodged a complaint. The police checked CCTV camera footage and identified the men responsible for the act of arson. Using the footage, they arrested Rajesh, Ramaraj, Anandan, Balaji and Chandru. Investigation revealed that they were hired by Nizam to make Mr. Petram vacate the shop as there was an ongoing rent dispute. The police are on the lookout for Nizam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-men-held-for-arson-in-choolaimedu/article34032493.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Driver returns jewellery to owner||A call-taxi driver was appreciated for returning a bag containing gold jewellery, worth more than Rs. 10 lakh, and silver articles to its rightful owner who misplaced it in the vehicle. On Monday, Rimba Mondel, 35, a native of West Bengal, was travelling with her family in a call-taxi. She was carrying 32 sovereigns of gold jewellery and 400 g silver articles in a bag. She disembarked at her destination but left the bag behind and realised this afterwards. Acting on her complaint, the police got in touch with the driver, Selvakumar. He promptly handed over the bag to Ms. Mondel in the presence of the police. Mr. Selvakumar’s gesture was appreciated by Assistant Commissioner of Police, Taramani, P.K. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driver-returns-jewellery-to-owner/article34032494.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC orders suspension of SP Kannan||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday ordered suspension of former Chengalpattu SP D. Kannan, who was earlier in the day transferred to a non-election post, on the directions of the poll body. Mr. Kannan’s name figured in a case in which a woman SP was harassed by an officer in the rank of Special DGP. In a letter to T.N. Chief Secretary, ECI Secretary Malay Mallick called for reporting compliance of the order by 11 a.m. on Wednesday. The Home Department had issued orders transferring Mr. Kannan and posting him as SP, Commercial Crimes Investigation CID, Chennai. In his place as SP Chengalpattu, E. Sundaravathanam was posted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ec-orders-suspension-of-sp-kannan/article34032846.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco will lose over Rs. 1 lakh crore due to PPAs’||Arappor Iyakkam has filed a complaint with the Director, Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), alleging that the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) would lose more than Rs. 1 lakh crore by signing long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private power producers for 15 years. In the complaint, Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of Arappor Iyakkam, submitted several documents, including the CAG report, TNERC order by its retired member Nagalsamy, State Load Despatch Centre (SLDC) data, the relevant clauses which were available for terminating PPAs. He has also calculated the loss for 15 years from 2013 to 2028 and made a case against the then Electricity Minister Natham R. Viswanathan and the present Minister B. Thangamani and senior electricity officials. ‘CAG report not tabled’ Mr. Venkatesan wanted to know why the relevant CAG audit report of 2017-18, which clearly shows that more than Rs. 30,000 crore loss has been caused from 2013 to 2018, had not yet been tabled in the Assembly for discussion. In the 19-page complaint filed to DVAC, the Arappor Iyakkam has said that Tangedco officials had failed to adopt Merit Order Despatch (MOD) for purchasing power. Other complaints include failure to draw low-cost power from central generating stations, failure to levy liquidity damages against delayed commencement by private producers, violation of various guidelines of the Electricity Act, and the failure of the evaluation committee to disqualify five companies for not meeting the minimum and maximum ratio of energy charges. The complaint also raises questions about the necessity to sign the PPAs against the TNERC order of Mr. Nagalsamy who had said the average cost of Rs. 4.91 per unit was too high. S. Akshay Kumar (chairperson of TNERC) and G. Rajagopal (member of TNERC) had approved the PPAs after the retirement of Mr. Nagalsamy. Mr. Venkatesan said Mr. Akshay Kumar and Mr. Rajagopal were in the Board of Directors of Tangedco and were directly involved in the proposal to go for long-term power purchase agreements.The complaint also shows the projected loss of Rs. 46,875 crore Tangedco would incur if the PPAs are fully executed till 2028-29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-will-lose-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-due-to-ppas-alleges-arappor-iyakkam/article34032507.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Construction of AIIMS to begin soon’||Construction work and other activities related to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai will begin “very soon”, Union Minister for Health Harsh Vardhan informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Responding to a supplementary question raised by M. Thambi Durai of the AIADMK on the status of the project, he said it involved financial support from a Japanese agency. “The process is in very advanced stages,” he said, adding that the Union government was “actively pursuing” the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-aiims-to-begin-soon/article34032661.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to begin limited physical hearings from tomorrow||The Madras High Court has decided to commence physical hearing of a limited number of cases from Thursday if the COVID-19 situation in general does not deteriorate in the State by then. The court has also permitted re-opening of law chambers on the court campus from March 20 on a rotational basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-begin-limited-physical-hearing-from-tomorrow/article34032991.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||March 10 last date for submitting paintings for contest||The last date for submission of paintings for the JSW Paints Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021, in association with The Hindu Young World, is March 10. Those interested should log on towww.ywc.thehindu.com/ jswpaintsfor registration. They should complete the registration, upload a clear scanned copy of the painting and generate the Unique Registration Number. The participant should write the number and the topic (given for the competition) at the front and on the back of the painting sheet, provide the following details: name, class, school name (with branch), city, State, category of participation, parent’s name, registered email ID and mobile number. The physical drawing should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu . On the top left of the envelope, mention, “JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021”. The painting should reach the nearest office of The Hindu before March 10. The entries that qualify for the finale will be given the date and details of the finals through the registered email ID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/march-10-last-date-for-submitting-paintings-for-contest/article34032539.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||One arrested for GST evasion||Officials of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Zonal Unit, Coimbatore, conducted simultaneous search on March 8 at residence and business premises of a key person of a fake bill trading racket and arrested him. According to a release, the person had set up multiple fictitious registrations in Salem, Karur, Coimbatore, and Pollachi to generate and pass on fraudulent input tax credit. All the firms were shown as engaging in different businesses such as plywood business and ceramic products in Tamil Nadu. The firms had passed on Input Tax Credit without supply of goods with a taxable value of approximately Rs. 318 crore, thereby availing and passing on fraudulent ITC of around Rs. 40 crore to various entities. This key person, in connivance with another key person and mastermind, had set up and controlled various GST registrations, one of which was created under his own PAN, while other companies were registered in the name of his relatives and friends. During the search operation, incriminating documents like cheque books and passbooks of the bank accounts set up in the name of these fake firms were recovered from his residential premises. Fake bill The offender admitted to having aided at issuing fake bill through multiple fictitious registrations by misusing the facility extended by the government under GST regime for ease of doing business. The proxy firms floated by him had availed of or passed on input tax credit without actual supply or receipt of goods. Further investigation against the units which had availed the fraudulent credit passed on by this network was on, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-arrested-for-gst-evasion/article34032540.ece
10 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two persons arrested for chain snatching||The Saravanampatti police on Monday have arrested two persons hailing from Salem district on the charges snatching gold chain of a woman from Gandhi Ma Nagar near Peelamedu recently. The arrested were Shaen Banu (36) from Hasthampatti and S. Prakash (29) from Chinna Thirupathi in Salem district.  Remanded The police recovered the gold chain from the men who were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. Man falls to death A 34-year-old man from Annur in Coimbatore district died after he fell from a palmyra tree on Monday. The police have identified the deceased as A. Pandi, a resident of Upputhottam near Annur. According to the police, the man climbed a palmyra tree at Thottiyannur to pluck the palm fruit. He fell from the tree and died while being rushed to the Government Hospital at Annur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-arrested-for-chain-snatching/article34032542.ece
10 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation looks at ensuring water supply throughout summer||A day after the Coimbatore Corporation officials held a meeting on Monday with their counterparts in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board to review the water supply situation in the city and look at ensuring adequate supply throughout the summer, residents from a few localities in Ward 03 staged a protest against poor supply. The residents from Subramaniampalayam, near Thudiyalur, held empty pots to highlight their plight that they had not received water for over 10 days. K. Chandrasekaran, a resident and DMK representative, said the Corporation’s poor supply had forced the residents to buy water. But this was what the Corporation had hoped to avoid at its Monday meeting, said sources that attended the meeting. The sources said the officials from the two organisations explored the possibility of changing the quantity of water the TWAD Board drew from the Siruvani Reservoir but decided against it for now. With water at 30.18 feet in the in the Reservoir with a full reservoir level of 49.5 feet and the daily withdrawal of 80 million litres a day, the two organisations decided that they would take a call on changing the supply after a fortnight or by the end of March. One of the reasons cited for not changing the quantity or reducing the daily withdrawal from the Reservoir was that the city could not compensate the quantity to be reduced with water from the Pilloor Reservoir. With the Corporation skating on thin ice as far as the Pilloor supply went and having diverted Pilloor water to Rathinapuri and Tatabad, the engineers said more diversion was not possible at present. The sources said the Corporation had also asked the TWAD Board to complete the work to replace the motors in the Kavundampalayam-Vadavalli drinking water supply improvement scheme to ensure continuous supply lest they add to the burden. The Board was changing 40hp motors with 400hp motors to boost supply. The Board would complete the work in a couple of days and thereafter the two areas would get steady supply of River Bhavani water, they added. As for the protest in Subramaniampalayam, the sources said with the TWAD Board attending to a leak in the Pilloor line, it was for the Corporation to check for leak or block in the distribution network in those areas. The Corporation was looking into the issue and hopeful of rectifying it within the next water supply, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-looks-at-ensuring-water-supply-throughout-summer/article34032546.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Baralikadu eco-tourism centre bookings open today||The eco-tourism centre of the Forest Department at Baralikadu, near Karamadai, will open bookings from visitors on Wednesday after remaining closed for about a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The centre would be open to visitors on Saturdays and Sundays for various activities. A release from the Department said people who wished to visit the eco-tourism centre could register online, following instructions given on the websitewww.coimbatorewilderness. com. Coracle rides, jungle trail through the banks of River Bhavani and riverbath would be offered to visitors on these days. The entry fee, Rs. 550 per head for adults and Rs. 450 per head for children, is inclusive of ginger coffee at 10 a.m. and lunch (veg and non-veg). For details, contact the centre at 94899-68480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baralikadu-eco-tourism-centre-bookings-open-today/article34032541.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect Thadagam valley from the plundering of red earth’||Various associations that have been demanding banning of indiscriminate mining of red earth by brick makers in Thadagam valley staged a protest here on Tuesday, urging the authorities to put an end to ‘the plundering of natural resources.’ The protesters wanted the district administration, Revenue Department, Geology and Mining, Tangedco and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to take steps and follow various directions of courts to stop illegal mining of red earth in five village panchayats in Thadagam valley. State president of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam S.A. Chinnasamy said that the government should not allow plundering of natural resources. “It is sad to see that officials attached to various government departments act in favour of people who plunder the soil. The indiscriminate act has led to large scale pollution and depletion of groundwater level. Natural ways of streams and elephants have also been destroyed due to huge and deep pits dug for soil plundering,” he said. N. Panneerselvam, president of Samooganeedhi Panjami Nila Meetpu Iyakkam, alleged that brick makers plundered soil from Panchami lands too.  S. Ganesh, an activist from Thadagam, alleged that large scale brick production through illegal means also involved evasion of GST and Income Tax by brick makers. Leaders and members of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, Thadagam Valley Kanimavala Pathukappu Kuzhu, Samooganeedhi Panjami Nila Meetpu Iyakkam, Kousika Nadhi Uzhavar Kuzhu and Kovai Mavatta Irular Samooga Munnetra Sangam took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-thadagam-valley-from-the-plundering-of-red-earth/article34032558.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SSIs held on graft charge||Two Special Sub-Inspectors (SSIs) attached to the Variety Hall police station were arrested by sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Tuesday while accepting bribe from a man for not registering a case against him for having ridden two-wheeler under the influence of alcohol. The arrested were Ganeshan (53) and Irulappan (57). DVAC sources said that the two SSIs had caught Sridhar, a resident of Kovaipudur, when he rode the two-wheeler under the influence of alcohol on February 27. The officers seized the vehicle and allegedly demanded Rs. 6,000 from Mr. Sridhar to release the two-wheeler. As Mr. Sridhar informed that he could not pay the amount, the officers lowered it to Rs. 3,000 and then to Rs. 2,000. Mr. Sridhar told the officers on Monday that he did not have Rs. 2,000 either and he could pay only Rs. 1,700. The officers allegedly agreed to it. Mr. Sridhar, however, approached the DVAC and lodged a complaint against the two officers. The DVAC team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh laid a trap and handed over chemically treated currencies valued Rs. 1,700 to Mr. Sridhar which he gave to the police officers on Tuesday. The Vigilance sleuths, who were waiting outside the police station, caught the two SSIs in the act and arrested them under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The DVAC office in Coimbatore can be reached round the clock at 0422-2449550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssis-held-while-accepting-bribe-in-police-station/article34032559.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||E-pass must for people who travel from Kerala to T.N.||People who travel from Kerala to Tamil Nadu are required to have an e-pass alone and COVID-19 negative certificate was not needed, said Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani here on Tuesday. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Rajamani said that COVID-19 negative certificate was not mandatory for people who travel from Kerala to Coimbatore. He said that the travel regulation has been conveyed to the District Collectors of Palakkad and Thrissur districts in Kerala which share borders with Coimbatore district. “We have requested the Kerala side to give enough publicity on the regulations so that people who travel to Coimbatore district carry e-pass,” he said. The e-pass is also mandatory for people who travel from Kerala to Coimbatore district on two-wheeler, autorickshaw, four-wheeler including the driver. People who travel up to Walayar on KSRTC buses and enter Coimbatore district on TNSTC buses should also carry the e-pass. Out of the 13 inter-State check posts in Coimbatore district, six are major check posts based at Walayar, Velanthavalam, Anaikatti, Anamalai, Valparai and Pollachi. Joint teams the Health, the Revenue and the Police Departments will check compliance to the e-pass at all the check posts. People who do not carry the e-pass will be sent back. A release issued by the district administration said that people from Tamil Nadu who go to Kerala for various works should also carry the e-pass when they return to the State. The e-pass can be applied through the link:https://eregister.tnega.org.  We have requested the Kerala side to give enough publicity on the regulations K. Rajamani District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-must-for-people-who-travel-from-kerala-to-tamil-nadu-collector/article34032562.ece
10 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance team seizes Rs. 21.73 lakh||The static and surveillance teams engaged in poll duty on Tuesday seized Rs. 21.73 lakh, according to sources. According to sources, a team in Coimbatore South Assembly constituency seized Rs. 2.49 lakh, a Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency team seized Rs. 2.05 lakh, a Pollachi team seized Rs. 10.97 lakh and Valparai team seized Rs. 6.21 lakh. Tuesday’s seizure took the total cash seized since the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct to Rs. 36.19 lakh, the sources added. Seizure in the Nilgiris More than Rs. 76 lakh in unaccounted cash has been seized by flying squads and static surveillance teams in the Nilgiris till Tuesday. According to a press release, Gudalur constituency witnessed the highest amount of cash seized in the district, with Rs. 55.01 lakh, while more than Rs. 9.96 lakh was seized in Udhagamandalam and Rs. 11.44 lakh in Coonoor. The district administration also stated that a total of 1,380 cases have been recorded in the three constituencies in the Nilgiris for model code of conduct violations in public places. Gudalur constituency has recorded the most number of cases with 1,268, while Udhagamandalam has recorded 111 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-team-seizes-rs-2173-lakh/article34032547.ece
10 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials seized gold concealed in chemical paste form from two passengers who arrived at Coimbatore International Airport on March 8 from Sharjah. The two passengers - Irfan and Mohamed Yasin Mohamed Akrami - had concealed the gold in rectum. They had carried 296.74 gm and 297.32 gm respectively. The total value of the gold is Rs. 27.53 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-worth-rs-2753-lakh-seized-at-airport/article34032550.ece
10 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cycling awareness campaign held||Indian Bariatrics, Rotary Coimbatore Meridians, Kranksters Coimbatore Cycling Companies and bariatric surgeon S. Balamurugan jointly organised a cycling awareness here recently as part of World Obesity Day events. The cyclists, numbering nearly 80, covered 50 km in cycling trip. It was organised to create awareness on the need reduce obesity, stay physically healthy and implement a simple exercise regimen, said a press release from the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycling-awareness-campaign-held/article34032549.ece
10 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Bomb threat a hoax||An anonymous call to the police control room that a bomb had been planted inside a private spinning mill at Thadicombu petrol bunk near Vedasandur here turned out to be a hoax on Tuesday. He claimed that the explosives would go off around 11 a.m. and disconnected the line. Immediately, the senior officers were alerted, who instructed the bomb detection and disposal squad to carry out the check. The police concluded that there were no explosives. Inquiries revealed that the caller was from Undarpatti near here. The private mill, which had engaged the worker, did not pay wages properly. So, the caller had made the call in an aggrieved mood, an officer said and added that further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bomb-threat-turns-out-to-be-hoax/article34032651.ece
10 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||EVMs, VVPATs despatched to eight Assembly constituencies in Erode||Electronic voting machines (EVMs), voter-verified paper audit trails (VVPATs) and other poll materials were despatched to eight Assembly constituencies in the district here on Tuesday. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan supervised the exercise at the Railway Colony Corporation Higher Secondary School at Kollampalayam, in the presence of representatives of recognised political parties. He told media persons that control units, ballot units and VVPATs were sent to respective taluk offices in the constituencies under tight security and the Returning Officers (ROs) concerned will receive it and place it in strong rooms and seal it. “The process will be completed in two days”, he said and added that the rooms would be guarded round the clock, in addition to camera surveillance. “Computerised randomisation exercise will be carried out polling station-wise,” he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that four expenditure observers were assigned for the district. There are 38 shadow polling stations in Anthiyur and Bargur that have no mobile connectivity and 118 polling stations in remote hilly areas. Women poll officers will not be posted in such areas, he said. “Anti-poaching watchers of the Forest Department will support poll officials in remote hill areas during elections,” he added. Four-wheelers would be used to transport poll materials to Kathirimalai in Anthiyur Assembly constituency, which was hitherto carried out using donkeys, he added.  Poll offcials vaccinated He said that around 3,000 poll officials have been vaccinated so far. At present there are 32 sensitive booths in the district that are monitored daily and assessed. “Based on political alliance, sensitive booths may vary,” he said and added that 22 election-related complaints have been received so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evms-vvpats-despatched-to-eight-assembly-constituencies-in-erode/article34032680.ece
10 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Counting centre inspected||District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the preparatory works under way at the Institute of Road and Transport Technology (IRTT) at Chithode, where votes polled in six Assembly constituencies will be counted on May 2. There are eight Assembly constituencies in the district that will go to polls on April 6. Votes polled in the constituencies of Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar will be counted at the Gobi Arts and Science College at Gobichettipalayam and the votes polled in the constituencies of Erode East, Erode West, Modakkurichi, Perundurai, Bhavani and Anthiyur will be counted at IRTT. Mr. Kathiravan along with District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer S. Saibudeen and other election officials inspected the premises and asked the officials to ensure availability of drinking water, uninterrupted power supply, toilet facilities, strong rooms, parking areas, media centre and other basic amenities at the counting centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counting-centre-inspected/article34032678.ece
10 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board taking up works in the Erode substation – Karungalpalayam electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on March 10 at Karungalpalayam, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Chinna Mariamman Kovil Street, Kamatchi Amman Kovil Street, Ponnusamy Street, Vetri Nagar, Sai Guru Nagar, Kongu Nagar, Cauvery Road and Muniyappan Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34032681.ece
10 March 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Control room set up in Kallakurichi||An election control room has been set up at the District Collectorate in Kallakurichi for members of the public to register poll-related complaints. According to a release, members of the public from Kallakurichi, Ulundurpet, Sankarapuram and Rishivandhiyam assembly segments can call the toll-free number 1800 4253 169 and 1950 and register their complaints. The service is available round-the-clock and the complaints would be registered and forwarded to the flying squads and static surveillance teams in Kallakurichi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-set-up/article34032990.ece
10 March 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to hijack tipper lorry foiled||The police foiled an attempt to hijack a tipper lorry near here on Tuesday. The tipper lorry driver N. Johnson, 30, of Sawyerpuram near Pudukottai in Thoothukudi district, parked his vehicle near a roadside eatery at Kaansaapuram near Ettaiyapuram, along with the key, for supper on Tuesday even as he was on his way to a stone quarry to take blue-metal. An unidentified youth drove away the lorry towards Kovilpatti. After alerting the Ettaiyapuram police, he chased the lorry in a bike with the help of locals there. The unidentified person suddenly turned the vehicle towards Ettaiyapuram again. While crossing Kumaragiri, the police intercepted the vehicle but he avoided the police. While fleeing, he hit an oncoming car in which Vaikundam and Esakki of Thoothukudi and Madathi and Petchiammal of Pudukottai sustained injuries. They were rushed to the hospital. When the chase continued, the lorry was successfully stopped at Kurukkusaalai after the police’s effort to stop the lorry at Ettaiyapuram bus-stand and Eppothumventraan failed. After detaining the lorry, the police picked up the youth who was identified as S. Vetrivelkumar, 27, of Neeravipatti near Irukkankudi in Virudhunagar district for interrogation. He was reportedly under the influence of alcohol. The police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-hijack-tipper-lorry-foiled/article34032674.ece
10 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Booth-level officers deputed to create awareness on postal ballot||The district administration has deputed booth-level officers to reach out to the 80-plus age category voters and the differently-abled voters here to spread awareness on Form 12 D for the upcoming State Assembly elections. The officers will visit the homes of such voters in their constituencies and in case the houses are locked, they will make visits atleast twice attempting to meet the voters. Similarly, those affected with COVID-19 will also be eligible for the postal ballot provision. The voter should submit adequate proof of disability given by the government, and those with COVID-19 infection should produce a medical certificate. According to the administration, Form 12D should be duly filled with the requisite details and the forms will be collected by the booth-level officer concerned by March 16, at the eligible voters’ house. On the designated day of voting, the voters can cast their ballots in the presence of recognised political party representatives and it will be videographed. The ballots will be immediately handed over to the polling official. Collector and the District Election Officer V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy underlined that the postal ballot, according to the Election Commission, was only optional and not mandatory. Accordingly, the booth-level officials at the time of distributing Form 12D should make it clear to the 80-plus voters and differently-abled voters that the provision was optional and not mandatory, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/booth-level-officers-deputed-to-create-awareness-on-postal-ballot/article34032684.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sand sculpture stresses the need to vote in elections||A sand sculpture emphasising the need to vote in the upcoming assembly elections was displayed near Arapalayam here on Tuesday. Collector T. Anbalagan inspected the sand sculpture along with district administration officials. The district administration is conducting various activities every day to ensure 100% voter turnout in the upcoming Assembly elections. All these activities are conducted as part of the Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation programme. The Collector also pasted stickers on two-wheelers to emphasise the importance of voting. Cultural performances were also held to encourage the members of the public to vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sand-sculpture-stresses-the-need-to-vote-in-elections/article34032833.ece
10 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High-level committee to probe irregularities in appointments sought||For the past 10 years, vacancies for the posts of professors and Vice-Chancellors across universities had been filled through bribery and corruption. Hence, political parties contesting in the upcoming Assembly elections must strive to form a high-level enquiry committee to probe into irregularities in the appointments at universities and colleges, said R. Murali, State coordinator of Save Higher Education Movement – Tamil Nadu. He was addressing mediapersons here on Tuesday to discuss various changes required in higher education which needed to be included in the manifestos of political parties. District conveners of the movement A. Srinivasan, S. Krishnaswamy and P. Rajamanickam were present. They said allocation for higher education must be increased. At many of the universities, there was a delay in disbursement of financial grants to students. Many government-aided colleges charged more than the stipulated fees from students. This must be stopped, they stressed. Mr. Murali said at Annamalai University professors are appointed in excess compared to the available vacancies. This is done through corruption. "The excess number of professors is appointed at various educational institutions across the State. This has reduced the opportunities for other newcomers. Severe action must be taken against those who were involved in corruption at Annamalai University," he added. The vacant Assistant Professor posts across universities must be filled in a transparent manner. At many universities, the professors are struggling as they are unable to receive the retirement benefits. Hence, the State government must allocate sufficient funds to the universities. It must be ensured that democratic elections are held at universities so that elected representatives choose the members of the Senate and Syndicate of the universities. It is being planned to merge The Central Institute of Classical Tamil, functioning in Chennai, with Bharathiya Basha Viswavidyalaya, Mysore. Steps must be taken to stop this plan, said the members of Save Higher Education Movement. National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test must not be opted for admitting Tamil Nadu students into medical and dental colleges. The temporary guest lecturers who are recruited across universities are paid meager salaries. They must be paid Rs. 50,000 as recommended by the universities. A separate tribunal must be formed to address the grievances of students and teachers, said Mr. Murali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-level-committee-to-probe-irregularities-in-appointments-sought/article34032839.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Court cannot promote particular form of medicine’||Dismissing a petition that sought a direction to the Centre and the State to ensure that the treatment under Siddha system of medicine was covered under all types of policies issued by insurance companies, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed the matter had nothing to do with any public interest. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice R. Hemalatha observed that the petitioner subscribes to a particular system of medicine and wants the whole world to be converted to such philosophy. She may use whatever channel that may be available to her to propagate her views, the judges said. The court does not have either the expertise or the inclination to promote a particular form of medicine unless there is a legislation in such regard. It may also serve the petitioner well to approach the policy makers so that an appropriate legislation may be brought, the judges said. The court dismissed the petition filed by J. Kokilam of Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-cannot-promote-particular-form-of-medicine/article34032836.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||G.O. issued for special hospital for infectious diseases||A Government Order has been issued for construction of a Special Hospital for Infectious Diseases Quarantine and Treatment inside Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said that a total of Rs. 12 crore had been allocated for construction of the building and purchasing the equipment. A source from the Public Works Department said that the G.O. was issued before the announcement of elections. "Technical sanction and tender for commencing construction of the hospital will commence only after the end of the Assembly elections," he said. According to the G.O., the Chief Minister had made the announcement under Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Rule 110, he added. According to the G.O., Rs. 10 crore had been sanctioned for construction of the hospital building and Rs. 2 crore for purchase of equipment. Ventilators, ultrasound machines with echo, RT-PCR machines are on the list of equipment that are required for the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-issued-for-special-hospital-for-infectious-diseases/article34032843.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Insurance employees to strike work on March 18||Opposing the Union government’s move to bring certain changes in the insurance sector, the All India Insurance Employees Association, Madurai, decided to go on a nationwide strike on March 18. The members called the move by the Centre unwarranted, in a press meet held here on Tuesday. The members of the association opposed the decision to increase Foreign Direct Investment in the insurance sector from 49 % to 74 %. The Centre’s decision on the privatisation of a general insurance company and public sector banks and the LIC IPO was also opposed by the members. The move by the Centre would defeat the very purpose of LIC, a profitable institution, which has contributed immensely towards various government projects, said N.P. Ramesh Kannan, General Secretary of the All India Insurance Employees Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-employees-to-strike-work-on-march-18/article34032840.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments must be dealt with effectively: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has emphasised that public land and waterbodies must be protected and revenue officials and others tasked with the maintenance of such places must ensure that no encroachment is allowed. Encroachments, if made, should be dealt with expeditiously and effectively, the court said. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice R. Hemalatha observed that without in any manner belittling the problem of encroachment on public land, if courts were to get into every tiny encroachment in every village of the State, there would hardly be any time to address other matters of pressing need. Disposing of a number of petitions that complained of encroachments in public land and waterbodies, the court directed the authorities concerned to consider the representation made by the petitioners after giving an opportunity of hearing to the parties concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-must-be-dealt-with-effectively-hc/article34032837.ece
10 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Orders reserved on plea for speedy trial||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved orders on the plea that sought a speedy trial in the case of custodial deaths of traders P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks at Sattankulam.  Fair trial Justice K. Murali Shankar reserved orders in the case after hearing the petition filed by the family members of the deceased traders. In her petition, J. Selvarani, wife of Jayaraj and mother of Benicks, apprehended that since the accused in the case were police personnel they could topple a fair trial. Pointing to one particular incident in the trial court, Ms. Selvarani said she noticed the key accused in the case, suspended Inspector of Police Sridhar, threatening someone over a mobile phone in the court hall. She apprehended that the accused would use their money, power and muscle to topple a fair trial and threaten witnesses. Therefore, the trial pending before the Additional District and Sessions Judge I, Madurai, must be expedited and concluded within a stipulated period, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-deaths-case-orders-reserved/article34032835.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs officials to inspect land for school||‘One more case of class struggle’, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Tuesday after coming across a public interest litigation petition that complained that the land donated by the members of the scheduled caste for the construction of an additional building for a government school in Karur district was not being utilised by the authorities concerned. The petitioner, K. Andiyappan of Kulithalai in Karur district, the village headman, said that 1.85 acres was donated for the development of the government school after it was upgraded to a Higher Secondary School. But, the proposal was stopped since the donated land was close to a quarry and there was opposition from the dominant caste. He said that 44 people of the scheduled caste executed the gift deed in favour of the school for the construction of the additional building that would house labs and sanitation facilities. Refusal to construct the school building was nothing but untouchability, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi said that it was an unfortunate case. The judges expressed disappointment and observed that if not for elections, they would come down hard on the officials concerned. The court directed the Karur district administration, the Education Department officials and the Public Works Department officials to inspect the land to ascertain the suitability of the place for the construction of the building and file a report. The case was adjourned till April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-officials-to-inspect-land-for-school/article34032643.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts will be made to accommodate candidates in respective States’||National Board of Examinations will make efforts to ensure NEET-PG 2021 candidates from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry were allotted a testing centre in their respective States, if the required number of nodes were available. In a letter addressed to Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan, its Executive Director, Prof. Pawanindra Lal, said NBE will make all efforts to ensure that the candidate is allotted a testing centre in the State of correspondence address of the candidate who had opted for “Others”, based on the availability of the testing seats. In case testing seat is not available in the State concerned due to logistic, administrative or other reasons, testing centre in a nearby State shall be allocated. “Since, the examination is being conducted in SD-50 model considering the social distancing norms, every alternative seat is vacant,” the Executive Director said. Appreciating the NBE’s concern with regard to make risk-free atmosphere for the candidates, Mr. Venkatesan, in his reply, wondered why proactive measures were not taken to increase the examination centres to accommodate all the candidates in their respective States. He pointed out that it would be a risk for the candidates to travel to other States in the COVID-19 situation when restrictions are being tightened again making e-pass mandatory for some inter-State travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-will-be-made-to-accommodate-candidates-in-respective-states/article34032841.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme on PPS||The Madurai Chapter of Laghu Udyog Bharati, along with MSME-DI, is conducting an awareness programme on the Public Procurement System. According to a release from Laghu Udyog Bharati, the Union government has recently issued a Government Order mandating every department or organisation to buy a minimum of 25% of their total purchase from micro and small industries, the release said.  The awareness programme will be held at Centre for Entrepreneurship Development, Flower Market campus on Melur Road near Mattuthavani bus stand at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-on-pps/article34032842.ece
10 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Craft exhibition||Small Industries Product Promotion Organisation (SIPPO), along with NABARD and Department of Handlooms, is organising 'Madurai Utsav- Craft Exhibition' at Raja Muthiah Mandram on Dr. Ambedkar Salai from March 10 to 14. According to a release from SIPPO General Manager K. Palanivelmurugan, the Dean of Agricultural College and Research Institute V.K. Paulpandi will inaugurate the exhibition at 4 p.m. P.S. Harikrishnaraj, Deputy General Manager of NABARD, and K. Arivalagan, Lead District Manager, Canara Bank, will participate in the inaugural event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/craft-exhibition/article34032834.ece
10 March 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||College||R. Krishnamoorthy   The district administration has infused a personal touch in its election awareness exercise, extending printed invitations to college students. Flanked by senior officials, Collector Praveen P. Nair distributed printed invitations to students of a private college during a celebration marking Women’s Day on Monday. He requested them to take part in the democratic exercise and ensure 100% franchise. The students also took a pledge to fulfil their democratic responsibility. Targeting first-time voters, Mr. Nair also launched a selfie photo point on the Collectorate premises, beside an arch with slogans calling for 100% franchise with honesty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college/article34032478.ece
10 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of EVMs held in Namakkal||Randomisation of electronic voting machines for use in the six Assembly constituencies in the district was held in the presence of District Collector and District Election Officer K.Megraj, Returning Officers and representatives of recognised political parties here on Tuesday. According to officials, the district currently has 3,631 ballot units, 2, 764 control units and 2,982 VVPAT machines. During the first-level checks, 19 ballot units, 92 control units and 175 VVPAT units were rejected. The first-level randomisation was conducted for 3,512 ballot units, 2,572 control units and 2,707 VVPAT machines.  According to officials, 2,049 polling stations would be set up across the six Assembly constituencies in the district. With 377 polling stations, Namakkal will have the maximum number of stations, and Paramathi-Vellur will have the minimum with 317 stations. A total of 2,463 ballot units were randomised, including 414 reserve units. As many as 2,463 control units, including reserve units, were allotted and 2,667 VVPAT machines including 30% reserve of 618 machines were allotted for the six constituencies. Mr.Megraj said that the machines would be moved to strong rooms in respective constituencies. He said that cash seized by flying squads would be returned through appeals committee, if necessary documents are produced. On issuance of applications for postal ballots to persons with disabilities, Mr.Megraj said only 15-20% persons with disabilities had opted for postal votes till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-evms-held-in-namakkal/article34032687.ece
10 March 2021||Pattukottai,TAMIL NADU||A wooden bench that carries a piece of history||An otherwise unremarkable piece of antique furniture has a special place in the household of former Congress MLA N.R. Rangarajan. The unusually long bench carries a slice of history. Former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj used to occupy the bench whenever he visited the house of R. Ramasamy Thevar, a senior Congress leader from Thambikottai, near Pattukottai, and Mr. Rangarajan’s father. “Its length perfectly suited the tall leader. The name ‘Kamaraj’ became inseparable from it and everyone called it the ‘Kamaraj’ bench. If he stayed at our house, he would spread his towel and sleep on the bench placed on the veranda. He would refuse to sleep inside,” recalled Mr. Rangarajan, who is now part of the Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) led by G.K. Vasan and aspires to enter the fray from the Pattukottai Assembly constituency. The bench still sits on the veranda of the old palatial house. “There was also a photograph of Kamaraj sitting on the bench and talking to former President R. Venkatraman, the then district Congress committee president Krishnasamy Vandaiayar and my father,” Mr. Rangarajan said. During the cyclone “Unfortunately, the photo was damaged by the wind during Cyclone Gaja. It was fully soaked and beyond restoration. It was a painful day in my life,” he added. The frame of the bench is made of teak and the cover is made of jackfruit wood. “This was also damaged during the cyclone. We repaired it and are keeping it as a memory,” he said. “Since Venkatraman was introduced to Kamaraj by Nadimuthu Pillai, a Congress leader and my relative, he maintained a good relationship with our family,” he said. “He wanted to visit our house in Pattukottai for lunch. Since protocol did not permit it, we formed a citizen committee and organised a lunch at my house,” Mr. Rangarajan added.  Its length perfectly suited the tall leader. The name ‘Kamaraj’ became inseparable from it and everyone called it the ‘Kamaraj’ bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-furniture-that-carries-a-piece-of-history/article34032663.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy to head NDA in Puducherry, says BJP||All India N. R. Congress chief and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy will head the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) during the Assembly election in the Union Territory, BJP in-charge for Puducherry Nirmal Kumar Surana said on Tuesday. The AINRC would contest from 16 seats and the remaining 14 would be shared by the BJP and the AIADMK. No seat-sharing talks were held with the PMK, Mr. Surana further said. The announcements were made at a press conference held at a hotel in the presence of Mr. Rangasamy, AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan and nominated legislator and BJP local unit president V. Saminathan. To a question on whether Mr. Rangasamy would be projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate, the BJP leader said the Chief Minister’s post would be decided after the election. “The alliance will be led by Mr. Rangasamy. We will face the election together and the CM post will be decided later,” he said. On the number of seats to be given to the AIADMK, Mr. Surana said both parties would sit together to decide. When his comments were sought on the opposition within the AINRC on aligning with the BJP, Mr. Rangasamy said “It was only the views of the party members made at a consultative meeting. They had left the decision-making to me.” Asked whether he had raised the issue of Statehood for the Union Territory during his deliberations with the BJP, the former Chief Minister said the main objective of the formation of the AINRC itself was to obtain Statehood. “We have raised it in the past and will continue to raise the issue,” he added. AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan said the objective of forging an alliance with the BJP was aimed at developing Puducherry. “The previous Congress government wasted its tenure by constantly fighting with the BJP. Only when we have a cordial relationship with the Centre will development activities take place in Puducherry,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ainrc-chief-rangasamy-to-head-nda-in-puducherry-bjp/article34032513.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G takes a bus ride for a first-hand feel of woes||One of the passengers who took the rickety ride along the suburbs on Tuesday holds all the power to change the experience for public transport travellers on the busy route connecting the city with Cuddalore and beyond. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who hopped on to a bus to learn first hand the problems of passengers after receiving several complaints, has resolved to bring improvements to the condition of the roads and the transport connectivity on the south-bound route. According to the Raj Nivas, the Lt. Governor boarded the bus at the Antoniar Church stop and travelled to Thavalakuppam junction to check the transport facilities and the condition of roads. Ms. Soundararajan was accompanied by A.P. Maheshwari, advisor, and Special Secretary SD Sundaresan. The Lt. Governor, who got down from the bus at Thavalakuppam junction, then travelled to Abishegappakkam in another passenger bus and checked the transportation and road facilities. Discussions planned “I travelled along with people to learn first hand about the facilities and conditions. The grievances which I heard from the people will be addressed after the election is over. In the meantime, discussions will be held with the officers to plan in this regard,” Ms. Soundararajan told the mediapersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-takes-a-bus-ride-for-a-first-hand-feel-of-woes/article34032996.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||26 new cases in U.T.||Puducherry logged 26 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday while 19 patients were discharged from hospitals over the last 24 hours. The cases, which were detected from testing 1,704 samples, were reported in Puducherry (17), Karaikal (6), Mahe (2) and Yanam (1). The test positivity rate was 1.52%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 97.88%. Of the 178 active cases in the Union Territory, 86 were in hospitals and 92 were in home isolation. The tally stood at 670 deaths, a total of 39,908 cases and 39,060 recovered patients. Of an estimated 6.4 lakh tests conducted to date, about 5.95 lakh returned negative. So far, 11,139 healthcare personnel and 3,383 frontline workers have been vaccinated against COVID-19. During the second phase of vaccination, 4,262 persons aged above 60 and above 45 years with co-morbidities had so far been immunised in the Union Territory. Health Director S. Mohan Kumar appealed to all categories of healthcare workers in all medical colleges and PHCs to undergo vaccination. Addressing a meeting to review the progress of immunisation, Dr. Mohan Kumar also wanted them to raise awareness among the public on the benefit of vaccination. The next review of immunisation will be held on Tuesday. Cuddalore district reported five fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 25,243. While 24,892 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 44. In Villupuram, three persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,291. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-new-cases-recorded-in-ut/article34032993.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Training for observers||District Election Officer Purva Garg on Tuesday convened a training session for assistant expenditure observers attached to Returning Officers. A press note said the training was in connection with the various means of monitoring election expenditure for the April 6 Assembly election. In this regard, the instructions of the Election Commission of India were explained to the observers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-expenditure-observers/article34032994.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy||Rajesh B. Nair   There was hullabaloo at a press meet on Tuesday where AINRC chief N. Rangasamy was announced as the head of the NDA alliance for the Assembly poll and not as his supporters wished, the Chief Ministerial candidate. His supporters, who gathered at the venue where the declaration was made, shouted slogans demanding an immediate announcement, projecting N.R. as the Chief Minister candidate. Mr. Rangasamy had to personally intervene to calm his supporters. BJP workers, on the other hand, raised ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ slogans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy/article34032488.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Basic amenities in place at 1,902 polling stations in Pudukottai district||Basic facilities such as provision of ramp, power supply, provision of drinking water and toilets have been ensured in all 1,902 polling stations in the district for the Assembly elections. The polling stations fall under a total of six Assembly constituencies in the district. Instructions have been given to officials to rectify defects, if any, with respect to provision of basic facilities in polling stations on a war footing, Collector P. Uma Maheswari has said. A total number of 18 flying squads, equal numbers of static surveillance teams and six video surveillance teams have been constituted covering the six assembly constituencies of Gandarvakottai, Viralimalai, Pudukottai, Tirumayam, Alangudi and Aranthangi. Enforcement of the model code of conduct is being ensured through the teams, which work round the clock, mandated with the task of also checking smuggling of liquor and monitoring election-related expenditures. Facility has been created for the general public to lodge poll-related complaints and to convey election violations in the toll free number: 1800 4252 735. Another toll free number — 1950 — has been created to ascertain information relating to voters list and voter identity cards. Campaigns through different modes are being conducted as per Election Commission instruction all over the district to create awareness among voters of the importance of voting, , Ms. Uma Maheswari said. As part of awareness creation on cent percent polling, a marathon was organised in Pudukottai Town on Tuesday that was flagged off by Ms. Uma Maheswari in the presence of the Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan. Around 800 persons, including sports persons, paramilitary and police personnel and municipal staff, participated in the marathon that started from the Public Office and culminated at the same place passing via Keezha Raja Veedhi, Brindavanam, Vadakku Raja Veedhi, Mela Raja Veedhi, Sathyamoorthy Salai and new bus stand. In a press release, Ms. Uma Maheswari appealed to the general public to exercise their franchise without fail on the day of polling on April 6. Randomisation Meanwhile, randomisation of electronic voting machines for their distribution to the six assembly constituencies will take place on March 10 in the presence of the Collector, who is also the District Election Officer. The exercise will be done at the District Collectorate in the presence of representatives of various political parties on that day, another official press release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/basic-amenities-in-place-at-1902-polling-stations-in-pudukottai-district/article34032649.ece
10 March 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Women's Day at Adheenam||International Women's Day was celebrated at Thilagavathiyar Thiruvarul Adheenam here on Monday. Alagappa University Vice Chancellor N. Rajendran presided over the function and presented awards constituted by the Adheenam to honour deserving women. He also handed over sewing machines to a few women. He said a country would develop if the women in that nation were educated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-day-at-adheenam/article34033037.ece
10 March 2021||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Promise of free LPG cylinders not possible’||The AIADMK’s promise of giving six free cooking gas cylinders every year was not possible, said CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Mutharasan asked after giving six LPG cylinders for free, would not the government increase the price of the other six cylinders. “Only after the AIADMK realised that it could not retain power in the State after the Assembly election, its leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami has made such an announcement,” Mr. Mutharasan said.  He said the Central government was swindling people by increasing prices of essential commodities. The BJP government was not bothered about the common man, he said. He demanded that the livelihood of fireworks unit employees should be protected. He wondered why the State government had not acted against officials who had failed to prevent fatal accidents in fireworks units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/promise-of-free-lpg-cylinders-not-possible/article34032847.ece
10 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to ensure 100% voting||District Election Officer and Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on Tuesday said that the flying squads in four Assembly Constituencies in the district had so far seized Rs. 36.48 lakh in cash from people, who could not give valid proof as per the Election Commission of India guidelines. Speaking to reporters, he said that from the day the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) came into force, officials had been sensitising eligible voters to exercise their votes without fail. ‘We are looking to achieve the 100 % vote in the district. Keeping this in mind, campaigns are being held daily. Self-help groups participated in a rangoli event through the Mahalir Thittam. The objective of such events was to impress upon the people the need to vote without fail, in a free and fair manner and with an independent mindset, he said. There were about 80 vulnerable/critical polling stations out of 1,647 stations in the district. The Superintendent of Police E Karthik and his team were aware of the deployment of personnel. Already, one company of central forces comprising 80 personnel had arrived and a flag march was taken out. Asked about the number of people above 80 years in the district and the arrangements for them to exercise their votes, he said officials have proposed to give them the option of either postal ballot or they could visit the polling stations to cast their votes. He assured that there would be adequate bandobust arrangements in place. People need not have any apprehension. The number of polling stations has been enhanced to 1647 with an additional 278 stations. The COVID-19 pandemic, which surfaced last year, had been brought under control. However, the public should wear masks, use sanitizers and maintain physical distancing. The polling stations would be fully equipped with sanitisers and thermal scanners. Every voter would be provided with hand gloves to cast his vote on the EVM as a precautionary measure. So far, the election control room Collector’s office had received 11 complaints and the special number 1950 had received 651 calls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-ensure-100-voting/article34032668.ece
10 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Irregularities alleged in postal voters list||DMK MLA R. Rajendran has alleged irregularities in entry of names in the postal voters list here. In view of COVID-19, the Election Commission has permitted postal ballot to persons aged above 80 and differently-abled persons. Mr.Rajendran alleged that physically fit persons were being included in the list of differently-abled persons eligible for postal voting. He demanded the authorities to take necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-alleged-in-postal-voters-list/article34032685.ece
10 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||An election surveillance team seized Rs. 2.85 lakh cash from a trader near Three Roads here on Tuesday. A flying squad conducting checks at Thadagapatti here seized Rs. 73,480 from a vehicle on Monday night. According to officials, the seized cash was handed over to the district treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized/article34032690.ece
10 March 2021||SALEM/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Civic bodies get tough on COVID-19 protocol violators||Salem Corporation, on Tuesday, warned of stern action against persons violating COVID-19 protocols. Teams formed A press release from Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that eight teams have been formed to monitor adherence to standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the State Government. A fine of Rs. 200 would be imposed on persons not wearing masks in public places, Rs. 500 for spitting in public places, Rs. 500 for violating physical distancing norms, and Rs. 5,000 on businesses violating the SOP. Mr. Ravichandran advised the public to get vaccinated against COVID-19. According to officials, 11,454 people have so far received COVID-19 vaccination in the district.  In Erode, officials levied spot fines on people for not wearing mask in public places here on Tuesday. Erode Collector C. Kathiravan said that wearing mask in public places was mandatory and non-compliance would invite spot fine. He asked people to ensure personal distancing while moving in commercial complexes, establishments, bus stands, railway stations, vegetable markets, provisional stores and government offices. The public were also advised to use sanitisers to clean their hands. On Tuesday, officials levied spot fine of Rs. 200 on persons who were found violating the norms at various places. As on Monday, a total of 14,884 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district. A total of 150 persons are under treatment in both government and private hospitals in Erode district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-bodies-get-tough-on-covid-19-protocol-violators/article34032689.ece
10 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||DPC record clerk arrested||A DVAC team has arrested S. Kesavamurthy, a record clerk at the direct purchase centre in Kamatchipuram on charges of bribery The accused demanded Rs. 40 per bag of paddy brought by P. Baskaran of Kulasekaranallur near Panthanallur to the DPC on February 14. The DPC staff delayed procurement as he refused to comply with the demand. Subsequently, his paddy was procured by the staff on April 6, but he was asked to pay Rs. 4,200 in cash for remittance of the value of paddy in his bank account. Baskaran lodged a complaint with DVAC, Thanjavur unit. The DVAC personnel arrested Kesavamurthy in the act of accepting the bribe from the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpc-record-clerk-arrested/article34032652.ece
10 March 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers oppose road work||Villagers of Mariamman Kovilpatti and Kaakivadanpatti near Boothipuram near here staged a road roko along the Dindigul-Kumuli four-way lane on Tuesday. They demand that the contractors were raising the four-way lane like a huge wall and it was tough to cross the point. They urged the authorities to either build a sub-way or scale down the height of the road and redress their grievance. They said that there are about 2000 people in the hamlets. People especially pregnant women, who had to go to the PHC at Boothipuram, had to cross the road. With the rising of the road level to a great height along the Kumuli-Dindigul stretch, they had to scale the stretch with great difficulty. The work was going on at a fast pace. Either they should stop the work immediately or get an underpass for the villagers as the hamlets appeared like an island now, they said. The police persuaded the agitators that they would convey the grievance to the higher ups. Traffic was diverted for an hour, the locals said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-oppose-road-work/article34032672.ece
10 March 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Poor upkeep of memorial deplored||Farmers from five southern districts staged a dharna here on Tuesday condemning the Public Works Department officials for the poor upkeep of the Col. Pennicuick memorial. Led by its general secretary Pon Katchi Kannan, they assembled in front of the memorial at the Lower Camp to pay respects in view of death anniversary of Pennicuick, the British engineer who was instrumental for the construction of Mulla Periyar reservoir. They found the memorial dirty and shabby. PWD officials should have engaged a few workers to clean the campus at least in view of the death anniversary. The farmers representatives resorted to a dharna after offering a garland at the memorial. As the information spread, Gudalur police Inspector James Jabaraj rushed to the spot. They refused to leave the spot when the police assured to convey their grievance to the PWD officials. The farmers dispersed only after PWD officials came to the spot and assured to engage workers to keep the campus clean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-upkeep-of-memorial-deplored/article34032670.ece
10 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Army jawan gets 10 years of imprisonment||The Mahila Court here on Tuesday awarded 10 years of imprisonment to an Indian army jawan for sexually abusing a woman under the pretext of marrying her. According to prosecution, Havildar T. Rajkumar, 42, from Keezha Sinthalacheri near Chinnamanur in Theni district, who was serving in Bengaluru, befriended a woman from a village near Ottapidaaram in Thoothukudi district, even as she was working with a private firm in Coimbatore. As the woman was working with Rajkumar’s friend, the army jawan managed to befriend her over the phone. When the woman had come to her native place in 2009, Rajkumar also came to Thoothukudi to see her. With the promise of marrying her, Rajkumar took the woman to a lodge in Thoothukudi where he sexually exploited her. He also tied the nuptial knot in a temple in a low-key affair and left her in her home, but never returned. After the victim’s repeated attempts to reach him failed, she lodged a complaint with the Thoothukudi Central Police in May 2010. Subsequently, Rajkumar was arrested and granted bail. Meanwhile, he married another woman with whom he has two children. As the trial came to an end, Mahila Court Judge V. Pandiaraja awarded 10 years of imprisonment to Rajkumar and slapped a fine of Rs. 2,000 on him on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/army-jawan-gets-10-years-of-imprisonment/article34032673.ece
10 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination awareness programme for police||An awareness programme on COVID-19 vaccination for the police personnel to be involved in the election duty was held at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital here on Tuesday. Presiding over the meeting, Collector K. Senthil Raj said over 7 lakh persons had received the vaccine across Tamil Nadu as it was proved and certified to be safe. Since the police would have to work closely with the public, particularly during the election rallies being addressed by the political leaders, the law-enforcers should get protected by the vaccine against the viral infection, considering the safety of their family members. “Of the 18,000 police, polling personnel and the revenue department employees to be vaccinated ahead of the April 6 election in Thoothukudi district, 1,000 policemen have received the vaccination and the remaining 2,000 policemen are to get vaccinated shortly,” he said. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, and Dean, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, Revathi Balan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-awareness-programme-for-police/article34033044.ece
10 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors inspect counting centres||Collector K. Senthil Raj and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar on Tuesday inspected the Government Engineering College, the counting centre for the votes to be polled in the six Assembly constituencies in the district on April 6. He visited the counting halls also after inspecting the strong rooms where the electronic voting machines will be kept till May 2 after the polling. He asked the officials to fit surveillance cameras and floodlights at all vantage points of the counting centre and put sufficient number of tables in the counting hall while ensuring physical distancing while counting of votes. He inquired about the separate passages to be used by officials to be involved in counting and agents of the candidates inside the counting hall. Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh, District Revenue Officer Kannapiraan were present. In Tenkasi, Collector G.S. Sameeran on Tuesday evening inspected USP Polytechnic College at Kodikurichi near Tenkasi, the counting centre for the votes to be polled in the five Assembly segments in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-inspect-counting-centres/article34033045.ece
10 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Maldives releases eight detained T.N. fishermen||Eight fishermen who were detained by Maldivian authorities when they were reportedly fishing in the island nation’s waters in their mechanised boat on February 24 have been freed along with the boat. According to Collector K. Senthil Raj, who took sustained efforts to ensure the release of the detained fishermen and their boat, said the fishermen – S. Antony Michael Bharat, G. John Samuel, G. Antony Arul Raj, T. Kanagaraj, A. Abhishek Raj, all from T. Saveriarpuram near Thoothukudi, A. Antony Robin of Vellaipatti, S. Jebamalai Raj and S. Irudhayaraj of Narippaiyoor in Ramanathapuram district – had ventured into the sea from Tharuvaikulam fishing harbour for deep sea stay fishing. When they were reportedly fishing near Kulhudhufushi Island of Maldives on February 24, they were detained by the Maldivian authorities for illegally entering the waters of the island nation. On getting information, the families of the detained fishermen petitioned Dr. Senthil Raj. When the Indian Mission in Maldives was alerted, K. Joseph Kutty, Consular, High Commission of India, Male, contacted the local authorities to secure the release of the fishermen with their vessel. They were allowed to sail back in the same vessel, which left for Tharuvaikulam at 12.05 p.m. (local time) on Tuesday even as the Maldives Coast Guard personnel were accompanying in the Maldivian territorial water. “The fishermen are expected to reach Tharuvaikulam on March 14,” Dr. Senthil Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maldives-releases-eight-tn-fishermen/article34032644.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Not many takers for distance mode B.Ed.||Applicants for B.Ed. distance education programme offered through State universities in the region has been on the decline in recent years due to ‘rigidity of eligibility norms’ - an applicant is required to be an in-service teacher with qualification of Diploma in Teacher Education. Against the annual intake of 500 candidates permitted for the two-year programme, the admissions in Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi, The Tamil University in Thanjavur and other State universities was hovering only around 50 % this year. Similar is the case with Tamil Nadu Open University. The programme could be invigorated if the emphasis on D.T. Ed. qualification of the applicant is lifted, TNOU Vice-Chancellor K. Parthasarathy said, saying the university has made a representation to the National Council for Teacher Education for an intervention to that effect. Leave alone private institutions, even the District Institutes of Educational Technology have clubbed admissions to one institution for every three districts due to lack of demand for two-year full-time D.T.Ed. programmes, according to a senior faculty member, who cites the tough Teacher Eligibility Test for the qualified candidates to enter into government service to be the cause. “The scenario in State universities offering B.Ed. through distance education mode is only bound to worsen in the coming years, as a saturation point is nearing against the backdrop of the closure of most of the institutions offering Diploma in Teacher Education programme due to lack of demand. The situation can be addressed to some extent by dropping the emphasis on D.T.Ed. qualification. Any in-service teacher ought to be permitted to pursue B.Ed. through correspondence,” S. Senthilnathan, Professor of Educational Technology, Bharathidasan University, said. As far as private schools are concerned, they choose to recruit teachers with right qualifications from the level of Kintergarten. Also, with the Tamil Nadu government recruiting teachers with undergraduation and B.Ed. qualifiation for handling upper primary classes, the relevance of the D.T.Ed. appears to have been completely lost. Teacher education is n a state of flux as the New Education Policy 2020 envisages four-year integrated programmes after higher secondary. The scope for arts and science colleges to offer such programmes is high, Prof. Parthasarathy said. By 2030, only multidisciplinary universities and colleges can conduct B.Ed. programmes, in collaboration with other departments such as psychology, philosophy, sociology, neuroscience, Indian languages, arts, music, history, literature, physical education, science and mathematics. All stand-alone teacher education institutes will be required to convert to multidisciplinary institutions by then, according to National Education Policy 2020 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-many-takers-for-distance-mode-bed/article34032650.ece
10 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ten tonnes of nendran banana despatched to Europe for ‘Vishu’||Under its joint venture agreement with the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council - Keralam (VFPCK), ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana on Monday despatched 10 tonnes of farm freshnendranbanana meant for Indian expatriates in the United Kingdom. A team led by S. Uma, Director, ICAR-NRCB, had developed technical expertise for establishing pack house facility for fulfilment of shipment protocols for the product. The shipment is expected to reach London well in time for sale in the markets of the UK and Scotland during Vishu, the Malayalam New Year, to be celebrated on April 14, a press release said. ICAR-NRCB imparted hands-on trai ning to banana farmers from Thrissur district on scientific cultivation ofnendran, with particular focus on good agricultural practices to produce export qualitynendranvariety. Handpicked, hygienically harvested bunches were packed and stacked with minimum handling in the reefer containers at the APEDA (Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority) certified pack house at Vazhakulam, near Muvattupuzha. A QR coded tracking system was developed by TraceX, a Bangalor- based startup with technical assistance from NRCB and VFPCK to ensure traceability. A.K. Singh, Deputy Director General (Horticultural Science), National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, hoped that the shipping costs by sea, which was just one-tenth of the expenditure incurred for air cargo, will make Nendran bananas cheaper for Indian expatriates from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Ms. Uma was hopeful that successful execution of the project will provide an impetus to quicker and cost-effective sea exports of traditional banana varieties to European markets and fetch higher prices for farmers. She highlighted the emerging opportunities for Indian banana exporters due to decline in yields and exports from other banana producers such as Costa Rica, Colombia and Ecuador due to flood, drought, and fusarium wilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-tonnes-of-nendran-banana-despatched-to-united-kingdom-for-vishu-festival/article34032654.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CITU stages demo demanding release of arrested persons||CITU members on Tuesday staged a demonstration here condemning the arrest of nine persons, including CPI(M) urban district secretary Raja and CITU Gandhimarket Loadmen Association secretary Ramar, in connection with the alleged ransacking of a lorry booking centre at Palpannai. The centre was opened on Monday on behalf of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peravai. A group of over 100 CITU members, including labourers, holding union flags assembled at Marakkadai area where they staged a demonstration for nearly 30 minutes demanding the release of the arrested persons against whom a case under seven IPC Sections, including 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) and 448 (house trespass), was booked by Gandhi Market police following the incident on Monday. As a sequel to the arrest, CITU members led by its urban district secretary Rengarajan staged the stir in support of the demand. ‘Hold talks’ They also wanted talks to be held to increase the wage of labourers of Gandhi Market lorry booking offices, who were fighting for it for the past six months. The union claimed that a new lorry booking centre was opened to divert the protest by labourers seeking hike in their wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-stages-demo-demanding-release-of-arrested-persons/article34033036.ece
10 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||53 new cases in delta region||Fifty-three new cases were reported in the central districts on Tuesday. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, the maximum number of cases was recorded in Thanjavur district with 20 patients followed by Tiruchi district with 13 patients. Nagapattinam recorded seven new cases and Tiruvarur accounted for six. Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai recorded two cases each and Perambalur one. A total of 30 patients, who were under treatment in various government and private hospitals in central districts, were discharged on Tuesday. Eighteen persons were discharged in Thanjavur district alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53-new-cases-in-delta-region/article34032647.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Chenda||C. Jaisankar    Chenda , a percussion instrument widely played across Kerala, seems to have made strong inroads into Tamil Nadu. No meeting of mainstream parties, especially the AIADMK, takes place without a chenda melam . They have been ubiquitous during campaigns or visits of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam as the party feels the beats enthrall and entertain crowds. Cashing in on the demand, at least 10 troupes from Kerala are now camping in Tiruchi, eagerly waiting for the release of the list of candidates by parties, so that they will get more calls as campaigning intensifies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chenda/article34032476.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||First randomization of EVMs completed||The first randomization of electronic voting machines and the VVPATs (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) to be used in five Assembly segments during the upcoming Assembly polls was held at the Collectorate on Tuesday. Chairing the exercise that was held in the presence of the representatives of recognised political parties, Collector V. Vishnu said each Assembly segment would be allotted 120% of ballot and the control units and 133% of VVPATs so that the replacement of machines in case of technical glitch could be done within no time in any booth. Members of the Poll Expenditure Committee explained in detail about maintaining records relating to election expenses of candidates. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Sub-Collectors Sivakrishnamurthy of Tirunelveli and Pratik Tayal of Cheranmahadevi, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan, Assistant Collector (training) Alarmelmangai, and senior officials participated in the randomization of EVMs. In an awareness programme led by Mr. Pratik Tayal at Ambasamudram for cent per cent polling, several bundles of paddy straw were kept in the field in the shape of ‘100% Vote.’ Moreover, the officials kept ready the demo EVMs with VVPAT at the spot to explain to the public about casting votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-randomization-of-evms-completed/article34033047.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Online legal awareness programme||The District Legal Services Authority conducted continuous online legal awareness programme on Tuesday on laws relating to women as part of ‘International Women’s Day’ celebrations. Principal District Judge and Chairman of DLSA, Nazir Ahamed inaugurated the event. Public and students of St. Xavier’s College, Palayamkottai, Sri Sarada College for Women, FX Engineering College, Rosemary Arts & Science College for Women, St. Xavier’s College of Education attended the programme. “Over 2,200 persons participated in the programme,” said P.V. Vasheeth Kumar, Senior Civil Judge and Secretary, DLSA. District Judges S. Ravi Shankar, V.S. Kumaresan, A. Deepa, retired district judge S. Senthil Kumaresan and Mr. Vasheeth Kumar spoke on various laws relating to women regarding marriage, property rights, maintenance, victim compensation schemes, Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, role of District Legal Services Authority in providing assistance to women. Advocates S. Siva Suriya Narayanan, D.A. Prabhakar, Amalraj, V. Jeya Prakash, Manimala, P.V. Muthuram and A. Velvizhi spoke on other laws relating to women including POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, 2012, offences against women, Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, The Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 1998.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-legal-awareness-programme/article34033050.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Drivers stage demonstration||Cab and the cargo vehicle drivers staged a demonstration in Palayamkottai on Tuesday. They said the fuel price including liquefied petroleum gas cylinders should be brought under GST net so as to control the skyrocketing price. Case should be registered against owners of the ‘own use cars’ being operated as cabs in violation of law. Since road tax is being paid for every vehicle, collection of toll along the national highway should be abolished. Without maintaining the Kanniyakumari – Madurai National Highway, hefty toll is being collected at four places – Nanguneri, Kayathar, Sattur and Kappalur. Until this entire stretch is re-laid, collection of toll should be stopped. A separate welfare board should be formed to ensure the well being of the cab and cargo vehicle drivers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drivers-stage-demonstration/article34033051.ece
10 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Randomised EVMs moved to constituencies in Tiruppur dt.||The Tiruppur district administration on Tuesday moved the randomised electronic voting machines (EVM) and voter verified paper audit trails (VVPAT) to the strong rooms in eight Assembly constituencies. A total of 4,015 control units (CU) and ballot units (BU) and 4,350 VVPATs were despatched in the presence of District Election Officer and Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and representatives of political parties, a press release said. Prior to the despatch, the control and ballot units were stored at Palladam taluk office warehouse and the VVPATs were stored at the warehouse in Tiruppur South taluk office. Palladam constituency was allocated the highest number of EVMs (658 CU and BU) and VVPATs (713) in the district, while Dharapuram (reserved) constituency was allocated the lowest number of EVMs (419 CU and BU) and VVPATs (454). Kangeyam Assembly constituency received 447 EVMs and 484 VVPATs, Avinashi (reserved) constituency got 482 EVMs and 522 VVPATs, Tiruppur North constituency received 642 EVMs and 696 VVPATs, Tiruppur South constituency was allocated 482 EVMs and 522 VVPATs, Udumalpet constituency got 456 EVMs and 494 VVPATs and Madathukulam Assembly constituency was earmarked 429 EVMs and 465 VVPATs, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomised-evms-moved-to-constituencies-in-tiruppur-dt/article34032552.ece
10 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cultivating ganja||The Kamanaickenpalayam police on Monday arrested a man on charges of cultivating ganja on his land near Palladam in Tiruppur district. According to the police, Govindaraj (52) cultivated the plant on the two acres behind his residence at Kamanaickenpalayam and the police visited the spot based on a tip-off on Monday evening. About four kg of the contraband was seized from him following the arrest. The accused was booked under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and was remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-cultivating-ganja/article34032545.ece
10 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Videographers petition Tiruppur Collector||Members of Tamil Nadu Video and Photographers’ Association from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris districts petitioned Tiruppur District Election Officer and Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Tuesday demanding to hire professional videographers for the video surveillance teams (VST) instead of contract employees. Claiming that their livelihoods have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, they demanded the Election Commission to fix a salary of Rs. 1,500 per eight-hour shift for the videographers in VSTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/videographers-petition-tiruppur-collector/article34032553.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Gold, cash seized by flying squad in Tiruvarur||An election flying squad engaged in vehicle checks seized gold and Rs. 17 lakh in cash from two vehicles during a search at Thambikottai in Tiruvarur district on Tuesday. The occupants of one vehicle, reportedly engaged by a bank for transporting cash, were not able to produce proper records, according to sources. Occupants of the other vehicle from where gold weighing 18.50 kilograms was found had claimed that the consignment was meant to be delivered to a jewellery merchant in Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-cash-seized-by-flying-squad-in-tiruvarur/article34032645.ece
10 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Fire attack on elephant: two detained under Goondas Act||Two persons involved in hurling a blazing object at an elephant in Vazhaithottam in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve recently were booked under the Goondas Act on Tuesday. The two men, M. Raymond Dean and Prasath, were caught on video, along with Raymond’s brother, M. Ricky Rayan, hurling a blazing object at an elephant, known as Ronaldo, which led to its death more than a few weeks later. While Raymond Dean and Prasath were arrested, Ricky Rayan has been absconding since January 22. Forest Department officials said that Raymond Dean and Prasath would be transferred to the Coimbatore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-elephant-2-detained-under-goondas-act/article34032544.ece
10 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Voter awareness campaigns to target areas with low voter turnout||The Nilgiris district administration plans to conduct awareness campaigns in areas where the number of votes polled in the last election were below average. Starting from Tuesday, the district administration has started a number of awareness campaigns aimed at improving voter turnout in these areas. First, a short film explaining the importance of voting and for not accepting cash in exchange for votes was broadcast in Kotagiri, Kattabettu and Orasolai. Later, Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya launched a signature campaign at Khandal in Udhagamandalam calling on local residents to make a promise to vote in the elections, while kolam designing competitions were also organised in Coonoor and Udhagamandalam using members of various women’s self-help groups. Another press release from the district administration stated that efforts would be taken to reach out to first-time voters, as well as the elderly and people with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-awareness-campaigns-to-target-areas-with-low-voter-turnout/article34032554.ece
10 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Victory torch taken to residence of war veteran||The victory torch which arrived at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington on Monday as part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the armed forces in the India-Pakistani War of 1971, was taken to the residence of war veteran, Air Vice Marshal Jagbir Singh on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victory-torch-taken-to-residence-of-war-veteran/article34032555.ece
10 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourist vehicle bursts into flames||Seven tourists from Karnataka had a lucky escape after their car burst into flames at the 18th hairpin bend along Kalhatti Ghat Road. The incident occurred on Tuesday evening. The police said the driver noticed smoke emanating from the engine and radiator and stopped the car along the road, when the fire suddenly engulfed the vehicle. This is the seventh accident that has occurred along Kalhatti Ghat Road since it has been reopened for tourists last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourist-vehicle-bursts-into-flames/article34032543.ece
10 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris||Rohan Premkumar   The Nilgiris district administration has partnered with the Nilgiris-based Redwave Studios to launch another catchy tune to encourage voter turnout in the district. The 3-minute song Karai nalladhu nga calls on electors to turn out and vote in large numbers, with Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya also making an appearance before the song’s start, reinforcing the message. The district administration has partnered with the same studio on a number of occasions to spread awareness about COVID-19 and other government initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris/article34032484.ece
11 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Delays in smart city projects top Vellore residents’ woes||Though Vellore bagged the sixth place among cities with a population of less than a million in the Ease of Living Index, its residents feel there is still a long way to go. Delays in the completion of smart city works, dug-up roads and the mosquito menace are their main grievances. The Vellore Assembly constituency, with over 2.50 lakh voters, has traditionally been a stronghold of the DMK. The party’s candidate, P. Karthikeyan, won the 2016 election by a margin of 26,411 votes over Harun Rasheed of the AIADMK. The election to the Vellore Parliamentary constituency in 2019 was rescinded amid reports that money power was being used to influence voters. Hence, the Election Commission of India has ordered that strict vigil should be maintained in the constituencies of the district to ensure an inducement-free poll next month. “Vellore’s votes are not decided communally. The DMK traditionally has an edge in this constituency, and there are a lot of unorganised workers, including beedi sellers and autorickshaw drivers, who may vote for the DMK in view of its alliance with the Communist parties,” said S. Dayanidhi, district secretary, CPI(M). Mr. Dayanidhi said delays in the execution of smart city projects would be a major drawback for the AIADMK this time. “Nothing is happening on the ground. It’s not clear whether a committee was formed to review the works. Roads are dug up everywhere,” he said. “Smart city works have been under way for many years now. The roads in several parts of the constituency have been dug up as part of smart city and underground sewage projects. Though the work has been completed in some places, the roads have not been relaid,” said M. Baradeswaran, a member of the Maruti Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association. Traffic woes had worsened as a result, he said. “This can be felt at Green Signal, Anna Salai and Velappadi. We need a solution. Only now, they are laying pavements in the locality, as a result of which pedestrians don’t even have space to walk. There are also encroachments,” he added. The residents are also angry about the difficulties in accessing public transport. A new bus stand is being constructed under the smart city project. “Buses to Chennai and Kancheepuram halt at the new bus stand, while those bound for Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Bengaluru stop at the old bus stand. Buses to Andhra Pradesh, Cuddalore and Villupuram stop at Makkan signal. So, we have to go to different places to board buses to different destinations. The new bus stand has to be constructed soon,” Mr. Baradeswaran said. R. Ponnarasi, secretary, Mount View Apartments Residents’ Welfare Association, said that though the Municipal Corporation was doing a good job, the authorities should desilt the waterbodies for effective water management. “There are lakes like Sadupu Eri, Kazhinjur lake, Otteri and others. Had they been desilted, a lot of water could have been saved,” she said. Mr. Baradeswaran suggested that after desilting the waterbodies, the Corporation could build a walkers’ park around them. “It will be very helpful. Besides, there were plans to improve the moat around the Vellore fort and introduce boating. But nothing has happened in that regard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delays-in-smart-city-projects-top-vellore-residents-woes/article34032999.ece
10 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 8 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,069 with eight new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 20,647 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 71. The district's death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,260. In Tirupattur district, two new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,648. In Tiruvannamalai district, two new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,525. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-8-fresh-cases/article34032992.ece
10 March 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||56 spots identified for conducting meetings||The district administration has identified 56 locations for the conduct of public meetings by political parties during the campaign for the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly election. District Election Officer-cum-Collector A. Annadurai said the 56 places were spread across the seven Assembly segments — Gingee, Mailam, Tindivanam (Reserved), Vanur (Reserved), Villupuram, Vikravandi and Tirukovilur. Official sources said that meetings should not be conducted on roads, posing a hindrance to traffic. Mr. Annadurai said that no-objection certificates for all the venues for conducting public meetings would be given to the political parties. The details of all the designated venues have been hosted on the websitehttps://villupuram.nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-spots-identified-for-conducting-meetings/article34032989.ece
10 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Prepping electors for the day of polling||Voters often complain that they go blank on how to vote and whom to elect once they reach the voting compartment. This is because they find the polling booth set up unfamiliar and new. First-time voters will not have any clue about how a polling booth will be. “This can make them anxious. To familiarise them with the polling booth set up, we have planned to set up model polling booths in all constituencies,” said Virudhunagar district SVEEP nodal officer V. Jayakumar. “Instead of entering the booth for the first time as a voter, they can visit any model booth casually as a visitor,” he said. Here, the role of each polling officer, such as the one who checks identity, the one who makes entries of voters in registers and applies the indelible ink on the index finger and the officer who switches the control unit on before allowing the voter into the polling compartment is explained to the people who come visiting. “Some voters get anxious when they see people, including agents watching them. But once the formalities are explained, the voter will know that the entire process is smooth and simple,” he said. With an aim to achieve 100% voter turnout this poll, officials are ensuring the provision of basic amenities like drinking water, shade and ramps. Besides, officials will provide desirable facilities like parking lots, signages, a crèche with toys to keep children engaged and even face masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prepping-electors-for-the-day-of-polling/article34032482.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Donations dry up for special school||Located along a narrow alley in Nagalapuram, a village 30 km from Thuraiyur, Sri Selliah Memorial School for Intellectually Disabled Children has fallen silent. For over a year, since the outbreak of the pandemic, its walls have not resounded with the giggles of its 31 students. With funds running dry due to lack of donations, the threat of permanent closure looms large. The school, consisting of two classrooms, was established for children with moderate and severe intellectual disabilities by Selvarani Rajarathnam, a lawyer from Tiruchi. “I was holding awareness programmes for women in these parts when I saw many children with intellectual disabilities being neglected. The parents, mostly daily-wage labourers, did not have the time or funds to provide individual care for the child,” Ms. Rajarathnam said. The school has been functioning with with minimal infrastructure, thanks to donations from Ms. Rajarathnam’s friends, corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds from a few companies and money from her own pocket. The parents are not charged anything. T. K. Jayanthi, mother of a five-year-old boy who has been attending the school for a year, says they were able to notice changes in their child in the first few months. “He was unable to walk and communicate before he began attending the school. If not for the lockdown, he would have picked up some more skills.” Jayanthi's husband is a daily-wage worker, and she learnt tailoring to be able to afford medical expenses and care for her son. “He cannot eat rice and vegetables like the rest of my family. For him, I make kali or porridge. During the lockdown, we were unable to afford it due to lack of work and struggled a lot,” she says. “We had companies willing to donate. However, since the lockdown, they have diverted their funds to COVID-19 relief, and our pocket is empty,” rues Ms. Rajarathnam. A 13-member team, including two special educators and a physiotherapist on the payroll of the State government, two trained teachers, two helpers, a caretaker, two drivers, an accountant and an office in-charge, work at the school. The staff appointed by the school have not received salary for nearly a year. “They are working out of love for the children. We went door to door to provide cooked meals, dry ration and other assistance during the lockdown. However, I cannot hold them for long without payment,” Ms. Rajarathnam says. The biggest expenditure of the special school, however, is vehicle and fuel costs. Two SUVs are hired to pick up and drop the children from their homes. The vans make a round trip of around 450 km a day. The school requires about Rs. 1.5 lakh a month and least Rs. 90,000 is spent on transport. Ms. Rajarathnam has now approached a crowdfunding site and hopes to raise Rs. 40 lakh through it. “I want to pay the salaries of my team for a year with that money. I would also like to purchase more equipment for the children when they return to school,” she says. If all goes well, she also hopes to serve cooked meals to them. “They bring curd rice or kanji daily. One cannot blame them or their parents but we can arrange nutritious meals. But for this, I have to appoint a cook and purchase groceries, which requires regular funding,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-dry-up-for-special-school/article34033034.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chola era stone inscription found||A stone inscription of Chola period was found at the backyard of a house at Arunmozhithevanpettai on the outskirts of Thanjavur town. The resident, A.S.Mohan, stumbled upon a piece of granite boulder with some inscriptions and another one with images of gods in the back courtyard of his house. He, subsequently, contacted the epigraphist, Mani.Maran of Thanjavur, and informed him about the discovery. A team of epigraphists led by Mr. Maran visited the house and deciphered the partially damaged inscription relating to donation of land. The inscription mentioned the name of Vanavan Mooventha Vellalan , believed to be an official in Emperor Raja Raja Cholan’s administration, that was also found in stone writings unearthed at Karanthattankudi in Thanjavur Corporation limits earlier. A decorative piece of stone usually placed at the entrance of shrines in temples was also found at Mohan’s house, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chola-era-stone-inscription-found/article34032642.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMDK leaves AIADMK-BJP front||Sources in the party said the AIADMK was unwilling to go beyond 13-15 seats, and had reportedly said it would fund the candidates directly. An aspiring DMDK candidate from southern Tamil Nadu claimed the party leadership lost the trust of the AIADMK after failing to spend the money set aside for each Parliamentary seat in a transparent manner. ‘Not utilised’ “The money given by the AIADMK to fight the election was not utilised fully. The AIADMK leadership realised this, and has now refused to give our party any money to fight the poll. Instead, they said they would take care of the expenses themselves. This is one of the main reasons why things have not worked out,” he claimed. DMDK deputy general secretary B. Parthasarathi, however, denied the charge and insisted that the issue was the allotment of seats and not funding. He told The Hindu that the decision to leave the alliance was taken by Mr. Vijayakant.  ‘In due course’ “We could not come to an agreement, and our leader decided that we should leave the alliance. What we do next — whether we contest the poll alone or join some other alliance — is up to our leader. We will know in due course,” Mr. Parthasarathi said. Later in the day, the DMDK leadership held discussions with leaders of the Makkal Needhi Maiam on the possibility of fighting the election together. The DMDK is also reportedly considering going it alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-leaves-aiadmk-bjp-front/article34032512.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Training in cashew cultivation held||A skill development training was organised by Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute (TRRI), Aduthurai, recently in order to draw the attention of farmers to advantages of cashew cultivation. Around 50 farmers from Thanjavur, Tircuhi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Cuddalore and Pudukkottai districts participated in the training on ‘Recent production and protection techniques in cashew’. Inaugurating the three-day programme organised by the institute in coordination with the Directorate of Cashewnut and Cocoa Development, Kochi, V.Ambethgar, director, TRRI, emphasized the importance of cashew cultivation. Dr. Ambethgar also presented a brief note on avenues available to farmers to enhance their income through integration of various enterprises. Agriculture and Horticulture officials and scientists from Regional Research Station, Virudhachalam, threw light on improved varieties of cashew, crop and pest management techniques, schemes available to farmers and production of value-added products from cashew apple. A publication on Recent production and protection techniques in cashew was released by A. Ramanathan of TRRI. Exhibits on crop management and protection technologies and value-added products were on display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-in-cashew-cultivation-held/article34032648.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Motorcyclists rally for road safety||A motorcycle rally was organised by BHEL-Tiruchi on Monday in Kailasapuram township to promote awareness of road safety rules and importance of wearing helmets, as part of Safety Week activities. Over one hundred employees, including home guards, traffic wardens, safety stewards, members of BHEL’s safety committee and volunteers, participated in the rally with placards carrying slogans designed to promote road safety awareness. The rally was flagged off from the Community Centre by S. Prabakaran, General Manager, Seamless Steel Tube Plant. Mr. Prabakaran said the largest number of fatalities in accidents involving two-wheelers was due to head injuries. Wearing ISI (Indian Standards Institute) marked helmet that was compliant with Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) specifications and latching of chin strap was of vital importance,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcyclists-rally-for-road-safety/article34033039.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Model code of conduct: fall in profit in Tiruchi district||Restriction on carrying more than Rs. 50,000 in cash due to the Assembly election has dealt a severe blow to nendran farmers. Unlike other varieties such as poovan , rasthali and elachi , which have markets in growing centres, nendran is sent to Ernakulam, Alleppy, Kozhikode and Malappuram in Kerala. To the dismay of growers, the model code of conduct came into effect days after harvest began. In Tiruchi district, harvest of nendran started after the third week of February. It has picked up momentum in places such as Andhanallur, Manikandam, Sirugamani, Perugamani, Ettarai, Thoppu, Kuzhumani, Thiruvalarcholai, Panaiyapuram and Kondayampettai. A large number of agents and middlemen have arrived in the district to source nendran banana to the markets in Kerala. However, restrictions on carrying cash has come as stumbling block in sending the produce to markets in the neighbouring State. Farmers are apprehensive that their hard-earned money will be seized by election authorities either in Kerala or Tamil Nadu if they carry more than Rs. 50,000. “A load of banana fetches between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 1.25 lakh in Kerala markets. The cash carried by several farmers after selling their produce has been seized by authorities at various places. Officials do not listen to us even if we produce documents,” says S. Senthil, a farmer of Panayapuram. The restriction has ultimately forced them to approach middlemen and agents to sell their produce. Taking advantage of the situation, they offer lower prices. Until the Election Commission announced the dates for the Assembly election on February 26, a kg of nendran banana was procured for Rs. 23. It has come down to Rs. 17 a kg now. “The middlemen offer at least Rs. 3 to Rs. .4 a kg less than the actual market price in Kerala. We have no other option but to accept the price offered by them,” Mr. Senthil added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/model-code-of-conduct-fall-in-profit-in-tiruchi-district/article34033040.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Religion||Arsha Avinash Foundation: Talk on Upadesa Saram by N. Avinashilingam, 104, third street, Tatabad, 5 p.m.    Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Workshop on bakery products, 10 a.m.  Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis, Rotary Club of Oak Ridge-Breakfast and Ganga Medical Centre and Hospitals: Launch of the Rotary Foundation Global Grant phase 3, Hope after Fire, Ganga Hospital, 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/religion/article34032548.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccinations in Karnataka cross 10 lakh||COVID-19 vaccinations in Karnataka breached the 10-lakh mark and touched 10,57,677 on Tuesday. This number includes vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers apart from senior citizens and those above 45 years with co-morbidities. While 44% of the total vaccinations are the first dose shots given to healthcare workers, 24% are second doses. Frontline wokers contribute to nearly 16% of the total vaccinations. Although innoculations for healthcare workers form a major chunk of the total vaccinations, vaccine hesitancy in this group has posed a major challenge. However, this hesitancy turned into vaccine eagerness when the vaccination was rolled out for senior citizens and those aged above 45 years with comorbidities from March 1. To meet the rush, the State Health Department that had initially started vaccinated centres in all district and taluk hospitals apart from two private hospitals in every district and 18 hospitals in Bengaluru expanded the programme and set up vaccination centres in 3,000 facilities in the second week itself. As many as 1,37,548 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1. That apart, 23,236 persons above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Tuesday, as many as 26,385 senior citizens and 4,814 above 45 years with comorbidities took the jab. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers - 55,408 and 6,888 - respectively in both these categories. So far, a total of 4,67,666 healthcare workers and 1,69,135 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 2,56,404 healthcare workers have taken the second dose. 590 cases, 6 deaths Karnataka on Tuesday reported 590 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,56,041. Of these, 363 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. With six deaths, the toll rose to 12,373. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 366 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 9,36,616. Of the remaining 7,033 active patients, 115 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.88%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.01%. As many as 66,426 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 61,779 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,94,27,973.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccinations-in-karnataka-cross-10-lakh/article34032403.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vehicles over 15 years old have more than doubled since 2017||The government is set to tackle the growing number of old and unfit vehicles by opening more automated centres to issue fitness certificates. This found mention in the State Budget presented on Monday. As per the data from the transport department, there were 34.85 lakh vehicles older than 15 years across Karnataka in March 2017. Their number rose to 62.66 lakh in March 2020. During the same period, Bengaluru saw the number of old vehicles more than double from 8.97 lakh in 2017 to 21.96 lakh in 2020. Among the vehicles that are older than 15 years in the State, 40 lakh are two-wheelers and 11 lakh are cars. There are more than 8.63 lakh transport vehicles including trucks, buses, autorickshaws and other vehicles. In Bengaluru city, in the same category, there are over 12.52 lakh two-wheelers, 5.33 lakh cars and more than 1.32 lakh transport vehicles. To keep a check on this, the Transport Department is planning to open more automated vehicle inspection and certification centres not just in Bengaluru but across Karnataka. “The fully equipped centre at Nelamangala had stopped operations after two years. In the past, we received only single bidding for tenders floated to select the agency to run it. We are now in the process of making the centre functional,” said Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar. The State Budget noted that vehicle inspection and certification centres at Dharwad and Mysuru will be operational this year The process of installing machines at these two centres has been completed. The department is also contemplating to open similar automated centres in Belagavi and Vijayapura as well. A transport department official said these measures are in keeping with the Centre’s plan to phase out old and unfit vehicles. “As per the existing rules, older vehicles are allowed to ply on the roads only after getting fitness certificates, but there is a need to introduce more automated centres that conduct various tests accurately.” In the Budget, the Centre had announced that vehicles would undergo fitness tests at automated fitness centres after 20 years in case of personal vehicles, and after 15 years in case of commercial vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicles-over-15-years-old-have-more-than-doubled-since-2017/article34032390.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. going slow on T.N.’s Cauvery move in light of polls’||Charging that the government was not doing enough to prevent Tamil Nadu from utilising the surplus water in the Cauvery basin that is yet to be allocated among the riparian States, the Opposition on Tuesday accused the BJP of using the Cauvery issue for electoral politics in Tamil Nadu at the cost of Karnataka’s interests. Karnataka is yet to approach the Supreme Court against the link scheme for which Tamil Nadu laid foundation last month. A delegation from the State government is yet to met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to request him to stop the project, the Opposition members pointed out. Expressing unhappiness over the government’s reply on its efforts to protect the State’s interests, Congress and JD(S) members walked out of the Legislative Council. The Opposition members had raised the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to lay foundation for the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar link scheme to transfer surplus water from the Cauvery basin to its southern regions. The Rs. 14,500-crore project, to be implemented in three phases, proposes to utilise about 40 tmcft of surplus water to fill 1,054 tanks and irrigate about 1.09 lakh acres. Tamil Nadu has urged the Centre to consider this as a national project and as part of the Godavari-Krishna-Pennar-Cauvery rivers linking project. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil questioned the government over the delay in filing a petition on the matter in the Supreme Court. “The BJP is sacrificing Karnataka’s interests by trying a new alliance with the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu,” he said. He also pointed out that when the State government was asking Andhra Pradesh and Telengana’s permission to build a parallel reservoir across the Tungabhadra, Tamil Nadu should have done something similar. Congress chief whip M. Narayanaswamy accused the BJP of playing vote-bank politics ahead of the elections in Tamil Nadu. “You should talk to the Prime Minister. If you cannot speak up before him, take an all-party delegation,” he said. JD(S) member Thippeswamy pointed out that Vaigai and Gundar do not come under the Cauvery basin, and the Cauvery tribunal had said that inter-basin transfers should not happen. “So it is illegal. Karnataka has to get a share of around 45 tmcft of water in the diversion of Godavari water to Cauvery via Krishna.” Karjol’s response Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who replied on behalf of the government, said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had written to the Prime Minister and the Jal Shakti Minister expressing the State’s opposition to Tamil Nadu’s project and requesting the Centre’s intervene. Saying that there was no need to be anxious, he said, “Karnataka is also putting in place plans to utilise surplus water.” He also said that neither the Union government nor the Central Water Commission could give approval to the project since it was illegal. Mr. Karjol said the National Water Development Agency had estimated that about 247 tmcft of surplus water from Godavari could be transferred to the Krishna-Cauvery basin. “Karnataka has consistently opposed inter-basin transfer without agreement on the allocation to the States,” he said. However, the Opposition members pointed out that old projects were far from being completed. After Mr. Karjol said that the Centre had not promised any money to the link project, the Opposition members asked why the Prime Minister’s Office had not clarified on this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-going-slow-on-tns-cauvery-move-in-light-of-polls/article34032420.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Forum opposes any new inclusion under category 2A||Most Backward Classes Vigilant Forum, a body of representatives from 102 most backward communities presently under category 2A, petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday, opposing any new inclusion under the category, including Panchamasali Lingayats. The forum also threatened to organise the 102 communities and take to the streets if their interests were hurt. With reservation and reclassification demand from various communities, the Chief Minister recently directed the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes to study the feasibility of including Panchamasali Lingayats under category 2A, which the forum said was “not a responsible move”. The non-partisan forum, chaired by Mukhyamantri Chandru, was formed recently to lobby the interests of these communities, in the light of demands by several communities to be included under category 2A. The forum, in its four-page memorandum to the Chief Minister, argued that 102 communities presently under category 2A were landless artisan communities, who are already suffering owing to the loss of traditional community jobs. “Panchamasali Lingayats by their own admission are landowning agriculturists. It is unfair and immoral to include them under category 2A,” the forum argued. Further, the forum demanded that the State government must abandon plans to form a three-member committee chaired by a retired judge to look into demands for reservation that have come up in the State of late. “The Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, formed as per the Supreme Court orders, is a constitutional body, which is tasked with social justice and reservation matrix in the State. Any other committee is both immoral and unnecessary,” the forum said. It further argued that the only scientific way to resolve all the reservation issues, is to accept the Socio Economic Survey or caste census and redraw the reservation matrix based on its findings. A delegation of the forum also met Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and appealed to him to put pressure on the State government to fulfil all the three demands of the forum.  Meanwhile, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has questioned “imbalance” in the allocation of funds to communities in the State Budget for 2021-22. “For 16 corporations working for welfare of communities, the Budget allocates a total of Rs. 500 crore. But it allocates Rs. 500 crore each for Veersshaiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas. In the Budget I presented, I had allocated funds in the range of Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 3 crore to around 108 microscopic minority communities that were not even heard of. This government discontinued all those schemes and did not give funds to these communities. How fair is it?” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forum-opposes-any-new-inclusion-under-category-2a/article34032428.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Projects pulled up for not following ad guidelines||After a long slump in a year unlike any in recent times, real estate, like other economic activities, has finally started picking up. Ads from developers are filling up spaces promising the best of everything to attract potential buyers. Given this spike in ads, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) is keeping a watch on them and has started pulling up projects that are flouting advertisement guidelines. Among the 39 entries so far on its list of violators, the maximum number have been for ‘RERA number not in accordance with guidelines’, while some others have been called out for not mentioning the registration number. Making details public K.S. Latha Kumari, secretary, K-RERA told The Hindu that the authority would earlier issue notices for such violations. “But now we have started giving these details to the public to make them aware. Some violations are blatant. Others do not adhere to rules on font size, where to display, etc., as per the guidelines. But they deliberately put not it so it is not visible to the readers,” she said. Asked about the scrutinising process, she said K-RERA has a media team in place that screens ads published in all newspapers. “We are planning to expand the team now,” she added. Those found guilty are issued notices and asked for an explanation. If it is found to be unsatisfactory, then they are liable for penalty. “This is going to help buyers make an informed decision before investing in projects,” Ms. Kumari said. Act and guidelines As per the RERA Act, advertising a project is not allowed without registration. It also mandates developers to display the website of the authority and the registration number. In addition, K-RERA also brought out guidelines in 2019, which specify, apart from what the Act says, that no disclaimers will be mentioned in the advertisements, and that the length and breadth of ‘RERA registered’ information will not be less than 10% of the length and breadth of the advertisement. Move welcomed Home buyers have welcomed the move. “We welcome the maiden initiatives of K-RERA which has started to analyse the advertisements of projects and issuing notices to those who are violating the advertisement norms as per RERA act. This kind of action would go a long way to help the buyers from misleading advertisements which lure them to invest,” said M. S. Shankar, General Secretary, Forum for People’s Collective Efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/projects-pulled-up-for-ignoring-ad-guidelines/article34032398.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Petroleum import is up under Modi regime: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday alleged that petroleum imports had increased under the Narendra Modi regime, though the Prime Minister has been blaming the previous UPA government for the escalation in fuel costs on the grounds that the earlier dispensation had not done much to reduce the dependence on fuel imports. Seeking to move an adjournment motion in the Assembly on the problems faced by people because of the increasing prices of petroleum products, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that petroleum imports under Mr. Modi’s reign had surpassed the import level under the UPA regime by 43.81 million tonnes. He wondered why the government had failed to reduce the dependence on petroleum imports even though seven years had passed since the BJP came to power at the Centre. “Under UPA II, the petrol price stood at Rs. 57 a litre when crude oil was ruling at $125 a barrel. Now, under the Modi regime, the petrol price has touched Rs. 94 a litre when crude oil is just around $55 a barrel,” he said. “Excise duty currently levied on petrol is Rs. 32.98 a litre; on diesel it is Rs. 31.83 a litre, as against Rs. 9.21 a litre (petrol) and Rs. 3.45 a litre (diesel) at the end of UPA II’s rule,” he said. Referring to BJP leader and former Union Minister Subramanian Swamy’s tweet that “petrol price is highest in Rama’s India (Rs. 94) compared with that in Sita’s Nepal (Rs. 53) and Ravana’s Lanka (Rs. 51)”, the former Chief Minister wondered if this is “Rama Rajya”. Turning down the request for considering an adjournment motion, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he would allow a discussion for 30 minutes on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/petroleum-import-is-up-under-modi-regime-siddaramaiah/article34032418.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t take coercive steps on school fee row: HC tells govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government not to take any coercive action against members of the Association of India Schools, affiliated to the CBSE and the ICSE, for any violation of the government’s order asking schools not to collect more than 70% of the tuition fee charged for the previous academic year. The court also directed the schools, which are members of the association, be considerate on those children and their parents who, owing to COVID-19 pandemic, have difficulty to pay the fee prescribed by them, and not to be harsh on them. Justice R. Devdas passed the interim order on a petition filed by the association questioning the legality of the January 29, 2021 order. Earlier, the association had assured the court that its members on their own would consider hardship faced by many of the parents in paying the requisite fee and offer them necessary solace. It was argued on behalf of the association that the government in 2019 had given an undertaking to the court that it would not take any coercive action against the member-schools during the pendency of their earlier petition questioning the application of certain new provisions introduced to the Karnataka Education Act to the schools affiliated to the CBSE and the ISCE. As the order issued on January 29 was made applicable to the schools affiliated to the CBSE and the ISCE under the new provisions of the Act, legality of which is pending adjudication, the schools approached the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-take-coercive-steps-on-school-fee-row-hc-tells-govt/article34032431.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. will not pose questions to six Ministers||The Opposition Congress has decided not to pose any questions during the ongoing session of the Legislative Assembly to six Ministers who have gone to a civil court and obtained a media gag order against the telecast or publication of any defamatory material against them. The move of the Ministers followed the alleged sex-for-job scandal involving the BJP’s Ramesh Jarkiholi, who had to step down as Minister subsequently. During Question Hour on Tuesday, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri asked Puttaranga Shetty of the Congress to ask a question to Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports and Planning K.C. Naranayana Gowda on funds released to Chamarajanagar district. Mr. Shetty said he was not asking the question since the Minister had “no moral right” to continue in office. The Congress member said he had submitted the question before the commencement of the Assembly session, but he was now not interested in seeking an answer from the Minister. The Speaker took exception to this and said such conduct did not augur well in Parliamentary democracy. Sources in the Congress said the party’s MLAs have decided against asking questions to the six Ministers who had gone to court, as they had no moral right to continue in office. The six Ministers — Shivaram Hebbar, B.C. Patil, S.T. Somashekar, K. Sudhakar, K.C. Naranayana Gowda, and Byrathi Basavaraj — had all defected to the BJP to help it to come to power under the leadership of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. On Monday, the Congress had boycotted the presentation of the State Budget, also saying the government had no moral authority to continue in office. In Council In the Legislative Council, Congress members R. Prasanna Kumar and Basavaraj Patil Itagi refused to ask questions to Mr. Basavaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-will-not-pose-questions-to-six-ministers/article34032410.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Recovered govt. land to be fenced with allocation of Rs. 100 crore||In a bid to protect government land from land sharks, the Revenue Department has decided to fence the government land that has been freed from encroachers. Announcing this in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had assured a grant of Rs. 100 crore for the Revenue Department to undertake fencing work. Mr. Ashok said this would help prevent freed land from being encroached again. He also announced that the government would try to auction such parcels recovered from land sharks. The Minister made the statement while replying to a call attention notice tabled by BJP member Goolihatti Shekhar who alleged that about 300 acres of government land had been encroached by land sharks at Hulimangala, of Jigani hobli in Anekal taluk on Bengaluru city outskirts. The land, coming under Survey No. 155, had two different kinds of illegalities. On one parcel of land, sites had been formed illegally without converting the land use pattern through the development authority. On another parcel of land, Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) itself gave approval for constructing a 12-storeyed building as well as apartments though the land did not belong to the developers, he alleged. JD(S) member A.T. Ramaswamy, said the authorities concerned had already said that there were no documents to prove that about 470 acres of government land coming under the above survey number had been allotted to individuals. “So how could the BDA give its approval?” he asked. Mr. Ashok said a Panchayat Development Officer has been suspended in connection with the illegal layout formation at Hulimangala. Observing that it had become difficult to act against land sharks and corrupt officials, he said some of the officials who were hand-in-glove with land sharks were quick to get legal relief to insulate themselves from any action from the government. Land sharks too are working at lighting speed to get legal relief, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovered-govt-land-to-be-fenced-with-allocation-of-rs-100-crore/article34032416.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State JEE (Main) topper attributes his success to rigorous coaching||Udhav Varma from Bengaluru was elated when he learned that he was the Karnataka topper for JEE (Main), the results of which were announced on Monday night. Renewed focus His success has given him the motivation to hit the books with renewed focus as he does not want to leave any stone unturned before the next JEE Advanced competitive examination. “I feel relieved and motivated to have scored well in the JEE(Main),” he said. Udhav, a student of the four-year classroom programme at FIITJEE’s Bangalore Centre, was declared Karnataka (State) Topper having secured an NTA score 99.9970675 in the JEE (Main). He got an NTA score of 100.0000000 in Maths, 100.0000000 in Physics and 99.9433046 in Chemistry. “Having worked really hard towards this goal, I was confident of scoring well,” said Udhav. “My results are solely attributed to the stupendous coaching mechanism employed at my coaching centre, which brings out the best in every student. The faculty works diligently on ensuring that we understand our concepts,” he added. The JEE (Advanced) is a test for gateway for admissions to programme at Indian Institutes of Technology. As many as 6.52 lakh students had registered for JEE (Main). Around 2.5 lakh students who gave the JEE (Main) will appear for JEE (Advanced), which is scheduled to be held on July 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-jee-main-topper-attributes-his-success-to-rigorous-coaching/article34032435.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus rams into compound of State police chief||At least three passengers sustained minor injuries when the driver of a private bus lost control of the wheel and ploughed through the wall into the compound of the official residence of State police chief Praveen Sood. The incident took place on Nrupatunga road, opposite the police headquarters on Tuesday morning. A portion of the compound collapsed on impact. Traffic was disrupted for sometime on the busy road until the Halasurugate traffic police got the bus extracted with the help of a crane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-rams-into-compound-of-state-police-chief/article34032404.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Constable suspended||A 29-year-old constable attached to Upparpet police station was suspended on Tuesday after he was arrested in an online cricket betting racket. On February 1, the Nandini Layout police, acting on a tip-off, raided a group of punters and nabbed six people, one of whom was Constable Shivakumar. At the time, the police seized Rs. 11,300 in cash and six mobile phones that the accused were allegedly using to place bets through an app. During the probe, the police learned that Shivakumar was also a punter, said a senior police officer. Based on a report submitted by DCP (North) Dharmendra Kumar Meena, Shivakumar was suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-suspended/article34032406.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MLA’s ‘misconduct’ referred to privileges committee||Cracking the whip, Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday referred the “misconduct” of B.K. Sangameshwara on the floor of the House to the privileges committee, amid protests by members of the Opposition Congress. Mr. Sangamesh was suspended from the House from March 4 till March 12 for removing his shirt during a Congress protest against the debate on ‘one nation, one election’ initiated by the Speaker. Moving the privilege motion, senior BJP member Araga Jnanendra said that Mr. Sangameshwara had committed a breach of privileges of the House by disrespecting the Speaker. He demanded his expulsion from the House. Immediately, Congress members, led by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, objected to the discussion on the matter since the member was not present in the House to defend himself. Mr. Siddaramaiah asked party members to stage a dharna in the Well of the House opposing the Speaker’s decision. Citing House rules, Mr. Kageri said there was no need for the presence of the member to move a motion on breach of privilege. The House has powers to take action against any member, he said, asking the members to initiate the discussion. Discussion on CD Congress members then raised slogans demanding a discussion on the sex-for-job CD scandal allegedly involving member Ramesh Jarkiholi, who recently resigned from the Cabinet. The Speaker said he would not allow any lowering of the dignity of the chair. “Your politics will not be allowed here. You do politics outside the House,” the Speaker told the protesting members. The Speaker subsequently said the environment in the House was not conducive to a discussion on a motion on breach of privilege. He decided to refer the matter to the privileges committee and adjourned the House for lunch amid the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-misconduct-referred-to-privileges-committee/article34032409.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Demand for resolution||The matter of Tamil Nadu laying the foundation for a scheme to utilise surplus Cauvery water to the tune of 42 tmcft was raised in the Assembly on Tuesday, with JD(S) leader and former Minister H.D. Revanna demanding that the House adopt a resolution against the move and submit it to the Centre. While Mr. Revanna sought permission to discuss the issue through an adjournment motion that has a censuring clause, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said he would shortly allow a detailed discussion under a non-censuring clause. Mr. Revanna expressed concern that injustice would be meted out to 11 districts of Karnataka in the Cauvery basin, including Bengaluru, if Tamil Nadu went ahead with such a move. He said the Centre had given permission for such a scheme in view of the forthcoming Assembly elections in that State. Already measures have been taken to provide drinking water from Cauvery river to 20 districts coming under Tamil Nadu’s Cauvery basin, he said, observing that Karnataka was yet to provide drinking water from the river to all its settlements in the basin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-resolution/article34032414.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chants of ‘Jai Sriram’||Congress members on Tuesday chanted “Jai Sriram” in the Assembly to make a dig at the ruling BJP over their promise of creating a “Rama Rajya”. In response, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai remarked, “We are happy to see Congress members chanting ‘Jai Sriram’ at least now.” Hitting back at him, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, “Rama belongs to us also. I am a devotee of Rama. In fact, Rama is there in my name.” Taking a cue from this, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri wondered if Mr. Siddaramaiah had donated funds for the construction of a Ram temple atAyodhya. Mr. Siddaramaiah shot back that he had made contributions towards the construction of a Ram temple at his native village in Mysuru district instead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chants-of-jai-sriram/article34032423.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Episode raises questions on Mumbai trip: HDK||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said two recent developments — Ramesh Jarkiholi CD episode and the subsequent development of six Ministers getting injunction order against telecasting defamatory material against them — had raised questions on what had happened during the “Mumbai trip”. All seven had camped in a Mumbai hotel for a prolonged period after quitting their parties and joining the BJP in 2019. This had led to the toppling of the Congress–JD(S) coalition government. “I heard six other Ministers who were in Mumbai also wanted to approach the courts for an injunction but backed out seeing the public backlash,” he said. Describing Mr. Jarkiholi and other Ministers as “innocent”, he said if the woman in the CD was really the victim, she should have come forward by now. Responding to queries on a proposed law to prevent such alleged blackmail of public personalities, he said no law would prevent it and the only way to avoid finding oneself in such situations was by “being aware, careful and not indulging in such acts”. “If we make a mistake we need to accept it and correct ourselves. I have accepted I made a mistake in the Assembly, corrected myself and moved on with my life, that is the only way,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/episode-raises-questions-on-mumbai-trip-hdk/article34032426.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC celebrates Women’s Day||KSRTC on Tuesday celebrated Women's Day at its central office in Bengaluru. According to a KSRTC release, as many as 45 staff from 17 divisions, including conductors, mechanics and security guards, were honoured. In his speech, Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi, who is also the Transport Minister, highlighted the various facilities offered by the Corporation to women employees. Shruthi Krishna, Chairperson, Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, informed all organisations should implement the practice prevailing in KSRTC about identifying and honouring women employees on the frontline. Chandrappa, Chairman, KSRTC appreciated the efforts of KSRTC in listening to grievances of lady employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-celebrates-womens-day/article34032400.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Wednesday in the areas serviced by 66/11KV Arehalli sub-station between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in view of conversion and cable works. The areas that will be affected are: F-10 AGS Feeder: Chaitanya School Road and surrounding areas, AGS Layout, Arehalli Main Road, Vaddarapalya and Arehalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article34032391.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLC elected||The BJP’s P.M. Muniraju Gowda (Tulasi) has been elected unopposed to the Legislative Council. He is filling the vacancy created by the death of former Deputy Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlc-elected/article34032408.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shivaratri: No session till next week||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday said there would be no session on Thursday and Friday on account of Mahashivaratri. The House would meet on Wednesday and there would be no session from Thursday through Sunday, he said. He also said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would give a reply on the discussion on the State Budget on March 26. He would hold discussions with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on conducting a session on “one nation, one election” in the month-end, Mr. Kageri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivaratri-break-till-next-week/article34032411.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shoot-at-sight order to kill Kodagu tiger||Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali on Tuesday informed the Legislative Assembly that shoot-at-sight order has been given to department officials to kill a tiger in Kodagu that has claimed lives in the district. In a reply to question from K.G. Bopaiah and Appachu Ranjan (of the BJP) during Zero Hour, Mr. Limbavali said the department has caught a tigress but another tiger was creating an atmosphere of fear in Virajpet andother areas in Kodagu. Both BJP members said that if the department failed to capture the tiger, then the people should be given the power to shoot it. Many people fear going to plantations, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shoot-at-sight-order-given/article34032412.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three Bills tabled in Assembly||Three Bills, including the Karnataka Money Lenders (Amendment) Bill, were tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. The Bill seeks to enhance the penalty amount and conviction term to ensure strict adherence to the provisions of the Act. The Karnataka Municipalities (Amendment) Bill and the Karnataka Societies Registration (Amendment) Bill were the other two Bills tabled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-bills-tabled/article34032413.ece
10 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Timings revised||The timings of Hosapete – Yeshwantpur Express Special (train no. 06208) have been revised at some stations with effect from March 11 owing to the operation of Hubballi – KSR Bengaluru Express Special (06242) from March 10. According to a release from SWR, Hosapete – Yeshwantpur Daily Express Special (06208) will depart from Hosapete at 5 p.m. and reach Yeshwantpur at 4.10 a.m. on the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/timings-revised/article34032429.ece
10 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Raghavendra seeks revival of Bhadravati steel plant||Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman to revive Visvesaraya Iron and Steel Ltd. (VISL) in Bhadravati by bringing in private investors. Mr. Raghavendra met the Union Minister in Delhi on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum in this regard. In a press release, the MP said the VISL had proved its capacity to produce steel. “There is an opportunity for investment to revive the unit. The Centre should make efforts to bring in private investors to restart the unit,” he said. He also appealed to the Minister that there was enough potential to set up an LED bulb-making unit, textile park, and food processing industries in Shivamogga district. The industries would provide youth of the district with jobs, he reasoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raghavendra-seeks-revival-of-bhadravati-steel-plant/article34032702.ece
10 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Activist fighting forest encroachment, mining assaulted in Shivamogga district||Social activist Girish Achar, on whose petition the High Court of Karnataka recently quashed the denotification of 260 acres of forest area in Shivamogga district, was allegedly assaulted by some unidentified people near Mattimane in Hosanagar taluk on Monday. Girish Achar, 41, has been fighting against forest encroachment, illegal stone quarrying, and sand mining for morethan 15 years. While he was on his way to Byndoor from Hosanagar on Monday, some people stopped him and forcibly took him in their two-wheeler. After travelling for about 2 km, they assaulted him. “I don’t know who they were or why they beat me up. This is the third time I have been assaulted in the last two years,” Mr. Achar told The Hindu . He is now undergoing treatment at Sagar. Mr. Achar said that he had faced threats because of his fights against illegal activities. “I had complained to the officers about the encroachment of Aramane Koppa forest area, questioned the cutting of acacia plantations at Hebbige village, and the illegal grant of forest land. All these cases were in the area close to the place where I was assaulted. The people who attacked me must be among those who suffered losses because of my activism,” he said. He also alleged that the police at Hosanagar had refused to register his complaint on Monday evening. He had also moved the High Court challenging the State government’s notification denotifying forest land without the approval of the Union government. The court issued an order, on March 4, quashing the denotification notification. ‘Provide security’ Jansangram Parishat has condemned the attack and urged the district administration to provide him security, besides arresting the accused. Akhilesh Chippali, district president of the forum, told The Hindu that this was the third assault on Mr. Achar. He also said that influential people who had benefited from illegal activities in the taluk were trying to silence Mr. Achar by slapping false cases against him. The assault on Mr. Achar has been captured by CCTV cameras installed by a shop at Mattimane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activist-fighting-forest-encroachment-mining-assaulted-in-shivamogga-district/article34032425.ece
10 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Actor’s family members in land dispute||Family members of cine actor Yash and residents of Thimmalapura entered into a heated argument over a land dispute on Tuesday, forcing the police to intervene. The residents of the village alleged that Mr. Yash’s parents were laying a road for their property, encroaching upon the neighbour’s property, while the actor’s family maintained that they were only putting up a compound wall to protect their property. Mr. Yash also met the police at Dudda in Hassan taluk in this connection. Mr. Yash’s parents purchased land at Thimmalapura in recent years. When they visited the place on Monday morning with an intention to build a compound wall, the neighbours picked up an argument over the boundary. Dudda Police intervened and both the parties visited the police station. Later in the day the actor visited the police station and spoke to the police on the issue. Regarding the land dispute, he told the media that the road was laid long ago for a temple near his farm. “The road is not for my farm, but for a temple nearby. We wanted to put up a compound wall, so that entry of outsiders could be stopped. If there are any differences, they can be resolved through talks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actors-family-members-in-land-dispute/article34032903.ece
10 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hundreds protest in Dharwad against soaring prices, civic issues||Condemning the soaring prices of fuel and essential commodities and seeking fulfilment of various demands, hundreds of people took out a protest march under the aegis of Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) in Dharwad on Tuesday. Beginning from Dr. Mallikarjun Mansur Kalabhavan ground, the protesters marched to the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad covering the thoroughfares of the city. They held placards and raised slogans condemning the soaring prices of essential commodities and seeking relief for those who had been badly affected by the lockdown and post-lockdown restrictions. They also demanded immediate steps for checking the prices and urged the government not to reduce the quantity of foodgrains being distributed under the Public Distribution System (PDS) and immediate release of various pensions. Residents from various localities of Dharwad including some of the major slums took part in the agitation. Addressing the protesters at the meeting before Deputy Commissioner’s office, Dharwad district secretary of SUCI(C) Ramanjanappa Aldalli said that at a time when the working class of the nation was in difficult situation, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, instead of mitigating the people’s sufferings, the governments were putting further burden on the people. He alleged that while the Union government had written off loans to the tune of thousands of crores, it had little concern for the poor people, who were being forced to face hardships after losing jobs. Even the benefits of the social welfare schemes were being cut at a time when crores of people had lost their livelihood, he said. He said if the governments failed to stop the service of the corporate sector and take measures to help the poor, the people would be forced to launch a movement against those in power. District secretariat member of SUCI(C) Gangadhar Badiger said even in the State Budget presented on Monday, there were no pro-poor measures and development programmes for the region. Memorandum submitted The protesters then submitted a memorandum to the district officials who assured to look into the demands particularly those pertaining to social welfare schemes which could be resolved at the local level. They also assured that a meeting with officials would be convened soon. Through the memorandum, the protesters also sought solutions for various civic issues and problems being faced by residents of various localities and slums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hundreds-protest-in-dharwad-against-soaring-prices-civic-issues/article34032698.ece
10 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Futurescapes’: Last day to submit entries||Budding artists will get a huge canvas to showcase their talent. The Hindu Young World and JSW Paints are conducting ‘Futurescapes’, a painting competition for students of classes 3 to 12. The event is open to students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana along with the Union Territory of Puducherry. Entries for the preliminary round must be submitted by March 10. The topics for the competition for the sub-junior (classes 3 to 5) category are ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’, and ‘My Favourite Animal’. For the junior (classes 6 to 8) category, the topics are ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun with Family’, and ‘Wildlife Safari’. The themes for the senior (classes 9 to 12) category are ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’, and ‘Clean and Green India’. Participants may choose one of the three topics in their respective categories and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons or colour pencils. Markers or sketch pens can be used only for outlining purposes. Participants can go to www.ywc.thehindu.com/jswpaints to complete the online registration and upload a scanned copy of their work. A unique registration number will be generated after the upload is completed. The number must be written on the front side of the physical copy along with the topic. On the back, entrants should fill details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, State, category of participation, parent’s name, registered e-mail address, and mobile number. To register, visit https://forms.thehindu .co.in/jswpaints-entry/ Physical copies of the paintings with these details should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process with ‘JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021’ written on the top left corner of the envelope. The physical copies of the works must reach the respective offices by March 10. Participants from districts in North Karnataka may send their paintings to The Hindu , 2nd floor, Kalburgi Katwe Identity, Gokul Road, Hubballi. For details and clarifications, schools, parents, or students may contact Manjunath Kusabi (9342933206) or The Hindu office (0836-2335700, 2333701). They may also call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Those who qualify for the finale will be intimated through the registered email address. Each participant may submit only one painting.  The event is open to students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana along with the Union Territory of Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/futurescapes-last-day-to-submit-entries/article34032695.ece
10 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Documentation of traditional knowledge must’||Expressing concern over the vanishing folk culture and traditions in the era of globalisation, liberalisation and privatisation, Founder and Chairman of Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement and Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement R. Balasubramaniam said that people had a greater responsibility of safeguarding folk culture, which otherwise would be reduced to fossils. Delivering the address at the fifth annual convocation of Karnataka Folklore University at Hiretittu open air theatre at Gotagodi in Haveri district on Tuesday, Mr. Balasubraaniam said that India had a distinct folk culture and values that were unique and they were not mere superstitions. He said that there was need for shaping the concepts of universal brotherhood based on the regional concepts. “If there is no understanding of the regional cultures and folklore, there will be no meaning to the concept of universal brotherhood. That is why there is a dire need for analysing our folklore and cultural roots with scientific and intellectual temperament and proliferate the greatness our folk culture to the world,” he said. Mr. Balasubramaniam said that folklore evoked the curiosity of all as it manifested itself in myriad forms. “Karnataka has the credit of establishing the first folk university in the world and the State has unique folk culture and tradition. Traditional knowledge has been passed on from generation to generation orally. There is dire need for scientific documentation of the traditional knowledge and also converting the traditional knowledge into technology,” he stressed. Folklore artist and exponent of ‘veeragase’ M.R. Basappa was felicitated with an honorary doctoral degree.  789 candidates In all 789 candidates were awarded various degrees for the academic years 2017-18 and 2018-19 and a total of 14 students were awarded various ranks. Roopa Mooder and Hussainsab P. received gold medals and cash prizes for being toppers. The convocation was conducted in accordance with folk tradition with the guests and students in traditional wear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/documentation-of-states-traditional-knowledge-is-vital/article34032700.ece
10 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||SoI considerations in border survey questioned||Raising objections once again to the way that the Survey of India (SoI) was demarcating the Karnataka – Andhra Pradesh border in Ballari district following the Supreme Court directions, Tapal Ganesh, a miner and activist, alleged that the Central survey agency was deliberately considering the wrong border points to protect the illegal miners. Addressing a media conference in Ballari on Tuesday, he specifically objected to SoI’s drone survey over Timmappana Gudda to identify the border points 63, 64, 65, 66 and 67 to demarcate the boundary line. “Survey Points 63 and 64 are new tri-junctions erected along northern slopes valley of Survey No. 106 of Tumti. The original tri-junction rock mark made by the British administration on Timmappana Gudda hillock for demarcation was blasted and destroyed in the mining. Instead of taking it into consideration, the SoI team is, unfortunately, considering newly erected tri-junction points which come down about 400 meters down the valley towards Karnataka side at Survey Number 106 of Tumti. It has failed to go through the original map considering the contours, ridges, streams and boundaries of the cluster village. If the original tri-junction points made by the British rulers are replaced with the new tri-junction points, a considerable portion of Karnataka’s land would be become a part of Andhra Pradesh and help the illegal miners, who destroyed the original interstate boundary line to meet their ends, go scot-free,” Mr. Ganesh said. Mr. Ganesh’s main contention was that the SoI team had taken the 1896 map as the base map, which, he claimed, did not have any survey measurement proceedings and not matching with the original village rock-marks made by the British administration. Mr. Ganesh alleged that Gali Janardhan Reddy, who, he claimed, was the main culprit for the illegal mining and the resultant inter-state border destruction, had influenced the SoI survey team to ensure that the survey agency would give such a report that would be favourable to him and cover up his illegal mining. “The survey for demarcating the inter-state border in Ballari district is not being conducted as per SC uidelines. The way that the SoI is conducting the survey work for the last three months indicates that the survey agency is going to submit a report that would be favourable to Mr. Reddy and protect him from crimes of illegal mining and destruction of the border. Neither the State nor the Union government is interested in correcting the wrongdoings of SoI in Ballari,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/soi-considerations-in-inter-state-border-survey-questioned/article34032701.ece
10 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Action sought to protect Sasihiltu beach||Former Moodbidri MLA and former Minister K. Abhayachandra Jain and former members of Haleyangadi Gram Panchayat on Tuesday sought urgent intervention of the State government to protect the pristine Sasihiltu beach, which is gradually getting eroded following sea erosion over the years. The beach, which is about 7 km from the Haleyangadi Junction on the NH 66, has been promoted as a destination for surfing. With the beach being close to confluence of Nandini and Shambhavi rivers with the sea, the waves were found to be moderate and conducive for surfing. Mr. Jain, during his visit to the beach, said following two surfing festivals at the beach in 2016 and 2017, the State government gave impetus to building sea wall. The Haleyangadi Gram Panchayat formed Sasihitlu Beach Development Committee and posted lifeguards and watchmen. The committee also constructed some temporary structures for eatery outlets, washrooms and erected seats on the beach. He said the government has failed to complete building of sea wall and this has brought a large portion of beach under water. Most of the structures have been damaged following sea erosion. Vasant Barna, the former president of Haleyangadi Panchayat, alleged that Moodibidri MLA Umanath A. Kotian prompted change of Panchayat Development Officer and this led to closure of Beach Development Committee. “As a result there are no lifeguards and watchmen on the beach now,” Mr. Barna said. He pointed out that four recent deaths of youths who drowned after getting caught in the rip current while swimming across the confluence of the sea and the river. “No serious effort is being made by the State government to preserve the pristine nature of this beach and make it safe for tourists,” said former District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai. Rammohan Paranjape from Mantra Surf Club said lack of planned development of the beach has already affected it to a great extent. Surfing in the region will take a beating if the government goes ahead building fishing harbour in Haleyangadi, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought-to-protect-sasihiltu-beach/article34032857.ece
10 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||23 new cases reported in DK, Udupi||With 11 new COVID-19 cases and 18 patients discharged, the active cases in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday stood at 212. A fine of Rs. 37.02 lakh has so far been collected from 35,955 cases of not wearing masks. In Udupi, 12 new cases were reported and 22 patients were discharged. The active cases stood at 103 on Tuesday. As many as 4,199 persons aged above 60 years and 445 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities have so far received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Dakshina Kannada, while 3,763 aged above 60 and 221 aged above 45 received the vaccine jab so far in Udupi on Tuesday. In all 32,637 health care workers and 5,909 frontline workers have so far received the first dose, while 17,334 health care workers have received second dose of the vaccine in Dakshina Kannada. Similarly, 17,276 health care workers and 3,810 frontline workers have received first dose and 12,658 health care workers received the second dose of vaccine in Udupi so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-new-cases-reported-in-dk-udupi/article34032863.ece
10 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Women’s day observed||KIOCL Ltd. and The Hindu jointly organised a programme at Government Pre-University College for Women in Balmatta on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. Three outstanding students were felicitated for their academic performance on the occasion. The KIOCL Ltd. distributed stationary, masks, handwash, and sanitisers to students. It also distributed steel dustbins to the college. Speaking on the occasion, A.V. Bhat, general manager (in charge) of KIOCL Ltd., suggested women use every opportunity to excel in life. Students should focus on studying hard, he said. Motivational speaker Sharanya Rao asked women to raise voice on certain issues. AshaKiran, deputy general manager (IT), KIOCL Ltd., also spoke. Meanwhile, in another programme organised at KIOCL township at Kavoor, KIOCL Ltd. honoured Deputy Mayor of Mangaluru Sumangala Rao and singer Roopa Prakash. The chairman and managing director of the company M.V. Subba Rao was present. Earlier, at its pellet plant, the company felicitated A. Ramachandra Bairy, district health and family welfare officer, Revathi, Police Inspector, Chandra Prabha, Medical Officer, Sabitha Monis and Gayathri Shetty, ASHAs, and Chandrakala R., yoga instructor, for their contribution in their respective fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/womens-day-observed/article34032853.ece
10 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Shopkeeper held on harassment charge||The Puttur women police on Monday arrested Noufal, a shopkeeper at Puttur KSRTC bus-stand, for allegedly harassing a nursing student in a bus. The police said Noufal has been accused of pushing the nursing student and behaving inappropriately in the private bus bound to Kumaramangala in Kerala. The student was on her way home and the bus was full of passengers. The student reported the incident to her friend, who came with a group of activists to stop the bus at Gadippila village, about 12 km from Puttur town. As the activists were questioning Noufal, the Puttur police rushed to the spot and took Noufal into police custody. Following complaint by the student, the Puttur women police arrested Noufal on charges of offences under Sections 354 (a) and 354 (d) of the Indian Penal Code. Noufal is from Bettampady village, the police said. The Venur police on Monday arrested Jagannath, a resident of Goliyangadi village, for allegedly stalking a woman. The police said Jagannath called the woman on her mobile phone and also sent her messages seeking sexual favours. He was arrested on charges under Section 354 (d) (ii) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shopkeeper-held-on-harassment-charge/article34032859.ece
10 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seer calls for grand celebration of Ramanavami in April||Similar to celebrations for Krishna Janmastami, events related to Lord Rama should be held between April 13 and 21 to mark this year’s Ramanavami, said Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Tirtha, one of the trustees of Sri Ramajanmabhoomi Theerta Kshetra Trust, in Moodbidri on Tuesday. Consultation held At a consultation meeting held at the Kannada Bhavan in Moodbidri, the seer said the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is gathering pace and there was good response from people for the drive to collect donations for the construction of the temple. Therefore this year’s Ramanavami should be celebrated in the same way as Krishna Janmastami is celebrated. Other events The seer asked people to hold a fancy dress competition, quiz, elocution, drawing and other events related to Lord Rama in the nine days from April 13 that will culminate with Ramanavami on April 21. The chairman of Alvas Education Foundation M. Mohan Alva and president of Dakshina Kannada Zilla Sahitya Parishat Pradeep Kumar Kalkura participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-calls-for-grand-celebration-of-ramanavami-in-april/article34032862.ece
10 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three die in accident||Three persons died after a huge tree they were cutting down fell on them in Kayila in Patrame village near Dharmastala on Tuesday morning. The Dharmastala police identified the deceased as Prashanth Kumbar, 23, Swastik Poojary, 25, and Ganesh, 38. Two persons escaped unhurt. The police said five persons were engaged in cutting a few ‘Dhoopa’ trees on land belonging to Lokayya Gowda. A rope was tied to a big tree and its base was being cut. The rope came off and the tree fell on Kumbar, Poojary, and Ganesh. All the three died on the spot. Kumbar and Poojary were from Patrame while Ganesh was from Uppinangady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-die-in-accident/article34032864.ece
10 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested||The Udupi Cyber Crime Economic Offences and Narcotics police arrested two persons for alleged illegal possession of 2.020 kg of cannabis, worth Rs. 70,000, on Tuesday. The police gave the names of the accused as Poornachandra Das and Kamalu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested/article34032858.ece
10 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Official’s house searched||The house in Udupi of Subramanya K. Vaddar, Joint Director, Town and Country, Mysuru, was among the properties searched by Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths during the raid carried out on Tuesday on properties related to officials suspected of possessing assets disproportionate to their known sources of income. A team of ACB searched the house of Mr. Vaddar in Puttur in Udupi. His houses in Mysuru and Karwar were also searched, an ACB official said. Mr. Vaddar, a native of Karwar, was staying with his family in Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-house-searched/article34032861.ece
10 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to some areas in the city and its outskirts on March 10 from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The areas are Adyar, Padil, Maroli, Kankanady Railway Station, Garodi, Ujjodi, Pumpwell, Yekkur, Gorigudda, Jeppinamogaru, Yeyyadi, Bikarnakatte, Nanthoor, Tarethota, Shakhtinagara, Hamilton Circle, Goodsshed Road, Badriya Road, Kottara Chowki, Kuluru Junction, Bangra Kuluru, Kunjathbail, Marakada, Ullal, Someshwara, Kallapu, Thokkottu, Konaje, Deralakatte, Talapady, Kotekar, and Adka.    Power supply to Kidiyoor, Kadekar, Padukare, Ananthakrishna Nagar, Sampige Nagar in Udupi will be stopped on March 12 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m for maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34032854.ece
10 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccinaton at PHCs soon: DC||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Tuesday said the Primary Health Centres (PHCs) will soon start administering the vaccine against COVID-19 since the number of people taking it has gone up in the district. To cater to more number of people coming forward to get vaccinated, more immunisation centres will soon be coming up, she added. Speaking after taking the second dose of vaccine at the District Hospital here, she said there are no side effects of the vaccine and the people who are eligible to take it should not hesitate to take the jab. Ms. Sindhuri had taken the first dose on February 8 and received the vaccination certificate on Tuesday after she took the second dose after a gap of 28 days. Her family members – also took the first dose of the vaccine. “I haven’t had any side effects after taking the vaccine. Some people get mild fever. Moreover, the vaccination centres are giving medicines for free for any possible fever after immunisation,” she said. The Deputy Commissioner said the people should make use of the facilities available for vaccination since the vaccine administered at all the government facilities are given for free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccinaton-at-phcs-soon-dc/article34032908.ece
10 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru sees significant drop in cases||Even as a section of health experts are not ruling out a ‘second wave’, COVID-19 continued its slump in Mysuru with the number of positive cases reaching single digits twice in the last four days. For the first time in the last 7-8 months, the number of positive cases dropped to single digits on March 6 when Mysuru reported 9 cases. Though 11 cases were reported the next day on March 7, the numbers were down to 7 on March 8. However, on March 9, the numbers went up to 56. At its peak, COVID-19 positive cases in Mysuru would often be in the range of 600 to 800 on a number of days during September and October 2020. According to statistics, the number of positive cases had even breached the 1,000 mark on October 4, 2020. The decline in the number of fresh cases had also brought the number of active cases down to 154, which is about the numbers that were prevailing during the first week of July 2020. This is a far cry from the 8,212 active cases prevailing in Mysuru on October 5, 2020. Dip in testing Even though the sharp slump in number of cases in Mysuru comes amid reports that the volume of testing too had been brought down, Health Department officials said the number of tests had to be reduced in view of the drop in infected cases. The authorities had a target of testing 4,500 samples every day earlier this year, but the target was revised to 3,000 since the first week of February in view of the sharp decline in number of cases, according to Chidambara, the vector-borne diseases control officer of Mysuru, who is now monitoring COVID-19 testing and training in the district . Health personnel were reaching about 80% of the revised target, he said. According to the media bulletin released by the District Surveillance Unit, Mysuru, the number of tests carried out on March 6 was 2,856; on March 7, was 2,125; and on March 8, was 1,183. On March 9, a total of 1,364 tests had been conducted. Mysuru had so far reported a total of 54,265 positive cases while a total of 53,076 persons had been discharged. Mysuru also lost a total of 1,035 people to COVID-19 since its outbreak last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-sees-significant-drop-in-cases/article34032399.ece
10 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cong. lashes out at BJP govt. for ignoring Mysuru||The Congress has come down heavily on the BJP government ifor ignoring Mysuru in the State Budget. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M. Lakshmana said a host of people’s representatives from Mysuru had maderepresentations to the government, listing at least 15 demands. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who presented the Budget, had not accepted even a single demand. He said the demands overlooked include allocation of funds for expansion of Mysuru airport, constitution of a Dasara Authority, setting up of an exclusive Mysuru Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board (MUWSSB), expanding the jurisdiction of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and elevating it to Greater Mysuru, construction of a Peripheral Ring Road, establishment of a Film City, and restoration or reconstruction of Lansdowne building and Devaraja Market. The Chief Minister has failed to release funds for the Hale Unduwadi drinking water scheme, which has been conceived to bring 250 MLD of water to Mysuru. Though the people’s representatives had sought setting up of an MUWSSB on the lines of BWSSB to ensure drinking water to all parts of the city, the government has entrusted to Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board the task of supplying drinking water to MUDA areas. He wondered what purpose such a move will serve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-lashes-out-at-bjp-govt-for-ignoring-mysuru/article34032904.ece
10 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tiger still elusive||The tiger which is suspected to have killed a boy in Belluru village in Kodagu district on Monday has proved to be elusive despite a marathon search using six trained elephants. The boy’s death has sparked outrage in the region. This was the third death in as many weeks due to a tiger attack and the Forest Department was forced to launch a combing operation with a mandate to trap and tranquilise it or shoot and put it down. But despite a massive operation involving the use of thermal drone apart from six elephants, the tiger has so far proved to be elusive, said Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. The tiger has been identified as a 11 year-old male that has been camera-trapped since 2013 in Nagarahole and is suspected to have been ejected out in a territorial fight with another tiger. A large contingent of officials from Kodagu and Mysuru district are camping in the region. The elephants cannot venture deep into the area as the place has swamp-like conditions. The tuskers being used for combing repeatedly get stuck in the swamp and are forced to retreat. The combing operation was suspended late in the evening and will resume at dawn on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-still-elusive/article34032909.ece
10 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Safari curbs||Wildlife safari at Bandipur for walk-in tourists will be affected on March 12 as all the eco-tourism vehicles will be deployed for fire protection works. Natesh, Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said this will not affect those who have made online bookings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safari-curbs/article34032906.ece
10 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sargur TP polls||Sargur Town Panchayat in Mysuru district will go to the polls on March 29. Out of the 12 wards, 7 are categorised as general while five others are reserved for women. A total of 10,160 eligible voters including 4,947 men and 5,213 women will cast their votes in 12 polling booths. The last date for filing nominations will be March 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sargur-tp-polls/article34032905.ece
10 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||ACB raids office, residence of GESCOM officer||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB), probing a disproportionate assets case, conducted raids at the residence and office of the accountant officer of GESCOM Raju Pattar in Yadgir on Tuesday. The officials recovered movable and immovable properties as well as gold and silver jewellery. Rs. 1.71 lakh in cash, 800 gm gold, 1,362 gm silver articles, two motorcycles, and a car were seized. Apart from this, documents of immovable properties of a three-storey house, approximately valued to be Rs. 75 lakh, nine open plots, and three acres of agriculture land in Ashanal village were seized, the officer added. The property was double to the accountant officer’s known sources of income, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-raids-office-residence-of-gescom-officer/article34032696.ece
10 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two boys found dead||Two grandsons of Hampayya Nayak, former MLA of Manvi, were found dead near a stream in Ballatagi village of Sirwar taluk in Raichur district on Monday. The victims were identified as Varun, 9, and Tanay, 5. They were sons of Shivanand Nayak. According to the police, they were missing from Sunday afternoon and the incident was reported to Sirwar police by 8.30 p.m. the same day. The police, followers and residents of Ballatagi village searched for the boys, but found their bodies near the steam on Monday morning, the police added. A case was registered in Sirwar police station. Prakash Nikam, Superintendent of Police of Raichur, formed a team headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Vishwanth Kulkani to probe the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-boys-found-dead/article34032704.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘What steps has the civic body taken to repair bad roads in city?’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the Commissioner of Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to inform by March 30 the steps taken to immediately repair potholes and damaged footpaths pointed out by citizens in a survey conducted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA). A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction after the Chief Engineers in charge of road infrastructure, who where asked to be present in court through video conference, could not properly respond to queries due to poor internet connectivity at the BBMP’s head office. Also, the bench directed the Commissioner to file an affidavit on how the BBMP has complied with a series of directions issued by the court on July 31, 2019, for proper maintenance of roads, including responsibility of ward committees and digging of roads for laying utility cables. Earlier, the Chief Engineers, Prahallad and Siddegowda, told the bench that 63 sub-divisional teams were set up to go through the responses of citizens to KSLSA’s survey, and many of the issues raised by the citizens related to newly added areas of 110 villages where the Bangalore Water Supply is laying pipes. In the survey conducted by the KSLSA, the citizens had pointed out 5,435 instances of potholes, bad stretches of roads and footpaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-steps-has-the-civic-body-taken-to-repair-bad-roads-in-city/article34032392.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SC appointed committee serves notice to Kodihalli Chandrashekar||The Supreme Court appointed committee, which is looking into lawful constructions made on land notified for formation Shivaram Karanth Layout prior to August 3, 2018, has served a show cause notice to Kodihalli Chandrashekar of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) for allegedly spreading misinformation and dissuading people from submitting building documents. Sources said that the committee is in possession of a video clip of Mr. Chandrashekar allegedly addressing a large gathering of people and appealing to them not to submit information to the committee. The committee has also reportedly accessed a social media message where Mr Chandrashekar allegedly appealed to people in 17 villages not to share details. According to sources, the committee is of the view that his messages prima facie amount to contempt of the Supreme Court, causing confusion and misguiding people and obstructing the work of the committee. Mr. Chandrashekar admitted that he had received a notice from the committee. From March 1, the committee had started accepting documents from the general public who had built buildings on the notified land. To spread awareness among villagers, announcements were made using autorickshaws fitted with mikes and by issuing pamphlets. However, during the awareness campaign, the committee realised that some people were spreading misinformation, and warned that action would be taken against those involved. The committee is headed by Justice (retd.) A.V. Chandrashekar, and has former DGP of the State S.T. Ramesh and former BDA commissioner Jayakar Jerome as members. It had said that around 7,500 structures were built between 2008 and 2018. Additional help desks Three more help desks to facilitate submission of documents by building owners will be functional by March 15. In a press release on Tuesday, the committee said that the new help desks at Ambedkar Samudaya Bhavana at Somashettihalli, Government Higher Primary School at Byalakere and Ambedkar Samudaya Bhavan at Singanayakanahalli will receive applications between 10.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m (barring holidays). A help desk at Urdu Primary School at Medi Agrahara, which falls under the limits of Vaderahalli grama panchayat, is already functioning. Building owners can also submit documents online at jcc-skl.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sc-appointed-committee-serves-notice-to-kodihalli-chandrashekar/article34032394.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Woman held for killing elderly relative||The Ashoknagar police on Monday arrested a 29-year-old woman for allegedly killing an elderly woman and stealing her gold jewellery to repay her loans. “The accused, Shabana Banu, 29, works as a domestic help, and is a distant relative of the victim, Dilshad Banu, 62,” said a police officer. On March 4, Shabana visited Dilshad at her house in Anepalya to seek financial help. “During the visit, she realised that the victim was alone at home. Shabana choked Dilshad to death and fled with her jewellery,” the officer added. The incident came to light when family members returned home and found the body. During the investigation, police spotted a woman walking around Dilshad’s house before entering. “The victim’s son identified the woman as Shabana,” said the police. The woman allegedly confessed to murder when interrogated and revealed that she was facing a financial crisis after investing in a chit fund business that failed. When Dilshad was unwilling to help her, she decided to kill her, the police added. The police have taken her into custody for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-held-for-killing-elderly-relative/article34032397.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Minor stabbed to death||A 17-year-old student who went to help his friend was stabbed to death by a group of youth at Yeshwantpur on Tuesday. The deceased, Mohammed Faiz, was a first year PUC student in a private college in Ganganagar, said the police. The police believe that his attackers were also college students, and efforts are on to track them down. “The incident occurred near Mangal's Nursing Home in Yeshwantpur. Faiz had gone to help his friend who was fighting with the accused. While his friend escaped, someone in the group stabbed Faiz on his neck. He died on the spot while his attackers fled,” said a police officer. The police have detained the friend who called Faiz to help him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-stabbed-to-death/article34032395.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sex workers protest ‘police brutality’||A day after International Women's Day was celebrated on March 8, sex workers, with the support of non-government organisations, staged a protest in front of the office of the Karnataka State Commission for Women on Tuesday demanding equal rights and condemning increasing police brutality. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Commission demanding action against the police. “While women celebrities and achievers are portrayed in the media, police beat up sex workers, humiliate and harass them publicly,” said one protester. Others pointed out that this is in violation of the Karnataka Police Act, which prohibits violence against sex workers. “For the last two years, harassment has been on the rise,” was the allegation in the memorandum. Many sex workers alleged that they are often detained in stations illegally. “Though there is clear direction not to initiate punitive action, the police are using morality as an excuse to marginalise and criminalise sex workers,” said a member of an NGO who was part of the protest. Protesters added that they had to earn a living to support their families. “If the government does not address issues that compel us to take up this work, then what right does it have to deny sex workers their livelihoods,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sex-workers-protest-police-brutality/article34032396.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Jarkiholi says ‘four leaders’ behind ‘fake CD’||Mr. Jarkiholi said the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy was one of the first to call him after the CD was leaked. “If he had a grudge that I was key in toppling his government, he would not have done that. The Chief Minister and even the high command of the BJP have supported me,” he said, adding that he chose to resign on his own. “I have no enemies in the Congress as well,” he said. “But a day after I took charge as Minister, a big leader challenged me publicly that I will not last in the department beyond three months. That leader is behind the conspiracy.” Mr. Jarkiholi turned emotional as he said his “family’s respect” was at stake and he would fight to preserve that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jarkiholi-says-four-leaders-behind-fake-cd/article34032442.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All set||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set/article34032867.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Legislators at work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislators-at-work/article34032422.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MCC to supply treated sewage to Pilikula Golf Club||The tertiary STP is outside the compound wall of Pilikula Biological Park (zoo) which has been facing the issue of untreated sewage water being let into its premises now and then since past three years. Park director H. J. Bhandary told The Hindu that in the latest case, sewage water was let into the park a fortnight ago posing a risk to the animals. He said that in the past three years two sambar deer had died consequent to drinking sewage water and four tigers had developed infections on their paws after stepping on the sewage accumulated in their moats. Sewage has killed at least 50 trees in the park. The sewage is being let into the park due to its maintenance issues. Mr. Ganeshan said that the issue had been addressed sometime ago and the flow to the park has been plugged. The sewage could have flowed out recently in case if there was an excess flow of sewage to the tertiary STP. Mayor Premananda Shetty said that he would look into whether the issue has been completely addressed or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-to-supply-treated-sewage-to-pilikula-golf-club/article34032868.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||In the report, ‘Man accused of stealing cash from temple hundis arrested’ (Page 3, March 9) the first sentence in the fifth paragraph should read: “Following his interrogation, Taranath admitted to stealing Rs. 2,000 from the hundi...” and not as reported. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article34032860.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Central Industrial Security Force, NMPT unit: The 52nd raising day of CISF, Panambur CISF complex, 9.45 a.m.  Mangalore University: Scholar B.A. Vivek Rai releases Hearbeats , a collection of Tulu short stories translated into English by K. Chinnappa Gowda, former Vice-Chancellor, Karnataka Folklore University and scholar late B. Surendra Rao, SVP Kannada Adhyayana Samsthe, Mangalagangotri, 10 a.m.  Mangaluru City Corporation: Ganga pooje to Netravathi, Mayor Premananda Shetty present, Thumbe vented dam, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34032855.ece
10 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Fronts get ready for a tough battle in Cherthala||It was from the Cherthala Assembly constituency that K.R. Gouri, former Communist firebrand, got elected to the first Kerala Assembly in 1957 and went on to become the Revenue Minister in the E.M.S. Namboodiripad-headed Communist government in the State. Ms. Gouri was re-elected from Cherthala in 1960. Also elected The constituency had elected former Chief Minister A.K. Antony (1970, 1996 and 2001), veteran Congress leader Vayalar Ravi (1982 and 1987) and former Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary C.K. Chandrappan (1991), thus attaining the status of a VIP constituency. Incumbent Food and Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman of the CPI completed a hat-trick of wins in Cherthala when he defeated his nearest rival S. Sarath of the Congress by a margin of 7,196 votes in the 2016 polls. Despite being seen as a traditional stronghold of the Left front, Cherthala had embraced the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) several times in its election history. After winning thrice, Mr. Thilomathan will not be in the fray this time. The CPI is set to field party State executive member P. Prasad. In the UDF, the seat will be contested by the Congress, which is yet to finalise a candidate. In the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) will field P.S. Jyothis, former CPI member and former Thanneeermukkom grama panchayat president. While the Left Democratic Front (LDF) hopes to retain the constituency, the UDF is aiming to wrest the seat after a gap of 15 years. NDA’s presence The presence of the NDA, which secured 19,614 votes in 2016 Assembly polls and 22,655 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, could not be overlooked. The recent election history, however, favours the LDF most. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the LDF had an upper hand in the Assembly segment polling 16,895 more votes than the UDF. Local bodies Among the local bodies in the constituency, the LDF is in power in Cherthala South, Thanneermukkom, Vayalar, Muhamma, and Kanjikuzhy along with the Cherthala municipality. The UDF rules the Pattanakkad and Kadakarappally grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-get-ready-for-a-tough-battle-in-cherthala/article34032827.ece
10 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BDJS off the block, announces first list||The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), a constituent of the National Democratic Front (NDA), on Tuesday announced the first list of candidates for the Assembly polls in the district. It was released by party president Thushar Vellappally. The party will field P.S. Jyothis, former Thanneeermukkom grama panchayat president and CPI(M) leader, from Cherthala. Sources said Mr. Jyothis quit the CPI(M) after being denied the ticket to contest the Assembly polls. Other candidates are Aji S.R.M. (Varkala), Vanaja Vidyadharan (Kundara), K. Padmakumar (Ranni), Aniyappan (Aroor), and Pradeep Lal (Kayamkulam). In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BDJS, the political arm of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam, had contested in 37 seats. Party sources said that this time it would contest in fewer seats. “We will be contesting in around 30 seats this time. We will not be fielding candidates in some of the seats in Malabar which we contested in 2016,” said a party leader. In November last, the Election Commission of India had recognised the BDJS led by Mr. Vellappally as official party. Subhash Vasu, who was ousted from the BDJS for anti-party activities, had approached the ECI claiming the faction led by him was the BDJS. The ECI rejected his claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bdjs-off-the-block-announces-first-list/article34032818.ece
10 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Parties hope to sway voters with development plank||The issues that affected the outcome of the last Assembly elections in Idukki are no longer in currency. An important factor this time is that the P.J. Joseph faction and the Jose K. Mani faction of the undivided Kerala Congress(M) are now part of rival coalitions. While the Jose K. Mani faction moved to the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the P.J. Joseph faction remained with the United Democratic Front (UDF). The undivided Kerala Congress (M) had considerable influence among settler farmers in the district. The plantation constituencies of Peerumade, Udumbanchola, and Devikulam with a large concentration of Tamil voters stood with the LDF in the last elections while the Kerala Congress (M) represented Idukki and Thodupuzha. The Congress had just a single member from Idukki in the last Assembly. Panel reports The Kasturirangan-Gadgil reports were raised in Assembly constituencies, especially in the high ranges, as the main poll issue in the last polls. However, after five years, these issues are on the back-burner and the district is going to the polls with the mainstream parties focussing on general issues and the development agenda they have put forward. In the last Lok Sabha elections, the Western Ghats reports were a non-issue and it did not influence the electorate. In 2014, the Kasturirangan committee recommended 37% of the Western Ghats be declared ecologically sensitive. Of the 123 villages within the ecologically sensitive area (ESA) limits, 48 were in Idukki. People in the region feared that it would deprive them of their basic rights over land and eventually they would be evicted. Protests The Idukki-based people’s movement High Range Samrakshana Samiti (HRSS) organised large-scale protests against the report. The HRSS is an umbrella organisation of various religious groups under the Church formed for the protection of farmers’ rights. Though formed as a non-political organisation, it soon gained political colour and won the Lok Sabha seat with the support of the LDF and successfully fielded candidates in the local body polls in 2015. The HRSS is not in the frame in the coming Assembly elections. It also did not contest the recent local body elections. District Congress Committee president Ibrahimkutty Kallar said the Congress would raise State- and district-level issues in the Assembly elections. Farmers’ issues “Farmers are facing many issues such as control over constructions, wild animal attacks, and buffer zone issues in areas bordering forests,” he said. Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary K.K. Jayachandran said the Western Ghats reports still had relevance in Idukki though they were out of the election scene now. The LDF would raise developmental activities initiated by the State government and the recently announced Rs. 12,000-crore special package for the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-hope-to-sway-voters-with-development-plank/article34032813.ece
10 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Ire in BJP over Janu’s ‘re-entry’ into NDA||Discontent is brewing among Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in Wayanad over the rejoining of the Janadhipatya Rashtriya Sabha (JRS), led by tribal leader C.K. Janu, with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Ms. Janu was the NDA candidate in the Sulthan Bathery segment in the 2016 Assembly polls and secured 27,920 votes. However, she left the alliance in 2018 levelling allegations such as neglect in the front by the BJP and failure of its leadership to honour promises given to the party. BJP district president Saji Sankar told mediapersons on Tuesday that the district leadership came to know about the development through visual media. The final decision on her re-entry and candidature was up to the State leadership. However, there was no official communication from the leadership, Mr. Sankar said. However, party workers were unhappy as she had left the front openly levelling allegations against the BJP. The State leadership should evaluate the acceptability of Ms. Janu among party members before fielding her in any Assembly segment in the district, he said. “Party workers will not oppose if the State leadership decides to field her. But, we think the leadership will act according to the wishes of party workers in the district,” he said. However, Ms. Janu said she decided to rejoin the coalition after discussions with the State leadership of the BJP. “The district committee may perhaps have its own stance regarding my re-entry to the front,” she said adding that such issues should be solved by the party State leadership after discussing it with the district leadership. BJP State president K. Surendran told The Hindu that the leadership had discussed the issue with the district leaders and it was resolved . However, the candidature of Ms. Janu would be decided later, Mr. Surendran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ire-in-bjp-over-janus-re-entry-into-nda/article34032817.ece
10 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Hume Centre to conduct zoonosis study||Hume Centre for Ecology and Wildlife Biology, in association with the Wayanad district administration, is gearing up to conduct researches on zoonotic diseases in Wayanad, a landscape known for human-wildlife coexistence as well as conflicts. “Zoonotic diseases are on the rise now owing to anthropogenic activities such as deforestation, urbanisation and agricultural expansion”, C.K. Vishnudas, director, Hume Centre, has said. Climate vagaries have also added fuel to it by helping the pathogens to spread on a much faster pace, since the rising global temperature favours them, Mr. Vishnu said. “Being a tropical region and subjected to increase in ambient temperature, the district is more vulnerable to zoonosis”, Mr. Vishnudas said, adding that the factors such as coexistence of wildlife, high density of cattle population and climate changes also contributed to the spread of the diseases. The study will focus on collecting data on hotspots of human-animal conflicts, potential sites of spillover diseases as well as significant sites of disease hosts. Diseases such as monkey fever, COVID-19, brucellosis, dengue, swine flu, bird flu, leptospirosis, tuberculosis and anthrax would be included in the study. The centre has identified man-animal conflict areas in the district and has divided them into cells of 25 sq.km each to conduct the survey. A mobile app has been developed for the purpose. The centre also planned to conduct awareness programmes among the public. Successful completion of the study will help identify the potential vectors and the areas most prone to the diseases. It will help predict probable outbreaks in the future. The study will be carried out with the support of Anaha Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hume-centre-to-conduct-zoonosis-study/article34032753.ece
10 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||In Azhikode, there’s room for surprise||Azhikode used to be a stronghold of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] till the last delimitation changed its electoral profile. The party still has a strong base in the constituency. But, Azhikode has a history of throwing up surprises. With the CPI(M) setting its eyes on recapturing the Azhikode seat from the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a close battle is expected in the upcoming Assembly election. The IUML’s K.M. Shaji won the seat from the CPI(M) in 2011 by a margin of 493 votes and increased his margin to 2,287 in 2016. After his expulsion from the CPI(M), M.V. Raghavan, who had contested as an Independent candidate with the support of the United Democratic Front (UDF), won the seat in 1987, breaking the constituency’s legacy of having elected Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates ever since it was formed in 1977. However, the equations changed in 2016, following the de-linking of Kallyasseri, Kannapuram, and Cherukunnu from the constituency and inclusion of Puzhathi, Chirakkal, and Pallikkunnu, which are UDF strongholds. The change helped IUML candidate Mr. Shaji, who defeated CPI(M) candidates M. Prakashan in 2011 and M.V. Nikesh Kumar in 2016. However, the LDF is expected to enter the fray with confidence as it won the recent local body elections in five of the six panchayats. The UDF meanwhile is pinning its hopes on the increase in its vote share in the constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. For both the political parties, the vote share in the constituency dipped by 0.63% and 1.83% in the 2016 Assembly election. The BJP, however, recorded an increase in its vote share of 2.07%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-azhikode-theres-room-for-surprise/article34032746.ece
10 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Postal voting facilities for patients, aged||People over the age of 80, those with disabilities, COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine can register themselves for postal voting in the Assembly elections. The district has 28,834 differently abled voters and 46,818 electors above 80. Postal voting has been introduced in view of the difficulty in getting them to the polling stations and the possibility of the spread of COVID-19. Applications for the postal voting (Form 12D) will be delivered by the polling officials to their place of residence. According to a press release, voters must provide their address and phone number with the application. Voters will be notified of the voting date by SMS, post or by the booth level officer. Those eligible to cast postal vote must apply to the Returning Officer of their constituency. Ensuring postal voting is the responsibility of a team consisting of a special polling officer, polling assistant, police officer and a videographer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-voting-facilities-for-patients-aged/article34032744.ece
10 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||VACB gives clean chit to Babu||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) has given a clean chit to former Excise Minister K. Babu in the alleged bar bribery scam. Mr. Babu had resigned from the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Ministry on January 23, 2016 after a Vigilance court in Thrissur asked the VACB to register a case against him over allegations of nepotism in awarding bar licences and tweaking the Abkari policy to help some of the owners of bar hotels. The Congress leader had withdrawn his resignation a week later after the UDF refused to accept it.  No evidence In its report submitted before a Vigilance court in Muvattupuzha on March 4, the Central range of the VACB admitted that there was no substantial evidence to prove that Mr. Babu had misused his official position to display preferential treatment in the award of foreign liquor licences. The allegations that he had used government orders at the behest of the office-bearers of the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) and his benamis with an ulterior motive to disrupt the functioning of licensees and make unlawful gain were baseless. The accused had no specific role in these decisions as it were taken by the Cabinet, it said. The VACB also turned down the allegations that Mr. Babu had closed down the outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation in favour of bar owners. On the allegations that the KBHA had collected money from its members in the name of giving bribe to the Minister for not increasing the licence fee for sale of foreign liquor, the Vigilance said the legal fund of the association, which was alleged to have been used as bribe money, was used for meeting the legal expenses of the organisation. There was no evidence to prove the allegation, it said. Reacting to the VACB report, Mr. Babu said truth had finally prevailed while reminding that his detractors had tried to snap his political career by raising baseless allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-gives-clean-chit-to-babu/article34032760.ece
10 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Shortage of water leaves Kochiites parched||The supply of only 132 million litres per day (mld) of water to the area that constitutes the Kochi Corporation falls woefully short of the growing demand. Demand has been shooting through the roof this summer, sometimes hitting 200 mld, said a senior official with the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). Corporation areas have been reporting severe scarcity of water, some for the past week or two, and others for over a month. “The pump houses at Aluva and Maradu, from where the corporation area gets supply, are working to their full capacity. But the supply still falls short of the demand, which is higher now than it was two years ago,” he said. The number of connections has grown and construction activities also seem to have picked up pace this year after the pandemic-related impediments, he said. Areas including parts of Vennala, Vaduthala, Elamakkara, Mundamveli, Kadavanthra, and Girinagar have been reporting a shortage. Scarcity has worsened over the past week, said C.D. Valsala Kumari, councillor representing Vennala. Two loads of water via tanker was being supplied daily. But on Monday, water tanker operators were also citing poor supply from the KWA hydrant at Maradu, and tanker water could not be supplied, she said. Interconnecting the supply lines at Maradu and fixing leaking pipes had left the plant shut for the past three days, but pumping was likely to resume on Tuesday evening, KWA officials said. Bindu Mani, councillor representing Vaduthala East, said that three to four water tankers were needed on a daily basis in some areas and on alternate days in other areas of the division. Severe scarcity has persisted for around a month now, she said. Large tankers are mostly unable to enter the smaller bylanes, making supply through tankers also a difficult task. The COVID-19-related restrictions during the summer months last year had spared the northern parts of the city, that are at the tail end of the water supply network, from experiencing severe shortage, he said. Besides, new connections are added every year, but the supply from the Aluva pump house has remained constant at 250 million litres per day (mld) for the corporation areas and some of the surrounding municipalities and panchayats, he said. For around 20 divisions that fall within the Pallimukku subdivision of the KWA, only an insufficient 50 mld is available daily, leaving the tail ends of the supply network, particularly Kadavanthra, Girinagar, and Gandhinagar, dry, said a KWA official in charge of the central areas of the city. KWA officials have held meetings over the past week, but there is no change in the supply or pumping, which means that the pressure of the water through the pipelines is low and does not reach the overhead tanks in some houses, Ms. Bindu Mani said. The senior KWA official said that they were mostly helpless till another 143 mld pump house came up at Aluva, for which the site surveys were on. With nearly all corporation divisions reporting a shortage, diversions or interconnections were not possible, he said. The anti-theft squads of the KWA would begin inspections soon to prevent illegal interconnections and motor pumps, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shortage-of-water-leaves-kochiites-parched/article34032763.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||An even game in Perumbavoor||The electorate in Perumbavoor Assembly constituency has kept an equidistance from both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) since 1957. The scorecard stands at 7-7 as on the Assembly election held in 2016. It was P. Govinda Pillai who opened the account for the Left when he defeated K.A. Damodara Menon of the Congress by 899 votes in 1957. K.M. Chacko of the Congress defeated Mr. Pillai by 2,500 votes in 1960. However, the Marxist ideologue went on to represent the segment in the elections held in 1965 and 1967. Perumbavoor has given its representatives chances multiple times, except in the case of K.M. Chacko and P.I. Paulose of the Congress, who could not make it twice to the Assembly. P.P. Thankachan of the Congress held the constituency as a strong fort of the UDF for four consecutive times since 1982. His winning streak came to an end when the Communist Party of India (M) decided to reclaim Perumbavoor, which was a seat usually assigned to its allies, in 2001. Saju Paul of the party defeated P.P. Thankachan, Shanimol Usman and Jaison Joseph in the elections held in 2001, 2006 and 2011 respectively. Eldhose Kunnappilly of the Congress ended the Left reign and wrested the constituency back after a gap of one-and-a-half decades in 2016 when he defeated Mr. Paul by a margin of 7,088 votes. The decline in vote share remains a worry for the UDF and the LDF as BJP has increased its presence since 2010. Its tally in the Perumbavoor municipality went up to three in 2015 from one in 2010. The party had sent four of its representatives to the council in the recent local body elections. Despite winning the seat in 2016, the vote share of the UDF went down by 0.63 percentage points while the Left faced a dip of 8.17 percentage points compared to 2011. Second chance Kerala Congress (M) that entered the Left camp last year has staked claim for the seat while the Congress is likely to give Mr. Kunnappilly a second chance. The position to be adopted by the Jacobite faction amidst the Church row and the impact of the growing presence of Twenty20, which had announced its candidate, figure among the factors to count for this time. An increase in the BJP’s vote share will have an impact on the outcome going by the slender margin of victory the UDF and the LDF have been getting since 2011. However, the UDF camp seems upbeat about the front’s performance in the civic body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-even-game-in-perumbavoor/article34032980.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Up collection of tax arrears to fund Kochi biomining’||The government has asked the Secretary of the Kochi Corporation to augment the financial resources of the civic body by collection of tax arrears to fund the removal of legacy waste at Brahmapuram. A meeting convened by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy on March 6 in connection with the status of implementation of the directives on Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 issued by the National Green Tribunal in Kochi and Kollam corporations stated that non-compliance of the rules will not be allowed to continue and strict legal action, including penalty options, will be initiated against violators. “When the issue of non-availability of funds to the tune of Rs. 54.9 crore for biomining of legacy waste [at Brahmapuram] was raised by the corporation secretary, the Chief Secretary replied that no lame excuses could be made for fulfilling a statutory responsibility as resource raising is also the statutory mandate of the civic body. The corporation is duty-bound to collect revenue arrears for its effective functioning and for discharging its duties, which include management of waste under its jurisdiction. The arrears in revenue, due to the corporation, may be collected for funding waste management activities,” according to the minutes of the meeting. About five lakh cubic metres of legacy waste dumped at Brahmapuram has to be removed, the exact quantification of which is being carried out with the help of the National Institute of Technology, Calicut. Both the civic bodies have to allocate enough funds for the management of solid waste as per rules. Work orders for biomining of legacy waste must be issued without any further delay. The civic bodies have to expedite their actions to remove the legacy waste immediately before the onset of monsoon. The Chief Secretary warned erring officials/persons of action in the event of default. Both the Secretary and the municipal corporation concerned will be held responsible for the non-implementation of SWM rules, if timely compliance is not adhered to. The option of resorting to personal fine will have be thought of, if non-compliance continued. Necessary sanctions from the Election Commission will be facilitated through the screening committee of the government to proceed with the compliance of SWM rules. The civic bodies have to forward details immediately to the government for seeking sanction from the Election Commission. The meeting asked the civic bodies to ensure full compliance of the rules without fail. Any laxity will be viewed seriously and proceeded against legally. The Local Self-Government Department will monitor the situation and file a detailed report before the tribunal within the deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-pulled-up-for-its-failure-to-remove-legacy-waste/article34032766.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||30 years on, long arm of law catches up with accused||Thirty years seem too long a period for even the long arm of the law to catch up with an absconding accused. That’s probably what Mohanan, 62, originally from Kannur but now settled in Vilangad in Kozhikode district, also thought. But only till the time a team from Kuttampuzha police station came knocking at his doorstep. Mohanan along with four friends were accused of encroaching into the forest and growing ganja at Kallelimedu near Kuttampuzha way back in 1991. While the other four accused were promptly arrested, Mohanan had gone absconding and successfully managed to remain in hiding for three decades. The hunt for him was reignited in the wake of District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik’s order to all 34 police stations within the rural limits to execute long-pending (LP) warrants ahead of the forthcoming Assembly election. “We made a few inquiries with the old-timers at Kallelimedu about the absconding accused and that elicited some information, albeit vague, including a house name with a throwaway tip-off that he might be somewhere in Kannur,” said K.M. Mahesh Kumar, Station House Officer, Kuttampuzha police. The probe centred around the house name led the police to Sreekandapuram police station limits and the hunch proved quite decisive. While the accused himself was not there, the police were able to trace his siblings and from them his current whereabouts at Vilangad where he was settled. The police team then promptly tracked him down and jogged his memory a bit to help him realise why they had come to get him. The police admit that along with efficient policing, luck played as much a part in tracking down the long absconding accused since often they are not even sure whether the one they are looking for is still alive or not. “We dusted off the case since there were four warrants against him between the period 1991 and 2012. This was one of the 22 long-pending cases within our limits and the number is now down to eight,” said Mr. Kumar. The accused was produced before a court dealing in cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and was remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-years-on-long-arm-of-law-catches-up-with-accused/article34032767.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sivaratri: police to throw security net around Aluva||The Ernakulam Rural police have put in place extensive measures for the safe and smooth conduct of the Sivaratri festival at Aluva Manappuram. A team led by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik comprising 10 DySPs, 26 inspectors, 146 sub inspectors, 524 assistant sub inspectors, and 150 civil police officers, including women civil police officers, will be deployed as part of the security arrangements. Celebrations and movement of devotees for offeringbaliwill be strictly in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, said Mr. Karthik. A special squad of plainclothes officers drawn from various police station limits will also be deployed to keep an eye on miscreants like pickpockets. Surveillance cameras have been mounted at various points. Around-the-clock control room complete with first-aid facilities and ambulance service will start functioning at the Manappuram from Thursday. Roadside vendors will be completely banned within 50 metres of the temple. Patrol teams in boats led by inspectors and equipped with life jackets will be deployed. Special police squads will be deployed for crowd control at the Aluva railway station. Alcohol sale and consumption will remain banned in Aluva town and nearby areas on Thursday and Friday. Aluva municipal area will be declared a no-begging zone from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivaratri-police-to-throw-security-net-around-aluva/article34032765.ece
10 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF dominates in this decade-old constituency||The Thrikkakara Assembly constituency is just a decade old and in the two elections since its formation, the electors have sent Congress party candidates to the Assembly. The recently-concluded elections to the local bodies had seen the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Congress party dominate. A largest segment of the constituency’s geographical area comprises urban areas, including information technology hubs in Kakkanad. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which came second in both the Assembly elections, is on the lookout for a suitable Independent candidate to contest the seat and pose a challenge to the incumbent as the constituency includes some parts of the Kochi Corporation where the UDF held sway in the recent elections to the local bodies. Both the LDF and the UDF have not declared their candidates from the constituency. LDF sources said the candidate from Thrikkakara would be decided after Monday, but did not rule out anyone including retired doctor, J. Jacob, who is now umoured to be the LDF choice. Though there are differences of opinion about the UDF candidate, most feel that P.T. Thomas will take to the contest from the UDF side. Mr. Thomas won the election to the State Assembly in 2016 with more than 45% vote share. Out of a total registered voters of 1.81 lakh, Mr. Thomas received over 61,000 votes whereas his nearest rival Sebastian Paul of the LDF bagged 49,455 votes (36.55%). Bharatiya Janata Party’s N. Saji bagged 21,247 votes and improved his party’s performance from the previous election. The Thrikkakara constituency went to the polls for the first time in 2011. The key contestants were Benny Behanan of the Congress and M.E. Hassainar of the CPI(M). Mr. Behanan won nearly 56% of the votes (65,854 votes) to beat Mr. Hassainar, who bagged 43,448 votes (36.87%). The BJP candidate N. Saji Kumar bagged 5,935 votes. Thrikkakara is bordered by Kalamassery, Kunnathunadu, Ernakulam, Piravom, and Thripunithura Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-dominates-in-this-decade-old-constituency/article34032769.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Advocate General issues notice to Customs Commissioner||A petition has been filed before the Advocate General seeking sanction to file a criminal contempt of court petition before the Kerala High Court against Sumit Kumar, Customs Commissioner (Preventive), Kochi, for filing a statement in connection with a dollar smuggling case. Advocate General K. Sudhakara Prasad has issued notice to the Customs Commissioner on the petition filed by K.J. Jacob, CPI(M) leader and former Opposition leader in the Kochi Corporation. The Commissioner had said in his statement that Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, had stated that the smuggling of foreign currency was carried out at the instance of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. According to Mr. Jacob, the Customs Commissioner was not a respondent in the petition filed by the State government challenging certain observations in the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) Court order providing security to Swapna inside the prison. The statement of Swapna recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) was not relevant for the consideration of the petition filed by the government. ‘Political masters’ He said it was settled law that a copy of the statements recorded under Section 164 of the Cr.PC could be given only to and used by the investigation officer. Besides, the contents of such statements should not be passed on to anybody or made public. In fact, the Customs Commissioner was not an investigation officer in the gold smuggling case in which the alleged statement of Swapna Suresh was recorded. Nor was he a party to the government's petition. The Customs Commissioner had filed it under the dictates of the ruling dispensation at the Centre and his attempt was only to convert the High Court into a political arena to please his political masters, the petition said. His action was nothing but interference with the due course of the judicial proceedings pending in the High Court. The malicious and improper use of legal proceedings to further political causes was an abuse of process of the court, it added. The petitioner sought sanction of the Advocate General to move before the High Court to prosecute the Customs Commissioner under Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/advocate-general-issues-notice-to-customs-commissioner/article34032758.ece
10 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Active COVID caseload falls to 6,382||In Ernakulam, 231 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday, and 7,533 samples were sent for testing. The active case load has fallen to 6,382. A total of 500 people tested negative on Tuesday and 17,924 people remain in quarantine. 8 lakh doses received “Eight lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine arrived in the district on Tuesday,” said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health Officer and nodal officer for immunisation. Two vaccination camps will be held on Wednesday - one at the High Court for judges, lawyers, and staff on the premises, and another camp at the Amrita Arts and Sciences College, where on-the-spot registration will be permitted for senior citizens. The camp at the college will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-covid-caseload-falls-to-6382/article34032761.ece
10 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Include sex work in informal sector: activist||The stigma around sex work should be done away with and sex workers should be considered part of the informal sector, according to Nalini Jameela, author and former sex worker. “Sex work is different from trafficking and it is a form of self-employment that is stigmatised,” said Ms. Jameela, who is the coordinator of the Sex Workers’ Forum of Kerala. “The discrimination we face when we try to get ration cards or health insurance must end. If there is a legal framework, it will strengthen our voice and we can openly ask for our rights,” she said, while speaking at a discussion conducted online by Raising Our Voices Foundation, a Kochi-based NGO, on whether sex work should be legalised. But a significant number of sex workers were working within an institution and the entire trade, including, brothel-keeping and pimps, would have to be legalised if sex work was legitimised, said activist Sunitha Krishnan. Sex work per se was already legal, but ancillary activities such as brothels, pimping, soliciting were illegal, said Mobin Jacob, advocate of the Kerala High Court. All government benefits that other workers got should be made available to sex workers too, said Lalitha Satheesh, a board member of the National Network for Sex Workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/include-sex-work-in-informal-sector-activist/article34032764.ece
10 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Second shows from tomorrow||Actor Mammootty’s The Priest will be the major release in Malayalam to reap the advantage of the government decision to permit second shows in cinemas. It will reach the screens on Thursday. The government has revised the show timings. Shows will now be held from 12 noon to 12 midnight after trade bodies in Malayalam film industry cited the dip in collections without the permission to have latenight shows. M.C. Bobby, general secretary, Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala, said that the government nod came on Monday evening. With the permission for second shows, the collections will improve. The release of many movies was postponed as the earlier timings of 9 a.m to 9 p.m in view of the COVID-19 pandemic did not help in enhancing the revenue, he said. Mr. Bobby said that cinema theatres would be able to screen four shows following the relaxation. The government has clarified that the pandemic protocols have to be ensured despite its decision to have latenight shows. Only 50% occupancy will be allowed in theatres and the cinema halls should be disinfected at regular intervals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-shows-from-tomorrow/article34032757.ece
10 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||A pet job to help ‘earn and learn’||While many sectors are still reeling under the COVID-19-induced economic downturn, pet animal industry has recorded a growth in the last few months. Students of Sree Narayana (SN) College were introduced to this potential ‘earn while you learn’ option at a workshop, organised by the Animal Husbandry Department and college alumni association on Tuesday. Blue and gold macaws, cockatoos, African lovebirds, extreme punch Persian cats, Bengal cats, beagles, and ornamental fish like guppy, goldfish, molly, platy, and fighter were exhibited and their rearing and breeding process were explained. Principal R. Sunil inaugurated the workshop. alumni association secretary P. Balachandran presided over the function. District Animal Husbandry Officer D. Sushama Kumari and Livestock Training Centre assistant director D. Shine, S. Jisha and B. Hari also spoke. Certificates The students who attended the workshop were issued certificates. “Earn while you learn is a system very popular in foreign countries, helping students to fund their own studies,” says Dr. Shine. Price rise He points out that a range of breeds from small white mice to huge ostriches can be reared to generate a decent income and during COVID-19, the price of pets increased by about three to four times. “The hike happened post lockdown and it is not due to any sudden surge in demand. Usually, ornamental fish come to our State from Tamil Nadu and cats from Mumbai, since we do not have many breeders in Kerala. Post COVID-19, transportation became an issue. Earlier, you could buy a Labrador puppy at Rs. 5,000 and now the price is Rs. 25,000.” Most of the students were from the Zoology stream and, according to animal husbandry official, it is an ideal vocation for those who are interested. Technicalities explained All technicalities, including the preparation for high-profile feed and incubation procedures, were explained. “We want educated persons to enter this field and follow the scientific practices of breeding. After studies, they can start a pet farm,” says Dr. Shine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-pet-job-to-help-earn-and-learn/article34032829.ece
10 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||3 held with MDMA drug||The police have arrested three persons with Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) worth Rs. 25,000 from the Sakthikulangara harbour here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-with-mdma-drug/article34032830.ece
10 March 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||Slugfest in central Travancore||After court battles and slugfests at the local body level, the raging contest between the Kerala Congress parties is now all set to be played out in the Assembly elections. The joust in Central Travancore, which otherwise would have witnessed a straight, simple fight between the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front, assumes significance as it sets the stage for yet another round of direct clash between two regional parties. Overall share 23 While the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani, which switched sides to the Left Democratic Front recently, will be contesting in 13 seats, the break-away faction led by P.J. Joseph is expected to represent the United Democratic Front in 10 seats. With this, the overall share of seats between the rivals rises to 23, a significant improvement from the 15 seats they contested in when the two leaders stood together as a UDF ally five years ago. The two factions are expected to come head-to-head in as many as four seats — Kaduthuruthy, Thodupuzha, Idukki and Changanassery. The battle for Idukki, where KC(M) leader and sitting legislator Roshy Augustine will meet former parliamentarian Francis George, perhaps promises to be the most fascinating. In Thodupuzha, the KC(M) is likely to field its senior leader K.I. Antony to challenge Mr. Joseph, who has been representing the seat since 1970. The party, however, is yet to decide on its candidate in Kaduthuruthy to take on Mons Joseph, MLA, a Joseph group strongman. With the LDF finally allotting Changanassery to the KC(M), Job Michael stands a good chance to get the party ticket, while the Joseph group is considering a handful of names as a replacement to the veteran leader C.F. Thomas who passed away recently. Although KC(M) chairman Jose K. Mani will not be facing off the Joseph group directly in Pala, his rival Mani C. Kappan enjoys immense backing from Mr. Joseph. Say on positions While both groups could garner a fair number of seats regardless of the intense wrangling, the election outcome will have a considerable impact on their positions within the respective coalitions. “With the KC(M) winning the majority of the seats it contested in Kottayam and the Joseph faction faring much better over the the KC(M) in Idukki, both the parties have amply demonstrated their worth at the local body level. The Assembly elections, however, present them with a different opportunity to reinforce the axiom of growth by mutation,” said a KC(M) leader in Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slugfest-in-central-travancore/article34032775.ece
10 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||6,881 campaign items removed during anti-defacement drive||Ant-defacement squads under the district election authority have removed 6,881 poll campaign materials erected unauthorisedly in public and private spaces. According to administration officials, a squad comprising four officials, including a police officer, is operating in each of the nine Assembly segments in Kottayam. Asha C. Abraham, Additional District Magistrate, coordinates the operation of these squads at the district level. Meanwhile, the Election Commission has appointed general election and election cost observers to the district besides a police observer. Bhandari Yadav (Kottayam), Amitabh Avasthi (Kaduthuruthy), Amjad Tak (Puthuppally and Changanassery), Pradeep Kumar Chakravarthy (Pala, Kanjirappally and Poonjar), and Krishna Mohan Uppu (Vaikom and Ettumanur), are the general observers. Cost observers The election cost observers for the district have been identified as Ashik Kumar Ettumanur, Kottayam, Puthuppally), Sheikh Amin Khan Yasin Khan (Pala, Kaduthuruthy and Vaikom), and Sumanth Sreenivas A.S. (Changanassery, Kanjirappally and Poonjar). Police observer Himashu Kumar Lal is the lone police observer for the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6881-campaign-items-removed-during-anti-defacement-drive/article34032821.ece
10 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three, including minor, arrested in murder case||The Erattupetta police on Tuesday arrested three persons including a boy in connection with the murder of a Kalathookadavu native here three days ago. The arrested persons were identified as 49-year-old Jose, his minor son, and 29-year-old Lijo Joseph. The incident pertained to the murder of Rajan, elder brother of Jose, who was found dead at his residence on March 7 evening. The accused had picked up an argument with the victim, who lived in their neighbourhood, after a drinking session. In the clash that ensued, the trio unleashed a violent assault on him that led to his death. The accused were produced before court while the juvenile accused was shifted to a correction home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-including-minor-arrested-in-murder-case/article34032822.ece
10 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No unwavering loyalty here||The mention of Kozhikode South conjures up images of the iconic S.M. Street, the Kallai river and its timber village, the centuries-old Kuttichira Mishkal Mosque, the Tali Shiva Temple and the Zamorin era. However, the constituency, the erstwhile Kozhikode II before the delimitation of the Assembly segments, has remained unchanged with the Valiyangadi (Big Bazaar), the wholesale market, and the Halwa bazaar, time-honoured structures and historical destinations on Gunny Street, Silk Street and Gujarati Street. Except for the change in the name, the delimitation has not altered either the geographic or the demographic structure. The Muslim-majority segment, with the community forming over 60% of the population, comprises 25 divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation. The constituency elected Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in the last two Assembly polls held in 2011 and 2016. Previously, the Congress party, the CPI(M) and the Indian National League (INL), a breakaway faction of the IUML, have won from here. The electoral battle has been fierce whenever the CPI(M) has fielded a formidable candidate to take on the so-called juggernaut of the IUML, especially in the Assembly polls. Such a contest was witnessed when IUML leader M.K. Muneer won by a whisker when he was pitted against C.P. Musafir Ahamed, son of former CPI(M) legislator C.P. Kunhu, in 2011. Mr. Ahamed is, at present, the Deputy Mayor of Kozhikode. However, in the Lok Sabha polls, as was seen in most Assembly segments in Kozhikode district, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has had an upper hand. Congress nominee M.K. Raghavan won by a margin of 4,781 votes in 2009, 5,216 votes in 2014, and 13,731 votes in 2019. The recent civic body polls has boosted the confidence of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) camp after it breached some of the IUML bastions. The Left parties won 15 out of the 25 divisions while the UDF won eight. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the remaining two divisions. Both the coalitions are yet to announce the names of their candidates from Kozhikode South. The IUML is likely to renominate Mr. Muneer while the LDF has offered the seat to INL. Among the names being considered is the party national secretary Ahammed Devarkovil. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance has not announced its nominee yet. Previously, the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena, a constituent of the NDA, had contested from here. But now, the BJP plans to field its district president V.K. Sajeevan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-unwavering-loyalty-here/article34032749.ece
10 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fighting their way out of a mess||The International Women’s Day on Monday was special for N. Pankajam and her friends. It was on the day that ‘Vanitha Mess’, their only means of livelihood, was restored after a month-long struggle. Standing in front of the outlet at Vatholithazham in Kozhikode Corporation, Pankajam, Rasi Roy and Manjula felt proud to have withstood the vile allegations of a section of locals, who allegedly tried to put an end to their year-old small business. “It all started when we tried to rebuild the small shed where the mess functioned as it was deteriorating under the attack of termites. We planned to cut two trees that had their trunks inside the shed and build a proper leak-proof structure. But some one filed a complaint with the health officials, stating that our shed was unauthorised,” said Ms. Pankajam. The business did not have a trade licence as licences are not issued to businesses in makeshift buildings. But, the trio had procured a food safety licence and was serving meals three times a day at affordable rates since January 2020. They also paid daily rent to the landowner. “The charges levelled against us were that we were selling liquor and drugs here and that we were into prostitution,” said Ms. Pankajam. AMTU support A section of local people stopped the renovation works of the shed earlier in January. The women had no one else to turn to and approached the Asanghatitha Meghala Thozhilali Union (AMTU). “The health authorities had no issues with them running the business. Neither did the local people or the police. It was a politically motivated attack, which would have driven these women to suicide as they had huge debts,” said P. Viji, State secretary of AMTU, who mediated the dispute. “Nobody had any problems when a community kitchen was run from this mess during the lockdown,” she added. Ms. Pankajam said she suspected that her campaigning for a candidate in the local body polls might have triggered the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-their-way-out-of-a-mess/article34032752.ece
10 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Will Rahul magic work this time?||The Congress is all set to fall back on party former chief Rahul Gandhi’s charisma for its return to power in Kerala. But, will the ‘Rahul magic’ work again as it did in the last Lok Sabha polls? Some developments after the United Democratic Front’s 2019 victory may put a dampener on the party’s hopes. The party’s strategy for the Assembly polls was evident from Mr. Gandhi’s speech at the conclusion of the UDF’s recent pre-poll rally, where he made rare scathing remarks against the Left. There are many who are doubtful about its success as the perception about Mr. Gandhi has undergone significant changes after 2019. His interventions in national politics are now seen as sporadic public appearances and mostly limited to social media comments. Discontent The UDF’s victory in the LS polls is mainly attributed to Mr. Gandhi’s national image as a ‘secular liberal’ fighting a ‘right-wing Hindutva brigade’ led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Voters from minority communities and people without political leanings thought the Congress-led front stood a better chance to be an alternative to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the national level. This, along with the revulsion at political murders in north Kerala in which CPI(M) activists were the accused and the resentment against the Left Democratic Front government’s handling of the Sabarimala issue, sealed the UDF victory. The Congress leader got elected from Wayanad too. However, Mr. Gandhi’s as well as his party’s response to issues such as the Ayodhya Ram temple construction, agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), and farmers’ stir has not inspired confidence in people who supported him earlier. Muslim organisations such as the influential Sunni clerics forum Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema, which supports UDF ally Indian Union Muslim League, were seen sharing the stage with the Left in protests against the CAA. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra’s statement that the ‘bhumi pujan’ for the temple was a “marker of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony” did not go down well with Muslim outfits. The Samastha even came out with a statement against the Congress. Secular stand The party is being accused of sacrificing its secular credentials and pursuing a soft Hindutva line up north. With the NDA wooing a section of the Christian community, another vote bank of the Congress, there have been apprehensions about the erosion of the UDF’s support base. The impact of the campaign blitzkrieg the party is planning featuring Mr. Gandhi and Ms. Vadra in the coming days is anyone’s guess.  The Wayanad MP’s interventions in national politics are now seen as sporadic public appearances and mostly limited to social media comments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-rahul-magic-work-this-time/article34032811.ece
10 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Localised rebellions a wake up call for CPI(M)||The unprecedented challenge being faced by the State leadership of the CPI(M) following protests by party cadres and supporters against selection of candidates in different Assembly constituencies appears to have taken the shine off the party’s victory in the recent three-tier local body polls. With protests continuing unabated from far north in Manjeswaram to Kuttiyadi, from Ponnani to Tarur, from Kalamassery to Ambalappuzha, the party leadership apparently stands jolted out of its ideological comfort zone. The localised rebellion has compelled area and district secretaries to come up with unconvincing explanation on parachuting candidates or outsiders in Assembly segments. Protests for VS Unlike the protest when veteran leader and former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan was denied the party ticket ahead of the 2006 and 2011 elections, the agitations now indicate that the State leadership is out of sync with the ground reality, a senior party functionary said. The party’s two-term norm on candidature too is contributing to the unrest, the functionary said. The street protests and posters favouring and disapproving contestants also reveal that the centralised democracy practised by the party in principle all these years has given way to “parliamentary ambition”, a phraseology often used in party circles to refer to a tendency to be discouraged. Besides, the rigid organisational structure, which the leadership has fiercely barricaded all these years, is rapidly resembling the Congress in the run-up to elections. Party sources said that the sporadic incidents against the decision of the State secretariat on the nominees also exposed the disconnect between the top leadership and the grass-roots. No discussions No democratic discussions had been carried out among the different rungs of the party so as to gauge the mood and mind of the cadre. The call for a rectification campaign against the wrong trends adopted at the Party Congress remained unfulfilled within the party framework. Also, a party functionary said the rebellion, which possibly stemmed from leadership-cadre disconnect, would further aggravate the party fault-line if a course correction is not done immediately. Temporarily the party can, however, heave a sigh of relief that no State-level factionalism is involved in the ongoing protests. Certainly, beyond electoral calculations, a bigger challenge to the party leadership is to strengthen cohesion in all levels of the party organisational structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/localised-rebellions-a-wake-up-call-for-cpim/article34032771.ece
10 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||267 new cases, 446 recoveries in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district reported more COVID-19 recoveries than new infections on Tuesday when 267 people newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 446 people were discharged from first-line treatment centres and hospitals. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 259 locally acquired infections and the source of infection of four others is not known. As many as 6,460 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 4.13%. The active case load now is 4,180.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/267-new-cases-446-recoveries-in-kozhikode/article34032750.ece
10 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) puts down ‘mutiny’ in Ponnani||The CPI(M) has dealt with the “mutiny” in the party over the candidate in the Ponnani Assembly constituency with an iron hand. The party leadership has stuck to its decision to field State committee member and CITU national secretary P. Nandakumar in Ponnani. The party was of the view that succumbing to the demands by certain groups would not only jeopardize the party’s integrity, but also enfeeble its cadre character. A section within the party in Ponnani had raised a revolt against Mr. Nandakumar’s candidature by taking out a demonstration through Ponnani town on Monday. The protesters were advocating the candidacy of CPI(M) district committee member T.M. Siddique, who has reportedly been harbouring parliamentary hopes for over a decade. Although Mr. Siddique officially distanced himself from the “revolt”, most of those who took part in the Monday evening demonstration were from Veliyamkode and Palappetty areas. Party sources said Mr. Siddique, who hailed from Veliyankode, had played a tacit role in instigating a large group of CPI(M) sympathisers. Talks held The CPI(M) leadership, seriously viewing the protest over the State committee’s candidate choice, held several rounds of meeting at Ponnani on Tuesday. Veteran leader Paloli Mohammedkutty, Ponnani’s incumbent MLA and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and State committee member P. Nandakumar were among those who attended the meetings held at constituency and panchayat levels. CPI(M) district secretary E.N. Mohandas continued parleys with party leaders from different panchayats in Ponnani constituency late into Tuesday evening. The leadership addressed the resignations of a few local leaders of the party over Mr. Nandakumar’s candidature. The party leadership has told its cadres that Ponnani remained a sure bet for the CPI(M) with the good work carried out by Mr. Sreeramakrishnan in the development front over the past 10 years, and the party holding sway over all but one local body in Ponnani constituency. The party has been of the view that no revolt by any group could do any major harm to the CPI(M)’s winning chances in Ponnani. Although the CPI(M) has four MLAs from Malappuram district, only Ponnani holds the pride of sending a party member to the Assembly on the party symbol. The other MLAs such as V. Abdurahiman (Tanur), K.T. Jaleel (Thavanur) and P.V. Anvar (Nilambur) were all elected on independent banners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-puts-down-mutiny-in-ponnani-with-an-iron-hand/article34032756.ece
10 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tamil Nadu introduces e-pass for travellers||The Tamil Nadu government has made it mandatory for all passengers from Kerala to register for auto e-Pass in view of the increasing cases of COVID-19. Apply online Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani said that travellers should apply online for Tamil Nadu government’s e-pass atwww.eregister.tnega. org. He said those coming without registering for e-pass would not be given entry to Coimbatore. Apart from Kerala, the e-pass has been made mandatory for visitors from all other States except Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puduchery. It is mandatory for those coming from abroad too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tamil-nadu-introduces-e-pass-for-travellers/article34032759.ece
10 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||25 model polling stations in Pathanamthitta||As many as 25 polling stations in Pathanamthitta have been designated as model polling station for the upcoming Assembly elections. As many as five model stations will come up in each of the five Assembly segments here. Besides the model stations, one polling station in each of these constituencies will be designated as women-friendly station. Squads and officials have been deployed to monitor the revenue and expenditure figures of the candidates. Shibu Abraham, Joint Commissioner, State Goods and Services Tax, has been appointed as nodal officer for revenue and expenditure. The nodal officer will be assisted by assistant expenditure officers, accounting team, static surveillance team, video surveillance team, and video-viewing team. The anti-defacement squads here have so far removed unauthorised 10,225 promotion materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/25-model-polling-stations-in-pathanamthitta/article34032823.ece
10 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A complex battlefield for fronts||If numbers were all that mattered, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) should not have much to worry about in Varkala this Assembly election. But the scenic constituency famed for its tourist draws and the Sivagiri Madhom has always been a complex battlefield during elections. A quick glance through the statistics reveals that the Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] have won the most number of elections in Varkala since 1957. Sitting MLA In the 2016 Assembly elections, V. Joy of the CPI(M) won Varkala for the LDF by defeating Varkala Kahar of the Congress by a margin of 2,386 votes. The LDF and the CPI(M) are hoping for a repeat performance in 2021. But this is also a constituency which, between 2001 and 2011, gifted three victories in a row to Varkala Kahar of the Congress, a feat which gives confidence to the United Democratic Front (UDF) as it prepares for the April 6 polls. That said, CPI’s T.A. Majeed and Varkala Radhakrishnan of the CPI(M) hold the record for having represented Varkala the most number of times. Mr. Majeed won in 1957, 1967, 1970 and 1977, and Mr. Radhakrishnan in 1980, 1982, 1987 and 1991. BJP factor The emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as a keen player over the past five years adds a new element in the pollscape. It could transform the battle into a three-cornered affair, as was amply evident in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the local body elections in December 2020. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Aji S.R.M of BJP-ally Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) had cornered 19,872 votes — 15.5% of the total votes polled. Three years later, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, BJP leader Sobha Surendran who contested from the Attingal Lok Sabha constituency polled 34,343 votes in the Varkala Assembly segment. In the local body elections to the Varkala municipality in December last year, the BJP improved its tally from just three seats in 2015 to 11, finishing behind the LDF and pushing the UDF to third spot. Regional, State issues In 2021, all the three fronts are expected to take up regional development alongside State-level issues to garner votes in Varkala. The revival of the tourism sector, which took a hit during the COVID-19 pandemic, also will come under the spotlight. As per the final voters’ list published on January 20, Varkala has a little over 1.83 lakh electors, with 85,078 men and 98,778 women. (The numbers are liable to change as the supplementary list is under preparation). Tough battles A two-member constituency (general and reserved) in the 1957 and 1960 elections, Varkala has witnessed some tough battles ever since T.A. Majeed and K. Sivadasan of the CPI won the 1957 elections to the State Assembly. It was in Varkala that Varkala Radhakrishnan defeated G. Karthikeyan of the Congress by 7,261 votes in 1980. Mr. Radhakrishnan continued his winning streak from the constituency in 1982, 1987 and 1991. Varkala Kahar won the 2001 elections by defeating CPI(M)’s P.K. Gurudasan by 1,988 votes. Mr. Kahar won in 2006 and 2011 as well. V. Joy reclaimed the constituency for the LDF in 2016.  CPI’s T.A. Majeed and CPI(M)’s Varkala Radhakrishnan represented Varkala the most number of times. The former won in 1957, 1967, 1970 and 1977, and the latter in 1980, 1982, 1987 and 1991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-complex-battlefield-for-fronts/article34033027.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) hopes to end discord with candidate list||The CPI(M) is likely to announce its list of candidates for the Assembly elections on Wednesday. The party hoped to draw to a close the internal bickering prompted by speculative reports on candidate selection with the declaration. The final list would also ostensibly prime the party for a robust election campaign. The scale of the seemingly spontaneous protests by CPI(M) workers at Ponnani in Malappuram against the probable candidature of P. Nandakumar appeared to have startled the party. The activists wanted the CPI(M) to name T. Siddique in Mr. Nandakumar’s stead.  CPI(M) cadres marched with an ominous banner: “The party would correct the leaders. The people would correct the party.” The optics of the ‘mutinous’ party workers, many of them Muslim women, did not augur well for the CPI(M)’s image of unity. On Wednesday, the CPI(M) despatched party veteran Paloli Muhammad Kutty to conciliate the ‘mutinous’ workers. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and Mr. Siddique reportedly accompanied him. Mr. Siddique publicly disavowed the procession taken out in his name. By one account, the CPI(M) send a clear message to the “rebellious branch committees” in Ponanni that it would not tolerate public displays of disaffection with the leadership. Moreover, the party line on candidate selection, including the exclusion of members who have contested twice, would hold. The protests in Ponnani triggered scores of anti-CPI(M) memes on social media. The images insinuated that Islamist elements had infiltrated the CPI(M) in Malappuram, and the party’s district leadership was compromised. A CPI(M) insider attributed the campaign to Sangh Parivar troll farms. Poster campaigns The CPI(M) had faced poster campaigns against the supplanting of popular leaders by relatively new faces in Alappuzha, Kozhikode, Kannur and Ernakulam districts. Its veteran in Kannur P. Jayarajan had distanced himself from an online campaign for his candidature. CPI(M) State secretariat member M.V. Govindan said disagreements were usual in the party. Still, it should occur within the CPI(M)’s constitutional bounds. A party insider said the CPI(M) Polit Bureau was vetting the party’s State secretariat's list. Major alterations were unlikely. The CPI(M) hoped to contest in at least 87 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-hopes-to-end-discord-with-candidate-list/article34032779.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ensure all facilities in polling booths: Collector||As arrangements for the Assembly elections continue in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa has directed returning officers to ensure all facilities in polling booths and for distribution of postal ballots in each Assembly constituency. The Collector convened a meeting of returning officers of all 14 constituencies in the district in this regard. There are 4,164 polling booths, including auxiliary booths, in the district for the upcoming polls. The Nirmithi Kendra has been directed to make arrangements for ramps in booths for the differently abled. The Kerala State Electricity Board and the electrical wing of the Public Works Department have been directed to ensure power supply. The Kerala Water Authority is preparing a special project for distribution of water. Facilities such as toilets will be arranged in the auxiliary booths with the help of the district unit of the Suchitwa Mission. The returning officers should ensure whether such activities were being carried out in the respective Assembly segments, Ms. Khosa said. Arrangements for receiving applications for postal votes from people above the age of 80, the differently abled, those who are COVID-positive or in quarantine, and employees providing essential services and giving them ballot papers should be completed in a time-bound manner. The Collector also directed that the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme for creating voter awareness be held at maximum centres in each Assembly segment. SVEEP inauguration Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena will perform the district-level inauguration of SVEEP programme at Mall of Travancore here at 5 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-all-facilities-in-polling-booths-collector/article34033016.ece
10 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||238 recoveries, 160 cases in capital||The active COVID-19 caseload in the district continued to fall and it stood at 2,086 on Tuesday. As many as 238 persons recovered from the illness, even as 160 persons were freshly diagnosed with the infection. The pandemic has claimed 849 lives thus far in the district. The death of a 57-year-old man on March 3 is the latest to be on the official list of deaths. The district administration placed 1,129 persons under quarantine, while 1,303 others were permitted to conclude quarantine. There are currently 16,505 people under quarantine in houses while 42 are under self-isolation in various institutions in the district. A total of 12,381 people were administered the COVID-19 vaccine in the district on the day. These included 7,247 people aged above 60 years and 351 aged between 45 and 60 with co-morbidities. Besides, 793 health-care workers received the first dose, while 2,586 others got the second shot on the day. Another 1,404 front-line workers were also inoculated. At 92 centres The district administration has adopted steps to administer vaccine at 92 centres, including 65 State-run health centres and 27 private hospitals. According to District Collector Navjot Khosa, 7,34,500 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine reached the regional vaccine store on Tuesday. Vaccination would be facilitated through spot registration in three sessions from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Jimmy George indoor stadium. Polling officials were being inoculated at two training centres of the Institute of Land and Disaster Management (ILDM).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/238-recoveries-160-cases-in-capital/article34033022.ece
10 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Six crew of Lankan boat remanded in custody||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have arrested six crew members of one of the Sri Lankan boats that have been detained at Vizhinjam. They have been remanded in judicial custody. The Indian Coast Guard had intercepted three boats and brought them to the Vizhinjam wharf on March 7. The boats were suspected of carrying unauthorised telecommunication equipment and narcotics. Following investigation by multiple enforcement agencies, the crew members of two boats — Chathu Rani 03 and Chathu Rani 08 — were found innocent and were let off. The boats were permitted to return to Sri Lanka with a Coast Guard ship as escort. Six members of the third boat, Akarsha Duwa, were, however, booked by the NCB and sent in judicial custody after being produced at a Neyyattinkara court, Defence sources said. Its crew members had reportedly admitted to have received 200 kg of heroine and 60 kg of hashish from a Pakistani boat. They claimed to have thrown them into the sea on noticing the Coast Guard ship closing in on them. The seized boat had been currently detained at Vizhinjam, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-crew-of-lankan-boat-remanded-in-custody/article34033024.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Winners of science day events given prizes||Winners of essay writing, watercolour, and video-making competitions organised by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology, and Environment (KSCSTE) for students as part of the National Science Day celebrations were presented with prizes on Tuesday. The competitions were organised in association with the National Green Corps, Thiruvananthapuram. In the essay-writing contest, Tejasvi R.V., Kasinath Gireesh and Diya Nassar bagged the first position in the upper primary, high school, and higher secondary sections, respectively. In the watercolour, Aleena A.P., Anwin Xavier and Alan Xavier were the toppers in the three categories. In the video-making competition, Sreebala Pillai topped the upper primary section and Adrika Narayanan and Pooja R. Nair shared the first spot in the high school segment. C. Anil Kumar, senior principal scientist, KSCSTE, gave away certificates, mementos, and books to the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/winners-of-science-day-events-given-prizes/article34033031.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,316 fresh cases reported as active case pool goes down to 37,150||New COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala were 2,316 on Tuesday when 65,906 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate which dropped below 4% for the first time on Monday continued to dip and was at 3.51% on Tuesday. The State’s cumulative case burden of COVID-19 cases, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 10,81,055. On Tuesday, the State’s active case pool which has been dropping rapidly went down further to 37,150 cases. On Tuesday also, a significantly high number of recoveries than new cases were reported, with 4,386 persons recovering from their disease. The cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began have risen to 10,39,281. The addition of 16 new deaths in the past few days to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities on Monday took the State’s cumulative toll till date to 4,328 deaths. The number of critically ill patientswho are currently being treated in ICUs dropped to 541 as of Tuesday, according to official reports. Among districts, Kottayam reported the maximum number of new cases at 279, followed by Kozhikode 267, Thrissur 244, Ernakulam 231, Kollam 213, Pathanamthitta 198, Kannur 178, Thiruvananthapuram 160, Malappuram 142, Alappuzha 98, Idukki 92, Palakkad 77, Kasaragod 73, and Wayanad 64. Travel advisory Keralites travelling to Tamil Nadu are not required to provide an RT-PCR negative certificate at the borders, a release issued by the Chief Minister’s Office has said. Principal Secretary, Transport, K.R. Jyothilal, had contacted his counterpart in Tamil Nadu following reports that the neighbouring State’s official insisted that passengers furnish an RT-PCR negative certificate issued in the past 72 hours. The Tamil Nadu government then clarified no such prerequisite existed for travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2316-fresh-cases-reported-as-active-case-pool-goes-down-to-37150/article34032785.ece
10 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forum alleges illegal postings in digital varsity||The Save University Campaign Committee has alleged irregularities in appointment of teaching faculty and non-teaching administrative staff in the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology (Digital University Kerala). In a complaint submitted to the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) Director, R.S. Sasikumar and M. Shajirkhan, chairman and secretary respectively of the organisation, said appointments to the fledgling university were made in contravention to the regulations framed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) in 2018. By upgrading IIITM-K The university had been set up by upgrading the Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management – Kerala (IIITM-K). The petitioners claimed that the appointments to the posts of Professors, Deans, Registrar and Controller of Examinations were made in an arbitrary manner without issuing notifications and against the norms prescribed by the UGC. According to them, the Act that governed the Digital University Kerala contained the “strange clause” that designated a company (IIITM-K) as its sponsoring agency. “While this is unheard of in the academic field, the Act does not indicate that the staff of the company can be absorbed into the university,” the complaint stated. Alleging that the company’s employees were designated as Professors, Assistant Professors and so on in violation of the UGC regulations, they said that the appointments to the university could only be done through advertisements of vacancies and interviews. They also alleged that ‘backdoor appointees’ in the company had now been formalised as the academic staff of the university. Those appointed as faculty were not suitably qualified for their positions. They urged the VACB to conduct a preliminary inquiry and adopt steps to cancel the illegal appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-alleges-illegal-postings-in-digital-varsity/article34033032.ece
10 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Excise to intensify vigil in border areas||The Excise Department has intensified surveillance in the border areas of the district to prevent illegal flow of liquor, drugs and cash in the run-up to the upcoming Assembly elections. Joint patrolling will be held with the Tamil Nadu Excise Department and the police at the border points. Patrolling will also be stepped up at certain areas to check the smuggling of spirit. Check-post surveillance will be ramped up with the additional deployment of security forces. Meeting held A special meeting of excise officials from both the States was held at the Excise Commissionerate to chalk out a strategy for joint surveillance. Excise Commissioner S. Ananthakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Excise Joint Commissioner N. Kalidas, Additional Excise Commissioners, police Special Branch officers and others took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-to-intensify-vigil-in-border-areas/article34033020.ece
10 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 410.08 crore for GST compensation shortfall||Kerala has received Rs. 410.08 crore from the 19th weekly instalment of Rs. 2,104 crore released on Tuesday by the Union Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, to the States to meet the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. With the release of the amount, the GST compensation shortfall provided by the Centre to Kerala has touched Rs. 4,923.48 crore. On March 1, the State had received Rs. 210 crore from the Rs. 4,000 crore released by the Centre as the 18th weekly instalment to the States and Union Territories to meet the GST compensation shortfall. Kerala had got Rs. 575 crore from the Rs. 5,000 crore in the 17th instalment and another Rs. 252 crore from the 16th instalment of Rs. 5,000 crore released by the Centre. Of the amount released on Tuesday, Rs. 2,103.95 crore has been released to seven States and Rs. 0.05 crore to the Union Territory of Puducherry. The amount released has been borrowed at an interest rate of 5.85%. One more instalment So far, Rs. 1,06,104 crore has been borrowed by the Central government through the special borrowing window at an weighted average interest rate of 4.88%. The State has to get another instalment for the GST compensation shortfall. Kerala has been given the permission of additional borrowing of Rs. 4,522 crore and has so far raised Rs. 4,923.48 crore through the special window till March 8, 2021. 96% released Till now, 96% of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released to the States and Union Territories with Assembly. The government had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of implementation of GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-41008-crore-for-gst-compensation-shortfall/article34032778.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4 from JD(S) in the fray||H.D. Deva Gowda, president of the Janata Dal (Secular), has announced that the party would contest in four seats for the upcoming Assembly elections in Kerala. Former Minister Mathew. T. Thomas will contest from Thiruvalla. Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty will contest from Chittur. The party will field former Minister Jose Thettayil from Angamaly. A. Neelalohithadasan Nadar will be in the fray from Kovalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-from-jds-in-the-fray/article34032780.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Meena to open voters’ education event||Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena will perform the district-level inauguration of the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation programme here at 5 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meena-to-open-voters-education-event/article34032824.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Handbook on green protocol for polls||Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena on Tuesday released a handbook on the green protocol for the elections. The book prepared by the Haritha Kerala Mission and Suchitwa Mission answers questions about observing the green protocol. Mr.Meena said the handbook was expected to help the total transition to a green election in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/handbook-on-green-protocol-for-polls/article34032781.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Free registration camp||The Professional and Executive Employment Office is organising a free registration camp for SC/ST candidates appearing for PSC exams. The camp will be held on March 25. For details, dial 9633765690 or 0471-2330756.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-registration-camp/article34032782.ece
10 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Shifting loyalties leave parties confused||Shifting political loyalties have always made Thrissur an unpredictable district. It had taken many U-turns in the past, to jolt both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF). With the major fronts, including the National Democratic Alliance, yet to announce their full list of candidates, the battle lines are yet to be clear in the land of Sakthan. If the history of the past three Assembly elections is any indication, the LDF has a upper hand in the district. The electorate stood with the front in 2006, 2011, and 2016. But while the LDF secured a sweeping victory in 2016, by winning 12 out of the 13 Assembly constituencies in the district, the UDF walked away with all three Lok Sabha seats (Thrissur, Alathur and Chalakudy) that have Assembly segments of the district in the 2019 elections. Again in 2020, Thrissur swayed Left when the red wave swept the State in the last local body elections. When the LDF won a clear majority in the three-tier panchayat institutions, it secured the upper hand in municipalities too. After much drama, it retained the Corporation also. Not a cakewalk The NDA, which won the Avinissery panchayat in 2015, lost power this time though it emerged the largest party in the panchayat. But political observers point out that it will not be a cakewalk for the LDF and the ruling front will have to work harder this time. Though UDF could not take advantage of the LIFE Mission controversy in the local body elections, it is all set to rake up the issue again in the Assembly elections. A district with a long coastal line, the deep-sea fishing contract row will be another trump card for the UDF. It is expected to have an impact in at least four constituencies – Guruvayur, Kaipamangalam, Nattika, and Kodungalloor. Though the contest has always been mainly between the LDF and the UDF, the NDA has made inroads in some of constituencies, especially Thrissur. The impressive vote share garnered by Suresh Gopi in the last Parliament elections has boosted the confidence of the NDA. Right equation Getting the caste and community equations right has always been a challenge for the parties in Thrissur where there has always been a religious subtext to their political fortunes. Minority votes are crucial in the district where there are 35% Christians and 16% Muslims. The district has two influential Catholic dioceses. While the Thrissur, Irinjalakuda, Ollur, and Chalakudy constituencies have sizeable Christian votes, the coastal belt has generous Muslim votes. The LDF has finalised candidates for at least seven constituencies while the UDF for two. The NDA is yet to finalise its list. Internal rumblings are getting louder as the parties finalise the candidate list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shifting-loyalties-leave-parties-confused/article34032815.ece
10 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Single vaccine for all corona family should be the goal’||Developing a single vaccine effective against the coronavirus family should be the ultimate goal of the scientific community with regard to the pandemic, Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor and Head of the Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory, CMC Vellore, has said. Dr. Kang made the statement while delivering Dr. D M Vasudevan endowment oration on ‘The virus, vaccine and variants’ organised by Jubilee Mission Medical College & Research Institute, (JMMC & RI), Thrissur, recently. Faster mutation The change from SARS-CoV-1  to SARS-CoV-2 took a long span of 18 years. However, the progression is now much faster. The complete sequence of progression from moderate to severe stage of the disease is still unclear. More focus should be given to the treatment regime for which clinical trials, in multiple centres and countries, are essential, Dr. Kang, who has extensive experience in vaccine research, said. “Our organisational preparedness and technical know-how have gone up since the Ebola outbreak in 2014 in West Africa. Vaccinology has advanced to a level where we could bring out an effective vaccine in just 10 months,” she noted. The WHO recommends vaccines with more than 50% efficacy in two doses, ensuring protection for a minimum of six months. Currently, eight different vaccines qualifying the criteria are under various stages of use. The replication and, hence the mutation, of coronavirus is occurring at a fast pace. More severe and fast-spreading varieties are being reported. Only integrated research by biologists and clinicians can provide an answer to this problem, noted Dr. Kang, who was instrumental in the development of Rotavac, the first vaccine to be made from scratch in India.  Dr. Kang noted that Kerala was managing the COVID situation “very well” with increased testing. “The State has effectively implemented testing and contact tracing. Kerala successfully plateaued the curve,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/single-vaccine-for-all-corona-family-should-be-the-goal/article34032976.ece
10 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID-19: 244 cases in Thrissur||A total of 244 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday, while 272 people made recovery. With this, the number of active cases in Thrissur stands at 2,925, while 53 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. According to official data, 238 people contracted the disease via local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 40 people are above the age of 60 and 16 children are below the age of 10. In all, 2,043 people are presently under home care, while 94 were admitted to hospital on the day. A total of 6,105 samples were collected for testing on Tuesday. So far, 1,00,724 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-244-cases-in-thrissur/article34032974.ece
10 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Now, Pooram ball in govt. court||A meeting convened by the District Collector here on Tuesday to take a decision on conducting the Thrissur Pooram by limiting the number of elephants, percussionists and people could not arrive at a definitive conclusion. As the Thiruvambady and Paramekkavu Devaswoms insisted on full-scale celebrations and rituals, the district administration left the final decision to the government. A detailed report, including demands of devaswoms, suggestions of the Health Department and the police, will be submitted to the government, said Collector S. Shanavas. Apart from the Thiruvambady and Paramekkavu Devaswoms, eight other temples took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-pooram-ball-in-govt-court/article34032977.ece
10 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||South Indian Bank wins Finnoviti Award 2021||South Indian Bank (SIB) has won the prestigious Finnoviti Award 2021 for its fund management platform SIB FeeBook. The award was bestowed upon the bank at the ninth edition of Banking Frontiers Finnoviti Awards 2021. SIB FeeBook is an event-based fund management and collection portal, which is fully customisable by merchant customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/south-indian-bank-wins-finnoviti-award-2021/article34032777.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-times/article34033030.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Early bird||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/early-bird/article34032820.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Field day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/field-day/article34032982.ece
10 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 of a family ‘commit suicide’||Three members of a family allegedly committed suicide at Yerraguntla village of Garladinne Mandal in Anantapur district on Tuesday, reportedly owing to family disputes over division of property. The deceased have been identified as Ramakrishna, 43, Rajeshwari, 35, and their son Yogendra, 15. According to the Garladinne police, the three are suspected to have consumed some poisonous liquid late on Monday night. The bodies were sent for post-mortem to the Government General Hospital in Anantapur. The relatives of the deceased said in the police complaint that Ramakrishna was the eldest among three siblings and had been asking his father to divide their combined property, but that did not happen for a long time. Reportedly aggrieved at the delay, the family allegedly resorted to the extreme step. The relatives said the family did not face any financial problems. There is always someone to talk to at 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-of-a-family-commit-suicide/article34032939.ece
10 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police keep a close watch on sensitive areas||Anantapur district police have drawn up an elaborate plan to ensure there were no incidents during the municipal elections to 11 Urban Local Bodies in the district. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu and Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraraghava Reddy on Tuesday briefed the police personnel and the Mahila Police of the Village Secretariats on what to watch out for and how to keep a tab on miscreants. Out of 864 polling stations, 62 are hypersensitive, 103 sensitive and 172 normal. Deputy Superintendent of Police V.N.K. Chaitanya said that no person would be allowed to come into Tadipatri on the day of voting on Wednesday without possessing a valid voter-ID Card with his/her vote in one of the wards of the municipality. Tight contest In view of the neck-to-neck competition between the YSRCP and TDP candidates in 34 wards of the 36-ward municipality, the district police have deployed one sub-inspector for each ward on the day of polling, nine Circle Inspectors, and established seven checkpoints all around the town. In all 1,600 personnel will be manning the town on the polling day. The police had filed cases against Anantapur Telugu Desam Party Parliamentary party in-charge J.C. Pavan Reddy on Monday for allegedly canvassing in municipal elections in Tadipatri town without taking permission either for a large gathering or for use of vehicles. Meanwhile, former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy, who is contesting from ward no. 24 as a ward member, had a tiff with the police personnel when he allegedly tried to canvass with too many people along with him against the rules. The former MLA alleged that while the police allowed vehicles and the public addressing system for the YSRCP candidates, it did not allow the TDP candidates to use even their vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-keep-a-close-watch-on-sensitive-areas/article34032942.ece
10 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Illegal transport of Kadapa slabs checked||The Department of Mines and Geology has detected illegal transport of limestone slabs (black) in two lorries from Tadipatri to Karnataka and was intercepted at the Bagepalli inter-State border. Assistant Geologist G. Krishnamurthy in a release said they had brought the stocks without paying royalty from Yerraguntla. The lorries were allowed to go on Tuesday with the consignment after paying a penalty of Rs. 59,320. The two lorries were handed over to the Chilamathur police for safe custody on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/illegal-transport-of-kadapa-slabs-checked/article34032940.ece
10 March 2021||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 8.5 cr. State govt. grant for Antarvedi temple renovation||The State government has granted Rs. 8.5 crore for the renovation of the main structure of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi village in East Godavari district. The sand stone structure bearing various sculptures has mostly been damaged due to saline climatic conditions over the years. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was briefed by the endowment authorities and B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on the need for the renovation of the temple and timely assistance from the State government, during the inauguration of the new wooden chariot on February 20. On March 8, Principal Secretary (Endowments) G. Vani Mohan issued an order (G.O. Rt.No.126), giving the administrative sanction for the release of Rs. 8.5 crore for the temple development works. Erosion by sea winds “At present, the structure of the main temple, which was made of sandstone more than a century back, was badly damaged in some parts due to erosion caused because of sea winds,” said Ms. Vani Mohan in the order. The Endowments authorities have been directed to prepare a Detailed Project Report for the reconstruction of the temple with hard granite stone by spending Rs. 5 crore and development of pond (koneru) in an extent of four acres at a cost of Rs. 3.50 crore adjacent to the temple. The Endowment Department should reimburse the Rs. 8.5 crore grant in future. The Endowments authorities have sought Rs. 13 crore for the renovation of the temple. Development plan In January, a team of Endowments officials led by Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna conducted a field study and chalked out a plan for the development of the temple situated near the confluence point of the Godavari in Bay of Bengal in Sakhinetipalli mandal. The temple has the potential to become one of the tourist attractions, given the picturesque view points and mangrove cover surrounding it. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna told The Hindu that the temple had a corpus fund of more than Rs. 1 crore to run the Nitya Annadanam (free meal) for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-clears-rs-85-cr-grant-for-antarvedi-temple-renovation/article34032963.ece
10 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allocation of captive mines can bring VSP out of the red: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has suggested several measures to revive the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the steel sector was witnessing a V-shaped recovery. The VSP has achieved the highest ever capacity utilisation of 6.3 MTPA against the installed capacity of 7.3 MTPA since December last year, making a monthly profit of close to Rs. 200 crore. Such performance for two years will help augment the financial situation of the PSU immensely, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy pointed out. Stating that the VSP is purchasing iron ore from the Bailadila mines of the NMDC at market price and this has put it at a cost disadvantage of around Rs. 5,260 per MT of steel at ore level, he said that many of its competitors had captive mines which was helping them meet more than 60% the requirement . Pointing out that even the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) had its captive mines with reserves of iron ore sufficient for 200 years, the Chief Minister said this excess cost of iron ore had cost implications of more than Rs. 3,472 crores for the VSP. “It is essential to create a level playing field for all the players. Allotment of captive mines to the VSP will help tide over this cost disadvantage. Allotting captive mine in Odisha will go a long way in reviving the plant,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested that short and long-term loans could be converted into equity, taking off the repayment pressures and the interest burden. The high cost debt which was Rs. 22,000 crore was being serviced at interest rates as high as 14%. “Conversion of these loans into equity by banks to address the interest burden and listing the VSP on the stock exchange, giving the banks an exit option through the stock exchange route can also be explored. These measures can ease the burden of debt servicing and improve the financial sustainability,” the Chief Minister said. Monetising land The steel plant has nearly 7,000 acres of un-utilised lands. The Centre can monetise these land by plotting and sale by the VSP. The amounts realised can make the company cash rich . The State government will accord all the necessary permissions for land use conversion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allocation-of-captive-mines-can-bring-vsp-out-of-red-jagan/article34032950.ece
10 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Turn up in strength, Collector urges voters||Arrangements are in place for the smooth conduct of elections to Guntur Municipal Corporation. Collector Vivek Yadav urged voters to turn up in large numbers and exercise their right to vote, as the GMC is witnessing elections after a gap of 16 years. Polling would be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Along with GMC, five municipalities of Tenali, Repalle, Chilakaluripet, Vinukonda and Sattenapalli are also going to polls. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha said that 521 polling stations have been arranged in 56 wards. Arrangements were made to form queue lines, barricades and other facilities. Around 3,200 polling personnel have been drafted for poll duty and special counters have been set up at distribution centres. Fifteen zonal officers and 44 route officers were appointed. Ms. Anuradha inspected the reception counter and distribution of polling material at Polytechnic College, Nallapadu. She called upon the voters to turn up in large numbers and exercise their voting right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/turn-up-in-strength-collector-urges-voters/article34032342.ece
10 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Australian delegation explores investment avenues in State||An Australian delegation met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office here on Tuesday and discussed several issues pertaining to development of infrastructure and funding to the State. The team comprising H.E. Barry O’Farrell AO, High Commissioner of Australia to India; Sarah Kirlew, Consul General of Australia to South India; Jay Sangani, First Secretary (Political) and Svetha Venkatram, Government Relations Manager took part in the discussion. Among the major issues discussed during the meeting were opportunities for building assets through infrastructure projects such as ports, industrial parks, desalination plants that could be monetised over a long term, asset recycling where government assets could be monetised, ensruing a win-win partnership between Australia and Andhra Pradesh. The delegation proposed collaboration in education and skill development. The members suggested that Australian universities could tie up with the universities in the State for joint research programmes. In a discussion relating to critical minerals (Li/Coal/LNG), the delegation suggested that engagement could be done to diversify the trade baskets of the State and Australia and enhance the trade. The delegation also met Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy and discussed investments opportunities in the State. Ms. Sarah Kirlew said they were interested in forging partnership in electronic vehicle and battery manufacturing sectors. The Minister said that the government’s target was to boost the confidence of entrepreneurs and investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/australian-delegation-explores-investment-avenues-in-state/article34033079.ece
10 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure uninterrupted power supply’||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday reviewed the performance of the Energy Department. Free power supply, subsidy to aquaculture farmers, 200 units of power to SC/ST beneficiaries, and other issues were discussed. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked officials to expedite the construction of thermal units in Krishnapatnam and Vijayawada and said that any delay in completion of the projects would make them untenable. The Chief Minister also directed the officials to ensure that there is no interruption in power supply in the coming three to four months due to summer and also asked officials to ensure that the 15 units running under APGenco run uninterrupted. Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, Ex-officio principal secretary, Energy Department, G. Sai Prasad and secretary, Energy Department, N. Srikanth were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-uninterrupted-power-supply/article34033078.ece
10 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close contest on the cards in East Godavari||The elections to the urban local bodies in East Godavari district are set to go down to the wire as the main opposition parties — the Telugu Desam Party and the Jana Sena Party — have fielded candidates in all eight municipalities and two nagar panchayats. In Peddapuram municipality, which is a TDP bastion, the TDP has fielded candidates in all 29 wards, thus preventing the ruling YSR Congress Party from claiming unanimous victories from even a single seat. In Mandapeta municipality, where 30 wards are going to the polls, Gollaprolu nagar panchayat (20 wards) and Yeleswaram nagar panchayats (20 wards), the TDP and JSP have fielded their candidates in all 70 wards, doing away with the possibility of a unanimous win in any of the wards in the three civic bodies. According to East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, a total of 13% (35 seats) of wards have unanimously elected its candidates among the 268 wards and the remaining 233 wards will go to polls on March 10. All the 35 candidates unanimously elected are supported by the YSRCP. In Tuni municipality, candidates supported by the YSRCP were elected unanimously in 15 out of 30 wards. In Ramachandrapuram municipality, candidates supported by the YSRCP were elected unanimously in 10 out of 28 wards, shows the official report. Ramachandrapuram town is the headquarters of Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment, a bastion of YSRCP and BC Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Venu Gopala Krishna. Speaking to The Hindu , Peddapuram TDP MLA and former Home Minister Nimmakayala Chinarajappa said, “We have managed to field our candidates in all the local bodies. In places like Peddapuram, not even a single ward will be won unanimously.” JSP Kakinada Parliamentary constituency in-charge Pantham Nanaji said that the party has fielded candidates mostly in Konaseema region, Samarlakota (13 wards), Peddapuram (11 wards) and Pithapuram. “The vote share received in the recent gram panchayat elections remains a driving factor for the party to contest from more wards in the urban body elections,” Mr. Nanaji said. Tight security There will be no elections to the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation due to a legal tussle over the proposed merger of the gram panchayats while the council is in force in the Kakinada Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Tuesday said that 1,100 police personnel including DSP-cadre officers would be deployed for the conduct of elections in the 10 civic bodies on Wednesday. “Polling will be conducted for 233 wards in the 10 civic bodies in the 197 locations, in which 52 locations have been declared as ‘hyper sensitive’. Police will use drone cameras and body-worn cameras to keep an eye on poll proceedings in East Godavari district,” said Mr. Nayeem Asmi. Striking force and mobile teams will also monitor the polling exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/close-contest-on-the-cards-in-east-godavari/article34033001.ece
10 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 2,000 tonnes of rice exported to West Africa||The Rice Exporters’ Association (TREA-India, non-Basmati) with the support of the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) has exported more than 2,000 tonnes of rice from the Kakinada deep sea port to West Africa since mid-February. On February 13, APEDA Chairman M. Angamuthu flagged off the export of rice from the Kakinada deep sea port being operated by Kakinada Sea Port Limited (KSPL). The move helped overcome the delay in clearing of vessel traffic at the government-run Kakinada anchorage port. TREA president B.V. Krishna Rao told The Hindu on Tuesday, “Since February 13, more than 2,000 tonnes of rice has been exported from the deep sea port to the West African countries. Export from this port helps avoid waiting time of vessels at the anchorage port.” The rice was carried by three vessels. “By Tuesday (March 9), the number of vessels waiting at the anchorage port came down to 10 from 18, and in the coming months, the number will be further reduced,” claimed Mr. Krishna Rao. The rice produced across the country during kharif-2020-21, will be exported through the deep sea port and the anchorage port till March 31 and later, the rice produced during rabi-2021 will be exported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-2000-tonnes-of-rice-exported-to-west-africa/article34032694.ece
10 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 red sanders logs seized, 4 arrested||The Tirupati-based Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) personnel arrested four persons allegedly smuggling red sanders logs at Thollamadugu village in the Kolimigundla Mandal of the district and seized 12 red sander logs from their possession in the early hours of Tuesday. During a routine check at the entry and exit points of the forest near the village from Monday, the personnel saw four persons, identified as Talari Ramesh, 25, V. Keshavalu, 36, G. Babji, 43, and M. Paul, 25, coming out of a sweet lime farm on the fringes of the forest carrying the red sander logs. The police said the four reportedly revealed that they were hiding the logs in the farm and in the cover of darkness tried to smuggle them to Tamil Nadu. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-red-sanders-logs-seized-4-arrested/article34032961.ece
10 March 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foolproof security for ULB polls in Krishna||The Krishna district police formed 20 shadow teams to check online transactions through various apps, during the municipal and urban local body elections scheduled on Wednesday. “We are keeping a close vigil on the distribution of money through different apps. If any person passes us information, we will act on the complaint immediately. Special focus has been laid on distribution of money and liquor during the municipal elections,” said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Foolproof security arrangements have been made for polling in Machilipatnam, Pedana, Nuzvid, Nandigama and Tiruvuru. As many as 1,500 police personnel, APSP platoons, three Additional Superintendents of Police, 12 Deputy SPs, 25 Circle Inspectors and 70 Sub-Inspectors will be deployed on election bandobust. Besides, Mahila Police, striking forces and mobile parties will be guarding the polling stations. Section 144 will be in force at all the booths, the SP said. In Vijayawada, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said that 3,312 police personnel, including four Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs), Additional DCPs, 18 Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs), 41 CIs, 114 ASIs, 447 Gram/Ward mahila samrakshana karyadarshulu and 400 other supporting staff have been deployed at 788 polling stations for the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) elections. Of the 788 polling stations, 74 were identified as hypersensitive and 61 as sensitive stations. In Vuyyur nagar panchayat, of the 20 polling stations, five were hypersensitive and 12 were sensitive, Mr. Srinivasulu, who visited the sensitive and hypersensitive booths said. “Police bound over 341 rowdy-sheeters, 412 suspect sheeters, 264 troublemongers and 880 persons who have a criminal history during elections (political troublemongers). We recovered 285 weapons and booked 383 cases,” the Police Commissioner explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foolproof-security-for-ulb-polls-in-krishna/article34033082.ece
10 March 2021||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight vigil at borders to check liquor smuggling||Police deployed additional forces at all border checkposts to prevent smuggling of liquor during the municipal polls in the district. The local police, in association with the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), mobile party and special party police, were conducting vehicle checks on the A.P.-Telangana borders at Jangareddygudem, Jelugumilli and Eluru, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said. “Police booked 322 cases and booked 269 persons in different cases. As many as 400 persons have been bound over. Instructions have been given to conduct vehicle checks and intensify patrolling on the borders,” the SP said. Elections will be conducted for 47 wards in Eluru Municipal Corporation at 266 polling stations. Of the total, 19 polling stations were identified as sensitive and hypersensitive and webcasting will be arranged at such stations. In Narsapuram municipality, polling will be conducted in 52 booths for 28 wards (total 31, three declared unanimous). In all, 75 candidates are in the fray. In Kovvur, of the total 23 wards, unanimous wins were declared in 13 wards, and polling will be conducted for the remaining 10 wards in 19 polling stations on Wednesday. For Jangareddygudem municipality, polling will be conducted for all 29 wards and 69 candidates of various parties were in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-deployed-along-border-to-check-smuggling-of-liquor/article34032352.ece
10 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore youth wins quiz||Muthyala Rajendra Vikhyat from Rao’s Degree College has emerged as the winner of the Cluster 1 Finals, in the new online edition of Tata Crucible Campus Quiz 2021. The business quiz for campuses put to test quick thinking and sharp quizzing abilities. The winner took home a cash prize of Rs. 35, 000 and will now compete in the Zonal Finals to qualify for the National Finals, a release here said on Tuesday. Kanav Mehra from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Visakhapatnam was declared runner-up, winning a cash prize of Rs. 18,000. Quizmaster ‘Pickbrain’ Giri Balasubramaniam was the host of the quiz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-youth-wins-quiz/article34032973.ece
10 March 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLe,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for municipal elections||The stage is set for the holding of civic polls in the 11 urban local bodies adhering to COVID-19 protocol in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday. “All arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of the elections,” said SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu while overseeing the distribution of polling material to the polling stations in the urban local bodies of Atmakur, Sullurpeta, Nayudupeta and Venakatagiri where 119 candidates were in the fray. The entire polling process would be webcast, he said and exhorted the voters to turn up in large numbers to exercise their voting right. A local holiday has been declared in the four towns. Promulgatory orders under section 144 Cr.Pc will be in force in and around the polling stations, where the security had been beefed up. Firms running essential services and those in the private sector were asked to give at least three hours permission to their employees to enable them vote in the elections. The elections will be held only in 17 of the 23 wards in Atmakur, where six candidates had already been elected unopposed. In Naidupeta, candidates from 23 of the 25 wards had been elected uncontested and now polling will be held only in two wards. In Venkatagiri ,23 of the 25 wards will go to polls as two ward candidates have already been elected unopposed. As many as 14 ward aspirants were elected unanimously in Sullurpeta and as a result polling will be held only in 11 wards. In Prakasam district, the electoral fortune of 724 candidates will be decided in 174 wards in the civic bodies of Ongole, Markapur, Chirala, Addanki, Chimakurthy, Giddalur and Kanigiri, where 24 aspirants had already been elected unopposed. Meanwhile, police conducted a flag march in the faction-prone Addanki, where a fierce contest is expected between the ruling YSRCP and TDP nominees in 19 of the 20 wards. In one of the wards, the candidate of the TDP withdrew after hectic politicking by ruling party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-municipal-elections/article34032944.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre consulting nodal depts. on Disha Bill||The Union government informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that an inter-ministerial consultation for the Andhra Pradesh Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill, 2020, had been initiated and based on the inputs, the Bill would be processed further. The Bill paves the way for awarding the death penalty for rape and gang rape and expediting the verdicts in trials of such cases to 21 days. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy informed the House that the Bill reserved by the Governor had been received in January this year for the assent of the President of India. “As per practice, Bills received from States for assent of the President are processed in consultation with the nodal ministries/departments. Accordingly, the consultation process with various ministries/departments concerned with Andhra Pradesh Disha (Special Courts for specified offences against women and children) Bill, 2020 has been initiated. Based on their inputs, Bill will be processed further,” the Minister said in a written reply. The reply also added that the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2018, prescribed timelines for investigation and trial in respect of rape cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-bill-sent-for-discussion-says-centre/article34032259.ece
10 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||15th century inscription unearthed at Motupalli||Much to indologists delight, a 15th century inscription in Telugu has surfaced in the erstwhile international port of Motupalli, near Chinnaganjam, in Prakasam district. The inscription, issued by the Vijayanagara Emperor Deva Raya – II, who ruled the region from Hampi between 1424 and 1446 AD, was found in a dilapidated condition, said E. Sivanagi Reddy, Archaeologist and CEO of the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati. The inscription engraved on a black granite stone in Telugu script referred to donation of some gold coins (kasulu) towards burning a perpetual lamp of a local temple by Deva Raya Odeya identified with Deva Raya – II of the Sangama Dynasty. Dr. Reddy said that the donation must have been given to Prasanna Kesava temple, now known as Kodandarama Swamy temple, in the now sleepy village. He also revealed that there are three inscriptions found inside the Veerabhadra temple located a little away from this spot. All the three records, the assurance of life and goods of sea traders were issued by the Kakatiya (Ganapathi Deva), Reddy (Anapotha Reddy) and Vijayanagara (Deva Raya) kings. The inscription, found on the roadside opposite the Kodandarama temple will be preserved inside the temple. Jyothi Chandramouli, a historian from Addanki and R. Dasaratha Rami Reddy, secretary, Motupalli Heritage Society participated in the explorations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15th-century-inscription-unearthed-at-motupalli/article34032967.ece
10 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 killed as car rams culvert||Four persons were killed and another was injured when the car in which they were travelling rammed a culvert at Srinivasa Nagar, near Somepalli, in Prakasam district on Tuesday. The pilgrims from Guntur were returning from Srisailam in the neighbouring Kurnool district when the accident occurred. While three persons died on the spot, the fourth succumbed to injuries at the government hospital at Markapur. The injured person in a serious condition was shifted to Guntur hospital, the Tripurantakam police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-killed-as-car-rams-culvert/article34032965.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||27 wards to go for polls in Chittoor||Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT), which is witnessing polls after nearly two decades, is fully geared to go for elections slated for Wednesday. With almost half the wards going the unanimous way, elections will be held only in 27 wards, divided into 131 polling stations, where a mere 1.40 lakh voters will exercise their franchise. The authorities have drafted 197 each presiding officers and assistant presiding officers, besides 500 other polling staff, in all the wards. As many as 87 candidates are in the fray to test their fortunes. While drinking water, barricading, ramp and shamiana (shade for waiting voters) have been arranged at all the polling stations, the officials have specifically sought drafting of 1,500 policemen in the stations identified as ‘sensitive’ and ‘hyper sensitive’. A huge camp was arranged at Sri Venkateswara Arts College on Tuesday where election materials were distributed to the polling staff, division-wise and polling station-wise. Webcasting is in place, which facilitates monitoring of every polling station at the click of a mouse. As the poll will be conducted between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m., voters can walk into their respective polling station by carrying any of the identity cards viz., EPIC card, Aadhaar card, PAN card or driving license. Similarly, municipal corporation of Chittoor and municipalities of Puttur, Nagari, Palamaner and Madanapalle are also going to polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/27-wards-to-go-for-polls-in-chittoor/article34032945.ece
10 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan govt.’s fall imminent: Chinta||Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and former Union Minister Chinta Mohan said that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government will not complete three years of rule and that its fall “is imminent”. Addressing the mediapersons here on Tuesday, Dr. Mohan reiterated that the Jagan regime would collapse owing to its “undemocratic approach, spate of threats, intimidatory tactics against rivals and unrestrained nepotism”. He also maintained that most of the cabinet Ministers, who had failed to secure an appointment with the Chief Minister, were a dejected lot. Dr. Mohan also dubbed Mr. Reddy as ‘the weakest Chief Minister’ the State had ever seen, which was evident from the manner the Centre was bulldozing ahead with Vizag Steel plant privatisation issue. “Jagan might have visited Delhi several times with representations, but the Centre tends to ignore him and his pleas. The privatisation will not have happened under stronger Chief Ministers like J. Vengala Rao, M.Chenna Reddy or Kotla Vijayabhaskara Reddy,” he stressed. He also flayed the Jagan regime for spending Rs. 600 crore towards his ‘image building’, though in the garb of door delivering ration to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-govts-fall-imminent-chinta/article34032946.ece
10 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thousands of voter ID cards left undistributed||Thousands of Electoral Photo Identity Cards (EPICs) were seen dumped in government offices with the electoral staff in many divisions and wards of Krishna district. The ID cards were dumped in the offices without being distributed to voters. Colour EPICs, also known as voter ID cards, were sent to the Revenue Department and other department personnel during the Assembly elections in 2019, which were forwarded to the Booth Level Officers (BLOs), for distributing the same to electors. However, the identity cards were not distributed to the card holders for the last two years. Tahsildars, municipal officials, Village Revenue Officers (VROs), BLOs and the Anganwadi workers were entrusted to hand over the ID cards to the electors. However, thousands of cards were left undistributed and the cards were seen packed in huge bundles in the custody of the electoral staff in Vijayawada and the neighbouring mandals. Not knowing that their voter ID cards were still with the VROs and BLOs, many voters were seen making rounds of the Gram and Ward Sachivalayams (Secretariats) and urging the staff to search for their ID cards on the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) website.  “I visited the VRO’s office, met the BLO and Anganwadi staff to get my EPIC last year. The offices were closed due to the lockdown, and after they were reopened, I again went to the BLO, but in vain. I was vexed,” said M. Suresh of Penamaluru mandal in Krishna district. Another voter, K. Sujatha, who could not find her voter ID card, said she was worried that fraudsters may misuse the ID cards to apply for loans, or use them to avail government schemes and for getting mobile phone SIM cards. “We request the ECI to take measures for distribution of the ID cards to avoid trouble,” many voters demanded. When contacted, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha said that all the EPICs supplied during 2019 elections were distributed. If any ID cards were left undistributed, the electoral staff would be instructed to distribute them immediately, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thousands-of-voter-id-cards-left-undistributed/article34032349.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dixon Technologies keen to invest in Kopparthi cluster||Dixon Technologies (India) Limited, an electronic manufacturing services provider, has evinced interest in investing in the Kopparthi electron4ic manufacturing cluster in Kadapa district. A delegation of the company met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday. “It is a good development that the Dixon Technologies has come forward to invest in Kopparthi electronic manufacturing cluster. We assure that the government will extend its support to the companies ready to invest in Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Dixon Technologies India Limited chairman Sunil Vachani, Dixon Technologies CEO Pankaj Sharma informed the Chief Minister that they would provide jobs to nearly 3,000 people. The company would manufacture cellphones, laptops, tablets, security equipment and cameras in the Kopparthi unit in Kadapa district. It has plans to expand its unit in Tirupati and create 1,000 jobs. It would partner with the Bosch to set up a washing machine manufacturing unit, they said. Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dixon-technologies-keen-to-invest-in-kopparthi-cluster/article34032952.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Turmeric farmers can hope for good times, says expert||Turmeric farmers can ‘expect better prices’ and need not resort to distress or panic sale if the growing demand and fall in supplies are any indication. According to information, the price that hovered between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 9,000 per quintal sometime ago increased by about Rs. 2,000 per quintal for a brief period 20 days back. However, the current price stands at Rs. 7,450 per quintal but it is likely to pick up in near future. Even the government is contemplating holding the stocks for a few days and releasing them at an ‘appropriate time’. The government expects the turmeric prices to stay firm on strong demand, both locally and in the export market. The government has procured 49,987 metric tonnes of turmeric worth Rs. 376.65 crore during 2019-20 to rescue farmers from distress sale. About half of it is lying in cold storages, sources say. The price remained stagnant in the Rs. 5,000-7,000 per quintal band for some years that resulted in many turmeric growers shifting to alternative crops. It is one of the reasons behind the gap between demand and supply. Now there is a ‘higher export demand’ and tight supply conditions due to climatic adversity in turmeric growing regions. Officials, referring to India’s exports, say that turmeric exports during April-September 2020 increased by 42% compared with the corresponding period the previous year. Promising situation When contacted, Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy says that turmeric prices are expected to go up in near future. On the one hand domestic and export demand for turmeric is rising because it is seen as an immunity-boosting product and on the other there is a fall in production across the globe. “So, farmers are requested to hold their stocks. They need not go for distress sale,” he opines. State’s initiative Mr. Nagi Reddy says that the Central government does not fix MSP for turmeric. So the State government, in a first such initiative, announced MSP through GO 28 on January 9, 2020. No other State has taken such measures, he says. Turmeric is cultivated across the State except in Anantapur district. The area of cultivation has gone up from 20,835 hectares in 2015-16 to 30,518 hectares in 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/turmeric-farmers-can-hope-for-good-times-says-expert/article34032960.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for polls to ULBs today||Elections to 12 municipal corporations, 75 municipalities and urban panchayats in the State will be held on Wednesday. Campaigning for the municipal elections where polls are notified came to an end on Monday. All the wards in the municipalities of Pulivendula, Punganur, Piduguralla and Macharla were declared unanimous. The polls will not be conducted in three municipal corporations of Srikakulam, Rajahmundry and Nellore and 30 municipalities due to court cases filed over merger of villages with the adjoining municipalities. Polling will be held in the left over cities, towns and town panchayats. Apart from the ruling YSRCP, TDP, CPI, CPI(M), BJP and Jana Sena Party contesting the municipal elections, this time the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) is contesting the civic polls for the first time in the State. The municipal elections are being held after the four-phase panchayat polls ended on February 21. The State Election Commission issued a notification for elections to 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities in February. The repolling, if required any, would be held on March 13. Counting will take place on March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-polls-to-ulbs-today/article34032953.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Press academy enters into agreements with varsities||C. Raghavachari Andhra Pradesh Press Academy Chairman Devireddy Sreenath said that the academy has conducted programmes to hone the skills of journalists, particularly those working in rural areas, despite the COVID-19 pandemic. The academy has taken initiatives for their education and welfare as well, he said. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Sreenath said that the academy entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with universities such as Vikrama Simhapuri University, Yogi Vemana University and Sri Padmavathi Mahila University regarding the fees to be paid by the journalists studying journalism courses. The Academy would pay up to 50% of the fee being collected by the varsities on behalf of the journalist students. MoUs would be entered into with other varsities soon. To encourage the rural journalists to come up with quality reporting, the academy would honour them with awards and cash prizes, he said. The chairman said that the academy was developing a website wherein the details of all government schemes and programmes, success stories, videos relating to the training classes, and details of the journalists as well would be provided. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would launch the website, he said. “The State government is contemplating financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh for the families of journalists who died of COVID-19. Similarly, assistance would be given to journalists who have suffered from COVID,” he said in reply to a question. He stressed on the need to bring in changes in the accreditation process so as to identify genuine working journalists. Referring to the training classes, Mr. Sreenath said that online classes were conducted during the pandemic. Nearly 4,000 journalists acrsos the State attended and downloaded the online study material, he added. Academy secretary M. Balagangadhar Tilak was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/press-academy-inks-mous-with-varsities/article34032344.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village secretariats a revolutionary step towards decentralisation||Good governance was among the major poll planks of the YSRCP in the 2019 general elections. A conscious effort has since been made to implement the welfare schemes and deliver the services without any scope for exploitation of the people by middlemen. It was with this goal in mind that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had contemplated ward and village secretariats and gave them a tangible shape on October 2, 2019, as a significant step towards achieving the ‘Gram Swaraj’, the concept which Mahatma Gandhi had espoused. The Chief Minister announced on May 30, 2019, that the ward and village secretariats were a part of the revolutionary changes conceived by his government, for strengthening the schemes and service delivery system at the grassroots level. In tune with the vision, 3,913 ward secretariats and 11,162 village secretariats were set up and more than 4.50 lakh staff were recruited through an examination conducted in September first week in 2019. This was a record of sorts in the country as no State government had undertaken such a massive recruitment drive. Principal Secretary Ajay Jain told The Hindu that the ward and village secretariats had so far delivered two crore services to the people. “Impressed by the idea of taking governance to the people’s doorsteps, Karnataka, Punjab, Rajasthan and some other States have evinced interest to adopt similar systems,” he said. Mr. Jain expressed confidence that a national-level recognition would eventually come for this innovative mechanism of public outreach. The ward and village secretariats are acting as one-stop shops for implementation of all welfare and development activities by the Secretaries and their department-wise assistants who are in turn aided by an army of volunteers deployed in every nook and corner of the State. They also helped contain the coronavirus pandemic when it seemed to spiral out of control. The effective implementation of ‘Navaratnalu’, the government’s flagship welfare schemes, is the key objective of these secretariats that are mandated to resolve the grievances brought to their notice by the volunteers, each one of whom takes care of 50 households. Clear-cut guidelines and rules have been framed for the secretariats and a separate department has been created to have a focused approach to achieve the goals. Services at doorstep The ward and village secretaries are vested with overall responsibility to implement the welfare schemes and they have assistants discharging various functions across departments such as Panchayat Raj, land and survey, medical and health, animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries, police, women and child welfare, water supply, power, agriculture and horticulture and tribal welfare. Grievance redressal Each secretariat has been provided Internet connection and other infrastructure required to cater to the citizens’ requirements. A call centre with toll-free number 1902 has been set up to enable the people to register their grievances and also obtain feedback on the welfare schemes. The secretariats are essentially a milestone in the government’s journey towards decentralisation of administration and they have started yielding the desired results while the Chief Minister himself keep a tab on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-secretariats-a-revolutionary-step-towards-decentralisation/article34032948.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||118 new COVID-19 infections reported in State, no deaths||The State reported 118 new COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. No death was reported during the period. The tally increased to 8,90,884 and the toll remains at 7,176 with a death rate of 0.81%. The number of active cases increased to 1,038 and the recoveries increased to 8,82,670. Only 89 patients have recovered in the past day and the recovery rate stands at 99.08%. As many as 45,079 samples were tested and 0.26% of them turned positive. The overall samples tested crossed 1.43 crore with a positivity rate of 6.23%. In line with the spike in infections reported in the past few days, Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported most of the State’s new infections. Chittoor reported 38 new infections in the past day and was the district with the highest single-day tally. It was followed by Krishna (21), Visakhapatnam (15), Guntur (12), East Godavari (11), Kadapa (5), Anantapur (4), Nellore (4), West Godavari (3), Kurnool (2), Srikakulam (2) and Prakasam (1). Vizianagaram reported no new infection. The district-wise tallies are: East Godavari (1,24,526), West Godavari (94,366), Chittoor (87,760), Guntur (75,812), Anantapur (67,819), Nellore (62,513), Prakasam (62,220), Kurnool (60,933), Visakhapatnam (60,142), Kadapa (55,428), Krishna (49,031), Srikakulam (46,269) and Vizianagaram (41,170).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/118-new-covid-19-infections-reported-across-state/article34032970.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rathotsavam on March 12||Rathotsavam will be organised on Canal Road here on March 12 coinciding with Maha Sivaratri. The rathotsavam will be organised by Sri Kanyaka Parameswari Anna Satram Committee. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, committee president Bayana Hareswara Rao and general secretary Bachu Venkata Lakshmi Varaprasad said that event was being organised for the last 150 years in a grand manner. The celestial car festival would begin at Ratham Centre and go up to Vinayaka temple. All COVID precautions would be taken during the festival. Brahmotsavams, Kalyana ratha, pushpayagotsams etc would be organised for Sri Bhramaramba Malleswara Swamyvarlu, Sri Bhadrakaali Sametha Veerabhadra Swamyvarlu, Sri Ganga Parvati Sameta Veerabhadra Swamyvarlu (Patha Sivalayam), Sri Ganga Parvati Sametha Vasantha Mallikarjuna Swamyvarlu. Kalyana Mahotsavam would be organised at 12 a.m. (intervening night of March 11 and 12), they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rathotsavam-on-march-12/article34033080.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selected candidates’ list on APPSC website||The APPSC has declared the list of provisionally selected candidates for recruitment to the post of Forest Range Officers in the A.P. Forest Service. The list is also available on the Commission’s website https://psc.ap.gov.in and on the notice board of the Commission’s office. The Commission has decided to call one candidate for oral test (interview) on March 16 for the post of lecturer in Government Degree Colleges in A.P. Collegiate Education Service. The relevant documents including call letter (memo), check list, attestation form, non-cream layer certificate and deformity certificate (if required) for provisionally qualified candidates is available on the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selected-candidates-list-on-appsc-website/article34032345.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor unveils poster for IRCS centenary cycle rally||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Tuesday launched the poster for the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) cycle rally, to be organised from Srikakulam to Vijayawada, from March 16 to 25, to mark 100 years of the Society’s humanitarian services. Mr. Harichandan, who is also the president of Andhra Pradesh State branch of IRCS, said the selfless service rendered by IRCS volunteers during the COVID-19 lockdown was praiseworthy. The Governor said the centenary cycle rally would create more awareness among the youth to join IRCS and take up more service activities. The Governor advised IRCS officials to take care of the health and safety of the cyclists participating in the rally and to take all precautionary measures and follow all COVID-19 guidelines during the rally. Dr. A. Sridhar Reddy, Chairman of AP State Branch of Red Cross, informed the Governor that the Red Cross Centenary cycle rally is the first of its kind in the country and will be taken up in two routes from Srikakulam-Vijayawada and Anantapur-Vijayawada, and nearly 200 cyclists are expected to participate in the rally. IRCS general secretary A.K. Parida said the rally will highlight three themes — ‘Plant a Tree-Save Earth’, ‘Donate Blood-Save a Life’ and ‘Clean Environment for Healthy Life’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-unveils-poster-for-ircs-centenary-cycle-rally/article34032347.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC urges voters to exercise their franchise||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday appealed to the voters to fulfil their social responsibility by exercising their franchise without fail. “Polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. The voters should utilise their rights to strengthen democracy,” he said. Mr. Ramesh Kumar further said that senior officials in the districts would supervise the identified areas and he would visit certain urban local bodies in Krishna and Guntur districts. Three senior officers have been deputed to supervise the eight administrative zones in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Magisterial powers Magisterial powers have been delegated to the zonal officers, static surveillance teams and flying squads. Any breach of law will be viewed seriously, irrespective of the stature of the person involved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-urges-voters-to-exercise-their-franchise/article34032954.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tatkal scheme for Intermediate students||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has notified that the Intermediate first and second year candidates who are seeking attendance exemption (for Arts group only) can pay the examination fee under Tatkal scheme for Intermediate Public Examinations in March, 2021. The Tatkal scheme will start from March 10 and continue till 17. Candidates seeking attendance exemption under this scheme should pay Rs. 1,300 in addition to the attendance exemption fee and examination fee to the Principal of the college and submit attendance exemption form and examination application forms to the Principals of the Government Junior Colleges, along with original SSC, Transfer Certificate (TC), Intermediate Memo of Marks (for group change candidates) and a set of attested photo copies of certificates. The candidates will have to pay Rs. 1,300 towards Tatkal fee, Rs. 1,300 fee for attendance exemption, I year examination fee of Rs. 490, II year examination fee of Rs. 490 and I and II year examination fee of Rs. 980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tatkal-scheme-for-intermediate-students/article34032968.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TAVR surgery saves patient||Doctors at the city’s Manipal Hospital successfully conducted transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), a rare surgical procedure, on an 87-year-old patient. At a press conference on Monday, critical care consultant Dr. T. Srinivasa Rao said that the patient approached the hospital with heart failure, cardiogenic shock and kidney ailments and was put on a ventilator immediately. “By performing TAVR we were able to improve the patient’s situation and removed ventilator support,” he said. Interventional senior cardiologist Dr. N. Murali Krishna said that the patient underwent open-heart surgery in 2008 and a bioprosthetic valve was implanted then. There was only one option of performing TAVR and an additional valve had been added to the existing valve which was a rare procedure, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tavr-surgery-saves-patient/article34032341.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC regrets glitch in tech service||The APSRTC, which confirms advance reservation of tickets through SMS, has regretted the inconvenience caused due to issues with the SMS services. Corporation Chief Engineer (IT) V. Sudhakar said due to the introduction of Distributed Ledger Technology by TRAI to curb spam, all SMS gateway providers were facing issues in sending messages from March 8. Mr. Sudhakar said for details, RTC customers can call 0866 2570005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-regrets-glitch-in-tech-service/article34033086.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure free, fair polls: TDP||Telugu Desam Party State general secretary Maddipati Venkata Raju has written a letter to State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar urging him to take steps to ensure free and fair elections to urban local bodies. He stressed on the need for prevention of intimidation and undue influence of voters. Providing security to vulnerable sections, uninterrupted video recording of polling apart from additional security forces was necessary, he said. The SEC was requested to ensure the aspects such as deployment of sufficient police force to safeguard the polling stations, undertaking webcasting to see that the cameras capture all the voters moving in the polling stations in clear and identifiable form, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-free-fair-polls-tdp/article34033075.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioner of Inquiries to probe ABV case||The Government has decided to entrust the case of former Additional DGP, Intelligence, A.B. Venkateswara Rao, to the Commissioner of Inquiries. Mr. Rao was placed under suspension in February last year in connection with the alleged irregularities in purchase of security equipment during his tenure in the previous TDP government. Commissioner of Inquiries R.P. Sisodia will be the inquiring authority to probe charges against Mr. Rao and advocate Sarva Srinivasa Rao has been appointed as the ‘Presenting Officer’ to present the case on behalf of the government. Mr. Sisodia will submit his report to the government within the stipulated time limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commissioner-of-inquiries-to-probe-abv-case/article34033085.ece
10 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||94 base camps set up to protect national parks in State||As many as 94 base camps have been set up in the protected areas of national parks in Andhra Pradesh and eight strike forces have been stationed with Protected Area Managers, Minister of State in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Babul Supriyo said in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Replying to a query by MP Parimal Nathwani on the details of national parks and sanctuaries in the country, especially in Andhra Pradesh and the steps taken by the government to curb mining, encroachment, poaching and other issues, the Minister said that timely payment of ex gratia was made in case of death or injury due to human-animal conflict. “Awareness campaigns are being organised in the adjoining villages, involving the local communities in the protection of wildlife and forest,” said Mr. Supriyo. The Minister said that activities inside national parks and sanctuaries were being carried out as per the approved management plans to maintain a balanced biodiversity. Of the 16 national parks in Andhra Pradesh, the larger ones are the Nagarjuna Sagar-Srisailam sanctuary spreading over 1,402 sqkm, the Sri Penusila Narasimha Sanctuary spanning over 1,031 sqkm and the Papikondalu National Park stretching across 1,013 sqkm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/94-base-camps-set-up-to-protect-national-parks-in-state/article34033081.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP on the boil as employees picket Administrative Office||Thousands of people, including workers, employees, displaced persons and their families, marched to the Administrative Office Building of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and picketed it on Tuesday morning on the call given by the Visakha Steel Plant Parirakshana Porata Committee. It’s learnt that except the A shift workers and officers, who reached their workspots by 6 a.m., none others could attend to their duties due to the agitation. Many of the workers came out and joined the agitation, while only the officers and a few workers were left in the plant, according to trade union sources. At least 2,000 officers would be required to maintain normal temperature in the blast furnace and other installations at the plant. The temperature was being maintained by retaining the officers and workers, who reached the plant before 6 a.m. As the traffic blockade on the National Highway at Kurmannapalem continued till late in the evening since Monday evening, the officers residing in the Steel Plant quarters were being called to keep the plant running. Police had the divert the traffic on the NH. Two of the three blast furnaces were down and one was continuing to operate as raw material was charged by the A shift workers. Non-executive have also boycotted their duties, the sources said. The workers and displaced persons, who have been staging protests and relay hunger strikes, peacefully for over three weeks, lost their cool following Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement that there was no going back on the decision to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. They seemed determined to achieve their demand at any cost and held up traffic on the National Highway near the Steel Plant Arch at Kurmannapalem. The protesters burnt tyres, lit bonfires on the roads and raised the slogans ‘Visakha Ukku – Andhrula Hakku’, and against the Centre. Traffic on the National Highway at Gajuwaka and Anakapalle came to a standstill, and the movement of polling staff, who had to collect polling material for election on Wednesday, was also disrupted. The CISF personnel arrived in large numbers to prevent the situation from going out of control. The agitated workers stopped the car of the Director of Finance Venugopal and surrounded him, when he came out of the car. CISF personnel formed a security cordon around him, and had a tough time escorting him to safety. The protests continued till late in the evening but there were no reports of any untoward incidents. A large number of police were present to prevent any untoward incidents. AITUC vice president Busi Venkata Rao said that the JAC has decided to serve a strike notice on March 11 and go on an indefinite strike any day after March 25. CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao demanded allotment of captive mines for the VSP. He said that the national leaders of all Central Trade Unions would arrive in the city on March 20 to take the agitation to the next level. CPI(M) leader Ganga Rao warned that the agitation would be intensified further, if the Centre does not revoke its decision. He sought that Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who wrote in his book on his participation in the agitation for establishment of the VSP, should strive to make the Prime Minister change his decision on the issue. The other trade union leaders alleged that the VSP management was working as an ‘agent’ of the Centre by keeping the employees and workers in the dark on the plans of the Centre. They demanded that the Chief Minister convene a meeting of the Assembly and adopt a resolution against privatisation of the VSP apart from leading a delegation of all parties to the Centre. MPs should resign to their posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-on-the-boil-as-employees-picket-administrative-office/article34033088.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC warns Union government of serious consequences||An effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was burnt by members of the Steel Plant Parirakshana Committee during a protest near the Gandhi statue, opposite the GVMC, on Tuesday to protest against the decision of the Centre to privatise the Steel Plant. The protesters burnt the effigy even as the police tried to prevent them. JAC chairman and CITU leader M. Jaggu Naidu warned the BJP government of serious consequences, if it went ahead with its decision. They said that the BJP government has done injustice to the State. The BJP and its ally Jana Sena Party (JSP) would be taught a lesson by the people in the municipal polls, the JAC leaders said. CITU leaders R.K.S.V. Kumar, M. Subba Rao and Y. Raju, IFTU leader M. Venkateswarlu, INTUC leaders Nagabushanam and Eswara Rao, AIDWA leaders G. Priyanka and Kumari and YSRTU leader Dadi Satyanarayana were among those who participated. Meanwhile, YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leader and former Minister Dadi Veerabhadra Rao has ruled out the possibility of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy cooperating with the Centre on its move to privatise the VSP. The Chief Minister had clarified the stand of the State government on the issue in his meeting at Visakhapatnam Airport with leaders of all trade unions during his recent visit to the city, he said. Meanwhile, former Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao said all political parties should keep aside their differences and come together to prepare a constructive plan to save the VSP from being privatised. The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has alleged that the Centre is adopting an adamant attitude on the issue. FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma alleged that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement in the Lok Sabha that the Centre would not go back on its decision of privatising the VSP was an indication of how much the Union government has succumbed to the corporate groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-warns-union-government-of-serious-consequences/article34033090.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All arrangements made for municipal polls, says Collector||A total of 10,661 polling staff and as many as 4,000 police personnel will be on duty to conduct municipal elections in a peaceful manner in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The polls are being held in 148 wards, including 98 in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), 22 in Yelamanchali and 28 in Narsipatnam, District Collector V. Vinay Chand said on Tuesday. He said that as many as 18,05, 311 voters, including 9,00,756 women, were expected to cast their vote in 1,812 polling stations, including 1, 712 in GVMC limits, 44 in Yelamanchali and 56 in Narsipatnam. A total of 566 candidates in GVMC, 62 in Yelamanchali and 78 in Narsipatnam municipality are contesting the polls. The Collector said that all arrangements have been made for the polls which will commence at 7 a.m. and end by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference at the GVMC office here on Tuesday, Mr. Vinay Chand said that out of 1,812 polling stations, 693 polling stations, including 654 in GVMC, were identified as hyper-sensitive and 276, including 240 in GVMC limits, were identified as sensitive. Every polling station will be having a police personnel. In case of hyper sensitive and sensitive locations, apart from tight police security, micro observers are being deployed. Videography and webcasting will be done. “We have trained about 570 micro observers for the purpose,” he said. He said that Model Code of Conduct (MCC) teams have been doubled, apart from arranging 60 static surveillance teams in GVMC limits, five in Narsipatnam and four in Yelamanchali. They will continue to monitor entire election process till the closure of the poll. The Collector said that they have appointed a Zonal Magistrate for each ward in the GVMC limits. The Zonal Magistrates are fully empowered to register cases and take appropriate action against any irregularities in their routes, he said.  Voter slips The Collector also said that voter slip distribution process was completed for about 86.8 % in GVMC limits. “Similarly, in Yelamanchali, we have completed distribution of about 86.9% slips and in Narsipatnam, it stands at about 91 %.While distributing slips, a number of houses were locked while many residents changed their addresses,” he stated. “A person who did not receive voter slip need not worry and there is no mandatory requirement for the voter slip. If he/she did not receive voter slip, they can directly go to the polling station with his or her voter card. But they should also carry any of the 20 documents prescribed by the Election Commission. The 20 documents include Aadhaar card, Passport, Driving Licence, PAN card, Pension documents, pattadar passbook with picture, ration card with photograph, ATM cards with photographs and ID cards given to freedom fighters,” he added. He said that all arrangements were made for women and elderly persons to cast their vote. Ramps were set up for the convenience of differently-abled. Similarly visually challenged voters can bring an assistant to cast their vote. “Last time when the municipal polls were held in Visakhapatnam in 2007, the poll percentage was just 52. We request every voter to come forward and cast his vote this time,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao also spoke about the security arrangements. GVMC Commissioner S. Nagalakshmi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-arrangements-made-for-municipal-polls-says-collector/article34033093.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM knew about divestment move before: TDP||The TDP leaders on Tuesday trained their guns on the YSRCP government, accusing it of not doing anything to stop the strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made it clear in the Lok Sabha that there was no going back on the proposal. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has failed to stop the privatisation move and the YSRCP is still misguiding the people on the issue,” alleged TDP State president K. Atchannaidu. Ms. Sitharaman’s statement clearly indicates that the YSRCP government was in the know of things much before, he said. “South Korean major POSCO had met Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy 20 days after he took over as the Chief Minister in 2019. A decision had been taken on the VSP’s divestment by then. But the YSRCP kept it under wraps. Now, the Chief Minister and his party leaders are putting up a show to misguide the people,” alleged Mr. Atchannaidu. He also said that that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the members of NITI Aayog. “However, the Chief Minister did not speak a word on the issue. It is evident that he is scared of the Prime Minister and the BJP. He is ready for any bargain including the sale of the VSP to get the cases against him settled,” said the TDP leader. ‘Naidu wrote to PM’ Refuting the claim that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu had not spoken to the Centre on the steel plant issue, Mr. Atchannaidu said that the TDP chief had written a detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 20. “Mr. Naidu, in his letter, had even said that the TDP was ready to walk with the YSRCP if the latter made its stand clear on the issue,” he said. Mr. Atchannaidu. demanded that the YSRCP MPs should now take up the moral responsibility and resign. “If all the MPs quit, we promise not to contest with the YSRCP in the MP election,” he said. Dig at Sitharaman Criticising Ms. Sitharaman’s statement that State government had no stake in the PSUs, TDP leader Palla Srinivasa Rao, who undertook a fast-unto-death over the VSP issue, said, “If the Centre intends to set up a PSU, it has to ask the State government concerned for permission and seek allotment of land, water and other local resources. How can our State government have no say when a PSU is being sold. The privatisation can be stopped if the YSRCP really intends to do so,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-knew-about-divestment-move-before-tdp/article34032956.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan, Vijaya Sai should clear the air at least now’||Condemning the ‘adamant attitude’ of the BJP-led Centre on the 100% strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), TDP former MP Sabbam Hari alleged that the deal was being executed in collaboration with the State government. “It was only after the consensus between the Central and State governments that the deal with the POSCO was finalised,” he alleged. Mr. Hari alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and MP Vijaya Sai Reddy had been hiding the facts and were keeping the people in dark. “At least now, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy should come clear on the modalities of the deal for the benefit of the employees,” he said. Criticising the Chief Minister for his statement that 7,300 acres of surplus land of the VSP could be sold to resolve the issue, he said, “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy appears to have no knowledge on how a steel plant works. The surplus land is kept as a buffer for any eventuality and future expansion.” “We have heard of business houses such as the Adanis and LuLus being pushed out. In the last two years, we have not heard of any new industry coming to Visakhapatnam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-vijaya-sai-should-clear-the-air-at-least-now/article34032957.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. against strategic sale, says Vijaya Sai||Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to to represent the issue of 100% strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant indicates that the State government is against the proposed sale, said YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. The letter was sent on Tuesday after the Union Finance Minister confirmed 100% sale in Parliament on Monday, despite which the Opposition parties are trying to tarnish the image of the Chief Minister by saying that he was in prior know how of the privatisation proposal, he said here on Tuesday. Mr. Vijaya Sai said that the plant had been making losses since 2014 owing to lack of captive iron ore mines and huge burden of interest on loans taken for its expansion. He said if captive mines are allotted and the debt was converted to equity, the plant could come back to profit mode. He said that if the Centre was keen on disinvestment, then it could offload about 25 to 30% of this share into the stock market and people could own the shares and the plant could earn dividend. “Our sole interest is to stop the privatisation of VSP. The Chief Minister has promised to pass a resolution in the Assembly to that effect,” he said. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said this was the second letter from Mr. Jagan to the Prime Minister and it clearly indicated the YSRCP stand on the VSP. Hitting out at TDP leader Sabbam Hari, he said, “Mr. Hari spoke about outsiders contesting in the GVMC polls, if that is so then from where did TDP leaders Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and Ganta Srinivasa Rao come from?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-against-strategic-sale-says-vijaya-sai/article34032958.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beware of fake job notification, people told||The Regional Joint Director of the Women Development & Child Welfare (WD & CW) Department, Visakhapatnam, has cautioned people against responding to the fake notification calling for applications for appointment as ‘Supervisors’ in the WD & CW Department. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, Y. Sailaja, RJD (FAC), noted that fake appointment order was issued to Miriyala Krishnaveni of Komarada in Vizianagaram district appointing her as ‘contract supervisor Grade II’ by some unknown person in the name of the Regional Director, WD & CW Department. The Project Director, WD & CW, Vizianagaram, is filing an FIR before the SHO, Vizianagaram, regarding the fake orders. Ms. Sailaja noted that no such orders were issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beware-of-fake-job-notification-people-told/article34033091.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 15 new COVID cases||The district reported 15 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin released on Tuesday, taking the tally to 60,654. It may be noted that since March 2, the district has reported 82 new infections. The bulletin also stated that the toll stands at 539 as there was no death reported in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries and active cases stands at 60,046 and 69 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-15-new-covid-cases/article34033096.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete Nadu-Nedu works by month-end, ITDA PO directs officials||Project Officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) S. Venkateswar instructed the officials from the Tribal Welfare Department to complete the pending works of Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu by the end of this month. During a review meet, he said also insisted the officials to complete gardening and horticulture works at the schools, apart from completing the mural paintings on the walls. He later interacted with Panchayat Raj officials and enquired about ongoing road works in the Agency areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-nadu-nedu-works-by-month-end-itda-po-directs-officials/article34033094.ece
10 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RMT launches project ‘Gudiya’||On the occasion of Women’s Day, the city-based Rohit Memorial Trust launched a project ‘Gudiya’ in association with Sampoorna, the centre for physically challenged women. According to the members of the trust, the main motto behind the project is to promote the idea of therapeutic healing of paediatric cancer patients who get a lot of comfort in clutching on to toys, when they are undergoing treatment for cancer. The Trust is associating with Sampoorna and helping them to market their stuffed toys, home cleaning solutions and other items made at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rmt-launches-project-gudiya/article34033095.ece
10 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voters face difficulties in identifying polling booths||Polling percentage in the elections to the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation is expected to be impacted due to reported flaws in the voters’ lists. With elections scheduled on Wednesday, many voters could not find their names in the voter lists in their respective divisions. Usually, flaws are corrected during revision of voter lists. However, the major political parties reportedly did not focus on this important aspect, resulting in a cascading effect during election time. Local leaders and activists of all political parties are now reportedly running from pillar to post to distribute voters’ slips accurately to the people in their respective divisions. Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy. who was concerned about the issue, said that all the leaders should be careful during revision of the voters’ list as many voters would have shifted to other places. “Many voters told us that their names were not in the list. We tried our best to identify their names and informed their divisions. But it has become a tedious process. We directed local leaders and activists to give top priority to revision which is taken up almost every year,” said Mr. Veerabhadra Swamy. TDP leaders also faced the heat from voters in many divisions. They tried in vain to identify the details of booths and divisions of the voters. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Vizianagaram Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma directed helpdesks to help voters know their booths and divisions so that they would participate in the electoral franchise. He said that all arrangements were made for the peaceful conduct of the elections in the Corporation limits. As many as 1,174 polling officers were deployed to conduct the elections in 196 polling stations of 49 divisions. The election which was postponed for the fourth division would be conducted on March 12. The police department has identified 70 sensitive and 47 very sensitive polling booths in the city limits. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari reviewed the law and order situation and said that the situation was under control. She urged political parties to bring their grievances to the police instead of indulging in arguments and clashes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/voters-face-difficulties-in-identifying-polling-booths/article34033005.ece
10 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials failed to distribute slips: TDP||TDP Vizianagaram Assembly in-charge Aditi Gajapathi Raju urged all voters to come to the polling booths with their voter identity cards although many of them were not given voter slips. In a press release, she alleged that the officials had not distributed slips in spite of repeated requests from the candidates. “The voters are worried over the poor distribution of slips. Officials should protect the voting rights of every voter in the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation elections,” she said. TDP Mayor candidate M. Samantaka Mani urged officials to ensure free and fair elections in all divisons. She said that proper distribution of slips would ensure a higher voting percentage in all divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-failed-to-distribute-slips-tdp/article34033003.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||10.76 lakh voters expected to cast their vote today||All arrangements have been made for the municipal elections in seven urban local bodies on Wednesday. About 10.76 lakh voters are expected to cast their vote. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz called upon the public to exercise their right to vote. Polling for 229 municipal wards in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation, Nuzvid Municipality, Pedana Municipality, Nandigama Nagara Panchayat, Tiruvuru Nagara Panchayat and Vuyyuru Nagara Panchayat will be conducted from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mr. Imtiaz said there were 10,76,374 voters in the seven ULBs and voter slips were distributed to 93% of them. The remaining voters who did not receive the slips due to various reasons could collect them at the helpdesks at polling booths, he said. As many as 6,747 polling officers and 210 micro observers were deployed to their respective ULBs. In Vijayawada, where polling will be conducted for 64 wards, there are 7,81,635 voters and in Machilipatnam with 50 wards there are 1,33,466 voters. In the city, there are 788 polling booths and 4,800 polling staff were deployed. VMC Municipal Commissioner and Additional Election Authority V. Prasanna Venkatesh said all the polling material had been handed over to the respective staff at the distribution centre in IGMC Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1076-lakh-voters-expected-to-cast-their-vote-today/article34033076.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Almost there!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/almost-there/article34033084.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pulling in young voters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pulling-in-young-voters/article34032351.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-time/article34032972.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A zebra crossing that serves no purpose||Vehicles travelling on a 11-km expressway hit the ground here. Vehicles emerging from the bottleneck near Rythu Bazaar make up for the lost time. Motorists from First Lancer area try to navigate a short-cut driving on the wrong side so that they can avoid a 2-km ride. In this frenzy of zipping vehicles patients, medicos, attenders try to cross the road in front of the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital at Masab Tank. Does a new zebra crossing in front of the hospital make life easier for the millions of visitors to the SD Eye Hospital? “No. More than 70% of the patients and attenders to this hospital cross the road either to get their glasses, get medicines or have a cup of tea. It takes 3-4 minutes to cross the road. Vehicles don’t slow down even after they see the zebra crossing,” says B.S.K. Prasad, a security guard who helps medicos cross the road waving his baton. After his work hours, without the uniform and the baton, he walks till Rythu Bazaar to cross the road to reach his home in Langer Houz area. “I am scared. Three days back a two-wheeler hit a patient’s attender. Small accidents are a regular occurrence,” he says. A traffic constable posted at the site has a different opinion. “Vehicles slow down when they see people crossing the road at the zebra crossing. Life has become easy for pedestrians after the rumble-strips were laid and zebra-crossing marks were made,” says Das, a traffic constable posted at the site. The main job of the traffic officials is to stop two and three-wheeler vehicles from getting on to the Expressway. “We get a memo if a vehicle gets on to the flyover,” says the traffic official waiting in the shade of the patrol shelter. Zebra crossings are nothing new on the 35-metre-wide road. They have been marked earlier but disappeared after each road-laying exercise in 2017, 2018 and 2019. “It is ill-designed. There should be a pedestrian light for stopping vehicles. Once you cross the road the footpath should be accessible. It should be disabled friendly,” says Jasmine, an urban design professional. It was on March 5 at 7.51 a.m. when a social media user posted a bunch of videos to show the plight of pedestrians. By 11.16 a.m., Principal Secretary Urban Administration Arvind Kumar promised to rectify the problem. Within two days the rumble-strips and the zebra-crossing marks appeared. But for the pedestrians and patients of the SD Eye Hospital the nightmare of crossing the road continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-zebra-crossing-that-serves-no-purpose/article34032731.ece
10 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Students of Narayana, Sri Chaitanya ace JEE-Main||Students of Narayana Group and Sri Chaitanya Group shared honours in the JEE-Main results with over a hundred of them scoring 100 percentile. In the two Telugu States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, several of their students scored big. Komma Sharanya of Narayana Group was the all-India topper among girls scoring 99.9990421 percentile while Challa Vishwanath was the Telangana topper. 57 score 100 percentile A statement from Sri Chaitanya said 57 students scored subject-wise 100 percentile apart from bagging first and second positions in Andhra Pradesh in the EWS general category. In the general category, Sri Chaitanya’s Pothamsetty Chethan Manogna Sai was ranked 10th, scoring 290 out of 300 marks. In EWS general category, Anumula Venkata Jaya Chaitanya and Gurram Hari Charan in AP stood in first and second positions, respectively. In OBC-NCL category, Bitra Sai Siddi Raghuram Saran stood first in AP. Academic director Sushma said the achievement was possible as a result of the integrated programmes, micro-schedules, internal exams, ranking system, e-praghna online app, and a world-class faculty. Chairman B.S Rao congratulated the toppers and the faculty on the success. Narayana’s app Students of Narayana Group continued their supremacy with 43 of them scoring 100 percentile. Group managing director Sindhura Narayana and director Sharani said the success was a result of their well researched and definitive curriculum developed by experts, which gives strong emphasis on mastery of fundamentals and thorough conceptual understanding. The duo added that an important aspect of Narayanites’ success in the JEE Main was due to nLearn, the group’s online examination practice and analysis application. With the JEE-Main being an online exam for the past three years, Narayana has kept pace with technology and has given students the same exam experience with the new JEE 2021 pattern. On an average, Narayana students who appeared for JEE-Main 2021, had taken 30 full length online exams earlier. Over 10,000 tabs and computers complimenting the nLearn App on every Narayana JEE campus led to this achievement, said group executive director Puneet Kothapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/students-of-narayana-sri-chaitanya-ace-jee-main/article34032729.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s coronavirus tally up by 143 cases||Telangana added 143 cases to its COVID-19 tally on Monday, taking it to 3,00,153. While 32,189 samples were tested, results of 624 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients have died, putting the fatality figure at 1.644. The new 143 cases include 31 from Greater Hyderabad, 12 from Rangareddy and 10 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. No case was recorded in nine districts including Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, and Jogulamba-Gadwal. The total number of tests conducted to detect coronavirus has crossed 90 lakh in the State; it stood at 90,16,741 by Monday evening. Of the total cases, 1,769 were active and 2,96,740 have recovered. DPH discharge today Meanwhile, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, who was hospitalised on Monday following cardiac problem, would be discharged on Wednesday. The senior official said he underwent a routine health check-up where some minor cardiac problem was noted and taken care of by experts. However, sources said he underwent a medical procedure and was admitted in Intensive Care Unit (ICU). He was shifted from the ICU to a room in the hospital on Tuesday. “I am fit and eager to resume my regular duties after getting discharged from the hospital, which will be soon as per the instructions of the attending doctors,” Dr Srinivasa Rao stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-coronavirus-tally-up-by-143-cases/article34032727.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy seeks high-level probe into Bhainsa violence||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Tuesday called for a high-level probe into the communal clashes at Bhainsa in Adilabad and stated that the repeated violent incidents in the last few years is a cause of concern and “there appears to be a conspiracy to disrupt normal life of citizens”. Recurring incidents “I demand that the government take appropriate steps to see that these incidents do not recur again as vested interests seem to be at work to disturb the communal harmony. I already requested the DGP M. Mahender Reddy to nab the culprits responsible for disturbing peace and amity in the area and take strict action against them,” he said, in a press release. Mr. Reddy also stated that he has been apprising the Home Minister Amit Shah about the prevailing situation and the party state unit too is discussing the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-for-high-level-probe-into-bhainsa-violence/article34032733.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Grand Maha Shivaratri planned at Vemulawada||The Maha Shivaratri celebrations would be organised on a grand scale at Rajarajeshwara temple in Vemulawada of Rajanna-Sircilla district on Thursday, Minister for Endowments A. Indrakaran Reddy said at a review meeting held at the temple town on Tuesday. The Minister reviewed the arrangements being made for Maha Shivaratri with revenue, police, medical and health, panchayat raj, rural water supply and other departments at a meeting held on the temple premises. Speaking on the occasion, he said it was being expected that the turnout of pilgrims and devotees would be about 4 lakh this time and arrangements were being made so that no inconvenience was caused to the devotees. He stated that wearing masks was mandatory for every devotee and visitor to the temple along with maintenance of physical distance due to the COVID-19 restrictions. The review meeting was attended by District Collector Krishna Bhaskar, Superintendent of Police Rahul Hegde, temple Executive Officer Krishna Prasad and other officials. Earlier, the minister performed special pujas at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/grand-maha-shivaratri-planned-at-vemulawada/article34033008.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth arrested for harassing woman||The Rachakonda Cyber Crime Police on Tuesday apprehended a man who allegedly harassed a woman by morphing her photos. According to the police, the accused Jannu Kalyan (22) is an autorickshaw driver and a resident of Warangal. Police said that the accused created at least eight accounts on Instagram and sent friend requests to women. He allegedly downloaded photos from their profiles and morphed them. He then allegedly used to demand that they video chat with him in the nude. If they refused, he threatened to upload their morphed photos on social media. Based on the victim’s complaint, police began an investigation and gathered technical evidence after which the accused was apprehended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-arrested-for-harassing-woman/article34033009.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notification for TGCET-2021||Chief convener of Telangana Gurukul Common Entrance Trest (TGCET-2021) R.S. Praveen Kumar released notification for admission into 5th class in Social, Tribal, BC and General Welfare Residential Educational Institutions for the academic year 2021-2022. Candidates currently studying in 4th class are eligible to apply online from March 10 to April 3. Entrance exam will be conducted on May 30 from 11 a.m to 1 p.m in designated centres across Telangana. A toll free number 1800 425 45678 has been launched for admission related queries. The candidates are requested to visit the following websites for prospectus, eligibility criteria and submission of online applications: www.tswreis.in http:/tgcet.cgg.gov.in http:/mjptbcwreis.telangana.gov.in & http:/tgtwgurukulam. telangana.gov.in http:/tresidential.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notification-for-tgcet-2021/article34032734.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Duo held for ATM cash theft||The Central Crime Station on Tuesday apprehended two persons for allegedly siphoning off Rs. 1.30 crore from various ATMs of ICICI bank. A complaint was given by M Srinivas Rao, GM, Securevalu India Ltd, a cash replenishment service provider for ICICI Bank. The accused have been identified as Gundelli Krishna, custodian at Securevalu India Ltd and Rapaka Rajasekhar, a former employee of the same company. Police said Krishna was ‘instigated’ by Rajasekhar to siphon off the money. Police seized Rs. 16.43 lakh from their possession. Held for harassment The Rachakonda Cyber Crime Police on Tuesday apprehended a man who allegedly harassed a woman by morphing her photos. According to the police, the accused Jannu Kalyan (22) is an autorickshaw driver and a resident of Warangal. Police said that the accused created at least eight accounts on Instagram and sent friend requests to women. He allegedly downloaded photos from their profiles and morphed them. He then allegedly used to demand that they video chat with him in the nude. If they refused, he threatened to upload their morphed photos on social media. Based on the victim’s complaint, police gathered technical evidence after which the accused was apprehended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/duo-held-for-atm-cash-theft/article34032739.ece
10 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crests handed over to Begumpet Air Force Station||A ceremonial Parade was organised for handing over ‘Crests’ to Air Force Station Begumpet and 19 TETTRA School, Hyderabad on Tuesday. Air Marshal RD Mathur, Air Officer Commanding–in-Chief, Training Command, reviewed the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crests-handed-over-to-begumpet-air-force-station/article34032736.ece
10 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||All set for Teerthala jatara||The famous pilgrim centre of Teerthala, the abode of Lord Sangameswara, in Khammam rural mandal is all set to host the three-day Maha Shivaratri jatara slated to begin on Wednesday midnight. The jatara at the historic temple, dedicated to Lord Sangameswara, located near the confluence point of the three rivers — Munneru, Akeru and Buggeru — is expected to draw hordes of devotees from the old undivided Khammam, Warangal and Nalgonda districts. The Shiva Kalyanam will be performed at the temple on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri festival on Thursday. All the necessary arrangements have been put in place to ensure smooth conduct of the three-day religious fair in conformity with the COVID-19 safety norms, temple sources said. Khammam Police Commissioner Tafseer Iqbal reviewed the bandobust arrangements at the temple on Tuesday. He said around 200 police personnel will be deployed for the bandobust at the temple and the venue of the three-day jatara. CCTV cameras will be installed at various locations at the jatara site and barricades will be set up at the bathing ghats as part of the elaborate plan for management of the devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-set-for-teerthala-jatara/article34033015.ece
10 March 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||In death, man avoids displacement||For 32- year old tribal Banothu Hanumanthu, a resident of Mogilicheruvu Tanda under Etigaddakishtapur Panchayat in Toguta mandal, Monday was the last day in his life. Unable to bear the pressure to vacate the his home and village he suffered a cardiac arrest and breathed his last while being shifted to government hospital at Gajwel. The last rites were performed by his 14- year old son Anil, studying Class 9, on Tuesday in the presence of all villagers. His 55-year-old grandmother Buli, 29-year-old mother Jyothi and his six and four year old sisters helplessly watched Hanumanthu’s last journey. Anil’s two young sisters were unable to comprehend what was happening and could not understand that their father would never return. While the teenager could understand that his father was no more and but was not yet able to understand how it would affect their life. Ms. Jyothi, of Pallepahad Tanda, got married to Hanumanthu more than one-and-a-half decade ago. She is struggling to come to terms with the fact that Mallannasagar has not only claimed her marital home in Mogilicheruvu Tanda but also her parental village Pallepahad Tanda. Both the tandas will be submerged in Mallannasagar. “The uncertainty crept into our lives and thoughts after the survvey work began for Mallannasagar in 2015. Since then we have been repeatedly protesting but to no avail. In the past five years or so eight persons died in the village. We are being forcibly distanced from our lands and animals,” said a villager mourning the death of Hanumanthu, who lived among them till yesterday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-death-man-avoids-displacement/article34033013.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||GARAGE SALE||Mobile phones Two Samsung mobile phones recently purchased, well maintained in working condition Rs. 16,000; Two J4 Samsung tabs well maintained, sparingly used Rs. 12,000. Panasonic cordless phone in good condition with caller ID and intercom, well maintained Rs. 7,000. Contact Ch. Anand - 9121383238.  Ovenware Seven big-sized Borosil ovenware glass dishes for sale. Price Rs. 5,000. Contact K.N. Sharada Devi - Mobile 9848273704/9246752268.  Dining table Six-seater brand new glass dining table purchased from FWD store for sale for Rs. 10,000. Contact K.Sowjanya - 9494254166.  Book case Large wood book case-cum -mantle for Rs. 15,000. Contact Padmaja - 9948269211.  Tablet Google Nexus Tablet 32 GB for Rs. 3,000 and Amazon Kindle Fire ebook reader 16 GB for Rs. 3,000. Contact Srinivas - 9177702761.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article34032724.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista redevelopment project will enhance green cover, says govt.||The Central Vista redevelopment project would add to the green cover in the region, the Environment Ministry said in a written response to a question in the Rajya Sabha. “As per project proponent (Central Public Works Department), there is no loss of green cover due to Central Vista Redevelopment Project. However, overall green cover is enhanced by 5.4 acre in Central Vista avenue for public use,” the statement noted. However, the Environment Ministry noted that it was yet to receive the proposal for grant of environmental clearance. The Ministry granted Environment Clearance (EC) for expansion and renovation of the Parliament Building by Central Public Works Department and this is contingent on implementing dust mitigation measures for construction and demolition activities implementing a plan to prevent ambient air quality from spiking at the site and, implementing a Traffic Management Plan without any tree cutting. The Central Vista Avenue plan also involves new secretariat buildings, as well as a Prime Minister’s residence and a Vice-President’s residence. The proposed Parliament will be three times bigger than the existing Parliament and the entire project spans close to 86 acres. It is scheduled to be ready by 2022 in time for India's 75th anniversary of Independence. The overall cost of the project is expected, as of now, to lie between Rs. 13,000-Rs. 15,000 crore. The project had faced several legal challenges, but the Supreme Court in a majority judgement gave its go-ahead to the proposal in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/central-vista-redevelopment-project-will-enhance-green-cover-says-govt/article34032608.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine drive: no special classification for lawyers||The Central government on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that it is not desirable to create a special classification of lawyers for getting priority in COVID-19 vaccination drive. “The term front-line worker is used only for those citizens who are required to be directly exposed to the Covid infected patients," the Centre said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vaccine-drive-no-special-classification-for-lawyers/article34032605.ece
10 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||No-confidence motion in Haryana today||Ahead of the Congress party’s no-confidence motion to be moved against the Haryana government on March 10, the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party-Jannayak Janta Party and the Congress, the principal Opposition party, on Tuesday issued whips to their legislators, asking them to be present in the Assembly. The BJP in its whip said, “All the members of the Bharatiya Janata Legislature Party are requested to remain present in the House throughout the 10th day of March during the current budget session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha and should not leave the chamber without prior permission of the leader.” The whip, issued by party’s chief whip Kanwar Pal, added “Many important legislative matters are likely to come up for discussion. The members are requested to be present at the time of division voting.” Whips issued The Jannayak Janta Party also issued a whip. Its chief whip Amarjeet Dhanda said, “All JJP members of the Assembly are hereby informed that no-confidence against the Council of Ministers proposed by the Opposition will be brought in the Assembly on Wednesday, March 10. All members of JJP in the Assembly are therefore requested to be present positively in the House throughout the day on March 10 and support the stand of the government against the no-confidence motion.” Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, meanwhile, hit out at JJP, accusing it of selling farmer’s interests for power. Mr. Surjewala said the whip issued by JJP, which directs its MLAs to oppose the ‘no-confidence motion’ clearly shows that JJP has betrayed the farmers. The Congress in its whip said, “Members of CLP, Haryana, are informed that no-confidence motion against the government shall be listed on March 10 in the business of the House.” “I issue whip that you must ensure your presence in the House on March 10, 2021, at 10 a.m. positively and support the vote of no-confidence. Members are advised not to leave the House without prior permission of the CLP leader,” said chief whip Bharat Bhushan Batra. A no-confidence motion will be moved by the Congress against the BJP-JJP government after Speaker Gian Chand Gupta last week fixed the date for discussion on the motion. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had stated that the need to move a no-confidence motion had come because the BJP-JJP government had lost public confidence in the backdrop of controversial farm laws.  BJP-JJP government has lost public confidence in the backdrop of controversial farm laws  Bhupinder Singh Hooda Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-confidence-motion-in-haryana-today/article34032630.ece
10 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Govt. trying to break farmers’ unity: RLD leader||Rashtriya Lok Dal vice president Jayant Chaudhary said on Tuesday that the BJP government was trying different methods to break the unity of farmers, but has failed. “It has been 104 days and the heavy turnout in these panchayats is a proof that farmers are coming out on their own against the farm laws,” he said while addressing yet another kisan panchayat in western Uttar Pradesh. Speaking at Bhatta Parsaul in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Mr. Chaudhary remarked that Prime Minister Narendra Modi repeatedly said Rs. 2,000 had been sent directly into the accounts of the farmers, “but doesn’t admit that by increasing the prices of diesel, DAP and cooking gas, double of that amount is being taken back from the farmer.” Taking a dig at the ‘Modi Dada’ posters, Mr. Chaudhary said it reflected his dadagiri with farmers. “I can bet once the Bengal election ends, the flowing beard would be trimmed,” he quipped. Reminding farmers of the protests in Bhatta Parsaul against land acquisition that led to the formation of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, Mr. Chaudhary said farmers should keep one eye on their farms and the other on the farm laws made by the government. He said the government was busy spreading lies about the laws that they would help the small and marginal farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-trying-to-break-farmers-unity-rld-leader/article34032635.ece
10 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Vote against govt.: Tikait to MLAs||Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait appealed to Haryana MLAs to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion in the Assembly. In a video released on Tuesday, Mr. Tikait requested public representatives to stand by the farmers. “We would honour MLAs who would vote against the State government,” he promised. He also asked people to speak to their representatives and convince them to support the farmers’ movement. Later, at the Ghazipur protest site, he said heavy turnout at kisan panchayats proved farmers would not return home until the farm laws were repealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vote-against-govt-tikait-to-mlas/article34032636.ece
10 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers protest outside leaders’ homes||Farmers, khap leaders, social activists and members of various employees’ and traders’ unions on Tuesday held demonstrations outside the residences of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jannayak Janta Party MLAs and the Independents across Haryana and handed over memorandums demanding to support the no-confidence motion against the government on March 10. A large number of protesters laid siege to the residence of Badhra MLA Naina Chautala, the mother of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, around noon, raising slogans and demanding to meet her. When no one turned up, the agitating farmers pasted a copy of the memorandum at the main gate to the legislator’s house demanding that she should support the no-confidence motion. Police personnel were also present in large numbers. Led by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Ravi Azad and Sheoran khap-52 president Karambir Fartia, farmers handed over a memorandum to the office in-charge of Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal in Loharu. Similarly, the agitating farmers reached the residence of Bhiwani MLA Ghanshyam Saraf in a procession and held demonstration. They handed over a memorandum of their demands to him. The protesters also raised slogans outside the residences of Uklana MLA and Minister of State for Labour, Anoop Dhanak, and Barwala MLA Jogi Ram, both JJP legislators, and Haryana Lokhit Party MLA Gopal Kanda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-protest-outside-leaders-homes/article34032632.ece
10 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||ULFA leader held for ‘plot’ to assassinate Minister||The Assam police have arrested a top leader of the pro-talks United Liberation Front of Asom for allegedly plotting to assassinate State’s Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Arrested from his Guwahati residence on Monday night, ULFA vice chairman Pradip Gogoi was produced in a local court that sent him to police custody. “There was some information that he (Gogoi) and others were conspiring to assassinate the Health Minister (Dr. Sarma). We arrested him based on source evidence,” Guwahati Police Commissioner Munna Prasad Gupta told The Hindu . Two others from Karbi Anglong in central Assam were also arrested for their alleged involvement. “We caught the two last night. They were handed over to the Guwahati police today (Tuesday) morning,” a district police officer said, declining to be quoted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ulfa-leader-held-for-plot-to-assassinate-minister/article34032639.ece
10 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Sonowal files nomination from Majuli||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, BJP’s key candidate, filed his nomination papers from the Majuli Assembly seat on Tuesday. He is seeking election from the ‘island’ constituency for the second time. Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, party’s chief poll strategist, ally AGP president Atul Bora and Union Minister Jitender Singh accompanied him to the office of Majuli’s Deputy Commissioner Bikram Kairi. His main opponent will be former Congress Minister Rajib Lochan Pegu, who represented Majuli for three consecutive terms from 2001 until 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sonowal-files-nomination-from-majuli/article34032633.ece
10 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot refutes Centre’s claim on vaccine doses||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday refuted the claim of the Union Health Ministry that it had supplied 37.61 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine to the State, which had consumed only 24.28 lakh doses till Monday night. Mr. Gehlot said the Ministry’s figures were “totally wrong” and the State was facing a severe shortage of vaccines. Mr. Gehlot said the State had received 31,45,340 vaccines till March 8, out of which 2,15,180 had been made available to the Armed Forces. “A total of 29,30,160 doses were available for beneficiaries as per the rules, while 23,26,975 doses were administered till March 8. Over 1.62 lakh vaccines were spoiled. This number was less than 10% allowed by the Centre,” he tweeted. Mr. Gehlot appealed to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to instruct his officers to not spread wrong information about Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-refutes-centres-claim-on-vaccine-doses/article34032629.ece
10 March 2021||Kolkata,||Defections from TMC mar poll landscape||The defection of 88-year-old four-time Trinamool Congress MLA from Singur Rabindranath Bhattacharya to the BJP could not have come at a worse time. Mr. Bhattacharya known as “master moshai (teacher)” is not only respected for his integrity, but he was also the face of the protests against forcible land acquisition at Singur for the Tata Nano small car project. Singur was synonymous with the TMC’s fight against land acquisition and was crucial to Mamata Banerjee’s ascent to power in 2011. Mr. Bhattacharya said the TMC had “abandoned” him and he refused to buy the argument that he was denied ticket because of his age. He was also upset that his political rival in the party, Becharam Manna, got a ticket from Singur and his wife Karabi Manna from nearby Haripal constituency. Among the five MLAs who defected to the BJP was Sonali Guha, a close associate of Ms. Banerjee and four time MLA fom Satgachia Assembly seat. The other defectors include former footballer Dibyendu Biswas (Basirhat Dakshin), Jatu Lahiri (Shibpur) and Sital Sardar (Sankrail). These MLAs were denied tickets and they joined the BJP after the TMC list was announced. For the BJP, defection has become a political tool, and any TMC leader joining the party is welcome. But the question is whether it will have any impact on the polls. Other than these five defections what stood out was the case of Sarala Murmu, who was given ticket from Habibpur in Malda but decided to switch to the BJP. An embarrassed TMC had to nominate a new candidate hours before Ms. Murmu joined BJP. ‘Not much clout’ As far as the five MLAs are concerned, a section of political observers feels that these leaders do not wield much political clout. “Most of these five MLAs are a spent force and do not matter much. However as far as the matter of perception goes, the BJP is trying to project that the TMC is disintegrating,” political commentator Biswanath Chakraborty said. Prof. Chakraborty, who teaches political science at Rabindra Bharati University, said the 14 zilla parishad members from Malda who joined the BJP can influence the polls. The TMC has also put a lot of emphasis on selection of candidates for the election and the only criteria considered was winnability. In that process, scores of sitting MLAs were denied tickets. While the BJP leadership is describing the development as a “moral victory” for the party, the TMC has described these defections as “good riddance”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/defections-from-tmc-mar-poll-landscape/article34032638.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||Ruckus in Assembly over demand to arrest API in Hiren death case||Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday witnessed noisy scenes as Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded the arrest of an Assistant Police Inspector (API) in the Mansukh Hiren death case. Heated exchanges between MLAs of the ruling Shiv Sena and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party led to the House being adjourned several times before it was finally adjourned for the day. Mr. Fadnavis demanded action against API Sachin Vaze in connection with the death of Hiren who was in possession of the SUV laden with explosives, which was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, Antilia, on February 25. Police said the vehicle was stolen from Hiren’s possession on February 18. The mystery deepened after Hiren’s body was found in a creek last Friday in Thane. ‘Hiren’s wife’s statement’ Reading out a statement by Hiren’s wife, Mr. Fadnavis said Mr. Vaze knew Hiren and had used the Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks, found outside Mr. Ambani’s house. He said, “His wife’s statement says Mr. Vaze was with Hiren for three days. He had even asked Hiren to get arrested for two or three days and assured to release him later. His wife says Sachin Vaze killed her husband.” The BJP leader also claimed that the last location of Hiren’s mobile phone was in Vasai near the property of Dhananjay Vithal Gavade, against whom an FIR was lodged in an extortion case. The other person mentioned in the FIR was Mr. Vaze. Mr. Fadnavis said Mr. Gavade and Mr. Vaze are out on interim bail in the case. “This evidence is enough to arrest Mr. Vaze as he can even destroy evidence,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis alleged that the State government was trying to safeguard Mr. Vaze as it feared his interrogation would reveal several big names in the case. “This government is scared,” he said. Meanwhile, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh accused the former chief minister of demanding Mr. Vaze’s arrest as the officer is conducting the probe into the Anvay Naik suicide case, in which Republic TV anchor Arnab Goswami had been arrested. The Sena alleged that Mr. Fadnavis tried to cover up the probe into the death of the architect during his tenure as chief minister. Sena MLA Bhaskar Jadhav said, “Since he [Fadnavis] is scared that the truth may come out, the BJP wants Mr. Vaze out of the police force.” Amid the commotion, Sena MLAs also raised the suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha MP Mohan Delkar was found dead at a hotel on Marine Drive on February 22. He had allegedly named the Union Territory’s administrator and former Gujarat home minister Praful K. Patel in his suicide note. Mr. Deshmukh clarified that State Anti-Terrorism Squad is probing the case and Mr. Vaze had no connection to it. The Home Minister also announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team to probe Delkar’s death. “We will not spare the guilty,” he said. The House was adjourned for the day as the MLAs continued raising slogans.  Since he [Fadnavis] is scared that the truth may come out [in Anvay case], the BJP wants Vaze out of the police force Bhaskar Jadhav Sena MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ruckus-in-assembly-over-demand-to-arrest-api-in-hiren-death-case/article34032801.ece
10 March 2021||Mumbai,||No immediate lockdown in Mumbai: BMC||Despite a surge in COVID-19 cases, the situation in Mumbai is under control and there is no need to impose a lockdown now, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner Iqbal Chahal said on Tuesday. According to civic officials, the spike in cases is a result of an increase in daily testing. The BMC has ramped up testing significantly from 11,000 to 15,000 tests conducted in January to over 20,000 at present. As many as 23,000 COVID-19 tests were conducted by the civic body on Monday. The city has recorded a positivity rate of 6%, which is quite less compared to other cities in Maharashtra, a civic official said. The cases were scattered across the city and not concentrated in a particular locality. “Slums have just 2% to 3% cases, and the number of cases reported from residential buildings are also not high. A lockdown won’t be effective in such a situation,” he said. Officials have, however, warned that if citizens do not follow the COVID-19 protocol, the civic body may be forced to take stringent steps. A senior BMC official said nearly 60% beds are available for COVID-19 patients at city hospitals. Third sero survey The civic body has undertaken the third sero survey in Mumbai and 12,000 samples will be collected from 24 wards, the official said, adding that a report is expected in two weeks. The COVID-19 immunisation drive is under way at 67 centres, including 24 civic hospitals, four State-run hospitals and 38 private hospitals, the official said. The BMC is planning to increase the number of the vaccination centres to 85, he said. Meanwhile, Guardian Minister for Mumbai suburban district Aslam Shaikh said if COVID-19 cases continue to rise in the city, the possibility of lockdown or night curfew cannot be ruled out. The administration is allowed to call for a partial lockdown if necessary, Mr. Shaikh said. “Mumbai has been reporting a higher number of cases. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has instructed all administration offices to take necessary steps to counter the pandemic. Those steps may involve partial lockdown, increase testing, or even complete lockdown,” he said. Sudden surge in cases “We appeal to all citizens to follow health norms, and take precautions especially in crowded places. Those who don’t wear masks will be penalised,” he said. In the past four days, Mumbai has recorded over 1,000 daily cases: 1,014 (March 8), 1,361 (March 7), 1,188 (March 6), and 1,174 (March 5). The Thane Municipal Corporation has imposed a lockdown in 16 hotspots. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-immediate-lockdown-in-mumbai-bmc/article34032802.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quarter of total budget set aside for education||Finance Minister Manish Sisoida on Tuesday proposed to introduce a slew of new measures in Delhi’s budget 2021-22 that included setting up of a virtual model school, establishing a Delhi Law University, introducing a new syllabus for classes Nursery to 8, setting up 100 schools of excellence and establishing Delhi’s own Education Examination Board. ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum Keeping with the theme of ‘deshbhakti’ budget, Mr. Sisodia announced the setting up of the Capital’s first Sainik school as well as an Armed Forces Preparatory Academy. He said that the ‘deshbhakti’ curriculum that the government has been working on will also be rolled out to instil the spirit of patriotism and nationhood within every child. He also announced measures to turn education into a public movement by starting a “mentorship volunteer programme” called ‘Youth for Education’. To achieve these initiatives as well as to continue with the education reforms that the government has been introducing over the past six years, Mr. Sisodia said that “25%” of the Rs. 69,000-crore budget would be earmarked for education. New policy The Minister said that to fully implement the National Education Policy, certain changes needed to be made to the Delhi School Education Act, 1973, and the “100-year-old” Delhi University Act 1922. “Both these laws are not aligned to the ethos of the new education policy. We have requested the Central government to revise the provisions of the Delhi University Act and have also started working on the New Delhi School Education Act for Delhi,” Mr. Sisodia said. Elucidating on the proposed virtual model school, Mr. Sisodia said that the school will be based on the principle of “anywhere living, anytime learning, anytime testing” and that it will not have four walls or a building but there will be children, teachers, regular teaching-learning, examinations and assessments. “It will be a unique experiment in itself, and will probably be the first virtual school in the world. Work has already begun on the design of this school. This will benefit students in Delhi as well as all those children who live in any part of the country but want to benefit from the Delhi education model,” Mr. Sisodia said. New campus The Minister said that although in the past six years, Delhi has witnessed an increase of 36.42 % in the seats allotted for higher education and 66.44% in those for technical education, a lot still remains to be accomplished. He said that the construction of the east campus of Guru Gobind Singh IP University is expected to complete by May 2021 and the new campus of Ambedkar University in Dhirpur and Rohini by September 2023 which will increase the intake capacity of students by 8,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/quarter-of-total-budget-set-aside-for-education/article34032615.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||No road map for govt.’s lofty green goals||Delhi Finance Minister Manish Sisodia during the presentation of the budget said that in the next 25 years, the city has to be made free of “environment pollution” and the government plans to convert the entire transport system into an electric vehicle system. But there were no detailed road maps in the budget speech about how to achieve the targets. No new scheme was announced separately. “Environment section has set the ambition for pollution-free Delhi and a target for a fleet of electric vehicles but without stating the scope, targets and specific budgetary support for full range of action,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a research and advocacy organisation in Delhi. “However, we appreciate the focus on electrification of fleet and target for buses and overall public transport,” she added. Also, there were no major new major projects or schemes related to the environment announced in the budget apart from progress and completion of multiple ongoing projects. Cleaning the Yamuna The Minister said that the Yamuna can be cleaned in the next three years. “Interceptor sewer project work is also nearly 99% completed. With the help of STP and Interceptor, the Yamuna can now be cleaned completely within the next three years,” he said. In last year’s budget, Mr. Sisodia announced as the first point in the environment section that the government’s aim was to reduce air pollution in the city to one-third of the 2020 level, in five years. The reduction in air pollution to one-third was promised by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in the run-up to the Delhi Assembly election in 2020, as part of the AAP’s 10-point guarantee card too. But this aim or its status did not find any mention in the present budget or the Outcome budget of last year, which was tabled in the Delhi Assembly on Monday. Mr. Sisodia said that the installation of two smog towers is in its “final stage”. One of the towers will take at least three more months to be completed, according to several officials. Meanwhile, the second smog tower is not being installed by the Delhi government, but by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-road-map-for-govts-lofty-green-goals/article34032617.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Tax collection may decrease by 33.56% mainly due to COVID-19||Tax revenue collection of the Delhi government is expected to fall by 33.56% in 2020-21 mainly due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to budget documents. Despite this, the Delhi government has increased the 2021-22 budget to Rs. 69,000 crore — an increase of over 6% from the Rs. 65,000 crore earmarked in 2020-21. Tax collection was estimated to be Rs. 44,100 crore in 2020-21, but a revised estimate shows it will be Rs. 29,300 crore. The pandemic and the lockdowns affected businesses and that in turn reduced the different taxes paid to the government. ‘Increase spending’ “At this point, it is a good move by the government to increase spending, as it will create employment and also increase purchasing power of the people and this will in turn help in reviving the economy,” said Arun Kumar, former Professor at Economics Department, JNU. During his budget speech, Mr. Sisodia said the government's goal is to increase per capita income of Delhi by 2047 so it is on par with Singapore. “To make this possible, we have to increase the income of our citizens 16-fold, which is a difficult target but not impossible," said the Finance Minister. He, however, did not provide a road map on how this target will be achieved. “To increase the income by 16 times by 2047, we have to double the income every six and a half years. For this, the per capita income has to grow at 12% every year. It has never happened before. I personally do not support such goals. Even if we achieve this, we will not catch up with Singapore as they will have grown further by then,” Mr. Kumar said. The effect of the pandemic is also reflected in how the government plans to raise Rs. 69,000 crore in the coming financial year. While the expected tax revenue collection was Rs. 44,100 crore in the last budget, it has been reduced to Rs. 43,000 crore in the new budget. The government plans to take Rs. 9,285 crore as a “small savings loan” from the Centre, which is more than double the Rs. 4,141 crore it planned to take in 2020-21. Mr. Kumar said the decrease in tax revenue expected in the coming year shows that the Delhi government does not expect the economy to recover to 2019-level any time soon. From April to July 2020, during which time a lockdown was in force, tax revenue was down by 44.3% compared to the same period in 2019. But it slowly picked up as curbs were lifted. “Tax revenue, which fell during the initial phase of the pandemic, has picked up now. In February 2021, tax revenue was Rs. 3,300 crore, which is more than the Rs. 2,844 crore collected in February last year. It is too early to say whether it will continue, but we hope we will be able to raise Rs. 69,000 crore this year,” a Delhi government official said. Budget reduced Though the Budget Estimates for 2020-21 was Rs. 65,000 crore, the Revised Estimates for 2020-21 is Rs. 59,000 crore. “The Capital Budget decreased from Rs. 16,930 crore approved in Budget Estimates 2020-21 to Rs. 12,785 crore in Revised Estimates 2020-21, which is mainly due to the slow pace of Capital works following the lockdown in view of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the budget document said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tax-collection-may-decrease-by-3356-mainly-due-to-covid-19/article34032628.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||1,000 buses to be added to city’s fleet this fiscal||The allocation for the transport sector was increased to Rs. 9,394 crore from Rs. 5,941 crore compared to the last fiscal here on Tuesday. With added emphasis on the construction of roads and bridges, along with the allocation for the sector, 13% of the total budget would be dedicated to both during 2021-22. The Aam Aadmi Party government, Finance Minister Manish Sisodia said, had set a target to increase the number of buses on the city’s fleet of public transport to 11,000. With a view towards encouraging and strengthening the adoption of electric vehicles for the sake of the environment, charging infrastructure too, he said, was being created. “To promote the e-bus in the public transport sector, the government is preparing to bring 1,300 e-buses on the roads. Of this, tenders have been put in place for 300 DTC e-buses and they will hit the roads by December this year,” he said. “Over 1,000 new e-buses will be on the roads by the middle of next year under the cluster scheme. For the first time, a fleet of 1,600 buses have been added within a year to boost the public transport and by September this year, 1,000 more buses will be added,” he also said. Meanwhile, in addition to allocating Rs. 200 crore for the installation of CCTV cameras in the city, Rs. 35 crore was allocated for the construction of an underpass at Ashram Chowk scheduled to be completed by June 2021. For the extension of the Ashram Flyover to the DND Flyover by December 2021, Rs. 50 crore was pledged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/1000-buses-to-be-added-to-citys-fleet-this-fiscal/article34032620.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. calls budget visionless||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday called the budget “visionless, directionless and hollow”. It is a pointless exercise to sell a distant dream, as far away as 2047 when Delhi’s quality of living will be supposedly turned into the likes of Singapore, instead of addressing the existing issues. The Delhi Congress said that the government presents lofty budgets with this year’s pegged at Rs. 69,000 crore, which was a Rs. 4,000 crore jump from last year’s Rs. 65,000 crore estimates but the ground reality was that Rs. 6,000 crore from last year’s budget had remained unspent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-cong-calls-budget-visionless/article34032613.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Free vaccine for all at govt. hospitals’||Finance Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday announced mohalla clinics for women, free COVID-19 vaccine for all at government hospitals, and Rs. 1,293 crore for various projects for expansion of health-related infrastructure. But the percentage of the budget allocated for schemes and programmes of the health sector has shown only a slight increase to 14% this year from 13.39% in the last budget. He also said that the government will increase the capacity to administer COVID-19 vaccines to 60,000 persons per day in the next few days from the current level of 45,000 persons daily. “In Delhi, our government has decided that COVID-19 vaccine will be made available to the people of Delhi free of cost in government hospitals. For this new scheme ‘Aam Aadmi Free Covid Vaccine’, I am proposing an amount of Rs. 50 crore,” the Minister said. The number of hospital beds will increase by more than 14,000, Mr. Sisodia said. Mahila Mohalla Clinics The Finance Minister said that 100 ‘Mahila Mohalla Clinics’ are proposed to be established in different parts of Delhi and it will be increased to at least one clinic in each ward. He also said that the Delhi government is headed to another important beginning in health sector and a health card will be issued to every Delhiite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/free-vaccine-for-all-at-govt-hospitals/article34032618.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 schemes to boost tourism||To promote tourism, art and culture, the budget 2021-22 proposed two schemes titled the ‘Delhi Heritage Promotion’ and ‘Delhi Tourism Circuit’ to boost tourism and ensure safety of tourists. Finance Minister Manish Sisodia said that measures such as the installation of CCTV cameras at entry points of all tourist spots, lighting up of dark spots with LEDs, and posting of uniform-clad guards at all DTTDC spots will be implemented. He said that Rs. 521 crore has been allocated for the implementation of schemes and programmes in the sectors of tourism, art and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-schemes-to-boost-tourism/article34032621.ece
10 March 2021||Pune,||Another Major held in Army paper leak case||The Pune police on Tuesday arrested another Major rank officer in connection with the February 28 Army recruitment exam paper leak, an official said. The 45-year-old serving officer was detained in Delhi for questioning and arrested after being brought here, he said. The arrested officer had forwarded the question paper to one of the accused, an official said. He will be produced in court on Wednesday. Earlier, Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu was held with the police claiming he had circulated the question paper via Whatsapp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/another-major-held-in-army-paper-leak-case/article34032803.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Rushing to the rescue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rushing-to-the-rescue/article34032805.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Correction||In the report headlined ‘4% increase in number of vehicles on road’ that appeared on March 9, the accompanying graphic stated that the average daily passenger journeys on the Delhi Metro before COVID-19 lockdown was 27 lakh. The figure should have been 57 lakh.The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/correction/article34032626.ece
10 March 2021||Washington,||U.S. asks Afghan leaders to consider ‘an inclusive govt.’||President Joe Biden is testing whether he can bring sweeping changes in Afghanistan, including a potential government involving the Taliban, in a high-risk strategy as he weighs whether to honour a May deadline to end America’s longest war. In a letter leaked to the Afghan media over the weekend, Secretary of State Antony Blinken encouraged Afghan leaders to consider a “new, inclusive government” and proposed that talks take place within weeks in Turkey to seal a peace deal with the Taliban. The behind-the-scenes but dramatic diplomacy comes as Mr. Biden completes a review on one of his first major foreign policy questions — whether to abide by an agreement with the Islamist insurgents negotiated by former President Donald Trump to pull the final U.S. troops out by May. “I think the objective here seems to be, let’s see if there’s some other option that we have other than simply leaving on May 1 or overstaying. Is there some short-cut to a peace process?” said Laurel Miller, the former U.S. envoy on Afghanistan and Pakistan. “I see this as just trying stuff and looking to see if something sticks,” said Ms. Miller, Asia director at the International Crisis Group. In the letter to President Ashraf Ghani, reprinted by Afghanistan’s TOLOnews, Mr. Blinken said with uncharacteristic bluntness that the U.S. feared the “security situation will worsen and the Taliban could make rapid territorial gains” if the U.S. ends its two-decade military involvement. While saying the U.S. did not want to dictate terms, Mr. Blinken encouraged Mr. Ghani to “move urgently” on ideas from Zalmay Khalilzad, the veteran U.S. negotiator kept on from the Trump administration. Mr. Blinken proposed a 90-day reduction in violence that would avoid the Taliban’s bloody annual spring offensive. In addition to the meeting in Turkey, Mr. Blinken said the U.S. was asking the United Nations to convene a meeting of Foreign Ministers from Afghanistan’s neighbours on ensuring future stability that would notably include Iran — in what could turn out to be a first diplomatic encounter with the Biden administration. Saleh rejects ideas Afghan Vice-President Amrullah Saleh denounced the ideas in the letter, saying that the Taliban could enter elections but that the country’s fate would not be decided by “20 people in a room”. “We thank the U.S. for their support. They have the right to decide on their 2,500 troops,” he told an event in Kabul. “We also have the right to decide on the fate our 35 million people.” “We will never compromise our dignity. Our dependency on the outside world does not mean we obey illegitimate demands,” Mr. Saleh said. The State Department did not confirm or deny the letter, saying it would not discuss Mr. Blinken’s correspondence. But spokesman Ned Price said the administration was pursuing diplomacy aimed at permanently ending the fighting and bringing a political solution. “We have continued to encourage all sides to take part constructively, and with a degree of alacrity, knowing that this is a moment in time where progress is possible,” Mr. Price told reporters. First Lady Jill Biden also promised on Monday that the President will factor in women, who faced extreme restrictions under Taliban rule, telling an event: “The United States will stand with you.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-asks-afghan-leaders-to-consider-an-inclusive-govt/article34032235.ece
10 March 2021||Kathmandu,||Nepal’s ruling party splits||Nepal’s ruling party of ex-Maoist rebels and fellow communists split on Tuesday after the top election body ruled its name was unlawful, pushing the country into further political uncertainty. The Himalayan nation has been roiled by months of turmoil after Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli dissolved Parliament in December and accused members of his Nepal Communist Party (NCP) of being uncooperative. The NCP was formed in 2018 following a merger between Mr. Oli’s communist party CPN-UML and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre) of former rebel leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal. But the party had no right to the NCP name, the Supreme Court ruled on Sunday because another, separate communist faction was already using it. On Tuesday, the Election Commission concurred, and said it had “dismissed” Mr. Oli’s NCP — which had held a rare two-thirds parliamentary majority — from the electoral register. CPN (Maoist Centre) member Girirajmani Pokharel said the dissolution had sparked discussions in his faction of the party about “whether to withdraw support from the government”. No decision has been made, he added. The NCP’s triumph over the incumbent Nepali Congress party — the third major political force in the country — had been seen as the final step in Nepal’s post-war transformation into a republic. Brittle alliances have been struck between Nepal’s three dominant parties since 2008, and there was hope a majority government would bring stability and much-needed development to the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-ruling-party-splits/article34032231.ece
10 March 2021||Yangon,||A room-by-room search for anti-coup protesters||People barricaded in a Yangon neighbourhood overnight said on Tuesday that Myanmar security forces searched their homes room by room for anti-coup protesters, targeting apartments flying the flag of Aung San Suu Kyi’s party. Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military ousted and detained Ms. Suu Kyi last month, triggering daily protests around the country to demand the junta restore democracy. The police and the Army have responded with an increasingly brutal crackdown and parts of Yangon have emerged as flashpoints for violence as protesters continue to defy authorities and take to the streets. Crowds once again flocked to central San Chaung township in the commercial hub to call for Ms. Suu Kyi’s release in a Monday protest coinciding with International Women’s Day. By nightfall, security forces had sealed off a block of streets with around 200 protesters still inside, according to the UN rights office, prompting alarm from diplomatic missions and calls for their safe release. “They searched every building on Kyun Taw road — they destroyed the locks of apartment buildings if they were locked,” said a resident, adding that she heard dozens were arrested. Since the coup, more than 60 people have been killed by security forces, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-myanmar-a-room-by-room-search-for-protesters/article34032232.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The tale of two terminals in Colombo||In a Cabinet decision on February 1 this year, Sri Lanka booted India and Japan out of a 2019 deal to jointly develop the East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo Port, as trade unions and sections of the Buddhist clergy vehemently opposed foreign involvement in the strategic national asset. Further, some raised questions about the possible conflict of interest, given that the Adani Group operates about a dozen ports in India. Both India and Japan expressed displeasure at the Sri Lankan government’s “unilateral” decision. As an alternative, the Rajapaksa administration offered the West Container Terminal (WCT) at the Port to India and Japan for joint development on new terms, with higher stakes of 85 % for the foreign partners. On March 1, the government approved a joint venture with the Adani consortium to develop the WCT, on a build-operate-transfer basis for 35 years. But Sri Lanka’s change in course has been far from smooth. Both India and Japan have distanced themselves from the decision. New Delhi has termed Colombo’s statement that the Indian High Commission had approved the Adani Group’s proposal to develop the WCT “factually incorrect”. Japan is yet to name an investor, according to Sri Lanka’s Cabinet spokespersons. Colombo’s response Asked about New Delhi’s reaction to Colombo’s March 1 Cabinet decision, spokesman Udaya Gammanpila said on Tuesday, that the Indian government had “nominated” the Adani Group to invest in the ECT. Therefore, the Sri Lankan government “assumed” that the Group was the nominee for the WCT project too, as it was “the very same investment”, and only a “change in investment location”.  Two projects  The Colombo Port has five terminals at present — South Asia Gateway Terminal (SAGT), Jaya International Terminal (JCT), Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT), Unity Container Terminal, and the ECT. The proposed WCT is to come up at the Port’s western end. Although both ECT and WCT are located in the same port, there are crucial differences in their proposed development. The ECT is partially functional with a 600-metre quay wall, backyard, and gate complex. It awaits further development to augment operations and cargo transfers, at an estimated cost of $700-800 million. The WCT, on the other hand, exists only as an idea with no physical infrastructure, such that its development would require greater investment and take more time to be profitable. In the ECT deal, the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) was to hold a majority stake of 51%, while Indian and Japanese investors were to hold 49% together. The more recent WCT deal that Sri Lanka’s Foreign Secretary called a “compromise” envisages 85% for the Indian and Japanese investors, for 35 years, while the SLPA would hold the rest. The arrangement is similar to the CICT, where China Merchants Port Holdings Company holds an 85% stake. According to Cabinet spokesman Mr. Gammanpila, the “nationalist forces” as well trade unions “strongly” view the ECT as “a strategically important terminal” and it should not be developed by a company with a conflict of interest. “But WCT is not considered as important as the ECT, therefore, their [Adani Group’s] experience in the port sector would be considered as a positive factor, not a negative factor.” Questions about the deal In terms of foreign relations, the government’s abrupt exit from an existing international agreement surprised, and even shocked, many. Domestically, too, the government faces several questions.   While the government claims that a “majority” of trade unions are on board with the new proposal, a section of unions see the WCT offer to India, as being as problematic as the former ECT deal. Their opposition was principally to foreign involvement in national assets. The government’s political rivals, including the main opposition party Samagi Jana Balawegaya and the leftist-nationalist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna are also opposing the decision, accusing the government of back-tracking.  Implications Industry representatives, who favoured private partnerships to develop the Colombo Port as an international hub, are unconvinced of Colombo’s policy switch. Rohan Masakorala, maritime shipping expert and CEO of the Shippers’ Academy Colombo, said it was “a big mistake”. “Making the ECT a 100% public terminal without a partnership with international consortiums or port operators is purely a political decision, not an economic one,” he said, adding that the move could cost the Colombo Port in its efficiency in the medium to long term. “It also gives potential investors here mixed signals, because the government’s position was volatile and not direction driven,” he told The Hindu . The latest WCT proposal also begs the question that if there is no governmental agreement from India or Japan this time, why didn’t Colombo choose the investor through a competitive international bidding process? Observing that “ideally” Colombo should have gone for such a bid, Mr. Masakorala said: “But we walked into a situation that required damage control.” Experts have for long maintained that if the Colombo Port is to become an international hub it would need to collaborate with foreign shipping companies, port operators and logistics companies. Especially because 81% of the total cargo arriving at the Colombo Port is transhipment cargo, while only 19% accounts for domestic cargo. Over 70% of the transhipment business is linked to the Indian market — a reason that successive governments cited for Indian involvement in the terminal development projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-tale-of-two-terminals-in-colombo/article34032237.ece
10 March 2021||London,||Don’t think the royals are racist, says Meghan’s father||Meghan Markle’s estranged father on Tuesday suggested that his daughter exaggerated racism in the British royal family during her interview with U.S. chat show host Oprah Winfrey. Thomas Markle told ITV the couple’s two-hour chat with Ms. Winfrey was “way over the top” and suggested a royal family member could have asked a “dumb question” about her future baby’s skin colour. The 76-year-old Emmy-winning former lighting director was interviewed from his home in Mexico by one of Ms. Meghan’s most vehement critics, the former tabloid newspaper editor Piers Morgan. “They (Harry and Meghan) went way over the top with these stories with Oprah and should have waited, considering the Queen’s age and Philip’s age,” he said of the CBS show broadcast on Sunday. Prince Harry’s grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, is 94 and her husband, Prince Philip, is 99 and currently in hospital recovering from a heart operation. He played down Ms. Meghan’s comments that an unnamed royal family member had asked how dark her baby’s skin would be. “This whole thing about colour and how dark the baby is, is bullshit,” said Mr. Markle, who is white, while Ms. Meghan’s mother is black. “I’m guessing and hoping that it’s just a dumb question from somebody. I don’t think the British royal family are racist.” Mental health At the same time, he said he was upset by his daughter’s account of feeling suicidal after joining the royal family in 2018. “Had I known she had psychological problems, I would have been there for her,” he said. But he claimed that Ms. Meghan had “pretty much ghosted” her family in the U.S. and “she really had no one to reach out to”. Thomas Markle separated from Ms. Meghan’s mother Doria Ragland when the duchess was young.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dont-think-the-royals-are-racist-says-meghans-father/article34032230.ece
10 March 2021||Washington,||Biden imposes curbs on drone strikes||President Joe Biden has suspended drone strikes outside of war zones where U.S. forces are operating, reversing the policy of his predecessor Donald Trump, who had given the military free rein in countries such as Somalia. Any drone strikes planned against jihadist groups outside of Afghanistan, Syria or Iraq will have to be approved by the White House, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said on Monday. He described the measure as “interim guidance” that was issued “to ensure that the President has full visibility on proposed significant actions”. “It’s not meant to be permanent and it doesn’t mean a cessation” of strikes, he told a news conference. “We are clearly focused on the persistent threat of violent extremist organizations. And we’re clearly still going to be committed to working with international partners to counter those threats,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-imposes-curbs-on-drone-strikes/article34032226.ece
10 March 2021||Beijing,||In a first, China launches ‘virus passport’||China has launched a health certificate programme for Chinese international travellers, leading the world in plans for so-called virus passports. The digital certificate, which shows a user’s vaccination status and virus test results, is available for Chinese citizens via a programme on Chinese social media platform WeChat. The certificate is being rolled out “to help promote world economic recovery and facilitate cross-border travel”, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. Although the certificate is meant for travel in and out of China, it is currently only available for use by Chinese citizens, and it is not yet mandatory. There is also no indication authorities in other countries will use it when Chinese travellers go abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-a-first-china-launches-virus-passport/article34032227.ece
10 March 2021||Hong Kong,||HK patriotism includes party loyalty: official||Loyalty to China’s Communist Party will be key to deciding if a Hong Konger is a “patriot”, a Chinese official said on Tuesday, as Beijing draws up laws to vet the finance hub’s politicians.  “When we talk about patriotism, we are not talking about the abstraction of loving a cultural or historical China, but rather loving the currently existing People’s Republic of China under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party,” Song Ru’an, Deputy Commissioner of China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Hong Kong, said. “Patriots should respect the Chinese Communist Party,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hk-patriotism-includes-party-loyalty-official/article34032228.ece
10 March 2021||London,||Queen vows to address Harry and Meghan’s racism claims||Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II on Tuesday responded to explosive racism claims from her grandson Prince Harry and his wife Meghan, voicing deep concern and sympathising with their troubles with royal life. “The whole family is saddened to learn the full extent of how challenging the last few years have been for Harry and Meghan,” she said in a statement. “The issues raised, particularly that of race, are concerning. While some recollections may vary, they are taken very seriously and will be addressed by the family privately... Harry, Meghan and Archie will always be much-loved family members.”  ‘Over the top’ Ms. Meghan’s estranged father on Tuesday played down her comments that an unnamed royal family member had asked how dark her baby’s skin would be. In an interview with Piers Morgan on ITV, Thomas Markle said: “This whole thing about colour and how dark the baby is, is bullshit.” Mr. Markle is white, while Ms. Meghan’s mother is black. “I’m guessing and hoping that it’s just a dumb question from somebody. I don’t think the British royal family are racist.”  Reports have emerged that Mr. Morgan is to leave ITV’s ‘Good Morning Britain’, following furore over his interview with Mr. Markle, during which he targeted Ms. Meghan over her comments about the royal family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/queen-vows-to-address-harry-and-meghans-racism-claims/article34032314.ece
10 March 2021||Washington,||US offers temporary refuge to tens of thousands of Venezuelans||The U.S. will allow tens of thousands of Venezuelans to seek refuge, in a significant policy shift from the Trump era, officials said on Monday. Temporary Protected Status is being offered to people who fled political repression and economic chaos in the South American country. A senior official in President Joe Biden’s administration said “over 300,000 indivi- duals are estimated to be eligible”. The Venezuelans being considered are all already in the U.S. but will now be able to escape possible deportation, with stays granted through September 2022. "The living conditions in Venezuela reveal a country in turmoil, unable to protect its own citizens," Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-offers-temporary-refuge-to-tens-of-thousands-of-venezuelans/article34032234.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Target judicial patriarchy, not the judge||A survey by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in 2018 had rated India as the most dangerous country for women. According to a National Crime Records Bureau report (2019) as many as 32,032 rapes were reported in 2019 — or 88 incidents of rape a day. Every hour, 39 instances of crime against women including four instances of rape are committed in India. Reported rape cases have increased by 88% over a decade. Four lakh cases of crimes against women were reported in 2019 (https://reut.rs/2OD76xi).  Gender insensitivity The recent observations by the Chief Justice of India (CJI), S.A. Bobde, while granting bail to a government servant who is accused of repeated rape and torture of a 16-year-old child have been widely criticised though the Chief Justice of India has now denied having suggested marriage to the rape accused. To be fair to the head of India’s judiciary, not only was the question possibly raised due to the record before him in accordance with the powers of judges under Section 165 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872 to ask any question but he also did promptly realise the sensitivity involved and quickly corrected himself by saying, ‘we are not forcing you to marry the victim’. The worrisome issue is that legally speaking, rape is not even a compoundable offence and parties are not allowed to enter into compromise. Seeking an apology from the Chief Justice of India is not appropriate; however, South African Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng was recently directed by the Judicial Conduct Committee to apologise unconditionally for making pro-Israeli comments in a webinar. The real problem is that such avoidable utterances reflect the patriarchal mindset of our judges and the larger society. These statements demonstrate our gender insensitivity. While today the Chief Justice of India is being criticised from all over, let us remember that there have been several orders and judgments by Indian judges in the past which have done huge disservice to gender justice. Accordingly, the innocent question by the Chief Justice of India (“When two people are living as husband and wife, however brutal the husband is, can the act of intercourse between them be called rape?”) is neither the first nor the last instance. Here, in this instance, the man had married the victim at a temple and subsequently refused to recognise her as wife and married another woman. The accused had allegedly caused injuries to the private parts of the woman, yet was granted bail. Here again, what the Chief Justice of India said was similar to the Modi government’s affidavit, in 2017, in the Delhi High Court. The RSS too had opposed marital rape being made a crime. Interestingly, the Justice J.S. Verma Committee (2013), which was constituted after the Delhi gang rape (2012) had said that rape should be viewed not as an infringement of a woman’s chastity or virginity but a violation of her bodily integrity and sexual autonomy. This autonomy cannot be permanently lost by entering into marriage. Rape remains rape irrespective of the relationship. In the higher judiciary Let us look at similar observations by other judges to understand the patriarchal attitude of judges. A few years ago, the top court orally asked a convict who had molested a girl 10 years ago to fall at her feet and that if she forgave him, the Court too would limit his sentence of imprisonment to the period already undergone. In its June 22, 2020 order while granting advance bail to the rape accused, Justice Krishna S. Dixit of the Karnataka High Court asked why ‘the victim had gone to her office at night’; why had she ‘not objected to consuming drinks with him’. He further observed that ‘the explanation offered by the complainant that after the perpetration of the act, she was tired and fell asleep is unbecoming of Indian women; that is not the way our women react when they are ravished’. After a hue and cry, the judge expunged this controversial statement on July 2, 2020. The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court, in a strange ruling, had ordered that the sentence of the ‘rape convict can be cut if he agrees to pay Rs. 1 lakh to the victim’. Of course, the poor victim accepted the offer. In another case, the Bombay High Court had ordered that breaking a promise of marriage is neither cheating nor rape. Here, the victim had filed for divorce from her husband to marry the accused. Justice Mridul Bhatkar granted bail to the accused observing that ‘it is an unfortunate case of frustrated love affair’. The Madras High Court had granted bail to a rape accused so that he could mediate with the victim. The Supreme Court had to quickly intervene to get the bail cancelled. The Bhanwari Devi case Who can forget the shocking decision in Bhanwari Devi (1995); she was gang-raped in 1992. The acquittal order by the Rajasthan court gave absurd reasons such as a higher caste man cannot rape a lower caste woman for reasons of purity; her husband could not have watched his wife being raped; men who are 60-70 years old cannot commit rape and one relative cannot commit rape in front of another relative. It has been 25 years but the appeal against such a bizarre judgment has not been disposed of. Even in other matters about women, a few of our judges at times demonstrate our society’s attitude toward women. A 2020 judgment from the Guwahati High Court treated refusal of applying sindoor (vermilion) and wearing conch shell bangles ( shaka ) as sufficient basis to grant divorce to the husband. A few years ago, the Madras High Court gave an absurd order by directing that ‘divorcees too should maintain sexual purity to claim alimony’. Even a progressive judge like Justice M. Katju in D. Velusamy vs D. Patchaiammal (2010) had termed a second Hindu wife as a ‘mistress’ and ‘keep’, and thus not entitled to maintenance. In Narendra vs K. Meena (2016), the top court held that under Hindu traditions, a wife on marriage is supposed to fully integrate herself with her husband’s family and that if she refuses to live with her in-laws, it would amount to cruelty and the husband would be entitled to divorce her under the Hindu Marriage Act. The High Court had ruled in favour of the wife. But the Supreme Court reversed the High Court’s order, observing that ‘in India, generally people do not subscribe to the western thought, where, upon getting married or attaining majority, the son gets separated from the family. In normal circumstances, a wife is expected to be with the family of the husband after the marriage. She becomes integral to and forms part of the family of the husband’. Interestingly, though the wife is an integral part of her husband’s family, yet she is not a coparcener under the Hindu Succession Act.The Court also used Indian and Hindu ethos interchangeably without realising that under Muslim Personal Law, a wife has an absolute right to demand separate residence for herself. In Rajesh Sharma vs The State Of Uttar Pradesh (2017), a two judge Bench of Justices Adarsh Kumar Goel and Uday Umesh Lalit in yet another controversial order observed that there should be no automatic arrests on charges of cruelty. In this case, a demand of dowry was made for Rs. 3 lakh and a car, which the wife’s family was not able to meet. The pregnant wife was sent to her house, where she experienced trauma and her pregnancy was terminated. She was allegedly tortured, as noted by the lower court. An offence under Section 498A is non-bailable and non-compoundable so that the victim is not pressured into a compromise. And it is cognisable in that a police officer can make an arrest without a warrant from the court. The court did not hesitate in issuing a number of directions in favour of the accused — no arrest should normally be effected till the newly constituted Family Welfare Committee submitted its report; personal appearance of accused and out-station family members need not be insisted upon; bail application should be decided the same day. In 2017, the court decided to review this judgment. And in ‘Hadiya’ In the infamous Hadiya (2017) case too, some of the observations of the Kerala High Court about Hadiya’s independent agency and powers of her father over her were equally shocking and patriarchal. Even though the Supreme Court in 2018 upheld the validity of her marriage and overruled the High Court’s strange judgment, the fact is that the top court’s order of investigation by the National Investigation Agency into the matter of marriage of two adults was absolutely erroneous. One hopes the controversy now will lead to greater gender sensitivity by our judges, at least in their oral observations and questions, if not the final judgments. It would be better to target patriarchy rather than the Chief Justice of India. Of course the power to ask questions too must reflect gender sensitivity.   Faizan Mustafa is Vice-Chancellor, NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/target-judicial-patriarchy-not-the-judge/article34032213.ece
12 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Quad: strategic opportunity or quagmire?||On March 5, the Indian media carried news reports, based on remarks by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, that the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, known briefly as Quad, would soon meet at summit level, thus signalling the importance attached to this grouping by the Biden administration. The Quad, which comprises the U.S., Japan, Australia and India, had in February been described by the U.S. State Department as having “essential momentum and important potential”. India’s engagement with the Quad goes back to China’s expanding footprint in South Asia and the Indian Ocean Region over the last few years. China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative, proposing logistical connectivity across Eurasia and the Indian Ocean, rang alarm bells in India as the projects were viewed as encroachments into India’s strategic space. India responded with an upgradation of its naval capabilities and enhancement of ties with the Indian Ocean Region littoral states and other major powers in the region.     Separately, largely as a result of their shared concerns relating to the rise of China, India has been deepening its security ties with the U.S. Building on the initiatives of earlier administrations, the Obama and Trump presidencies focused on interoperability of defence equipment and training based on defence purchases, frequent land and sea exercises, and agreements harmonising the two countries’ military doctrines and operations. India in the Quad The U.S.’s focus on the west Pacific due to aggressive Chinese maritime activity gradually pulled India into the ambit of the Indo-Pacific that views the western Pacific and the Indian Ocean as an integrated geopolitical space. Besides the U.S. navy, India expanded its maritime ties with other regional states, the most high-profile of the interactions being the Quad. Since November 2017, the joint naval exercises of Quad members are being supplemented by extensive consultations on security issues. However, India’s involvement with the Quad was initially cautious due to its reluctance to join an overt anti-China coalition. For instance, at the Shangri La Dialogue in June 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the Indo-Pacific as a “geographical definition” and firmly denied it was a “strategy” or a “club of limited members … directed against any country”. Despite this, in September 2019, India agreed to elevate the Quad platform to ministerial level. This had dire consequences. By affiliating with the U.S.-led maritime coalition, India ignored the principal areas of its security concerns; as former National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon noted, “New Delhi and Washington see eye to eye on maritime strategy, but not on what to do on the Asian mainland”. India is the only Quad member that is not in the west Pacific and the only one that shares an undemarcated 3,500-km land border with China. From April 2020, Indian and Chinese forces had their latest border face-off in Ladakh, abruptly ending a long period of productive relations. Ties with China In retrospect, this confrontation appears to be China’s sharp response to the steady shift in India’s regional posture in favour of an alignment with the U.S. and its allies against China, particularly the increasing interoperability between the respective forces. China has given India a rude reminder that India’s security concerns lie in its northern borders, not the west Pacific. The U.S. views China’s rise as a threat to the world order it has led since the Second World War and is anxious to pull in allies to retard China’s ambitions and maintain its global hegemony. Despite rhetoric relating to the promotion of a ‘rules-based’ world order (the rules being most frequently violated by the U.S. itself), the Quad neither shares a strategic vision nor is it animated by a shared agenda. This is obvious not only from its inability to deter China in the west Pacific, but also by its members’ anxiety to maintain close ties with China. Thus, in 2020 China became India’s number one trade partner, with two-way trade at $77 billion. Again, China-U.S. trade continues to favour China — American investors hold $1 trillion of Chinese equity, and 75% of U.S. companies in China say they will continue to invest there. The Quad has a core structural problem as well in that it pivots around the U.S. The U.S. is a super-power with global interests, but it is also self-centred in defining and pursuing its interests, even as its policies experience major shifts due to government change or domestic lobbies. Clearly, the Quad riles China as a hostile grouping, but hardly serves the security interests of its members. Resetting alignments, policies Not surprisingly, the stand-off at Ladakh has been a bitter experience for India: it has affirmed the limits of India-U.S. security ties, the folly of Indian involvement in the Quad, and the need to focus national attention and resources in areas of abiding interest for India — the border, the neighbours and the Indian Ocean. Ladakh also offers some valuable lessons for India. One, the rebuilding of ties with China will have to be a priority concern. Though it will take time for trust to be restored, what will help will be for India to dilute its focus on the Indo-Pacific and the Quad and accept that the borders and the Indian Ocean are where its crucial interests lie. Two, the Ladakh experience has highlighted certain deficiencies at home: the government appears to be largely focused on reshaping the national ethos on the basis of a narrow and exclusive political ideology that has raised doubts about India’s continued commitment to democratic pluralism. It hardly needs reiteration that India’s capacities can only be built by a united people committed to the national cause. Finally, foreign policy cannot be a part-time concern of the national leadership; in terms of priority and attention, it should be on a par with domestic affairs. While this approach is being corrected, it should also be noted that India’s foreign policy has often been ad hoc, reactive and short term, reflecting the absence of a broad strategic culture. As the global scenario gets more complex and India’s ambitions increase, a cohesive strategic vision would give substance and drive to India’s pursuit of its interests over the long term. Ladakh offers a clear blueprint for the content and direction of national policy. Implementing it will ensure that the martyrdom of our soldiers in the northern snows would not have been in vain. Talmiz Ahmad served as Indian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Oman, and the UAE||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/quad-strategic-opportunity-or-quagmire/article34032224.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ploughing a new furrow in the agri-regulatory system||The intense debates around the recently enacted farm laws have brought to light the issue of developing a sound regulatory framework to promote India’s agricultural growth — and in keeping pace with the changing times. While the country is divided on the need for the three new farm laws, the fact remains that farmers, mainly smallholders, across India continue to face various constraints in carrying out farming activities. They include constraints in accessing agricultural inputs, markets, finance, human resources, and information, which are critical for increasing farmers’ competitiveness. Role for the government The existing institutional set up that controls farm production often fails to ease these constraints. A way out of this problem is to develop a suitable regulatory system that would enable farmers to overcome their constraints. Governments can play a critical role in this regard by enacting laws and regulations that influence farmers’ access to agricultural inputs, cost of production, farmers’ participation in agricultural markets and value chains, the competitiveness of farmers, and private investment in the farming sector. Where does India stand on this front in comparison to other countries? A recent publication by the World Bank titled Enabling the Business of Agriculture (EBA) 2019 provides some interesting insights on this question (https://bit.ly/3aB98FO). Based on eight indicators, the EBA measures the extent to which government regulatory systems in 101 countries worldwide make it easier for their farmers to operate agricultural activities. The indicators are supplying seed, registering fertilizer, securing water, registering machinery, sustaining livestock, protecting plant health, trading food, and accessing finance. These indicators measure the strength of a country’s agricultural regulatory environment pertaining to market integration and entrepreneurship in agriculture. The EBA is akin to the Doing Business project of the World Bank, which ranks the ease of doing business in countries. India’s poor standing Among 101 countries covered, India ranked 49 on the EBA aggregate score. France, Croatia, and the Czech Republic are the three top-ranking countries. Among emerging groups of 20 (EG 20) countries, India has the second least favourable regulatory environment for farming activities after South Africa. Turkey is the top-performing country among EG 20 countries, followed by Argentina, Brazil, the Russian Federation, Mexico and China. Notably, India lags behind its close competitors in world agriculture, namely China, Brazil, and the Russian Federation (https://bit.ly/3aJ3wJl). Compared to these three countries, India has the weakest performance on five out of eight indicators. They are registering fertilizer and machinery, securing water, sustaining livestock, and protecting plant health indicators. Registering fertilizer and machinery indicators measure domestic laws and regulations that provide farmers access to fertilizer and agricultural machinery. The regulatory processes that help farmers make appropriate decisions regarding the level of investment in irrigation are measured by securing water indicator. Sustaining livestock indicator captures the quality of regulations affecting farmers’ access to livestock farming inputs. The quality of legislation on phytosanitary standards (SPS) is captured through the protecting plant health indicator. Inadequate access to quality agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, water, and mechanical power can cause productivity loss, higher cost of food production and uncertainty, and lower capacity of farmers to produce surpluses, adopt new plant varieties and accept new opportunities to improve their income. The regulatory system that governs irrigation management is essential for reducing the variability of farm output, prices, and incomes, minimising vulnerability to natural shocks, and incentivising the production of riskier and high returns crops. Gaining access to the global agricultural value chain requires a sound regulatory framework on SPS. For instance, thanks to active involvement by the SPS authority, namely National Agrarian Health Service (SENASA-Peru), Peru had become one of the world’s leading exporters of asparagus. Seed supply The comparative score of India on supplying seed, trading food, and accessing finance indicators is high. Supplying seed indicator evaluates laws and regulations that ensure timely release of seed to farmers. A robust seed supply system is required for improving yield and adopting new crop varieties. The trading food indicator assesses laws and regulations that facilitate exporting of farm products by farmers. The regulatory framework on the use of warehouse receipts is assessed using accessing finance indicator. A robust warehouse receipts system enables the farmers to obtain the credit needed to invest in agriculture. Warehouse receipt operators accept deposits of crops and provide warehouse receipts to farmers as evidence of deposited crops. By using warehouse receipts as collateral, farmers can receive credit. The EBA project results reveal that, compared to its close competitors, the strength of India’s agricultural regulatory environment is weak on the whole and with respect to key performance indicators. The future of world agriculture and food production is expected to increasingly depend on middle-income countries such as China, India, Brazil, and Indonesia, just like the high-income countries dictating the fortunes of global agriculture in the past five decades (https://bit.ly/3ryD0cL). To make the best use of this great opportunity, India needs to put in place an agricultural regulatory system that would make it easier for its farmers to conduct agricultural activities, thereby improving their productivity, competitiveness, and income. Sthanu R Nair is Professor of Economics, Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ploughing-a-new-furrow-in-the-agri-regulatory-system/article34032215.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Karunanidhi’s defiance||The political career of Muthuvel Karunanidhi (1924-2018) lasted for eight decades. He took over the reins of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in 1969 and remained its leader until his death in 2018. Through the retelling of the life of the DMK stalwart in Karunanidhi: A Life , the author also gives “an insight into the workings of the modern Indian state”. An excerpt : Realising the way the Union government was zeroing in on the DMK [after Indira Gandhi declared the Emergency in 1975], M. Karunanidhi instructed his party cadres not to slacken their political work and to conduct both ward-level as well as district-level party meetings without fail. K. Anbazhagan, who became the treasurer of the party after MGR’s exit, ensured that at least one political event was held in every district of the State. The theme of these political meetings was the restoration of democracy. On the evening of January 31, 1976, Karunanidhi addressed a school function and said, ‘This might be my last speech as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.’ Before leaving the function, he had asked one of his confidantes to inform the leaders of the Opposition, who had taken refuge in the State, about the impending dismissal and asked them to seek a safe exit. (George Fernandes was one of the prominent leaders Indira Gandhi wanted to arrest. Karunanidhi not only provided him a safe sanctuary but ensured that not a whiff of his presence in Tamil Nadu reached the bureaucracy or the police. Fernandes was arrested in West Bengal, a fortnight after the fall of Karunanidhi’s ministry.) In an hour, Karunanidhi reached his Gopalapuram residence to be greeted by his nephews — Amirtham and Selvam — with a telex. It was a news agency report that said the government has been dismissed and the Assembly dissolved. ‘At last, the suspense is over,’ Karunanidhi said. Novel protest For some strange reason, Indira Gandhi ordered the arrest of people close to Karunanidhi but not his arrest. The Central government cut off the telephone lines at Karunanidhi’s home, and at the offices of the DMK and Murasoli . The Army was called to carry out flag marches to instil fear and to curb protests. Within three hours of the dismissal, a posse of policemen landed at Karunanidhi’s place and wanted to arrest his son M.K. Stalin. This news sent shock waves through Karunanidhi’s family because Stalin had got married recently and his wife was expecting. Stalin, who was travelling, returned to Madras the next day and was arrested and lodged in Madras Central Jail. Within three days, the police arrested Murasoli Maran. The police were refusing to release the names of the cadres arrested and the party was desperate to have a list of those picked up by the police. The excesses committed by the police in north India added not only an element of fear but also a sense of helplessness. Since 1969, Karunanidhi had led a special homage meeting for Anna on February 3 at the Anna Memorial, which he continued. The meeting was usually attended by all the DMK leaders and volunteers. As the new press censor rules did not permit the media to release the names of those who were arrested under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA), Karunanidhi found a novel way to do this. He made a note of all those partymen who did not come to the Anna Memorial to pay homage, as they most probably had been arrested, and published the list. By May 1976, censorship had become more stringent, and even the mention of Annadurai’s name was not permitted by the authorities. Karunanidhi wrote a series critically assessing the Emergency and got it printed as a pamphlet in a friend’s press. He also got another notice printed that he would launch an ‘Arappor ’ (A peaceful struggle) on June 2, which would start with a procession from Anna Salai and end with a fast in front of the censor’s office. On the appointed day, he started marching from near the U.S. Consul General’s office towards the Anna statue, distributing the ‘ Arappor ’ pamphlet. This walk, of less than 3 kilometres, not only attracted the attention of the people but also galvanised the party cadres who had not been arrested, to assemble in the heart of the city. According to Selvam, though the police arrested the participants and the struggle came to an end in four hours, that defiance remains the lone public protest against the Emergency in India. But Karunanidhi’s biggest journalistic defiance was the publication of a cartoon panel. Chellappan, one of the finest cartoonists of Tamil Nadu, created a panel called ‘Metamorphosis’, featuring Indira Gandhi slowly being transformed into Hitler. While this cartoon was republished in the magazine Newsweek , the government did not permit any of Chellappan’s cartoons to appear till the revocation of the Emergency. Excerpted with permission from Penguin Random House||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/karunanidhis-defiance/article34032220.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||In need of full-time heads||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), with a strength of 3.5 lakh, is headless following the previous incumbent Dr. A.P. Maheshwari’s superannuation on February 28, 2021. The Special Director General, Kuldiep Singh, is holding charge until a regular officer is appointed. Saddled with additional duties The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been without a head since February 3 when R.K. Shukla retired on completion of his two-year term. Until a Director is selected after due procedure and clearance by a committee headed by the Prime Minister, the Additional Director, Praveen Sinha, will hold the fort. Common Cause, an NGO, has since filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court seeking the appointment of a regular CBI Director through the high-powered selection committee of the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the Leader of the Opposition. Consequent to his taking over as Director General of the Border Security Force (BSF) in August last year, Rakesh Asthana should have been relieved of his charge of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that he had been heading prior to his appointment to the BSF. But for reasons best known to the powers that be, the Gujarat cadre officer continues to hold additional charge of the NCB. The BSF is the second largest force in the country after the CRPF. It is unfair to saddle him with additional charge of another organisation when the force he is heading is constantly at loggerheads with the Pakistan Army and militants along the borders and is even combating militants in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. The elite National Security Guard too is without a regular Director General for nearly six months. After the retirement of the previous incumbent, the Director General of the Indo Tibetan Border Police, Surjeet Singh Deswal, took over the reins of this specialised outfit. This force comprising personnel from the Army and the Central Armed Police Forces comes into action in times of crisis such as during the Mumbai attacks of 2008. It is also entrusted with the responsibility of providing security to certain high-risk personalities. The lone research and training organisation for the police forces of the country, the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), too, is functioning without a regular Director General. The former incumbent, V.S.K. Kaumudi, has been the Special Secretary (Internal Security) in the Ministry of Home Affairs since August last year. He continues to hold the additional charge of the BPR&D. What can be done The fact that so many Central forces are without regular heads speaks of the kind of importance attached to these organisations. Though they play a pivotal role in maintaining internal security, there doesn’t seem to be much seriousness in posting the right kind of officers with not only the required skill and experience but also the time. This has an adverse impact on the efficiency of these forces. Officers holding provisional charge shy away from taking major policy decisions and prefer to leave such matters to the next person in charge. There must be several aspirants to these top posts. But they have to wait for the final orders for months on end. Since most appointees to the top posts are at the fag end of their service, they are left with just a few months or a year or so to head these organisations. There is little they can do within their short tenures. The government of the day could consider announcing the next chief of these organisations at least three months in advance with a minimum tenure of two years or till superannuation, whichever is later. Preferably, those considered for these posts should be from among the officers who have served in these organisations earlier. A panel of officers cleared by the Union Public Service Commission could be always kept ready and the officers for the top posts could be chosen from this panel. This will go a long way in speeding up decisions and enhancing the efficiency of these forces. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-need-of-full-time-heads/article34032221.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Fire wise||Nearly all major Indian cities have a brush with destructive but often preventable accidental fires each year, leaving in their wake lost lives and destroyed property. The blaze in the Eastern Railway headquarters in Kolkata on the evening of March 8, which killed at least nine people, is particularly egregious because it took place in a modern multi-storeyed special building. What the preliminary account of the fire and its aftermath suggests is a textbook case of poor attention to fire safety basics and, possibly, the absence of robust fire mitigation technologies. Whatever the sequence of events, the unfortunate incident in the central part of a vibrant city has taken the lives of a group of first responders, including four firefighters, a police officer and some railway staff. Apparently anxious to intervene, a group of personnel lost sight of their own safety and tried to speed up to the top floor of the building in a lift, perishing in the fire and smoke. The computerised booking system of the railway was paralysed. It has been a difficult start to the new year for Kolkata, with an inferno in the Baghbazar area destroying a vast slum, triggering violent protests. A return to normality will obviously take a lot of remedial work, although prioritising fire safety will have to wait for the frenetic election campaign there to end. Every instance of fire brings to the fore the problem of adopting an incremental approach to safety. The building blocks of safety rely as much on modern technologies, as on preparedness, although Indian cities give short shrift to both. Official certifications that are not worth the paper they are printed on substitute for actual enforcement. Using the Kolkata railway building as a test case, the Centre should report on whether it met the fire safety norms prescribed in the National Building Codes. For instance, smoke alarms and sprinkler systems are an inexpensive early warning and intervention measure, but are not universally adopted. The recent tragedy also presents an occasion to review the progress of the Model Bill of 2019 to Provide for the Maintenance of Fire and Emergency Services of a State, which aimed at modernisation. Considering that the death toll from accidental fires, as per NCRB data for 2019, stands at a staggering 10,915, there is every reason to make a fire safety upgrade for public buildings a mission mode plan. Bringing such structures under the purview of public liability insurance, paid for by the respective departments, will provide enough incentive for their occupants to incorporate safety in all planning, and involve third party audits. Equally, drills for offices and multi-storeyed residential buildings will eliminate uncertainty and confusion among people on what must be done when disaster actually strikes. Safety favours only those who are prepared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fire-wise/article34032208.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Enduring greatness||Among the Big Three in men’s tennis, Novak Djokovic has been the least appreciated by fans and followers. If Roger Federer’s wizardry has elevated the sport to unseen levels aesthetically, Rafael Nadal’s rugged artistry has stretched it to athletic extremes. Djokovic’s elastic genius has straddled the space in between and has at times been offset by his on-court demeanour and grinding style of play. But on Monday, when the 33-year-old embarked upon a record 311th week at the top of the ATP singles rankings, going past Federer, Djokovic served yet another reminder of his enduring greatness. The run is not as much about his longevity as it is about his utter domination of the decade gone by. Federer first reached the top in 2004 and Nadal in 2008. But since the time the Serb first scaled the peak — on July 4, 2011 — the celebrated duo has occupied pole position for just 132 weeks (Nadal 107, Federer 25). All but one of Djokovic’s 18 Grand Slam titles have come in the 10-year span starting with the 2011 Australian Open. Federer accumulated four during the same period, and Nadal 11, of which eight were at the French Open. Remarkably, Djokovic has overcome Federer or Nadal in 13 of the 18 Slams he has won and it will come as no surprise if Djokovic emerges with the most Majors, going past Federer’s and Nadal’s all-time record tally of 20. Beyond statistics, a case can be made for Djokovic to be the most complete player of this era. His game, built on fleet-footed movement, a flat stroke, depth off both wings and a solid serve, is just about perfect for modern-day all-court tennis. Over the years, this combination has been chiselled to perfection, making him the pre-eminent force not just on the hard courts at Melbourne and New York, where he has a combined 12 crowns, but even on the hallowed grass at Wimbledon, where he has triumphed in five of the last nine editions, Federer’s grass-court majesty notwithstanding. Djokovic may not have replicated the same level of success against Nadal on clay — as the 2020 Roland Garros defeat showed — but he has been the Spaniard’s greatest challenger. “At a technical level, when Djokovic has been at the top of his game, I’ve been up against an invincible player,” Nadal once acknowledged. There have been blips; between his first two Majors (2008-2011) Djokovic’s game stagnated, and for two years after winning the 2016 French Open, he was in wilderness. But both times he returned to vintage form: ruthless and untouchable. Recently, Djokovic had seemed slightly tetchy and nervous against the ‘Next Gen’ players Dominic Thiem and Daniil Medvedev. But as the comprehensive victory over the latter in the 2021 Australian Open final showed, Djokovic’s mask of invincibility is far from cracking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/enduring-greatness/article34032209.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Germany and allies||London, March 8: While the abortiveness of the Conference is regretted in England, a feeling of relief amounting to satisfaction is apparent, in Paris, where the sincerity of Germany’s desire to meet the reparations obligations has always been suspected. It is commonly agreed in England that the Allies extended to Germany every opportunity, and by unofficial discussions during the past few days have come up to the scratch, but that German stubbornness prevailed. London papers cordially endorse the action determined on by the Allies and dwell on the blundering German diplomacy and the impudent and cynical speech of Simons and notably on his demand that Upper Silesia which before the war was preponderantly Polish should be German without reference to a plebiscite. Simons’ final rejoinder to Mr. Lloyd George is regarded as indicating that additional counter-proposals will be submitted without delay in order to terminate the new occupations, but it is generally felt that the only propositions which can be discussed will be the unquestioned acceptance of the Paris decisions with modifications regarding the method of discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/germany-and-allies/article34032216.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Refusal to swear in Governor||East Pakistan judges, from the region’s Chief Justice down, yesterday [March 8] refused to swear in Lt. Gen. Tikka Khan, President Yahya Khan’s new choice for Military Governor, as the de facto Awami League regime of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman tried to consolidate its hold on Bengal. President Yahya Khan may visit Dacca to-morrow, apparently to find a way to avoid a head-on collision with the Sheikh and to establish a dialogue with him. According to the Awami League sources, the Chief Justice Mr. B. A. Siddiqui refused to administer the traditional oath to the Governor designated by the President on Saturday. Failure to take oath officially left Gen. Khan as Governor-designate and Martial Law Administrator. The military would not comment on his status. The Central Government has ceased to function here, according to a highly placed civil servant. Postal services operated normally. Commercial banks under Sheikh Mujibur Rehman’s directives, opened for three hours to-day to honour pay cheques. Private citizens were not allowed to withdraw more than 1,500 rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/refusal-to-swear-in-governor/article34032217.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||SC backs camera makers Nikon, Samsung||The Supreme Court on Tuesday handed multinationals Nikon, Canon, Sony and Samsung a major relief when it quashed an order of the Central Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) and upheld an exemption given to the companies from paying basic customs duty for import of their digital still image video cameras. The exemption from paying duty charges was on the basis of a 2005 notification, which was amended in 2012. The companies had moved the apex court against CESTAT’s 2107 order denying them the exemption, leading to confiscation of goods, demand of interest and imposition of penalty under various sections of the Customs Act of 1962. DRI action The CESTAT order was based on a Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) action to recover the duty from the companies for cameras imported by them to Delhi in 2012. An Additional Director General of DRI had issued notice under Section 28(4) of the Customs Act to the companies for recovery of duty. The DRI action was taken despite the cameras having been cleared for import after a team led by a Deputy Commissioner of Customs at the Delhi airport found them eligible for duty exemption. The DRI had argued that Customs authorities were “induced” by “willful misstatements and suppression of facts” about the cameras. ‘No authority’ A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, in a 21-page judgment said the DRI had no authority to initiate recovery against the companies. The DRI’s Additional Director General was not even the “proper officer” to authorise recovery, it held. Justice Bobde, who wrote the judgment, said the “proper officer” was the Deputy Commissioner of Customs or his successor as it was his office which had assessed the cameras initially and found them fit for exemption per the notification. “Where one officer has exercised his powers of assessment, the power to order re-assessment must also be exercised by the same officer or his successor and not by another officer of another department though he is designated to be an officer of the same rank. In our view, this would result into an anarchical and unruly operation of a statute,” the bench said in its verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-backs-camera-makers-nikon-samsung/article34032191.ece
10 March 2021||NEw Delhi,||Car dealers losing sales as chip shortage hits supply: FADA||Almost half of the automobile dealers lost PV business on account of non-availability of vehicles as global semiconductor shortage continued to impact production, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said on Tuesday. The shortage comes in the backdrop of domestic retail sales of passenger vehicles (PVs) posting double-digit growth in February, “The global semiconductor outage kept the waiting period of PVs as high as eight months,” the industry body said. “FADA data showed that 50% of PV dealers lost over 20% sales due to non-availability of vehicles.” Observing the new wave of COVID-19 in certain States and high fuel prices dampened consumer sentiment, impacting the two-wheeler segment hard, FADA added that the increases in fuel prices would continue to have a negative impact on two-wheeler and commercial vehicle sales. As per FADA data, total retail vehicle sales across all categories declined by 13.4% to about 14.99 lakh, mainly on a sharp drop in sales of two-wheelers (down 16% to about 10.91 lakh units), three-wheelers (sales almost halved to 33,319 units) and commercial vehicles (down 29.5% to 59,000 units). PVs and tractors, however, saw traction with a sales growth of almost 19%. In February, PV sales rose 10.6% to more than 2.54 lakh albeit on a lower base.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/car-dealers-losing-sales-as-chip-shortage-hits-supply-fada/article34032196.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||As OTP deliveries fail, TRAI holds back norms on commercial texts||Following disruptions in SMS and OTP deliveries for banking, payments and other transactions, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Tuesday temporarily suspended the implementation of norms for commercial text messages, which came into effect on Monday, for seven days. “It has been observed that some of the principal entities [senders of messages] have not fulfilled the requirements as envisaged in [the] regulations... As a result, their SMS were getting dropped after implementation of the scrubbing of SMS by telecom service providers (TSPs),” the regulator noted. TRAI added that in order to protect the interests of consumers, it had been decided that ‘scrubbing’ of SMS by telecom providers would be suspended temporarily for seven days to enable the principal entities to register the template of SMS so that no inconvenience was faced by the customers. “TSPs are being requested to inform their principal entities to take immediate necessary action in this regard and facilitate their registration including SMS template in a time-bound manner,” it said. The new blockchain-based regulation, which provides for registration of senders, telemarketers, headers, content templates, consent templates, registration of fine-grained subscriber preference, were introduced to curb the menace of unsolicited commercial communications (UCC). The temporary suspension follows complaints from consumers, many of whom took to social media, that they were not receiving SMSs and OTPs for many services, including for transactional messages such as for banking and e-commerce, following the implementation of the new norms. The regulator also noted that TSPs published the requirements of a new regulatory framework in leading newspapers, from time to time, to inform all principal entities to get onboarded.  ‘No end to spam’ According to a survey by LocalCircles, 74% of respondents said they still get spam SMS despite registering on TRAI’s ‘Do Not Call Registry’. “37% said they receive 4-7 messages every day, 36% said 8 or more, 25% said 1-3, while only 2% said they don’t get unwanted SMS at all,” the survey group said. LocalCircles added that 26% respondents said that at least a quarter of unwanted SMS messages that they receive are sent by their mobile service providers, while 43% said this number was between 0 and 25%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/as-otp-deliveries-fail-trai-holds-back-norms-on-commercial-texts/article34032198.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paytm unveils Smart PoS, Soundbox device||Financial services platform Paytm on Tuesday unveiled a new application — ‘Smart PoS’— which will enable merchants to accept debit and credit card payments through their smartphone. The company also announced the new version of its Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled ‘Soundbox’, which provides instant voice-based confirmations of payments to merchants. “Our target is five million IoT devices, [which is] 10% of the 50 million merchants... We are aiming to reach 50 million merchants in the next two years,” Paytm founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma said. “Today’s launch of Soundbox 2.0 and Smart PoS for Android phones expands opportunities for small businesses to experience the latest technologies at the most affordable price,” he added. The Smart PoS is supported by the ‘Paytm for Business’ app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytm-unveils-smart-pos-soundbox-device/article34032194.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Study shows rise in hiring of apprentices||India’s apprenticeship ecosystem is currently witnessing a positive momentum, shows a study by the National Employability Through Apprenticeship Program (NETAP), a TeamLease Skills University and the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship initiative. As per NETAP’s recent apprenticeship outlook, some 41% of the employers in India are keen on hiring apprentices while 58% of enterprises want to increase the quantum of apprenticeship hiring this year. The report indicated positive hiring for women apprentices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/study-shows-rise-in-hiring-of-apprentices/article34032189.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||GDP to grow at 11% in FY22, says Crisil||Crisil on Tuesday said it expects the Indian economy to grow at 11% in fiscal 2022, after an estimated 8% contraction this fiscal due to the pandemic. The growth, it said, will be driven by four factors — people learning to live with the new normal, flattening of the COVID-19 affliction curve, roll-out of vaccines, and investment-focused government spending. “However, the pace of growth will differ...While the first half will benefit optically because of low-base effect, the second half will see a more broad-based pick-up in economic activity,” Crisil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-grow-at-11-in-fy22-says-crisil/article34032192.ece
10 March 2021||Chennai,||Indian Bank raising equity||Indian Bank has decided to raise equity capital up to Rs. 4,000 crore through Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP). In a filing, the bank said the Committee of Directors had accorded approval for raising up to Rs. 4,000 crore (including premium) through QIP in one or more tranches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-raising-equity/article34032201.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||E-invoice mandatory for biz with over Rs 50 cr turnover from Apr 1||The government has made it mandatory for businesses with more than Rs. 50 crore turnover to generate e-invoices for B2B transactions from April 1. E-invoicing will be extended to firms with a turnover over Rs. 50 crore from April 1, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs said in a notification.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/e-invoice-mandatory-for-biz-with-over-rs-50-cr-turnover-from-apr-1/article34032202.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fighting UP downs Delhi||Delhi’s top-order batting failed for the second time in three days and a fighting Uttar Pradesh did not allow the host any real chance of making a comeback. Eventually, UP cruised to an emphatic 46-run victory in the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy here on Tuesday. On Thursday, UP will return to Ferozeshah Kotlato face Gujarat in the semifinal. Put in to bat, UP recovered from 66 for four by riding on a 129-run stand involving Upendra Yadav (112, 101b, 11x4, 2x6) and skipper Karan Sharma (83, 100b, 11x4) to reach 280 for seven in 50 overs. Rattled by left-arm medium pacer Yash Dayal (3/53) who sent back openers Dhruv Shorey and Hiten Dalal in the second over of the innings, Delhi never recovered. Though Lalit Yadav (61, 78b, 8x4) and Anuj Rawat (47, 64b, 4x4) gave some hope to Delhi during their 102-run stand for the sixth wicket, the mounting required run-rate kept UP ahead in the game. If the Delhi dugout expected the duo of Rawat and Sangwan to produce another match-winning seventh-wicket stand like they did miraculously against Uttarakhand on Sunday, it was not to be. In the other quarterfinal at Air Force ground (Palam), Mumbai, chasing 285 in its quarterfinal against Saurashtra, reached the target in the 42nd over. Prithvi Shaw led the way with a strokeful 185 (123b, 21x4, 7x6) and put n 238 for the opening wicket with Yashasvi Jaiswal (75, 10x4, 1x6).  The scores: Saurashtra 284/5 in 50 overs (Samarth Vyas 90, Chirag Jani 53 n.o., Vishvarajsinh Jadeja 53) lost to Mumbai 285/1 in 41.5 overs (Prithvi Shaw 185 n.o., Yashasvi Jaiswal 75).   Uttar Pradesh 280/7 in 50 overs (Upendra Yadav 112, Karan Sharma 83, Sameer Chaudhary 43 not out) beat Delhi 234 in 48.1 overs (Lalit Yadav 61, Anuj Rawat 47).   Semifinals: March 11: Mumbai vs Karnataka; UP vs Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fighting-up-downs-delhi/article34032568.ece
10 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Jhulan and Smriti script a dominant victory for India||Smriti Mandhana posted an emphatic statement on behalf of the host, as India raced to a nine-wicket victory over South Africa, with more than 22 overs to spare, in the second One-Day International at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium here on Tuesday. Setting the tempo The ever smiling and relaxed Smriti, whose classy strokeplay lays stress on timing rather than power, set the tempo for the Indian chase. She pulled and hooked two sixes off Shabnim Ismail in the first over, after South Africa had set a modest target of 158. Yet, the beauty of the Indian display of authority lay more in the restraint than the free-flowing strokes, as Smriti and opener Punam Raut put on 138 runs for the second wicket, being very judicious with their shot selection. Smriti hit 80 off 64 balls, and had a third off-driven six off Nonkululek Mlaba. It was the 18th half-century for Smriti in her 53rd ODI. Punam scored 62 off 89 balls, timing her shots to a nicety, in scripting her 14th half-century. In the morning, Mansi Joshi returned to the team to bowl a key spell when the South African openers, who had put on 169 in the first match, were sent back to the pavilion with just 20 runs on the board. Jhulan Goswami, who scalped one of the openers, strove hard to bag four wickets. She was denied another, when the TV review revealed it was off a no-ball. Left-arm spinner Rajeshwari Gayakwad picked up three wickets, while Harmanpreet Kaur served a mighty blow by knocking out the stumps of left-hander Lara Goodall on 49, with her first ball of the only over she bowled. Skipper Sune Luus hung around for 36, but South Africa was unable to post a challenging total.  Smriti is the first player to make 50-plus scores in 10 consecutive successful chases in ODIs. The streak began in 2018||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhulan-and-smriti-script-a-dominant-victory-for-india/article34032312.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Shaw’s dream run continues||Prithvi Shaw continues to plunder runs with vengeance in this edition of the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Discarded by the National selectors, this young Mumbai skipper responded with his third unbeaten century in this year’s competition to send the Ranji Trophy champion Saurashtra packing from the quarterfinals at the Air Force ground, Palam, on Tuesday. Chasing 285, Mumbai achieved its goal in the 42nd over with Shaw leading the way with a strokeful 185 after putting on 238 for the opening wicket with Yashasvi Jaiswal (75, 10x4, 1x6). Shaw stayed focused to take the team past the finish-line with former skipper Aditya Tare. Shaw plundered 21 boundaries and seven sixes off just 123 deliveries. Skipper Jaydev Unadkat, the lone successful bowler, employed nine bowling options but failed to budge Shaw. Earlier, Samarth Vyas (90 not out, 71b, 7x4, 4x6) and Chirag Jani (53 not out, 38b, 5x4, 1x6) propped up Saurashtra following their unbroken 129-run sixth-wicket stand. However, Shaw’s onslaught undid the duo’s hard work. UP shocks Delhi In the other quarterfinal, UP recovered from 66 for four by riding on a 129-run stand between Upendra Yadav (112, 101b, 11x4, 2x6) and skipper Karan Sharma (83, 100b, 11x4) to reach 280 for seven in 50 overs. Rattled by left-arm medium pacer Yash Dayal (3/53), Delhi never recovered and lost by 46 runs.  The scores: Saurashtra 284/5 in 50 overs (Samarth Vyas 90, Chirag Jani 53 n.o., Vishvarajsinh Jadeja 53) lost to Mumbai 285/1 in 41.5 overs (Prithvi Shaw 185 n.o., Yashasvi Jaiswal 75).   Uttar Pradesh 280/7 in 50 overs (Upendra Yadav 112, Karan Sharma 83, Sameer Chaudhary 43 not out) beat Delhi 234 in 48.1 overs (Lalit Yadav 61, Anuj Rawat 47).   Semifinals: March 11: Mumbai vs Karnataka; Uttar Pradesh vs Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaws-dream-run-continues/article34032362.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sharath Kamal shocks World No. 16 Franziska||Sharath Kamal turned the clock back to produce a vintage performance in knocking out World No. 16 Patrick Franziska (Germany) 12-10, 3-11, 11-7, 7-11, 11-9 for a place in the pre-quarterfinals of the World Table Tennis Star Contender tournament in Doha on Tuesday. Sharath, ranked 32nd, had to draw from his reserves after trailing 0-7 in the fourth game. He used all his experience to close the gap 6-8 before the German managed to force the decider. “These points were crucial for me when I entered the deciding game,” Sharath told The Hindu after pulling off a series of brilliant points in the close fifth game. Stunning shots Some stunning blocks off the backhand and a good number of forehand drives clearly surprised the higher-ranked German. Down 3-5 in the decider, Sharath switched gears during the power-hitting rallies against his former teammate at Borussia Dusseldorf Club in the Bundesliga for two years. The players were tied until 8-8 when Sharath broke free and established two match-points. Franziska saved one, but after a long rally his forehand return found the net-chord and went long. A little before Sharath sealed his place in the pre-quarterfinals, G. Sathiyan and Manika Batra lost their second round matches to top-seeded Japanese rivals.  The results (second round):   Men: Sharath Kamal bt Patrick Franziska (Ger) 12-10, 3-11, 11-7, 7-11, 11-9; Tomokaru Harimoto (Jpn) bt G. Sathiyan 11-4, 11-5, 11-8.   Women: Mima Ito (Jpn) bt Manika Batra 11-7, 11-6, 11-7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-kamal-shocks-world-no-16-franziska/article34032364.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Pant and the brave new world where old orthodoxies are cast aside||For a moment the world stood still. Then the visual began to unspool itself in the mind. Did he really do it? Was that actually possible? Could he have reverse-swept one of the world’s best fast bowlers to the boundary over the heads of slips? And that too off the new ball? What was that — the shot of the decade, maybe even the shot of the century? Are batsmen smiling assassins too? For having stunned the bowler, fielders and onlookers, the batsman then broke into a smile. Outrageous, audacious, impudent, cheeky, sassy, mischievous, insolent, feisty, brazen, impertinent… descriptions were dredged up and then dismissed as inadequate. Had we arrived at a brave new world where the old orthodoxies had been cast aside and the shocking and dangerous were commonplace? Perhaps this was how the world reacted when W.G. Grace first showed that back-foot play could be productive. Or when Ranji invented the leg-glance. Rishabh Rajendra Pant didn’t invent the reverse sweep, not even the variation he played that day in Ahmedabad against James Anderson in the final Test. He didn’t need to bend low as he might have against a spinner, he had to make allowance for the bounce. He didn’t need to slap the ball either, merely guide it with the gentlest of persuasions. There was no tension or straining for effect. It was as if he saw the ball come to him in slow motion and had the luxury of time. His legs were bent, the bat held loosely. Had he got any single element otherwise, there might have been disaster — physical or in terms of a wicket lost. Precision was called for — the bat had to meet the ball at precisely that moment with precisely that touch and at precisely that angle. And suddenly the ugliest stroke in the book was converted into something poetic. One crowded moment of glorious life is worth an age without a name. For one instant, the state of the match didn’t matter, it wasn’t important who was winning or losing. It was enough to know that a young man had pushed the boundaries of the possible in a manner that saw the game transition from the old to the new. There have been great shots before. I recall my favourites. Gundappa Viswanath on his toes square cutting the world’s fastest bowler then, Andy Roberts. Sachin Tendulkar beaten in the flight but still going through with the shot for a six against Abdul Qadir. V.V.S. Laxman reading a Shane Warne googly and driving him inside out against the turn. Rahul Dravid pulling Allan Donald. Sourav Ganguly stepping out to the left-arm spinner and depositing him into the crowd. Sunil Gavaskar standing up to his full height and dropping a rising delivery from Imran Khan dead at his feet. Virender Sehwag making it all look so easy, cutting or driving between fielders. But these were strokes wrapped in orthodoxy. Driving with bat and pad close together, rolling the wrist over while cutting, getting behind the line of the ball in defence. For years our coaches insisted there was only one way to bat if you had to be taken seriously. Technique was everything. You ignored that at your peril. When Rahul Dravid was bowled reverse sweeping at 270 in a Test match, it was seen as divine punishment for a batsman so wedded to orthodoxy. It was as if there had been a momentary glitch in the cosmos. The altar of orthodoxy When Sunil Gavaskar hit a six in the pre-lunch session on the opening day of the Golden Jubilee Test against England in 1980, jaws dropped, and there was much tut-tutting. Such behaviour was not expected of one of the great technicians of the game. I liked Gavaskar’s response then. He said it was a tribute to opener Mushtaq Ali, the first Indian to make a century abroad and whose batting was described as “swashbuckling.” He was in the audience. Some years later, when Gavaskar mentioned casually that he would like to enjoy his cricket and play more strokes, something close to a national outrage erupted. How dare he! He had to carry the Indian batting on his shoulders, not enjoy himself. Indians — players, fans, media — worshipped at the altar of orthodoxy. Any deviation from the straight-and-narrow was looked down upon. Perhaps I exaggerate. After all, Mushtaq Ali apart, there were players like Salim Durrani, Farokh Engineer, Budhi Kunderan, and later K. Srikkanth who bent orthodoxy into different shapes. But you get the idea. Had Pant done then what he did now, he might have been ostracised, or at least sent to bed without supper. Disrespecting an elder like Anderson would have earned him a stern talking-to. How times have changed! And how grateful we are for it!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pant-and-the-brave-new-world-where-old-orthodoxies-are-cast-aside/article34032204.ece
10 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Did our best to get IPL matches: Azhar||Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin says he had made all efforts to get IPL matches to Hyderabad. He had had parleys with BCCI top brass before the schedule was finalised, Azharuddin said at a media interaction here on Tuesday. However, Hyderabad will not be hosting any of the 2021 IPL matches. “Being Azhar doesn’t mean I can weave magic. There are certain issues the Board and the IPL Governing Council took into consideration before finalising the IPL schedule,” he said. “I did take up the issue with the Board again after it became clear we would not be hosting any games,” he said at the Gymkhana Ground, where he addressed the media alongwith other Apex Council members Naresh Sharma, John Manoj, R. Vijayanand and Surender Agarwal. “I don’t know the official reasons for Hyderabad not hosting games. The Board should know. “But, I feel the City can still host some matches as an alternative venue if any issues crop up,” he said. Thanks State govt. Azharudding thanked the State Government and IT and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao for assuring complete support. He also took a dig at former players, holding various posts in the HCA and the BCCI, for criticising the association. Especially as the incumbent dispensation was clearing up all financial dues and fines. But for their efforts, the HCA would have been shut down, he said. Azharuddin hoped the next HCA annual general meeting on March 28 would put a closure to all pending issues like appointments to key posts, including COA, Cricket Advisory Committee and selection panels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/did-our-best-to-get-ipl-matches-says-azhar/article34032706.ece
10 March 2021||Dubai,||Ashwin is Player-of-the-Month||India off-spinner R. Ashwin was on Tuesday named ICC men's Player-of-the-Month (February) for his stellar show against England in a four-Test series. England's Tammy Beaumont was adjudged women's Player-of-the-Month. In the three Tests he played, Ashwin scored a 106 in the second innings of India's second-Test victory at Chennai and took his 400th Test wicket in the third at Ahmedabad. Besides the century, Ashwin claimed 24 wickets in February to help India pocket the four-match Test series 3-1 and help his team secure the WTC final spot against New Zealand. England captain Joe Root (333 runs and six wickets in three Tests against India), and West Indies Test debutant Kyle Mayers, who scored a match-winning 210 to help his team successfully chase 395 and win the first Test against Bangladesh, were nominated alongside Ashwin. Beaumont played three ODIs in February against New Zealand, passing fifty in each of them and totalling 231 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-is-player-of-the-month/article34032305.ece
10 March 2021||Chennai,||England shot itself in the foot||Continuity is the essence of winning combinations. The personnel manning the various levers of a team act in cohesion with minimal or no changes to the composition. And England made all the wrong moves after its comprehensive victory over India in the first Test. The spectacular win at Chepauk, arriving after England’s 2-0 series triumph over Sri Lanka, was shaped by the brilliance of Joe Root and a vicious burst by the Sultan of Swing, Jimmy Anderson. Psychological edge At that point, England held the psychological edge. And it had Anderson to put seeds of doubts in the minds of the Indian batsmen on the direction of the sphere’s swing. However, the English think-tank stunned everyone by resting Anderson for the second Test. The side had shot itself in the foot. England’s policy of the ‘rotational bubble’ made little sense since playing Test cricket has to be the ultimate honour. Take for instance the case of off-spinner Dom Bess. He was among the wickets in the first Test despite lacking consistency. Bess was discarded for the second Test, although his replacement, Mooen Ali was going to play only one Test after which he would be flying back home as part of the bizarre ‘rotational bubble’. Now, Moeen did not have a bad Test. He picked up eight wickets although he went for plenty and made some attacking runs. Confidence the key Then, he took the flight back. Would it not have made greater sense for England to persist with Bess — despite his inconsistency he has the makings of a fine spinner — instil in him the belief needed and make good use of him as his confidence grows? Spinners are confidence bowlers. The greater the faith the captain shows in them, the better the results. And when Bess was finally recalled for the fourth Test, he appeared a mental wreck, all his belief appeared to have ebbed away. Or take the case of Jonny Bairstow. Considered among the better players of spin in this English side, he batted well in Sri Lanka. Then, off the bubble, he travelled to England. When he rejoined the team for the last two Tests, Bairstow produced three zeros in four innings. Another self goal by England.  Despite Root’s class, England was largely clueless against spin. They could not pick the deliveries from the hand, played off the pitch and were soon walking back. When you are not able to pick the turn or the extent of it, you play for no turn and protect your stumps. Instead, the English batsmen departed to straight deliveries. Jos Buttler, among the better players of spin in the English ranks, was sent home after the first Test. And the England batsmen’s obsession with the sweep was bewildering, considering they could have stroked to long-off and long-on. Only someone like Dan Lawrence, he used his feet and the depth of the crease, showed promise. Otherwise, it was an opportunity missed for England.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-shot-itself-in-the-foot/article34032307.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Williams and Manvir power ATKMB into the final||ATK Mohun Bagan defeated NorthEast United FC 2-1 in an absorbing second leg in the second semifinal of the Indian Super League at the Fatorda Stadium on Tuesday. ATKMB won 3-2 on aggregate — the first leg had ended 1-1 — to book a summit clash against Mumbai City FC on Saturday (March 13). ATKMB controlled the contest for most part before NEUFC made a late resurgence, particularly in the final 15 minutes. The Kolkata giant benefited by its decision to bring back defenders Tiri and Sandesh Jhingan. The move helped the hard-working Carl McHugh, who had figured as a central defender in the previous leg, and Javi Hernandez to take up creative roles in midfield. Thanks to better cohesion and rhythm, forwards Roy Krishna and Williams got enough service and raided the NEUFC territory time and again. ATKMB made 16 attempts at the NEUFC goal but only three were on target and one of them resulted in a goal. Williams outran his markers and finished in style after Krishna had diverted a Javi pass to him. The change of ends saw NEUFC exhibit more resolve. In the 47th minute, V.P. Suhair’s shot deflected off the post. Suhair, who had donned the Mohun Bagan colours the previous season, found the target in the 74th minute to level it for NEUFC. Before that, ATKMB had doubled its lead through Manvir Singh, who finished a counter-attack with a brilliant strike in the 68th minute. NEUFC had an opportunity to make it 2-2 when it earned a penalty in the 81st minute, but Portuguese forward Luis Machado’s shot sailed well over the bar.  The result (second semifinal, second leg): ATKMB 2 (Williams 38, Manvir 68) bt NEUFC 1 (Suhair 74).   Final: March 13: Mumbai City vs ATKMB, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/williams-and-suhair-power-atkmb-into-the-final/article34032309.ece
10 March 2021||Chennai,||Offshore regatta from March 11||The Unifi Capital Offshore regatta is to be held from March 11 to 14. The two-legged race will be between Chennai and Puducherry and back, covering a distance of 160 km, one way. The race is expected to be completed in 60 hours (up and down). Four teams will be taking part in the event, which will have J80 class sailboats. The teams are Navy (Commander Bakshi, Imo Lemnok), Army (Major Vikram & Swami), Royal Madras Yacht Club (RMYC) (Commander Abhilash Tomy & Capt. Vivek Shanbhag), Pondicherry Sailing Association (Lt. Commander Vartika Joshi & Aurofilio). “This is the first of its kind event in the Bay of Bengal, a stepping stone so to say. We hope to build on it and make it an event of grand scale. “We are planning to have it in alternate months in all parts of the country,” said the joint secretary of Yachting Association of India (YAI) Jitendra Dixit at a virtual meet here on Tuesday. Vice-Commodore of RYMC Vivek Shanbhag said the J80 boats are the ones used in Asian Games. “The boats are being provided with satellite trackers and the public can view the race on www. trackanything.in,” he said.  Commander Tomy, racing for RMYC, said the offshore regatta has generated a lot of interest as the event will be a part of 2024 Paris Olympics. The event is being organised by the RMYC and YAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/offshore-regatta-from-march-11/article34032461.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Krishna bowls Triplicane CC to win||R. Krishna’s six for 24 was the highlight of Triplicane CC’s six-wicket win over Triplicane SC in a III-B contest of the TNCA league recently.  The scores: III-B: Perungalathur CC 216 in 50 overs (E. Selva Kumar 61, S. Gunaseelan 45, P. Johnsuthan 3/56, E. Vasantha Kumar 3/49) lost to Bunts CC 218/8 in 49.4 overs (Naresh Rajaram 56, C. Sarath Kumar 45, T.K. Gowthama Raj 39, R. Sathish Kumar 3/47).   Royapettah CC 127 in 45.2 overs (S. Santhosh Kumar 43, N. Subhash 3/27) lost to Sical RC 128/8 in 28 overs (A. Shrikaran 65 n.o., M. Parthiban 5/36).   Madras Aryan Club 187 in 50 overs (S. Somasundaram 83, V. Sasikaran 4/44, M. Arul 3/43) lost to Rising Stars 190/3 in 41.4 overs (A. George Samuel 100 n.o., M.R. Sudarshan 35, S. Pavan 33).   Triplicane Sports Club 136 in 42.3 overs (D. Govindaraj 83, R. Krishna 6/24, M. Elavarsan 3/44) lost to Triplicane Cricket Club 140/4 in 22.5 overs (S. Saravanan 53 n.o., J. Gowri Sankar 45).   Prem Cricket Club 178 in 38.2 overs (G.K. Saai Gowtham 56, R. Vineeth 3/25) lost to Sea Hawks 180/2 in 41.5 overs (G. Babu 94, A. Vasudaven 59).   IV-D: Youngsters 172 in 45.3 overs (Prakalathan Subramanian 41, S. Karthikeyan 30, B. Sriban 30, N. Arun Raj 3/18) lost to T. Srinivasaraghavan Memorial Sports Club 173/8 in 40.1 overs (J. Babin Christo 78, A.S. Rangarajan 3/50).   Galaxy Sports Club 137 in 49.5 overs (L. Ashok Kumar 70 n.o., Advaith Sharma 5/36) lost to Tiger CC 140/2 in 31.4 overs (S. Santhosh Kumar 66 n.o., J. S. Athish 42).   Sumangali Homes 255 in 48.3 overs (Himalaya 87, P. Girish Prabhu 44, S. Babu 43, S. Palani Raj 4/57, M. Purushothaman 3/36, R. Prabhuram 3 for 92) bt Fox Trotters 143 in 47.5 overs (Vishaakh E. Menon 30, G. Umesh 3/8)/   Magnet 207 in 49.3 overs (S.R. Thirunarayanan 71, Vasisht Shankarraman 37, K. Vijay Priyadarsan 32, H. Tarun Sivaraj 4/82, Sanjay Vembu 3/65) bt Garnet 183 in 47.2 overs (M. Somasundaram 37, J. Aravind Krishnan 4/43).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krishna-bowls-triplicane-cc-to-win/article34032457.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Kongu A&S beat Guru Nanak Stars||Kongu Arts & Science (Coimbatore) defeated Guru Nanak Stars by 27 runs in a men’s match of the seventh Pavit Singh Nayar Memorial all-India inter-collegiate T20 tournament on Tuesday.  The scores:   Men: Kongu Arts & Science (Coimbatore) 125/7 in 20 overs (K. Siddharth 3/22) bt Guru Nanak Stars 98 in 19.4 overs (R. Yash 33 n.o., M. Tamil Selvan 4/20).   SSN 176/6 in 20 overs (M. Mithul Raj 44, S. Vaibhav 73) bt GTN (Dindigul) 109/8 in 20 overs (M. Vijay Prakash 39, Nrupesh Puvvada 4/15).   Patrician Arts & Science 72 in 18.2 overs (Gnanasurya 3/5, Vineeth 3/9) lost to Gobi Arts & Science (Gobichettipalayam) 75/4 in 10.3 overs (B. Vignesh 3/24).   MVIT, Puducherry w.o. TKRCET (Hyderabad).   Women: Chellammal 154/5 in 18 overs (K. Logaratshai 36, M. Selva Priya 35) bt Quaid-E-Millath 106/5 in 18 overs (T. Narmadha 34).   JBAS 130 for two in 20 overs (S. Swetha 43 n.o., D. Vaishnavi 28, K. Vaishnavi 27 n.o.) bt SSS Jain 121/7 in 20 overs (H. Madhia Kounain 3/16).   Dr. MGR Janaki w.o. Ethiraj; Queen Mary’s w.o. CTTEM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kongu-as-beat-guru-nanak-stars/article34032458.ece
10 March 2021||LONDON,||Influential Havertz gives Chelsea a vital victory||Chelsea cemented its grip on the fourth place in the Premier League as Kai Havertz finally delivered an influential display in a vital 2-0 win over top-four rival Everton on Monday. Havertz has endured a disappointing first season following his £70 million move from Bayer Leverkusen last year. But the Germany midfielder was given a rare start by Chelsea boss Thomas Tuchel and he responded by playing the key role in both goals. Havertz’s shot was deflected into the Everton net for a Ben Godfrey own goal in the first-half. The 21-year-old has not scored in the league since October but Tuchel entrusted him with an important role as Chelsea’s false nine. His intelligent movement put him in position to earn the second-half penalty that Jorginho converted. Chelsea is now four points clear of fifth-placed Everton. The west Londoners are unbeaten in 11 games in all competitions — winning eight times — since Tuchel replaced the sacked Frank Lampard in January.  Chelsea’s renaissance under Tuchel is a credit to the former PSG boss, who is the first manager to see his side keep a clean sheet in each of his opening five home Premier League games. On current form, Chelsea looks a good bet to qualify for next season’s Champions League via a top-four finish, while it still has aspirations to win this season’s competition after beating Atletico Madrid 1-0 in the last 16 first leg. Everton’s first away league defeat since November was a significant blow to its hopes of a top-four place. In Serie A, Inter Milan moved six points clear at the top after a 1-0 win at home against Atalanta. Skriniar on target Defender Milan Skriniar scored in the 54th minute on Monday and boosted Inter’s chances of winning its first Italian league title in more than a decade. Healthy advantage Inter’s seventh successive win saw it restore its healthy advantage over second-placed AC Milan. It is also 10 points clear of third-placed Juventus, which has played a match less. Inter broke the deadlock nine minutes after the break when Atalanta failed to properly clear a corner and Skriniar fired the loose ball into the bottom left corner.  The results:   Premier League: Chelsea 2 (Godfrey 31-og, Jorginho 65-pen) bt Everton 0; West Ham 2 (Lingard 21-pen, Dawson 28) bt Leeds 0.   Serie A: Inter Milan 1 (Milan Skriniar 54) bt Atalanta 0.   LaLiga: Real Betis 3 (Iglesias 61-pen, 88, Joaquin 81) bt Alaves 2 (Joselu 12, Mendez 24) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/havertz-gives-chelsea-a-vital-victory/article34032358.ece
10 March 2021||Bengaluru,||BDFA league suspended as referees stay away||The Bangalore District Football Association (BDFA) super division football league has been postponed, after referees did not turn up at the Bangalore Football Stadium to pofficiate the two matches scheduled for Tuesday. The referees are believed to be upset by the unsavoury incidents that occurred in Monday’s clash between Bengaluru FC (BFC) and FC Bengaluru United (FCBU). After the final whistle, a brawl broke out between members of the BFC camp and the referees. An unidentified man also threw a huge stone into the referee’s room. Tournament officials stated that the fracas left a referee injured. Police personnel were called to escort the referees to their homes. Suspended Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA) secretary M. Satyanarayan said the seven referees who were assigned to officiate the two matches on Tuesday have been suspended. “We tried to get information on their absence from the Referees Committee, but no information was forthcoming. We have decided to suspend the seven referees until further notice for failing to show up without giving any reason. “The referees from the BFC-FCBU match haven’t even submitted their report yet. Without any official communication, how can we take any measures to support the referees? The players, fans, physios and ambulance had arrived at the stadium; the referees let everyone down,” he said.  Balasubramanian, Referee Committee chairman, resigned citing moral responsibility for the referees not turning up for the matches, Satyanarayan said. BDFA chairman S.L. Anthony stated, “The league will resume when the KSFA gives us the green signal.” The league, in the final stretch now, is poised for an exciting finish. Leader FCBU (28 points) is one point ahead of nearest rival BFC. Both teams have one match remaining. The KSFA women’s super division league — underway at the same venue — will not be affected, an official confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bdfa-league-suspended-as-referees-stay-away/article34032357.ece
10 March 2021||INDORE,||Prajwal Dev fights past Denim Yadav||S.D. Prajwal Dev fought his way past Denim Yadav 6-2, 5-7, 6-2 in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Tuesday. In doubles, the top-seeded pair of Saketh Myneni and Vijay Sundar Prashanth was beaten 11-9 in the super tie-break by Italy’s Lorenzo Bocchi and Leonardo Catani in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   Singles (first round): Oliver Crawford (USA) bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 4-6, 6-2, 6-1; Dalwinder Singh bt Raghav Jaisinghani 6-3, 6-0; Manish Sureshkumar bt Anirudh Chandrasekar 6-3, 6-2; S.D. Prajwal Dev bt Denim Yadav 6-2, 5-7, 6-2.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Lorenzo Bocchi & Leonardo Catani (Ita) bt Saketh Myneni & Vijay Sundar Prashanth 3-6, 7-5, [11-9]; Chandril Sood & Lakshit Sood bt Kunal Anand & Anvit Bendre 6-0, 7-5; Luca Castelnuovo (Sui) & Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) bt Marco Brugnerotto & Davide Pozzi (Ita) 6-3, 6-4.   Ankit Chopra & Aaditya Tewari bt Atharva Sharma & Vidit Vaghela 6-3, 3-6, [10-6]; Jonathan Binding & Henry Patten (GBR) bt P.C. Vignesh & Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-0, 6-2.   Sidharth Rawat & Manish Sureshkumar bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha 6-2, 6-2; Jatin Dahiya & Dalwinder Singh bt Aryan Goveas & Dhruv Sunish 7-6(9), 6-3.   Zane Khan (USA) & Dominik Palan (Cze) bt Filip Bergevi & Jonathan Mridha (Swe) 7-5, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajwal-dev-fights-past-denim-yadav/article34032566.ece
10 March 2021||DEHRA DUN:,||Sanjana overcomes Pari’s challenge||Top seed Sanjana Sirimalla had to fight hard to beat qualifier Pari Singh 6-7(4), 7-5, 6-4 in the girls’ first round of the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament on Tuesday.  The results (first round):   Boys: Vishal Gautam bt Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) 6-4, 6-7(4), 6-1; Jaishnav Shinde bt Yuvan Nandal 6-4, 5-3 (retd.); Rushil Khosla bt Sebastien Cauhape (Bel) 6-1, 6-3; NIkhil Niranjan (US) bt Parv Nage 6-1, 6-2.   Girls: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Pari Singh 6-7(4), 7-5, 6-4; Riya Uboveja bt Diva Bhatia 6-1, 6-2.   Tejasvi Dabas bt Madhurima Sawant 6-1, 6-3; Shruti Ahlawat bt Vidhi Jani 6-1, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjana-overcomes-paris-challenge/article34032569.ece
10 March 2021||PUNE:,||Soha stuns top seed Riya||Qualifier Soha Sadiq beat top seed Riya Bhatia 4-6, 6-2, 6-1 in the first round of the KPIT $25,000 ITF women’s tourney on Tuesday.  The results (first round): Soha Sadiq bt Riya Bhatia 4-6, 6-2, 6-1; Nidhi Chilumula bt Shreya Tatavarthy 6-3, 6-0; Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Likhitha Kalava 6-3, 6-1; Zeel Desai bt Farhat Aleen Qamar 6-0, 2-6, 6-2.   Sravya Shivani bt Snehal Mane 6-2, 6-0; Mihika Yadav bt Akanksha Nitture 6-3, 6-1; Ramya Natarajan bt Bhuvana Kalva 6-2, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soha-stuns-top-seed-riya/article34032570.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Dharshan delights||Dharshan, a Class X student of CEOA School (Madurai), was one of the star performers with five individual medals (four silver and a bronze) in the recently concluded State shooting championship. He won silver medals in the air rifle 10m (ISSF) men, junior men and youth men categories. Dharshan also won a silver in the 50m rifle prone (NR) junior men’s category. He was also part of the gold-medal winning team in the 10m air rifle (ISSF) junior men and men’s category and 50m small bore free rifle prone junior men’s squad. Dharshan’s solitary bronze came in the 50m rifle prone (ISSF) event of the junior men’s category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dharshan-delights/article34032520.ece
10 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||State junior wrestling from tomorrow||The State junior freestyle and Greco Roman (boys only) wrestling championships will be held at the Central stadium from March 11 to 13. Competitions in freestyle for boys will be held in 57kg, 61kg, 70kg, 74kg, 79kg, 86kg, 92kg, 97kg and 125kg. In Greco Roman, competitions will be held in 50kg, 60kg, 63kg, 67kg, 72kg, 77kg, 82kg, 87kg, 97kg and 130kg. For junior girls, competitions in freestyle will be held in 50kg, 53kg, 55kg, 57kg, 59kg, 62kg, 65kg, 68kg, 72kg and 76kg. The Kerala teams for the junior Nationals to be held in Belagavi will be selected. More than 600 wrestlers from 14 districts will take part in the three-day meet. All participants and officials should produce a COVID-19 negative certificate at the time of registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-junior-wrestling-from-tomorrow/article34032807.ece
10 March 2021||Alappuzha,||YMCA TT Arena to be upgraded||The YMCA Table Tennis Arena will be renovated and upgraded to meet international standards. The 6,000 sq. ft. arena was inaugurated in 2017 and has hosted numerous State and national events. The YMCA TT Academy also functions from there. The existing height of the structure will be increased to meet international standards while the concrete floor will be dug up and relaid with terraflex flooring. A new lighting system adhering to international standards will also be installed and new galleries will be constructed. N.C. John Foundation will support the YMCA to upgrade the infrastructure. “The total cost of the project is around Rs. 80 lakhs. We are thankful to N.C. John Foundation for extending help. We intend to complete the work in three months. The YMCA TT Arena will be renamed as N.C. John Memorial TT Arena and in future we will be able to host national and international events here,” Michael Mathai, president of YMCA and secretary of Table Tennis Association of Kerala, said. The basketball court at the YMCA will also be renovated. It will now have a roof and a permanent gallery. The concrete court will be relaid with terraflex floor and new floodlights will be installed. “The budget allocation for Alappuzha YMCA will be utilised to complete the work of the basketball complex. We decided to rename it in honour of P.O. Philip, who was the former president of Kerala Basketball Association and a long-time president of YMCA.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ymca-tt-arena-to-be-upgraded/article34032808.ece
10 March 2021||Kochi,||Kerala enters quarterfinals||Kerala men and women topped their respective groups and entered the quarterfinals of the 69th National senior volleyball championship at Bhubaneswar on Tuesday. Kerala men defeated Railways, last year's runner-up, 25-16, 25-16, 25-17 in its final Group B match while the women beat Himachal Pradesh 25-12, 25-20, 25-7 in Group A. Haryana and Services, which finished second and third in men's Group B, also made the quarterfinals. Men's defending champion Tamil Nadu finished third in Group A, behind group winner Karnataka and runner-up Assam, but also made it to the quarterfinal. The fourth-placed teams in Group A and B will against the winners of the four minor groups to decide the last two quarterfinal spots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-enters-quarterfinals/article34032809.ece
10 March 2021||PARIS,||Messi to Paris: Barca’s nightmare and PSG’s dream?||As Lionel Messi lands in Paris for the Champions League contest on Wednesday, the inevitable temptation is to think ahead to next season and wonder if the Argentine might be a regular fixture in the French capital. That remains the nightmare scenario for Barcelona fans, even if their new president Joan Laporta announced following his election victory on Sunday that he was “convinced he wants to stay.” On the evidence of the first leg of its Champions League last-16 tie, PSG has bypassed Barca. Its 4-1 win at the Camp Nou means it would take a stunning turnaround in Wednesday's return leg to stop it from reaching the quarterfinals. A move to one of Spain’s giants was long seen as the pinnacle for any player, but times have changed, as proven by Neymar’s transfer to Paris for a world record €222 million ($264m at the time) in 2017. PSG and City are probably the only likely destinations for Messi should he leave. But could a switch to Paris really happen? Money may have once proven no obstacle for PSG, but the current climate means signing Messi could be beyond even it. A place in the quarterfinals of the Champions League, at Messi’s expense, should not be.  Wednesday’s fixtures: PSG vs Barcelona; Liverpool vs Leipzig, both matches at 1.30 a.m. (Thursday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-to-paris-barcas-nightmare-and-psgs-dream/article34032527.ece
10 March 2021||Antwerp,||Reid happy with India’s performance||National men’s hockey team chief coach Graham Reid feels India needs to accelerate its learning from the European tour and tighten its defence in the build up to the Tokyo Olympics. Reid is contended with his side’s performance in the just-concluded tour, where India remained unbeaten. The two-week tour was the country’s first assignment since 2020. “I’m pretty happy with the performance; I’m very happy with the way the tour was — from the point of view of getting some international competition. That was really important,” Reid said on Monday. During the four-match tour, India posted a 6-1 win and 1-1 draw against Germany and followed it up with a 1-1 draw and 3-2 win over Great Britain. “We go back to Bengaluru from here and will be training there for a few weeks before we set out on another tour of our FIH Pro League matches in Argentina. “I believe the next few months leading up to Tokyo will be busy for us with competition and some training. “The Olympic year has well and truly started for us now and we need to accelerate our learnings.” He said there were plenty of takeaways from the tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reid-happy-with-indias-performance/article34032530.ece
10 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||I lost 5kg in a week: Stokes||England’s star all-rounder Ben Stokes has revealed that he and his teammates endured sudden weight loss during the fourth and final Test against India here after a stomach illness hit the tourists before the match. England lost the four-Test series 1-3 after going down in the final match by an innings and 25 runs last week. “Players are totally committed to England and I think that was emphasised last week when a few of us went down with illness that made operating in 41 degree heat particularly taxing,” Stokes told UK's Daily Mirror . “I lost 5kg in a week, Dom Sibley 4kg and Jimmy Anderson 3kg among others. Jack Leach was ducking off the field in between bowling spells and spending more time than is ideal in the toilet,” Stokes said. “This is in no way an excuse, because everyone was ready to play, and India and Rishabh Pant especially produced a terrific performance, but I take off my hat to the effort that was put in by players who gave everything they had to try and win for England," Stokes said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-lost-5kg-in-a-week-stokes/article34032303.ece
10 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Humpy is BBC’s Indian sportswoman of the year||World rapid chess champion Koneru Humpy has won the BBC Indian Sportswoman-of-the-Year award, according to a media release on Tuesday. “This award is very precious, not only to me but the entire chess fraternity. Being an indoor game, chess doesn’t get as much attention as sports like cricket in India,” Humpy said from Vijayawada. “But, with this award, I hope, the game will draw people’s attention.” Will power “I think I could win over the years because of willpower and confidence. A woman player should never think about quitting the game. Marriage and motherhood are part of life and should not change the course of our lives,” Humpy said. BBC director-general Tim Davie, hosting the virtual awards ceremony, said: “Huge congratulations to Koneru Humpy for winning this year’s BBC ISWOTY award. She has made a fantastic contribution to chess and this accolade is well deserved.” The Lifetime Achievement award went to veteran athlete Anju Bobby George. She is the only Indian to have won a World championship medal, in long jump in 2003. “I have been blessed throughout my fulfilling journey. Without the constant support of my parents and my husband I wouldn’t have been where I am today, they’ve always stood by my side,” Anju said. England cricket star Ben Stokes announced young shooter Manu Bhaker winner of the Emerging Player-of-the-Year award, a category added this year. Bhaker, aged 16 won two golds at the ISSF World Cup in 2018, followed by gold at the Youth Olympics and a Commonwealth Games gold with a record to boot. “This award means a lot to me. It feels like my hard work has been recognised and people know about it now. Being awarded by Anju Bobby George, this year’s Lifetime Achievement winner truly feels like the emerging talent is being promoted,” said Manu Bhaker after receiving the award from Anju.  This award means a lot to me. It feels like my hard work has been recognised and people know about it now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-is-bbcs-indian-sportswoman-of-the-year/article34032356.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Who is dear to Him?||Uddhava has many questions for Lord Krishna, all of which the Lord answers. These questions and answers find a place in Srimad Bhagavatam, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. Uddhava asks Him about the qualities of sadhus, about the defining characteristics of devotees, about where the Lord can be found and how He should be invoked. He asks the Lord who are the persons who are dear to Him. Who are the ones who claim His affection? To whom is the Lord drawn? The Lord gives a list of many things we should do, the many things we are asked to do, and then goes to say that none of these is enough to capture His heart. For instance, we are asked to do pranayama and yoga, but the Lord says this is not enough to become dear to Him. Ahimsa is a laudable trait, but is not enough to impress Him. Studying the Vedas is not easy, because the wealth of wisdom in it cannot be easily comprehended. That is why even a sage like Bharadwaja was unable to master the Vedas, despite the extended life span he enjoyed. And yet, the Lord tells Uddhava that even a diligent study of the Vedas is not going to help a person claim His affection. A person may be generous in giving daanas. But even this is not going to help. A person may do all the prescribed vratas, but this too is not sufficient to earn the Lord’s total appreciation. Will recitation of mantras help then? The answer again is in the negative, according to Lord Krishna. One may bathe in sacred rivers, but this too is insufficient to win His love. Control of the senses is stressed by the Lord Himself in the Bhagavad Gita. But the Lord tells Uddhava that even control of senses will not make a person dear to Him. Only a person who has shown respect to his Acharya is dear to Him, concludes Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/who-is-dear-to-him/article34032300.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Rider stripped of title||Bengaluru rider Abhishek Vasudevamurthy, winner of the TVS One-Make Championship 2020 (RR310 category), has been stripped of his title in addition to the penalties imposed by Race Direction for his “unsportsmanlike act” in the season finale last December. The Indian Motor Sport Appellate Court (IMSAC) hearing and subsequent ruling was a consequence of an incident in the eighth and final race at the MMRT on December 20. On the start-finish straight, Abhishek grabbed and depressed the brake lever of fellow-competitor Anup Kumar (Chennai). Incidentally, Abhishek had already sealed the championship going into the final race.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rider-stripped-of-title/article34032205.ece
10 March 2021||GURUGRAM:,||Gayatri advances||Gayatri Menon of Kerala bounced back from a bad start to put it across Veda Varshita of Telangana 3-6, 6-2, 7-5 in the first round of the Haryana Open Rs. 500,000 women’s tennis tournament at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, on Tuesday.  The results:   Singles (first round): Yubarani Banerjee bt Kundal Wajgane 6-3, 6-3; Shanu Agarwal bt Rituparna Nayak 6-1, 6-3; Priyanshi Bhandari bt Jannat Kaur 6-0, 6-2;.   Rishika Sunkara bt Anu Moar 6-0, 6-0; Lakshmi Sarvani bt Harsshali Mandavkar 7-5 (retd.); Gayatri Menon bt Veda Varshita 3-6, 6-2, 7-5; Bala Gayathri Snigdha bt Shilpi Das 6-1, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gayatri-advances/article34032565.ece
10 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Punjab Sports Club beats CPT||Punjab Sports Club rode on Nitin Kerketta’s goal to beat Calcutta Port Trust (CPT) 1-0 in a premier division contest of the Calcutta Hockey League at the East Bengal ground here on Tuesday. In a placement division match at the Mohun Bagan ground, West Bengal Police drew Police Athletic Club 2-2.  The results:   Punjab SC 1 (Nitin Kerketta) bt Calcutta Port Trust 0.   West Bengal Police 2 (Sushar Harshit Kiro 2) drew with Police Athletic Club 2 (Avik Chakraborty, Avay Ekka).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-sports-club-beats-cpt/article34032913.ece
10 March 2021||CHENNAI,||India to field sailors in four classes||India will send sailors in four classes — 49er (men and women), laser standard, laser radial and windsurfing — for the Olympic qualifiers in Oman from April 1 to 8. “Since it is an open event, anybody can participate through their own arrangement either through their State governments or respective clubs. But this team will be sponsored by the Indian government,” Jitendra Dixit, Jt. Secretary, Yachting Association of India (YAI), told The Hindu on Tuesday.   The squad: 49er (men): Varun Thakkar & K. C. Ganapathy (TNSA), Prince & Manu (AYN), Sandeep & Munna (AYN); 49er FX (women): Ekta & Rithika (NSS, Bhopal); Laser standard (men): Vishnu Saravanan, Mohit Saini, Gitesh (all AYN).   Laser radial (women): Nethra Kumanan (TNSA), Ramya Saravanan (EMESA, Secunderabad), Harshita Tomar (NSS, Bhopal); Windsurfing: RFX (men): Jerome (AYN), Ebad Ali (AYN); Women: Ishwarya Ganesh (TNSA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-field-sailors-in-four-classes/article34032460.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Parameshwara nominated KAA acting president||Senior Congress leader G. Parameshwara was nominated as the acting president of the Karnataka Athletics Association (KAA) at the Executive Committee meeting held on Tuesday. The post has been lying vacant since the death of Muthappa Rai in May 2020 and Parameshwara will serve the remainder of the term till September 2022 or till the next election. The veteran politician would ideally have been ineligible for the post as he is above 70 years and has already served as president for 12 years starting from 2004. But A. Rajavelu, Secretary, said that nominating Parameshwara as the “acting” president will circumvent this rule in the KAA constitution, which was brought in line with the Sports Code in 2015. “Legally we are on solid ground,” he said. “Parameshwara is the president of the Tumkur District Association, which he can continue in because central sports bylaws don't apply for posts within a State. Because he is Tumkur president he can hold KAA president post. So we will have no problem. He was chosen unanimously as all members felt he had the right experience.”   P. Dhruv (261 not out) and Prakar Chaturvedi (148) ran riot as Vijaya CC thrashed Wilson Garden CC by 331 runs in the KSCA (Group I) under-16 inter-club tournament.  The scores: Bangalore SC 84 in 28.3 overs (N. Samarth 3/19) lost to Vultures CC 85/2 in 6.5 overs (Shatak Gunjal 50 n.o.).   Jolly Cricketers 250/6 in 50 overs (Rishav Appachu Manavtira 123, Sharan 35, Manikanth Shivanand 31 n.o., A.G. Adithya 3/37, Nouman Rahaman Khan 3/62) bt Young Lions Club 209 in 43.1 overs (S. Tarun 44, K. Purna Chandra 33, A.G. Adithya 35, Manikanth Shivanand 4/33).   Jawahar SC (2) 200/9 in 50 overs (Rohan Satish 42, A. Amshu 27, Raja Shankar 50 n.o., Vikash Kumar 3/33) bt Jupiter CA 106 in 28.3 overs (Adarsh Arun Hoskere 31, L. Vibaansh 3/25, Raja Shankar 3/23, G. Dhanush 3/5).   Coles CC 246/9 in 50 overs (R. Pratham 37, Atharv Malviya 25, Srey Rithwik Kabalu 55, Aditya Gupta 48, Ishan Bhat 29, Harish Raghvan 3/47) lost to Jawans CC 250/5 in 47.4 overs (Rohan R.Revankar, Ujwal S.Gowda 37, S. Manjunath 31 n.o., Rajorshi Pahari 40 n.o.).   Modern CC 282/5 in 50 overs (Raag Punja 119, Krishiv Sujith Somasundar 68 V. Nabhas 52) bt Hanumanthanaagar CC 178/7 in 50 overs (S. Tejus 37, T.P. Poovanna 60 n.o., K.P. Athreya 43).   Herons CC 293/8 in 50 overs (A.S. Abhishek 35, Ram Venkatesan 40, S. Monish 97 n.o., M. Dishan 81) bt Social Cricketers 98 in 35 overs (P. Harshith Gowda 4/28).   Swastic Union CC (2) 336/6 in 50 overs (M.B. Shivam 55, Srujan Nandan 62, Harshil 76, K.N. Anish 57) bt Engrades CC 99 in 39.3 overs (Shridhar Jagatap 3/29, Hardik Raj 4/15, S.A. Sachin 3/4).   Cambridge CC 339 in 50 overs (Raghuveer Rajpurohit 124, Darun L. Reddy 124, Astle Biju 3/64) bt Friends XI CC, Doddaballapura 99 in 27.2 overs (R. Shiv 50, B. Ravikumar 5/32).   Friends Union CC (1) 233/9 in 50 overs (Aarush Mehrotra 114, Dev Sinha 44, K. Sudhanva 3/47, Pruthvi Praveen Chalam 3/36) bt Mount Joy CC 220 in 49.4 overs (Amogh R.Shetty 39, S.P. Ayush 30, Tejas Reddy 73, Dev Sinha 3/27, Pranav R.Babu 3/36).   RVCE 321/8 in 50 overs (P. Sai Kiran 64, Mathew Nilugul 56, Rahul B.Gowda 113, M. Bharath 28 n.o., Narasimha Smaran 3/63) bt Visweswarampuram CC (2) 105 in 36 overs (Gyan Ganesh 45, Kuldeep Singh Purohit 3/13).   Vijaya CC 479/1 in 50 overs (Prakar Chaturvedi 148, P. Dhruv 261 n.o., Samit Dravid 52 n.o.) bt Wilson Garden CC 148 in 39.5 overs (Muhammad Saad 33, Rehan Mohammed 27, Pranav Abhijit Bhattad 3/29).   BUCC (1) 189 in 48.2 overs (Rishabh Iyer 48, Akash Nitesh Shetty 30, Gaurav Gowda 29, Dheeraj J.Gowda 3/34) lost to Century Cricketers 193/8 in 45 overs (Dheeraj J. Gowda 68, S. Gagan Rao 31 n.o., S. Chinmay 28 n.o., R. Aditya 3/48).   Jawahar SC (1) 278/9 in 50 overs (S.U. Karthik 65, Samit Ramesh 25, Madhav T. Mandayam 48, Anmol Davalsab Pagad 29, Kaivalya Mishra 42, Rishab Krish 3/35) bt Swastic Union CC (1) 133 in 34.5 overs (Nikshipth 47, Aarush Sanghi 33, Ashish Nayak 5/20).   Bangalore Occasionals 325/4 in 50 overs (Malhar Naik 51, Aarav Shriyan 72, Harsha Wardhan Khuba 33, Aaryan Santosh 62 n.o., R. Shishir 92, Sujay S.Kulkarni 3/74) bt South End SC 177 in 47 overs (Prahalad 29, G.B. Tarun 32, Nikhil L.Raju 42, Sujay S.Kulkarni 34, Shikhar Shetty 3/27).   The Bangalore Cricketers 217/9 in 50 overs (D.S. Bhushan 57 Akash P.Maiya 28 n.o., V. Akash 3/44) lost to Rajajinagar Cricketers 220/2 in 33 overs (Shrutan V. Shetty 80, V. Akash 48, Dhwaneet Rao 35 n.o.).      P. Kavya scored four goals as Kickstart FC blanked Slamzers Belgaum 7-0 in the Karnataka Women's League for super division clubs on Tuesday.  The results: Kickstart FC 7 (Naobi Chanu Laishram 23, P. Kavya 24, 44, 78, 90, Kshetrimayum Margret Devi 30, Bibi Naushan Mamode 87) bt Slamzers Belgaum 0; Bangalore United FC 1 (Sanfida Nongrum 79) bt Parikrma FC 0 .      Gowin Sehwag upset boys’ third seed Karthik S. Kavin 6-0, 7-6(4) to enter the last eight of the Sportle AITA under-18 CS-7 National-ranking tennis championship at the Topspin Tennis Academy here on Tuesday. Among girls, Amodini Vijay Naik sent the fourth seed Charmi Gopinath packing 6-1, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parameshwara-nominated-kaa-acting-president/article34032360.ece
10 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM:,||Saranganesh’s five eclipses Mahendran's six||V. Saranganesh claimed five for 14 as Syed Ammal ASC defeated Rainbow KTKM by 14 runs in the RDCA second division league. S. Mahendran's six-wicket haul went in vain for Rainbow KTKM.  The scores:   I div.: Rainbow 236/9 in 45 overs (S. Vinith 61, M. Baskarasethupathi 52, S. Ajithkumar 3/46) bt Kalaipuli 63 in 21.3 overs (M. Baskarasethupathi 4/9, C. Deenathayalraja 3/13).   Agni 117 in 34.4 overs (A. Arunkumar 33, R. Ramar 4/22) lost to Nethaji 118/5 in 28.3 overs (A. Ahamed Jameel 33, G. Sathiyendran 3/23).   II div.: Syed Ammal ASC 106 in 21.2 overs (V. Anovenkar 33, S. Mahendran 6/16, N. Dharmendraprakash 3/8) bt Rainbow KTKM 92 in 21.4 overs (V. Saranganesh 5/14) .      Azhar (54 & 3/24) starred in Tamil Lions’ 64-run win over DCC in the Thanjavur DCA A-division league.  The scores:   Sparkz 128/9 in 20 overs (Antony Immanuel 25, Balaguru 3/28) lost to Thanjai Warriors 129/6 in 19.5 overs (Balaguru 38, Naga 37 n.o., Appu 3/22).   Tamil Lions 152/7 in 20 overs (Azhar 54, Jebastin 32, Kavin 3/30, Raj 3/31) bt DCC 88/9 in 20 overs (Azhar 3/24).   Daily Raiders 132 in 19.5 overs (Sam 30) bt Choza Kings 117/9 in 20 overs (Suresh 30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saranganeshs-five-eclipses-mahendrans-six/article34032525.ece
10 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA:,||Sachin guides Panthers to victory||S. Sachin made an unbeaten 47 off 31 balls to help Panthers beat Lions by five wickets in the Kodak KCA President’s Cup T20 league here on Monday. Earlier, Royals defeated Tigers, also by five wickets.  The scores:   Lions 157 for seven in 20 overs (Abhiram 27, Alfi Francis 27, Abdul Basith 27, Abhishek Mohan 27, Jose Perayil 2/29, Harikrishnan 2/32) lost to Panthers 158/5 in 19.3 overs (S. Sachin 47 n.o., Sanju Sajeev, P.K. Mudhun 2/28).   Tigers 160 for five in 20 overs (K.A. Ajith 71, Varun Nayanar 26, Manu Krishnan 2/30) lost to Royals 161 for five in 18.4 overs (Krishna Prasad 61, Hari Krishnan 34 n.o., Jaffer Jamal 28 n.o., Akhil Scaria 3/47).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-guides-panthers-to-victory/article34032806.ece
10 March 2021||Marseille (France),||Divij & Zelenay crash out||India’s Divij Sharan, seeded fourth with Igor Zelenay of Slovakia, lost to Spaniards Alejandro Davodovich Fokina and Marc Lopez 6-4, 6-2 in the doubles first round of the ATP 250 tennis tournament here.  The results: €409,765 ATP, Marseille, France:   First round: Alejandro Davidovich Fokina & Marc Lopez (Esp) bt Igor Zelenay (Svk) & Divij Sharan 6-4, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/divij-zelenay-crash-out/article34032536.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 07:50 IST,||Sudoku — March 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-10-2021/article34033145.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Caffeine explorations||Did you know that coffee’s flavour wheel has over 5,000 notes, whereas wine has only 2,000? Clearly coffee is a complex beverage, and an extremely sensitive one at that. Coffee drinkers are now focussing more on identifying hidden flavour notes, learning how to appreciate provenance by honing their coffee-making techniques. The lockdown became a good time for coffee lovers to learn more about the bean and how to brew it. If some explored single-estate coffees, others tried out different grinders and techniques. A lot of coffee was consumed, and a lot was discovered as well. The right tool Seeing the rise in interest in café- styled coffee, Abhinav Mathur, CEO of Something Brewing, put his knowledge of coffee and coffee machines to use on the platform for home brewers. Abhinav says, “Fortunately, most of the coffee machines and brewing tools used by the FnB industry commercially are sold by our first company Kaapi. Whether for roasting beans or the espresso machine, we are the biggest commercial supplier, so we established ‘Something Brewing’, an e-commerce platform dedicated to coffee, targeting home needs. He adds, “The genesis of the idea for this platform stems from the movement and trends during lockdown wherein coffee took centrestage and people started recreating their cafe-related memories within the comfort of their own homes. Home Brewing has turned into a passion for a whole new generation and has made socialising synonymous to coffee drinking.” Abhinav says customers in the age group of 35-50 years did not mind spending upto Rs. 2 lakh to get an espresso machine at home. Gen Z, on the other hand, went out looking for equipment that is more handy, like a nanopresso and manual brewers. Besides these, artisanal cafés have also seen a huge rise in the demand for tools like Aeropress, syphon, V60 and chemex. Good news is, demand trackers are also stepping up with sustainable appendages, like cloth filter cups. Suhas Dwarkanath, brew master and trainer at Benkibrewing tools, says, “With more people opening up to black coffee, I get queries on the tools required to brew a perfect cup. I usually suggest they look for the clever drip or an Aeropress.” The need for café-styled coffee saw Coffeeza launch three new coffee capsules: Cremoso, Forte and Ethiopia, along with the new  Finero Next Capsule Coffee Machines. The Finero is designed to extract coffee at superior 20 bar pressure (similar to cafés) which results in richly extracted coffee with indulgent layers of cream on the top. Rahul Aggarwal, Coffeeza’s Founder & CEO, says, “Lovers of cafe-style coffee can finally enjoy great coffee at home.” Coffeeza claims its machines and capsules allow coffee aficionados to brew café-style beverages like espresso, cappuccino, latte and more within seconds. Something Brewing says it sold over 200 machines within a few months and also noticed about 20-odd smaller roasters setting up their shop. A thought for the planet There is a growing clientèle for plant-based coffee that claims to be vitamin-enriched. Rage Coffee’s small-batch crystallisation process, instead of bulk production, keeps the caffeine quotient intact and potent. Each serving seems to be a confluence of aroma, notes, and nutritive value sourced from six vitamin-abundant plants. Bharat Sethi, who founded Rage Coffee in 2018, says, “The best bit? We are gluten-free, vegan-friendly and Nature-considerate. Our proprietary, ready-to-mix coffee vials/shots are easy to carry and biodegradable in their entirety. We also offer high-quality natural flavourings to suit your palate without being bland, bitter, or taxing on your calorie count. The brand has exotic flavours: original, Irish hazelnut, crème caramel, sparky orange, and dark chocolate, chai latte, mint mocha, vanilla punch and butterscotch delight.”   Not every coffee lover is a fan of techniques and gadgets. Some like to savour their coffee in the most non-messy, simple way. The coffee cube — a compressed form of instant coffee that only requires milk or water to be added — is proving to be an easy option for the lazy connoisseur.  Home brewing for beginners AeroPressWith the AeroPress maker, coffee is steeped for up to 50 seconds and then forced through a filter by pressing the plunger. Clever dripClever drip uses the technique of pour over along with French press and is extremely easy to use. Chemex coffeeThe Chemex coffeemaker uses the drip method. It is a manual pour-over style glass coffeemaker.   With the discovery of various coffees and brewing methods came the need for coffee-making equipment like aeropress, syphon, V60, chemex, nanopresso... Demand trackers are filling up any gaps with sustainable options like cloth filter cups||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/caffeine-explorations/article34032789.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two beaten to death by mob in Azadpur Mandi||Two men were beaten to death by a mob in north Delhi’s Azadpur Sabzi Mandi on Tuesday over suspicion of theft, the police said, adding that one of the victims was found stuffed inside a jute bag. Two people have been arrested in connection with the incident, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Usha Rangnani. The police received information regarding the incident at 7.30 a.m. “A police team rushed to the mandi where two persons: Lokesh, 24, and Bhaiya, 24, were found injured. Both of them lived in nearby areas. One of them was found stuffed inside a jute bag,” said the DCP. The victims were declared brought dead at BJRM hospital. The bodies have been sent for autopsy, the police said. The DCP added that after scanning footage of CCTV cameras in the area, and with the help of local intelligence, they arrested Rakesh and Sunil Pandey. Both work on the Azadpur Mandi premises. A relative of Lokesh said they rushed to the mandi after getting a call from an unknown person about the incident. His family alleged that a man was about to dump a jute bag, with Lokesh’s body stuffed inside, claiming it was garbage. “We nabbed one of the suspects and handed him over to the police. Lokesh is survived by his wife and one-year-old child. He was killed for no reason and the police is not telling us anything about his murder,” said the family member. An FIR under IPC Section 302 (murder) has been registered at Mahindra Park police station and a detailed probe has been ordered. Lokesh was put inside the bag to destroy evidence, the DCP added. FIR against victims “We are finding out if there were any FIRs registered against the victims or if they hold any criminal records. We have also registered two separate FIRs under the IPC section of theft against the victims on the complaint of the arrested persons,” the senior police officer added.  Lokesh is survived by his wife and one-year-old child. He was killed for no reason and the police is not telling us anything about his murder Relative of Lokesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-beaten-to-death-by-mob-in-azadpur-mandi/article34032609.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man killed following quarrel with neighbours in west Delhi; 5 held||A 32-year-old man was killed following a quarrel with his neighbours in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden on Monday night, the police said on Tuesday. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Prashant Gautam said the victim has been identified as Rupesh, a resident of Raghubir Nagar. The accused have been identified as 23-year-old Tarun, his 21-year-old wife Priyanka, father Ravindra (48), mother Anita (45), cousin Deepa (30), brother Puneet and friends Kaju, Summi and Gaurav. Five of the accused have been arrested, an officer said. On the night of the incident, Tarun was fighting with Priyanka on the road, subsequently the matter escalated when Deepa and her friends also joined in and all started abusing each other. On hearing the commotion outside, Rupesh’s mother Indravati came out of her house and asked the group not to shout. The group allegedly started arguing with her. Next, Rupesh’s younger brother Mukesh intervened in the matter. “Puneet then slapped Mukesh,” Mr. Gautam said. Subsequently, Rupesh, his father Raj Bahadur, and uncle Rajbir entered the scene to pacify the crowd but Puneet and Deepa called their friends Nitin, Kaju, Summi and Gaurav. Tarun’s family members then hit Rupesh, Mukesh and the others with sticks. “In the meantime, the police was called following which the accused fled the spot. Rupesh was taken to Guru Gobind Singh Hospital where he was declared brought dead. Mukesh, his father, mother, uncle and sister-in-law also suffered injuries during the incident,” Mr. Gautam said. The incident was captured on CCTV camera. A case under Sections 302 (punishment for murder), 307 (punishment for attempt to murder), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC has been registered. The police are looking for Anita, Summi, Kaju and Puneet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-killed-following-quarrel-with-neighbours-in-west-delhi-5-held/article34032610.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police postpone search at Pracha’s office again||The police on Tuesday said they visited advocate Mehmood Pracha’s office in Nizamuddin but had to postpone the search as he wasn’t available. They claimed that they were in possession of a court order for the search. Mr. Pracha, the defense counsel for multiple accused in the north-east riots cases, said “hundreds of policemen” came to raid his office at 12. 30 p.m. and remained there for several hours. “They could not raid because my office was locked, and my staff was busy in various matters. My support staff was also on leave. I don’t know if they broke open,” he said while claiming to be still at Patiala House Court on Tuesday evening. Mr. Pracha also said he has moved an application against the search before the same judge, who gave the order, and “the court has summoned the concerned DCP on Wednesday morning”. The court, however, wrote on the application, “Let notice of the application be sent to IO for a reply on Wednesday. The IO in this case is a Sub Inspector. Delhi Police sources said the court had ordered another search “as the one ordered previously could not be then executed due to obstructions caused by Mr. Pracha”. “Since Mr. Pracha wasn’t found available in his office today, the same has been postponed, seeking his next availability,” an officer said. Mr. Pracha said the matter of whether the raid was completed or not is sub-judice and is pending before the court. In December last, Delhi Police Special Cell had raided Mr. Pracha’s office in connection with a case of forgery and criminal conspiracy filed in August. The police claimed that the lawyer had instigated a man to give a false deposition in a riots case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-postpone-search-at-prachas-office-again/article34032611.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records over 300 fresh cases, four deaths||Delhi recorded 320 fresh COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Tuesday, breaching the 300-mark again after a gap of two days, according to data shared by the health department. There have been 66,744 tests, including 40,885 RT-PCR and 25,859 rapid antigen conducted the previous day. The number of active cases rose to 1,812 on Tuesday from 1,730 on Monday. The death toll stands at 10,928. The positivity rate fell slightly to 0.48% from 0.50% a day before. On Sunday and Monday, 286 and 239 cases respectively, were recorded. The total number of cases stands at 6,41,660. A total of 585 new cases were reported on January 1 and 384 on January 4. It had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down the next month, and on February 26, 256 cases were recorded, the highest daily count in February. However, since early March, cases were again seen on the rise. Doctors have attributed this “sudden rise” in the number of cases to complacency among people, not following COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and “assuming all is well now”. The number of people under home isolation rose to 952 on Tuesday from 947 on Monday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-over-300-fresh-cases-four-deaths/article34032604.ece
10 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scuffle at DU event: FIR over ‘molesting’ woman||The police on Tuesday registered an FIR against unknown persons for allegedly molesting a woman during an event organised on International Women’s Day in North Campus. An officer said the FIR has been registered under IPC Section of voluntarily causing hurt and molestation, at Maurice Nagar police station, after a woman filed a complaint in the matter. A minor scuffle had broken out between two groups over slogans raised during an event organised on the DU campus. The groups were separated by the policemen deployed at the event, said the officer. In the evening, a woman filed a complaint against unknown persons for molesting her when she objected to anti-Army posters displayed at the event. “We are trying to obtain CCTV and mobile recordings of the scuffle that broke out on Monday to identify the people involved in the case,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/scuffle-at-du-event-fir-over-molesting-woman/article34032612.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||Toolkit case: court extends protection from arrest to 3||A Delhi court on Tuesday extended protection from arrest till March 15 to Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, both accused — along with climate change activist Disha Ravi — in a case of sharing a ‘toolkit’ on social media related to the ongoing farmers’ protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief after the counsel of both the accused said they needed time to go through the reply filed by the Delhi police before advancing arguments in the matter. The Judge directed the police not to take any coercive action against both the accused till March 15, the next date of hearing. Ms. Jacob, Mr. Muluk and Ms. Ravi were booked for sedition and other charges. On February 17, the Bombay High Court had granted Ms. Jacob protection from arrest for three weeks in the case. On February 23, a Delhi court had granted bail to Ms. Ravi, who was arrested in the same case, terming the ‘toolkit’ shared by her relating to the farmers’ protest against three farm laws as ‘innocuous’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-accused-get-protection-from-arrest-in-toolkit-case/article34032602.ece
10 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Gandhi family not isolated in public life, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the Gandhi family had not been isolated in public life, contrary to misconception among some people, and the Congress was “united, vibrant and strong enough” under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi to take on any challenge. Standing united Reacting to the cover story and an editorial published in a news magazine, Mr. Gehlot said the people from all castes, creeds, religions and regions had faith in the Gandhi family and its leadership qualities. “It is this trust and faith in [the] Gandhi family that the rank and file of the party are standing firmly with them. They will not be isolated ever.” Mr. Gehlot said the former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was the “only national Opposition leader” who was raising voice against the NDA government on all issues pertaining to the common people. There was no match for his commitment and dedication to the nation, he added. Mr. Gehlot regretted that the news magazine, well read since 1975, had written “fabricated stories” on the Congress and the Gandhi family. It was more worrisome that the magazine’s founder and editor-in-chief had himself written an editorial which was “untrue and baseless”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gandhi-family-not-isolated-in-public-life-says-gehlot/article34032600.ece
10 March 2021||Muzaffarnagar,||Riots: court accepts closure report of SIT against Som||A special court has accepted the closure report filed by a U.P. Police Special Investigation Team (SIT) against BJP MLA Sangeet Som in a case of uploading an inflammatory video on social media ahead of the riots in 2013. In his order issued on Monday, Special Judge Ram Sudh Singh said the complainant in the case, inspector Subhodh Kumar, has died and no objection has not been filed against the closure report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-court-accepts-closure-report-of-sit-against-som/article34032601.ece
10 March 2021||March 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Bamboo curtain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bamboo-curtain/article34032916.ece
10 March 2021||New Delhi,||SFI members hold hunger strike to demand campus reopening, detained||Members of the SFIwere detained on Tuesday while organising a protest and hunger strike to demand the reopening of the DU campus. The police said the protesting SFI members, detained at the Maurice Nagar police station, were later released. The SFI said that the protest the police put “over 50 activists under forceful detention”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sfi-members-hold-hunger-strike-to-demand-campus-reopening-detained/article34032914.ece
10 March 2021||Noida,||Staff at Noida’s COVID hospital protest over salary pending for 4 months||Around 50 housekeeping and security employees staged a protest on Tuesday at a dedicated State-run COVID-19 hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, claiming their salaries have not been paid since November. An official said the salaries are stuck as the health department has not yet received funds from the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/staff-at-noidas-covid-hospital-protest-over-salary-pending-for-4-months/article34032606.ece
10 March 2021||Noida/Greater Noida,||3 dead, 12 injured in separate road accidents in Noida, Greater Noida||At least three people were killed and a dozen injured in separate road accidents in Noida and Greater Noida on Tuesday, the police said. Two people died and five got injured in a collision between two trucks on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Kasna, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-dead-12-injured-in-separate-road-accidents-in-noida-greater-noida/article34032607.ece
