12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin off clinical trial mode||India’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, has been taken off the clinical trial mode and is now authorised for emergency use on a par with Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield, NITI Aayog’s member (health) V.K. Paul said on Thursday. While congratulating the scientific community on the achievement, Dr. Paul cautioned that the COVID pandemic is not over and that people should not lower their guard. “The surge in COVID cases in Maharashtra is a serious matter. This surge has two lessons — don’t take the virus for granted and if we have to remain COVID-free, then we need to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and avail ourselves of the vaccines,” Dr. Paul said at a Health Ministry press conference. Delhi-NCR surge He added that Delhi-NCR was also seeing a rise in COVID cases and that people need to be watchful. Speaking about Maharashtra, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research Balram Bhargava said the State had shown a worrisome trend and added that the mutant strain had not been found to be responsible for the surge in cases. “This is related to reduced testing, tracking, inappropriate COVID behaviour and large congregations,” Dr. Bhargava said. Eight of the top 10 districts in terms of active COVID-19 cases are in Maharashtra. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Pune with 18,474 cases topped the list, followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10,460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (MH) (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4,525) and Aurangabad (4,354). Price lowered Mr. Bhushan said the government “has also re-negotiated the price of the COVID-19 vaccine being bought from the Serum Institute of India (SII). The price of Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and the Oxford University and manufactured by SII ... has been reduced from Rs. 200 per dose (without tax) to substantially lower,” he said. However, he did not give any details about this benefit being passed on to the beneficiaries of the vaccine. In his presentation, the Health Secretary said India was seeing a rise in the number of active cases after touching its lowest mark in mid-February. Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Maharashtra were registering a rise, while Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal were among those showing a decline. The Ministry’s data also noted that the daily new COVID deaths, which was 159 on January 22, came down to 90 on February 13, and had been moving upwards in the past 24 hours, registering 126 deaths on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-taken-off-clinical-trial-mode/article34048602.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,||DMK completes allotment of seats to Congress, Left parties||After multiple rounds of talks, the DMK completed identification of constituencies for the CPI, the Congress and the CPI(M) on Thursday, a day before the filing of nominations begins for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. While the alliance leader concluded the agreement with the CPI in the morning and with the Congress in the evening, talks with the CPI(M) dragged on and an agreement was reached by around 11 p.m. No DMK list yet The DMK was unable to release its list of candidates owing to the stalemate over the identification of the constituencies with these allies. Under the agreement signed between DMK president M.K. Stalin and CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, the Left party will field candidates in Tirupparankundram, Dindigul and Kovilpatti, and in the reserved constituencies of Gandarvakottai, Harur and Kilvelur. Face off The Congress and the BJP will face off in the Assembly constituencies of Colachel, Vilavangode, Udhagamandalam, Karaikudi and Coimbatore South, besides the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency where a byelection will be held. The Congress has also been allotted Velachery in Chennai, which is held by actor Vagai Chandrasekar of the DMK, Ponneri (reserved), Sriperumbudur (reserved), Sholinghur, Uthangarai (reserved), Omalur, Melur, Sivakasi, Srivaikundam, Killiyur, Erode East, Tenkasi, Aranthangi, Virudhachalam, Nanguneri, Kallakurichi (reserved), Srivilliputtur (reserved), Thiruvadanai, Udumalaipettai and Mayiladuthurai. Inevitable scenario Mr. Balakrishnan told journalists that it was true that his party could not get a few seats that it was keen on. “But it is inevitable when a constituency is demanded by more than one party,” he said. He said the weakness in the AIADMK-BJP front was highlighted by the “revolt” by those who could not get seats. “The alliance will be defeated in all the constituencies,” he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the talks had proceeded well. “This alliance will bring about a change in the government and will be an example for the rest of India. Our aim is not just to change the government [in Tamil Nadu] but also to ensure that people live with hope, growth and security,” he said. He said the Secular Progressive Alliance was created for social justice and communal harmony. “This electoral victory will not only be Tamil Nadu’s victory but India’s. We will win 100% and put an end to the efforts of the RSS and the Narendra Modi government to split India, and will remove the corrupt AIADMK government.” Stalemate for a week The seat-sharing talks between the DMK and the Congress parties were locked in a stalemate for more than a week. A phone call between Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and Mr. Stalin sealed the deal a few days ago. The identification of constituencies took nearly three days.  This alliance will bring about a change in the government and will be an example for the rest of India. Our aim is not just to change the government [in Tamil Nadu] but also to ensure that people live with hope, growth and security||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-allots-seats-to-cong-left-parties/article34049192.ece
12 March 2021||Mangaluru,||BJP to launch village stay in Udupi from March 20||The BJP in Udupi district will commence its ‘grama vastavya’ (village stay) from March 20 to prepare itself to face the coming elections to the zilla panchayat and taluk panchayats, according to the president of Udupi district unit of the party Kuyilady Suresh Nayak. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Thursday he said that about five to six leaders of the party will stay in villages under the jurisdiction of 32 ‘mahashakthi kendras’ of the party every day starting from Saturday next. It is to ensure that the party should win at least 26 of 30 zilla panchayat constituencies and 70 of 85 taluk panchayat segments in the district, he said. A stage programme will be conducted daily in the evening at 5 p.m. in the place where the leaders will stay in the villages. They will discuss among the active party workers the working pattern of the booth level committees of the party, Mr. Nayak said. Hitting out at the Congress he alleged that the party has been misguiding farmers on the new farm laws of the Union government. The party will take out a ‘padayatra’ from Byndoor to Udupi in the second week of April to create awareness among farmers on the farm laws and clear their doubts over them. About 5,000 people will participate in this three-day padayatra, he said. Udupi Zilla Panchayat president Dinakar Babu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-to-launch-village-stay-in-udupi-from-march-20/article34049310.ece
12 March 2021||Kolkata,||Parties spar over Mamata’s injury||A day after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was rushed to hospital in Kolkata after suffering injuries during her campaign in Nandigram, the Trinamool Congress leadership reiterated allegations that the party chief was targeted as part of a conspiracy. Addressing a press conference, senior leaders of Trinamool Congress, including Partha Chatterjee, Saugata Roy and Subrata Bakshi, alleged that Ms. Banerjee, the only woman Chief Minister in the country, was “purposely targeted”. The Trinamool Congress leadership said the attack had occurred days after the West Bengal DGP was transferred and at a time the model code of conduct is in force. However, earlier in the day, in her video message to party cadre, Ms. Banerjee made no mention of a possible conspiracy. Urging her supporters to maintain peace and not do anything that would cause problems to the public, a visibly weak Ms. Banerjee said, “It is true that I was badly hurt last night and felt severe pain in the chest and head. The doctors are looking after me.” A Trinamool Congress parliamentary delegation of six MPs from both Houses will meet Election Commission officials in Delhi on Friday over the incident. However, Opposition parties in West Bengal, including the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front and the Congress, have dismissed Trinamool Congress’s allegation as baseless and termed the incident a political “drama” to gain sympathy votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parties-spar-over-mamatas-injury/article34048604.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cyber fraud: assets of Jamtara criminal gang members attached||The Enforcement Directorate has attached three immovable properties and other assets of some members of a Jamtara-based gang that cheated people by siphoning off funds from their bank accounts. A large number of gangs indulging in such cyber frauds earlier operated from Jamtara in Jharkhand. Accused Pradeep Kumar Mandal, Pintu Mandal, Ankush Kumar Mandal, Santosh Mandal and Ganesh Mandal were part of the gang being probed by the ED. The assets, including four vehicles, are located in Jamtara. The cash kept in the bank accounts of the accused persons has also been attached. Based on FIR The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the Jharkhand police, which has also filed a charge sheet against the accused persons. It is alleged that over phone, they would lure the victims into sharing details of their bank accounts and debit/credit cards and use the information to siphoning off funds. Trial in PMLA court The agency had earlier conducted searches in the premises of the gang members. It also filed a charge sheet against them on May 27, 2019. The charges have already been framed and their trial is under way before a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyber-fraud-assets-of-jamtara-criminal-gang-members-attached/article34048803.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Temperatures begin to breach the normal||Summer has started making its presence felt as temperatures in many districts of the State have started breaching the normal for this time of the year. As of Thursday, Kalaburagi recorded the highest maximum temperature in Karnataka with 38.5 degrees Celsius. This is a 1.5 degrees Celsius departure from its normal temperature. Almost all stations recorded maximum temperatures over 30 degrees Celsuis, with Raichur in north-interior Karnataka and Panambur in coastal Karnataka recording 36 degrees Celsius and 36.2 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the India Meteorological Department. Coastal Karnataka Two stations in coastal Karnataka saw the maximum departures from the normal maximum temperatures: Panambur with a 3.6 degrees Celsius departure and Karwar with a 2.8 degrees Celsius departure. As for minimum temperatures, Davangere recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 15.3 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was 35.5 degrees Celsius. Many stations recorded higher temperatures than their normal minimum. In south-interior Karnataka, Agumbe, with 18.4 degrees Celsius, had a 4.7 degrees Celsius departure, Madikeri with 18.5 degrees Celsius had a 4.3 degrees Celsius departure, Mandya at 21.6 degrees Celsius was a 3.6 degrees Celsius departure, and Honnavar (coastal Karnataka) at 25.1 degrees Celsius was a 3.1 degrees Celsius departure. The minimum temperature in Bidar in north-interior Karnataka was 6.6 degrees Celsius lower than the normal at 14.6 degrees Celsius. Bengaluru recorded more or less its usual temperatures: HAL station at 32.2. degrees Celsius, Bengaluru City station at 33 degrees Celsius, and the KIA station at 33.2 degrees Celsius was a 0.6 to 0.1 degrees Celsius departure from the normal maximum temperatures. Rain in some parts There was temporary relief for some parts as rainfall occurred at isolated places over south-interior Karnataka. Periyapatna in Mysuru district recorded 2 cm rainfall. The forecast for the next 24 hours has predicted rain/thundershowers at isolated places over coastal Karnataka and south-interior Karnataka, while dry weather is likely to prevail over north-interior Karnataka. Bengaluru is expected to have partly cloudy sky with the maximum and minimum temperatures likely to be around 32 and 19 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temperatures-begin-to-breach-the-normal/article34048737.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Marginal spike in COVID cases||The State recorded as many as 194 COVID –19 cases on Wednesday, corresponding to March 10. This brings the total number of cases recorded in Telangana to over 3 lakh. Since March 8, the number of COVID–19 cases as recorded by the government has been gradually rising. On March 8, as many as 142 cases were recorded in the State by the Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare. A day later, the number rose to 189. On Wednesday, the number increased to 194. The number of cases in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits too increased, albeit marginally, from 27 on March 4 to 35 on March 10. As many as three COVID–19 deaths were recorded. This brings the total number of fatalities in the State to 1,649. On March 10, no positive cases were reported in several districts including Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Jogulamba Gadwal, and Narayanpet districts. Only one case was reported in Mulugu, and Komarambheem Asifabad districts. The State tested as many as 37,904 samples on March 10, thus spiking the total number of samples tested to over 90.93 lakh. Out of these 37,904, 16,677 samples were of primary contacts and 4,548 were of secondary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marginal-spike-in-covid-cases/article34049249.ece
12 March 2021||KAKINADA,||2 killed, 4 injured in reactor blast at pharma unit||Two supervisors died on the spot and four others are battling for life with severe burn injuries after a 3,000-kg capacity reactor blew up reportedly owing to heavy pressure at Tyche Industries Limited’s pharma unit at Sarpavaram, on the outskirts of Kakinada, in East Godavari district on Thursday. East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said the deceased had been identified as Kakarla Subramanyam (31) of Tallarevu mandal, and Thotakura Venkata Ramana (37) of Gollaprolu mandal in East Godavari district. The duo were engaged in the production of the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) when the incident occurred. The injured have been identified as Operator Kadupudi Srinivasa Rao, Assistant Operator Nammi Simhadri Rao, Assistant Production Manager Kalaga Satya Saibabu and Production Operator R. Rajkumar of East Godavari district. They have been admitted to a hospital near Kakinada. According to Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi, the accident occurred when the staff were dealing with Nitric Acid at the reactor. Preliminary inquiry found that there was no leakage of any chemical into the air or surroundings, he claimed. Mr. Muralidhar said safety measures and operational condition of the pharma unit were reviewed in November 2020. The Inspector of Factories, AP Pollution Control Board, Revenue and Fire department authorities are investigating the incident. In an official release, Health Minister Alla Nani assured better medical treatment for the injured persons and inquired about the incident with the officials and Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, who rushed to the spot. Ex gratia The ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased and to those injured in the blast at Tyche Industries Limited’s pharma unit will be announced after talks with the company management on Friday, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said. “I have explained Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the incident. A decision has been taken to ensure that the pharma company bears the medical expenses of the injured and offers ex gratia to the families of the deceased persons,” Mr. Kannababu told The Hinduon Thursday . “By Friday, the ex gratia to be offered to the victims will be decided. The company authorities have been directed to close down the unit with immediate effect and stop their operations until further orders,” the Minister added||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-killed-in-reactor-blast-at-pharma-unit/article34048532.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Congress, BJP to face off in five Assembly seats||After multiple rounds of talks, the DMK and the Congress on Thursday finalised 25 constituencies from where the national party will contest in the April 6 Assembly election. The Congress and the BJP will face off in Colachel, Vilavangode, Udhagamandalam, Karaikudi and Coimbatore South, besides the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency. The CPI(M), another ally of the DMK, could not finalise the constituencies it seeks to contest, what with the overlapping of claims to two seats. Even after many rounds of talks, the DMK and the CPI(M) failed to come to an agreement. “As these constituencies have been allotted to allies, the CPI(M) could not get them,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-bjp-to-face-off-in-five-assembly-seats/article34048623.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mithun Chakraborty gets central VIP security cover||The Centre has accorded 'Y+' VIP security cover to veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty who recently joined the BJP, according to official sources. They said the security cover will be provided by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that has a dedicated wing for this task, called the special security group (SSG). The 70-year-old actor had joined the BJP on Sunday at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. “Chakraborty has been given a 'Y+' cover and armed CISF commandos will accompany him during poll campaign in West Bengal,” a senior officer said. Election to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly is scheduled to be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29. A threat perception report prepared by central security agencies recently recommended to the home ministry for a security cover to the national award-winning actor. BJP MP from Jharkhand Nishikant Dubey will also be accorded with a similar cover that involves about four to five armed commandos protecting the person. With these new inductions, the CISF now protects a total of 104 VIPs, including National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mithun-chakraborty-gets-central-vip-security-cover/article34048807.ece
12 March 2021||Pune,||Protests erupt as State postpones MPSC exam||The Maharashtra government’s decision to postpone the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases sparked protests across the State on Thursday, with aspirants taking to the streets in Pune, Aurangabad and other cities even as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that fresh dates would be announced on Friday. “This postponement is not for two or three months, but merely for a few days. I have directed MPSC officials to end this confusion and announce the new exam date on Friday. The exams will be held within eight days of the new schedule,” said Mr. Thackeray. During these protests, agitators unfortunately threw social distancing and pandemic norms to the winds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protests-erupt-as-state-postpones-mpsc-exam/article34049328.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Congress, BJP to face off in five Assembly seats||After multiple rounds of talks, the DMK and the Congress on Thursday finalised 25 constituencies from where the national party will contest in the April 6 Assembly election. The Congress and the BJP will face off in Colachel, Vilavangode, Udhagamandalam, Karaikudi and Coimbatore South, besides the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency. The CPI(M), another ally of the DMK, could not finalise the constituencies it seeks to contest, what with the overlapping of claims to two seats. Even after many rounds of talks, the DMK and the CPI(M) failed to come to an agreement. “As these constituencies have been allotted to allies, the CPI(M) could not get them,” said a source. Consequently, the DMK could not release its list of candidates. It is likely to be announced on Friday. The Congress has also been allotted Velachery in Chennai, which is held by actor Vagai Chandrasekar of the DMK, Ponneri (reserved), Sriperumbudur (reserved), Sholingar, Uthangarai (reserved), Omalur, Melur, Sivakasi, Srivaikundam, Killiyur, Erode East, Tenkasi, Aranthangi, Virudhachalam, Nanguneri, Kallakurichi (reserved), Srivilliputtur (reserved), Thiruvadanai, Udumalaipettai and Mayiladuthurai. Speaking to reporters after the agreement was reached with the DMK, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said the talks had proceeded well. “This alliance will bring about a change in the government and will be an example for the rest of India. Our aim is not just to change the government [in Tamil Nadu] but also to ensure that people live with hope, growth and security,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said the Secular Progressive Alliance was created for social justice and communal harmony. “This electoral victory will not only be Tamil Nadu’s victory but India’s victory. We will win 100% and put an end to the efforts of the RSS and the Modi government to split India, and will remove the corrupt AIADMK government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-bjp-to-face-off-in-five-assembly-seats/article34048625.ece
12 March 2021||Kozhikode,||CPI(M) not to give in to dissidence in Kuttiyadi||Unfazed by the rebellion of its supporters in Kuttiyadi, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M] has decided to stick to its guns and follow the seat-sharing arrangement reached among the Left Democratic Front partners for the Assembly polls. Widespread protests were witnessed in Kuttiyadi on Wednesday when CPI(M) supporters took out a massive rally against the decision of the CPI(M) leadership to hand over the Kuttiyadi seat to the Jose K. Mani-led Kerala Congress (M). Damage-control exercise However, the CPI(M) district committee, as a damage-control exercise, will hold a rally on Sunday to explain the position of the party in this regard Meanwhile, the Kunnummel and Vadakara area committees of the party met on Thursday and decided not to relent to the demands of the rebels to reclaim the Kuttiyadi seat from the Kerala Congress (M). These committees, backed by the district leadership, adopted a resolution not to retract on a decision endorsed by the State leadership. CPI(M) district secretary P. Mohanan and central committee member Elamaram Kareem oversaw the deliberations. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, while admitting that the issue is a serious one, said such incidents should not have happened in the CPI(M). The State leadership would examine the rebellion at Kuttiyadi. Previously, some people had attempted to wreck the party at Onchiyam, Mr. Jayarajan said referring to the creation of the dissident outfit Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) founded by T.P. Chandrasekharan. In the wake of the protest, the Kerala Congress (M) has kept in abeyance the announcement of its nominee in Kuttiyadi. Ready to return seat However, the party is ready to return the seat provided it is offered the Thiruvambady segment where the CPI(M) has already announced Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan as candidate. During bilateral talks, a functionary said the KC(M) had requested the Perambra seat which the party had contested in the 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections when it was in the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). The party had also identified the two-time unsuccessful contestant Mohammed Iqbal for the Perambra seat. Then, the CPI(M) district secretariat promised that the party would mange the electioneering mechanism when the KC (M) leadership pointed out that the party had no base in Kuttiyadi, sources said.  Such incidents should not have happened in the CPI(M). The State leadership will examine look into the issue. E.P. Jayarajan Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-not-to-give-in-to-dissidence-in-kuttiyadi/article34048771.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Uproar in Assembly over remarks on riots||The first report of the Committee on Welfare of Minorities, instituted to review compensation paid to the victims of north-east Delhi riots, was presented amid a bitter debate between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party and the Opposition BJP in the Assembly here on Thursday. Cases such as those of a riot victim who lost a hand and two fingers of the other being granted Rs. 20,000 — the amount sanctioned for a minor injury — were brought to the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uproar-in-assembly-over-remarks-on-riots/article34048962.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mission divine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mission-divine/article34048801.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC files FIR over fake news on hacking of EVMs||The Election Commission on Thursday said an FIR had been lodged over “fake news” about hacking of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) being spread on social media. ‘Circulated again’ In a statement, the EC said, “It has come to the notice of Election Commission of India that an old fake news about EVM hacking is being circulated on some social media platforms/internet.” It added that the news article from December 21, 2017 said “maliciously” that former Chief Election Commissioner T.S. Krishnamurthy had “opined that a particular party won Assembly elections by hacking EVMs”. “This wrongful information was previously debunked by the former CEC himself, soon after this matter had come to his knowledge in 2018. This news is again being circulated by some miscreants on social media,” the EC said. It added that Mr. Krishnamurthy issued a statement on Wednesday refuting the news again. The EC said an FIR had been lodged by the Delhi Chief Electoral Officer under Section 500 of the IPC, which pertains to punishment for defamation, and Sections 128 and 134 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, pertaining to maintenance of secrecy of voting and breach of official duty in connection with elections respectively. “Investigation has been initiated in this matter and stern action will be taken against the miscreants who have uploaded fake news to create wrong impressions about the election process,” the EC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-files-fir-over-fake-news-on-hacking-of-evms/article34048961.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/religious-fervour/article34049313.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Power of divinity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-of-divinity/article34049284.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Brilliant arrangements||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brilliant-arrangements/article34049385.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mission divine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mission-divine/article34048741.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Tangedco warned over coal tender||The Madras High Court on Thursday warned Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) that it would not hesitate to quash a Rs. 1,330 crore worth tender notification issued by it on February 8 for supply of 20 lakh tonnes of imported steam coal of any origin, if it finds evidence of any foul-play. The court permitted a public interest litigant to file additional materials in support of his allegations and directed Tangedco to be ready with its response by next week. The First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, in an interim order, stated that it was easy for anyone to hint at a corrupt practice and raise an atmosphere of suspicion. However, it was a completely different thing to produce hard facts before the court to establish the charges. In the present case, the consistent practice followed by Tangedco of inviting bids for high value tenders at a short notice certainly arouses suspicion, the judges said. Further, observing that public sector units must be given a degree of elbow room to function freely, the judges said, nevertheless, such a play in the joints could not be used as an excuse by the government establishments to run riot and cause loss to the public exchequer or allow a group of persons to benefit unduly from government tenders. The judges also took serious note of Tangedco having come under adverse notice of Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in 2017. The PIL petition had been filed by C. Selvaraj, 70, a retired Assistant Engineer of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) who had also served as general secretary of a TNEB engineers association for many years. Senior Counsel K.M. Vijayan, assisted by E. Vijay Anand, appeared on his behalf and insisted upon ordering a joint probe by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) into the alleged scam in import of coal for thermal power stations. Mr. Vijayan told the court that Tangedco had initially given just 15 days’ time for submission of bids, for supply of 20 lakh tonnes of imported coal, as against the requisite minimum duration of 30 days. When it was challenged by a private company before a single judge of the High Court, Tangedco issued a corrigendum and extended the period by 15 more days. Further, the tender clauses had been authored cleverly to favour participation of only foreign suppliers, he claimed. Referring to the requirement that the bidders should possess export licences issued by the country from where the coal would be procured, he said no Indian supplier could be expected to be in possession of export licence from foreign countries. He said that Tangedco had a chequered history of having caused huge loss to the public exchequer by importing steam coal at high costs to run domestic thermal power stations and therefore it should not be allowed to go ahead with the present import. He pointed out that the CAG, in its 2017 report, had found that an avoidable expenditure of Rs. 746.13 crore had been incurred by Tangedco since it had not invited and evaluated the bids for import of coal on variable price method. The report had also stated that the failure to verify the correctness of gross calorific value furnished by the supplier resulted in undue benefit to the extent of Rs. 813.68 crore to the supplier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-warns-tangedco-over-coal-import-tender/article34048620.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM to attend first Quad Summit today||Access to COVID-19 vaccines, cooperation on technology, and climate change are on the top of the agenda as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will join U.S. President Joseph Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga for a virtual summit of the Quadrilateral Framework (Quad) on Friday — the first time leaders of the Indo-Pacific grouping are meeting. The meeting is also one of Mr. Biden’s first multilateral engagements, which the White House said denoted the importance of the U.S.’s cooperation with “allies and partners in the Indo Pacific”. The Quad meeting, that China has referred to as an “Indo-Pacific NATO”, will be watched most closely for signals on how the grouping will deal with the challenge from Beijing’s recent moves in the Pacific as well as at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. Also of interest is whether the four leaders will issue a joint statement at the end of the meeting, which would be another first, as all Quad engagements thus far have come out with four separate readouts indicating differences in their positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-to-attend-first-quad-summit-online-today/article34048605.ece
12 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Kanpur rape: 3 suspended for negligence||Three police personnel were suspended in Kanpur on Thursday after a preliminary inquiry found them culpable of negligence in the matter of the death “in an accident” of the father of a minor girl, who was allegedly gang-raped on March 8. DIG Kanpur Preetinder Singh said the halka prabhari  of the Sajeti police station, the Ghatampur outpost in-charge and a beat constable were suspended for “negligence”. The latter two face action for negligence. A detailed probe would be carried out . Police also arrested one more accused, Dipu Yadav, son of a police officer. Golu Yadav, one of the two who allegedly raped the minor, has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanpur-rape-3-suspended-for-negligence/article34049476.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||60% of new cases from Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported the highest daily new COVID cases at 13,659 (almost 60% of the daily new cases) with the country reporting 22,854 new cases in the last 24 hours, a release issued by the Health Ministry said on Thursday. Maharashtra is followed by Kerala with 2,475 cases while Punjab reported 1,393 new cases. India has reported 126 deaths in the last 24 hours. Six States account for 82.54% of these deaths. Maharashtra again saw the maximum casualties at 54, followed by Punjab with 17 and Kerala with 14. “Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a high number of COVID-19 daily new cases. They account for 85.91% of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours,” added the release. The Ministry did not comment on Denmark, Norway and Iceland temporarily suspending the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine over concerns of patients developing post-jab blood clots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/60-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra/article34048606.ece
12 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Kanpur rape: 3 suspended for negligence||Three police personnel were suspended in Kanpur on Thursday after a preliminary inquiry found them culpable of negligence in the matter of the death “in an accident” of the father of a minor girl, who was allegedly gang-raped on March 8. DIG Kanpur Preetinder Singh said the halka prabhari  of the Sajeti police station, the Ghatampur outpost in-charge and a beat constable were suspended for “negligence”. The latter two face action for negligence in the accident in which the father died. A detailed probe would be carried out by the SP (Rural) Kanpur. The police also arrested one more accused, Dipu Yadav, the son of a police officer posted in Kannuaj. Golu Yadav, one of the two who allegedly raped the minor, has already been arrested. The third accused, Saurabh Yadav, who is yet to be arrested, is Dipu’s brother and is accused of intimidating the minor girl’s family when they were trying to lodge a complaint against the alleged gang rape. The father of the girl, 13, died after being hit by a truck a day after she lodged a police complaint on Wednesday. The relatives of the girl alleged that he was murdered and accused the police of complicity. A case under Sections 376d (a), 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5G/6 of the POCSO Act was registered at the Sajeti police station on March 9. The girl had reached a community health centre in Ghatampur for a medical examination after the FIR, when her father and brother stepped out for tea in the morning, said a senior police officer. It was then that the father was hit by an unidentified truck and taken to a hospital where he died, said DIG Kanpur Preetinder Singh, adding that a case under accident had been registered. As per the FIR lodged on March 9 against the three accused, the girl’s father said that on March 8, when his daughter was returning home from the fields around 7 p.m., Dipu and Golu grabbed her from behind and took her to an isolated place and took turns to repeatedly rape her. They threatened to kill her if she made noise or informed anyone, he stated. The girl managed to return home late at night in a state if trauma and narrated her ordeal, the FIR said. The girl’s family alleged that a day after the incident, when they had just stepped out of the house to lodge a complaint, Saurabh appeared and threatened to kill them if they went to the police to report the matter. IG Kanpur Mohit Agarwal said directions had been sent to book the accused under the National Security Act and the Gangsters Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanpur-rape-3-suspended-for-negligence/article34048596.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||A year on, COVID cases see a rise again||A year passed since the first COVID-19 case was confirmed and reported in the State on March 12 last year in SPSR Nellore district. Little did people and the officials know that the State would witness the rapid spread of the disease so much that over 10,000 cases and close to 100 deaths were reported in a day in August. The pandemic curve peaked in the sixth month (August 12 to September 11) as 3.03 lakh infections, 2,576 deaths were reported and continued to flatten thereafter. Only 2,486 infections were reported in the past month. Only in a few districts Meanwhile, though the lowest single-day tally of 30 infections in the past several months was reported nearly a month ago, the daily tally began witnessing a spike since then. An average of 113 new infections per day was reported in the past two weeks and in the past 24 hours, 174 new infections, the highest single-day tally in the past 50 days, was reported indicating the spike in the incidence of infections. The number of active cases almost doubled in the last two weeks. However, the rapid spread of the disease could be seen only in a few districts, including Chittoor, Krishna, Visakhapatnam, Guntur and East Godavari, which account for 69% of the total infections reported in the past two weeks. Chittoor alone reported 469 infections in two weeks, while Krishna reported 191, Visakhapatnam reported 179, Guntur reported 144 and East Godavari reported 116 cases. The overall tally increased to 8,91,178  and with 174 new cases in 24 hours ending Thursday morning and toll reached 7,179 with two new deaths. The number of active cases and recoveries also increased to 1,158 and 8,82,841  respectively. As many as 47,803 samples were tested in the past day and so far 1.44 crore samples were tested. Sixty of the new cases were reported in the Chittoor district which also witnessed two deaths. It was followed by Krishna (26), Visakhapatnam (23), Guntur (12), East Godavari (11), Kurnool (8), Srikakulam (7), Prakasam (7), Anantapur (6), West Godavari (6), Kadapa (5) and Nellore (3). Vizianagaram reported no new case. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,542), West Godavari (94,372), Chittoor (87,855), Guntur (75,830), Anantapur (67,829),Nellore (62,525), Prakasam (62,229), Kurnool (60,943), Visakhapatnam (60,182), Kadapa (55,443), Krishna (49,082), Srikakulam (46,279) and Vizianagaram 41,172). Chittoor has the highest death toll of 856 and Krishna has the highest death rate of 1.39%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-year-on-covid-cases-again-see-a-rise/article34048597.ece
12 March 2021||Guwahati,||‘imported leaders in Assam running BJP show’||Former Assam Assembly Deputy Speaker Dilip Paul, who ended his 37-year-old association with the BJP after being denied a ticket from the Silchar constituency, said while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has waged a war against illegal syndicates in West Bengal, kingpins of such collectives had been running the show in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/imported-leaders-in-assam-running-bjp-show/article34048808.ece
12 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Rourkela pollution dips, action plan revised||Residents of Rourkela, where activities were restricted on account of deterioration in air quality on Wednesday, heaved a sigh relief following minor improvement in Air Quality Index on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rourkela-pollution-dips-action-plan-revised/article34048809.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDU governing body alleges irregularities||Delhi government represen-tatives in the governing body of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya college on Thursday alleged that the college adminis-tration was refusing to disburse salaries to staffers despite the availability of a fund of Rs. 22 crore. However, teachers claimed that facts were being distorted as the available fund was a part of the students’ fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ddu-governing-body-alleges-irregularities/article34048966.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Renal patients at high risk from COVID-19’||City-based nephrologists, who have noticed a high incidence of COVID-19 among people with kidney disease and other severe chronic medical conditions, say that although persons with renal issues and those who have undergone transplant do not exhibit classical symptoms, they are at a higher risk of more severe illness from the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/renal-patients-at-high-risk-from-covid-19/article34049176.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Uproar in Delhi Assembly over riots report||The first report of the Committee on Welfare of Minorities, instituted to review compensation paid to the victims of north-east Delhi riots, was presented amid a bitter debate between the ruling AAP and the Oppo-sition BJP in the Assembly on Thursday. Cases such as those of a riot victim who lost a hand being granted Rs. 20,000 were brought to the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uproar-in-delhi-assembly-over-riots-report/article34049237.ece
12 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||BJP has lost the trust of farmers, says RLD||Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary on Thursday said “those who could not see farmers sitting on the Delhi border, I could not see humanity in them”. He was addressing a kisan panchayat of his party in Bhojpur village of Modinagar. “Had the BJP government been a well-wisher of farmers, they would not have imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 crore on farmers for stubble burning. Can any farmer afford to pay such penalty?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-has-lost-the-trust-of-farmers-says-rld/article34048965.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,||DMK allots seats to Cong., Left parties||After multiple rounds of talks, the DMK completed identification of constituencies for the CPI, the Congress and the CPI(M) on Thursday, a day before the filing of nominations begins for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-allots-seats-to-cong-left-parties/article34049225.ece
12 March 2021||MANGALURU,||25 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 11 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. With 16 patients being discharged on the day the active cases in the district stood at 213. Udupi district reported 14 new cases on the day. The active cases in the district stood at 101.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34049311.ece
12 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Services via Hejmady to be suspended from Mar. 15||Private bus owners operating shuttle services in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have warned of suspending services via Hejmady from Monday onwards protesting compulsory levy of toll for buses plying through Hejmady village road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/services-via-hejmady-to-be-suspended-from-mar-15/article34049314.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mumbai nearby||In the latest development in the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case, the Delhi Police Special Cell have questioned several inmates in the Tihar jail after they tracked the IP address of the device on which the telegram channel ‘jaishulhind’ was found operating from the jail premises. On February 25, an SUV containing 20 gelatin sticks was found outside Mr. Ambani’s residence Antilia in Mumbai . On the next day, a group identified itself ‘Jaish-Ul-Hind’ had claimed responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article34049327.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Renal patients at high risk from COVID-19’||When a family of three from Bengaluru, including a 53-year-old renal transplant individual, contracted COVID-19 in August, the family only prayed that the disease should not create more complications in the kidney recipient. While two members from the family developed classical COVID-19 symptoms, including high fever, cough, and loss of taste/smell, the person who had undergone the transplant had very mild symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/renal-patients-at-high-risk-from-covid-19/article34048739.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,||Flying squads formed to enforce use of masks||After multiple rounds of talks, the DMK completed identification of constituencies for the CPI, the Congress and the CPI(M) on Thursday, a day before the filing of nominations begins for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election.a||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flying-squads-formed-to-enforce-use-of-masks/article34049193.ece
12 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||In Assam battle, more to alliances than meets the eye||The electoral battle in Assam is being fought among three alliances in many of the 126 Assembly seats. For the alliance headed by the ruling BJP, the other two are like a double-edged sword. The BJP heads to the polls with a fairly clean image, particularly of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, and a large portion of its Hindu votes intact. Its grassroots connect and pampering of tea plantation workers — a major voting force in 45 constituencies — are its strength despite the lack of a “Modi wave” as in 2016. But its weakness has been the lack of inclusive politics and alienation of Muslims who form 34% of the State’s population. Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s main poll strategist, has claimed that the party can do without Muslim votes. This could help the party in Assamese-majority areas where sentiments against the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) headed by perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal run high. The Congress has some hold in these areas, but its alliance with the AIUDF — seen as catering to migrant Muslims — could be an advantage for the BJP. May play spoilsport The threat in these areas is perceived to be from the new regional parties, the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and jailed activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal. They are not expected to make a splash, but may play spoilsport by causing a split of the BJP votes. While the BJP claims that the incompatibility of the constituents of the two Opposition alliances and their overestimation of sentiments against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will work to its advantage, political scientist Akhil Ranjan Dutta of Gauhati University said the Congress-AIUDF combine could damage the saffron party if the voting trend is similar to that of 2016. The Congress and the AIUDF had a combined vote share of 44% in that election. The BJP’s worries are also its allies — the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), the latter specific to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). This is because the AJP, born from the same seeds of regionalism as the AGP, is expected to dent the AGP more than the BJP. The UPPL, on the other hand, could not stop the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) — the BJP’s former ally now with the Congress-led Mahajot or grand alliance — from becoming the single largest party in the BTC polls in December 2020. The Congress is believed to enjoy an edge in the BTC areas. It could also cash in on the State’s demography, especially the BJP’s anti-Muslim stance and unhappiness among a section of some 50 lakh Bengali Hindus, who feel the CAA has done more harm than good to the community in Assam.  Factionalism and too many power centres after the death of former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi are the weak spots of the Congress, as is the perceived negative impact of its association with the AIUDF in areas inhabited by the indigenous communities. The alliance, on the other hand, could help it gain in Muslim areas where the AIUDF has been holding sway since the 2006 polls. The Congress could also gain from the expected damage the AJP-Raijor Dal combine could inflict on both the BJP and the AGP. The AJP-Raijor Dal aims to be the “more committed” regional alternative to the AGP. The threats for the Congress would be the possible shifting of minority votes to the AJP-Raijor Dal, which has been working in minority areas to appeal to “Muslims who identify with Assamese sentiments rather than Ajmal.” There is also the likelihood of the “tea tribes” voters to return from the BJP fold despite promises of higher wages and facilities. The AGP’s strength is its brand of regionalism born of the six-year Assam Agitation to drive out illegal migrants. But the party’s USP is being challenged by the AJP-Raijor Dal and it has long been riddled with factionalism with no young and vibrant leaders emerging. The only minority-based party in Assam, the AIUDF’s strength is its appeal in several districts where migrant Muslims dominate. But it has virtually become a one-man party, dependent on its chief Mr. Ajmal. While the alliance with the Congress has given it an opportunity to expand base and be in the government, it faces the threat of Muslims shifting loyalty to the AJP and Raijor Dal. The AJP-Raijor Dal has the X-factor going for it, but its refusal to align with the Congress and marking of the AIUDF as a communal party could rob it of an opportunity to make inroads as part of a greater anti-BJP opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-assam-battle-more-to-alliances-than-meets-the-eye/article34048502.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. may release list of Kerala nominees today||Activists of the Congress in Kerala seemed to keep their eyes peeled for signs from New Delhi on Thursday about the composition of the party's list of candidates for the Assembly elections. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran indicated that the All India Congress Committee (AICC) would declare the contestants on Friday. The protracted discussions in the national capital prompted television channels to explore different permutations of likely contestants. A few suggested that former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy would contest from Nemom. The Congress required a standard-bearer to offer battle to the CPI(M) and the BJP in the high-profile constituency. Mr. Chandy declined to comment. However, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the Congress would field a strong candidate in Nemom. “Let it be a surprise,” he said. The leaders are currently in New Delhi. Nemom, Vattiyurkavu Some quarters floated the possibility of K. Muraleedharan, MP, contesting from Nemom or Vattiyurkavu. A KPCC insider said Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala were unlikely to abandon their home grounds in Puthuppally and Haripad respectively. Mr. Muraleedharan would require a waiver from the AICC to contest the Assembly elections. He said many veterans might not make the cut. The AICC's accent was on the youth, women and influencers from marginal sections of society. The party would field candidates in at least 92 seats. Between 45% and 60% could be fresh faces, he said. The KPCC was at the fag end of a selection process that had commenced in February. It had vetted suggestions put forward by the district committees, MLAs and MPs. The ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions had also suggested names separately and in conjunction. Group equations The AICC had attempted to relegate factional affiliation to a tertiary role in candidate selection. It had hired pollsters to survey the prospects of candidates put forward by the KPCC. The high command would examine the list presented by the AICC screening committee in the light of the survey findings before taking a final call. The candidates’ list is also likely to be a litmus test of whether group equations impacted the selection process significantly.  Chandy and Chennithala are unlikely to abandon their home grounds in Puthuppally and Haripad respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-may-release-list-of-kerala-nominees-today/article34048537.ece
12 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Amid protests, Mamata urges restraint||A day after she was hospitalised owing to injuries she sustained in Nandigram, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday released a video from the hospital urging her supporters to exercise restraint. She expressed the hope that she would return to “her field in the next two or three days” . “Maybe, I will have to use a wheelchair for the next few days, but I will manage,” she said. “It is true I was very badly hurt yesterday and there is an injury in my foot, and I suffered from pain in my chest and head. I was greeting people from the bonnet of my car, when a lot of pressure came, and my leg got pressed in the car… I will appeal to everyone to maintain restraint. In the next two-three days, I will be able to return to my field,” Ms. Banerjee said in a video message from the hospital. Sources in the party said Ms. Banerjee may join the poll campaign from Saturday by releasing the manifesto. The Chief Minister was injured in Nandigram after filing her nomination papers on Wednesday. She had called it a “conspiracy” of four or five people, who surrounded her car and “purposely pushed her”. A six-member medical board examined Ms. Banerjee’s health parameters. “There is a plaster on the left ankle. She is feeling pain in a leg and also headache. Some more radiological investigation has been prescribed. We have seen deficiency in sodium. There is bone injury,” a member of the board said. Earlier in the day, the State BJP leadership, led by Samik Bhattacharya and Tathagata Roy, went to meet the Chief Minister at the SSKM Hospital. Party spokesperson Mr. Bhattacharya said the BJP would not indulge in any politics over the injuries to the Chief Minister. “We want her to recover from the injury.” BJP demands probe State BJP president Dilip Ghosh demanded a thorough probe into the incident. He said people should be cautious about attempts to divert their attention from real issues ahead of the poll. The District Magistrate of Purba Medinipur and the Superintendent of Police visited the Birulia market in Nandigram, where the incident occurred. Protests erupted in Nandigram, particularly the market, where supporters of the BJP and the Trinamool came face to face and tried to push each other. In other parts, Trinamool supporters staged protests against the “attack”. Several people who claimed to have witnessed the incident said Ms. Banerjee’s car hit a post on a road at the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-protests-mamata-urges-restraint/article34048560.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||One year on, virus still has upper hand||On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared that the world was facing its first-ever pandemic from a coronavirus. Its Director-General, Tedros Adhanom, said then: “Pandemic is not a word to use lightly or carelessly. It is a word that, if misused, can cause unreasonable fear, or unjustified acceptance that the fight is over, leading to unnecessary suffering and death. Describing the situation as a pandemic does not change the WHO’s assessment of the threat posed by this virus. It doesn’t change what WHO is doing, and it doesn’t change what countries should do.” The pandemic declaration preceded two weeks of the number of cases of COVID-19 outside China increasing 13-fold, and the number of affected countries tripling. Last March 11, there were more than 1,18,000 cases in 114 countries, and 4,291 people had lost their lives, according to the WHO. A year on, the numbers had surged nearly 1,000-fold. There are about 118 million confirmed coronavirus cases as on Thursday and nearly 2.6 million deaths due to the disease. February surge In India, the number of cases have so far touched 11.2 million, with 1,58,227 deaths confirmed by the government so far. Notwithstanding a decline in daily cases since September, February has since seen an uptick with fresh daily infections crossing 22,000, according to data on Thursday — the first time it’s done so this year. When the WHO declared a pandemic, India had evacuated 948 passengers from COVID-19 affected countries, 900 of whom were Indian citizens and 48 belonging to different nationalities, including the Maldives, Myanmar, Bangladesh, China, the U.S., Madagascar, Sri Lanka, Nepal, South Africa and Peru. Air India operated two special flights for the evacuation efforts that brought back 654 passengers, including 647 Indian citizens from Wuhan, China. They were quarantined at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s Chhawla camp and at an Army facility in Manesar, Haryana. On March 10, the Centre issued an advisory in which passengers with travel history to China, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy, Thailand, Singapore, Iran, Malaysia, France, Spain and Germany were expected to undergo self-imposed quarantine for 14 days from the date of their arrival, and their employers should facilitate work-from-home for such employees during this period. By that date, the government had had six Group of Ministers’ meetings and it was decided to cancel all visas except diplomatic, official, UN/International Organizations, employment, project visas, until April 15, 2020. Travel norms Incoming travellers, including Indian nationals, arriving from or having visited China, Italy, Iran, Republic of Korea, France, Spain and Germany after February 15, 2020 were required to be quarantined for a minimum period of 14 days. As of that day, India reported 60 positive cases, with no deaths confirmed, though a 76-year old from Kalaburgi, Karnataka, was suspected to have died of the infection. India had only the National Institute of Virology as a testing centre. The testings subsequently expanded and the country has been able to do nearly 224 million tests. These include the RT PCR test, the rapid antigen test and the antibody tests. More than 25.6 million vaccine doses have been administered through 4,78,168 sessions, as of Thursday in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-year-on-virus-still-has-upper-hand/article34048568.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Covering up for governance failure is easy in Assam’||Perfume baron Maulana Badruddin Ajmal has been the whipping boy of Assam electoral politics ever since he founded the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in 2005. An enemy-turned-friend of the Congress, he has remained the bogeyman for rivals. In this interview, he speaks about his party’s relationship with the Congress and the issues dominating this election. Excerpts:  To quote a former Chief Minister, who is Badruddin Ajmal? Badruddin is good for people who are good at heart, are positive, have a vision, and want to see Assam progress. Badruddin is a villain for those who fear losing power, have no real issues to take to the people, who could not fulfil even 1% of the promises made five years ago. Rivals use you as a template of fear — of Muslim migrants planning to take over Assam. Why is it that you invariably become the talking point of all elections? Covering up for governance failure is easy in Assam — just sell the fear of Ajmal as a representative or an advocate of migrant Muslims. They go by my attire, skull cap and beard to fan this fear when the truth is that I have gone on record in Parliament demanding that all foreigners who try to cross the border should be shot at sight. It is unfortunate that I become convenient for parties like the BJP to divert attention from more important issues such as floods, farm loss, joblessness and security of life. Sometimes I become Bangladeshi, sometimes Jinnah, sometimes Aziz Khan, sometimes Pakistani, and now Mughal. You have tied up with the Congress, once your bitter rival. Will it result in division of Muslim votes? (Former Chief Minister) Tarun Gogoi was a friend till the time I was the president of the Jamiat Ulama in Assam. He became a rival after the AIUDF took away a chunk of minority votes over which the Congress had total control. But he took the first step in rekindling our friendship before his death because he realised I was not an enemy of Assam, that I want to build hospitals, universities, schools and promote women’s education. He laid the foundation of the eight-party Mahajot which hopes to throw out the BJP and its anti-Assam policies such as the implementation of the CAA. But the perception is that AIUDF might lose some seats in Muslim areas and its association with you might cost the Congress dear in Assamese areas… The observation is right, but the alliance was needed. An analysis of the 2016 election showed that the division of votes between the AIUDF and the Congress made the BJP and the AGP (Asom Gana Parishad) scrape through in several constituencies. That’s why we checked our community-based emotions and thought strategically to oust the BJP. We have sacrificed a lot of seats for making the Mahajot stronger. Why is it that the new parties — the Assam Jatiya Parishad and Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal — see you as a communal force? We challenge them to show one instance in 15-16 years of our existence where we have done anything divisive. It is up to them to decide whether the BJP, which is trying to change Assam’s language and culture by bringing in Hindu Bengalis, is the greatest enemy or I am. They say they want to defeat the BJP but are wooing Muslims and have fielded candidates in minority areas. One can draw an inference. What are your major issues this time? The CAA definitely is, although the BJP makes claims to the contrary. The National Register of Citizens, which exposed the BJP’s lies about millions of Bangladeshis in Assam, is as important. We are also serious about D (doubtful) voters and detention centres that have destroyed thousands of lives, flood and erosion, joblessness and price rise.  We checked our community-based emotions and thought strategically to oust the BJP. We have sacrificed a lot of seats for making the Mahajot stronger||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covering-up-for-governance-failure-is-easy-in-assam/article34048506.ece
12 March 2021||PALAKKAD,||Stuck in check dam, elephant dies||An elephant died in a swampy check-dam at Nelliampathy in the district on Thursday after remaining stuck in the water for hours. The female elephant waded into the marshy water in Pothupara check-dam, near Manalaru Estate, on Wednesday morning and got bogged down in it. Although forest officials arrived at the spot on Wednesday, no effort was made to rescue the animal. It was found dead on Thursday. The carcass was hauled out of the water using ropes and a crane. Forest officials said that a post-mortem would be conducted on Friday, before burying it. Local people criticised the forest officials for their failure to rescue the animal. It was not clear how the elephant died. It is suspected that the elephant must have got frozen after having been bogged down in cold water for hours on end. Some wounds were found on the trunk of the elephant. Local people suspected that the wounds must have been caused by otters. Its herd stood by helplessly as the animal struggled to get out of the bog. The remaining herd moved into the jungle after the elephant died on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stuck-in-check-dam-elephant-dies/article34048542.ece
12 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Five-guarantee’ Yatra begins||The Assam Congress on Thursday launched its “5-guarantee” Yatra as a follow-up to its bus tours to “come, save Assam” from the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and “Hindutva agenda” of the BJP. At an election rally in northern Assam on March 2, the Congress announced the five guarantees if the eight-party Mahajot led by the party comes to power. The five guarantees are bringing a law that stops the execution of the CAA and the National Register of Citizens, providing five lakh government jobs, raising the daily wage of tea plantation workers to Rs. 365 within 30 days of coming to power, free electricity up to 200 units per household and Rs. 2,000 as monthly income support to all homemakers. State Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma said the Yatra was launched simultaneously in central Assam’s Nagaon and northern Assam’s Tezpur. “The five guarantees are driving the party campaign and will reach every corner of Assam.” ‘Plausible goals’ Congress general secretary in charge of Assam Jitendra Singh flagged off the Yatra. “These are plausible guarantees,” he said. Nagaon MP and Congress Campaign Committee chairman Pradyut Bordoloi said the guarantees were arrived at after carefully studying the budget and logistical capacity of Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-guarantee-yatra-begins/article34048548.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Self-reliant India is good for world’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asserted that in the long run, a “self-reliant India was in the interest of the world” as he expounded the core beliefs in the Bhagavad Gita. Releasing the ‘Kindle’ version of Swami Chidbhavananda’s book on the subject, he said, “At the core of Atmanirbhar Bharat is to create wealth and values not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity. We believe that an Atmanirbhar Bharat is good for the world.” Referring to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said that when the world needed medicines, India did whatever it could to provide them. “Our scientists worked in quick time to come out with vaccines. Now, we are humbled that vaccines made in India are going around the world. We want to heal as well as help humanity. This is exactly what the Bhagavad Gita teaches us.” The Bhagavad Gita was born during conflict, a reference to the Mahabharata, and many felt that humanity was passing through a similar conflict and challenges now, he noted. “The world is fighting a tough battle against a once in a lifetime global pandemic. The economic and social impacts are also far reaching. In such a time, the path shown in Bhagavad Gita becomes ever relevant,” he asserted. The beauty of the Gita was in its depth, diversity and flexibility, he pointed out. He quoted a peer reviewed journal of cardiology published by the University of Oxford that talks at length about the relevance of Gita during the time of the pandemic. Praises Tamil diaspora He praised the Tamil diaspora for scaling new heights in many sectors and yet carrying the greatness of its culture wherever they went. Paying homage to Swami Chidbhavananda, Mr. Modi said his mind, body, heart and soul were devoted to India’s regeneration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/self-reliant-india-is-good-for-world/article34048564.ece
12 March 2021||Belagavi,||Jarkiholi case SIT’s terms of reference raise eyebrows||The State government’s move to appoint a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the “conspiracy” angle to the Ramesh Jarkiholi CD scandal and not whether the women in question was a victim of oppression has come under fire from women’s organisations. That the SIT was constituted following a letter by Mr. Jarkiholi to Basavaraj Bommai, Home Minister, and not after a formal complaint by the former Minister, is also being questioned. Unfair to woman “The government and the media have both been unfair to the woman in question,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, farmers’ leader and former State secretary of Dalit Mahila Okkoota. “The government is only interested in protecting the reputation of the Minister, while the media is investigating the woman’s identity and the reasons behind her visiting the leader frequently. No one is interested in finding out if the former Minister misused his powerful position or not,” she said. K. Neela, State unit vice-president of Akhil Bharatiya Janwadi Mahila Sanghatane, said she is not in the least surprised by the State government’s act given the “predictable patriarchal mindset”. “In all cases of alleged sexual harassment, it is presumed that the woman is wrong. It sends out the message that the government is trying to protect Mr. Jarkiholi and not the woman,” she said. Creating a narrative where women are the villains and not victims, in defiance of the Constitution, is the template set in States like Uttar Pradesh, she said. “Karnataka is quick in following the template,” she added. ‘Clearly wrong’ Human rights’ lawyer Bheemanagouda Paragonda argued that in setting up the SIT, the government had already accepted that there is “political conspiracy” behind the incident. Secondly, it had deliberately reduced the terms of reference of the investigation, keeping the leader in mind, he said. “This is likely to make the public believe that the woman victim was part of the conspiracy. This is clearly wrong as per earlier legal precedents,” he said. Limited scope Former police officers feel the scope of the SIT is limited. “It is clear that the government is trying to cater to political exigencies and not to take the case to a logical end,” said a former Director General of Police, who has served as a member of similar SITs. “SITs are formed to reduce the burden on the jurisdictional police of a specific case that requires technical know how or an investigation that has to be done in a time-bound manner. But in this case, it seems the government has political motives behind the setting up of this SIT with pre-determined terms of references. Any SIT, if it has to bring out the truth, has to look into all corners of a case. It is not a pre-programmed robot that probes only a few limited angles of an alleged offence. If that does not happen, then the constitution of the SIT is not justified,” he said. Another former DIG, who did not wish to be named, also argued that the terms of reference should have been broad-based and comprehensive to unearth the truth. He said that even a good police officer’s work can be limited by the terms of reference. “The current terms of reference are definitely not aimed at bringing out the whole truth about the case, nor at ensuring gender justice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jarkiholi-case-sits-terms-of-reference-raise-eyebrows/article34048525.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Javadekar meets digital media outlets||After severe criticism over not holding consultations with digital media publishers before bringing in the new IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar held a meeting with members of the Digital News Publishers Association on Thursday. Industry representatives at the meeting included those from India Today , Dainik Bhaskar , Hindustan Times , The Indian Express, The Times of India, ABP, Eenadu, Dainik Jagran and Lokmat . The digital news outlets The Wire and The News Minute , which have filed a petition in the Delhi High Court challenging these laws, were not invited for this discussion. There was also no word from the Ministry on whether there will be further rounds of discussions. As per a statement released by the Ministry, Mr. Javadekar reiterated at the meeting that the new rules placed certain responsibilities on digital news publishers. These include adherence to Code of Ethics such as the norms of journalistic conduct framed by the Press Council of India and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Network Act. As the Over The Top (OTT) platforms, the digital news publishers also have to provide a three-tier grievance redress mechanism. First and second tier would be the digital news publishers and self-regulatory bodies constituted by them. Mr. Javadekar on earlier occasions had claimed that currently the Ministry had no data on various news portals. With the new rules, the digital news publishers would also be required to furnish some basic information to the Ministry in a simple form which is being finalised, he said. Mr. Javadekar reiterated that these rules were only to make it a level playing field since the print media and TV already have regulatory bodies. Separate rules sought The representatives of media houses who were called to Thursday’s meeting informed the Minister that they already follow the regulatory protocol laid down by PCI and Cable Television Network Act, since content is shared between the digital and print platforms. They felt that they should be treated differently than those news publishers who are only on the digital platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/javadekar-meets-digital-media-outlets/article34048557.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minister’s office says report on gift of bus is fabricated||Media reports about Swedish bus manufacturer Scania gifting a bus to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari are “malicious, fabricated and baseless”, the Minister’s office said on Thursday. The statement came in response to a Swedish media report about a purported transaction between Scania and an unnamed Indian company, that supposedly has close connections to members of the Transport Minister’s family. The report, published by Swedish news channel SVT, claims that the incident allegedly occurred in late 2016, when a luxury bus was sold through a private Scania reseller or dealer, who in turn sold or leased the bus to a company with connections to Mr. Gadkari’s sons. The findings are part of a 2017 internal probe at Scania into its India operations. According to the SVT report, the financing was handled by Volkswagen’s finance company and that Scania’s CEO confirmed that it reimbursed Volkswagen for the part of the money that the company linked to Mr. Gadkari did not pay. “The allegations that the bus was not paid for and was used for the wedding of Mr. Gadkari’s daughter are nothing but a figment of media’s imagination. The media reports that the bus was financed by a Volkswagen finance company, but Scania stepped into pay for the part that the above-mentioned company did not, that itself contradicts that the bus was a gift to Shri Gadkari,” reads the statement from the Minister’s office. It added, “Mr. Gadkari and his family members have absolutely nothing to do with the purchase or sale of the bus. Nor do they have anything to do with any firm or individual who might be linked with the purchase or sale of the bus.” The Minister’s office asserted that Mr. Gadkari introduced Scania’s Ethanol run bus in Nagpur as a part of his drive to bring in green public transport in India and encouraged the Nagpur Municipal Corporation to initiate a pilot project following which the Nagpur civic body signed a commercial Memorandum of Understanding with the Swedish firm. The Hindu has written to Scania to ascertain the facts reported by the Swedish media and a response is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministers-office-says-report-on-gift-of-bus-is-fabricated/article34048570.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks release of over 150 Rohingya in Jammu||An application was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking an urgent intervention to release and protect over 150 Rohingya refugees reportedly ‘detained’ in Jammu. The application was filed by a member of the Rohingya community, Mohammad Salimullah, represented by advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl d’Souza. Mr. Salimullah is already a petitioner in the Supreme Court against the deportation of refugees who had fled from religious persecution and violence in their native Myanmar. He said that his application was based on reports in The Hindu and other media outlets that Rohingya members had been detained in a sub-jail in Jammu. “This follows the Union Minister Jitendra Singh’s statements two months ago that the Rohingya [identified as Muslim refugees by the government] would not be able to secure citizenship. These refugees have been illegally detained and jailed in the Jammu sub-jail, which has been converted into a holding centre with the IGP (Jammu) Mukesh Singh stating that they face deportation back to Myanmar following verification by their embassy,” the application said. It stated, “News reports started coming in around March 7, 2021 regarding the nearly 150-170 Rohingya refugees in Jammu being detained. Disturbing reports from the Rohingya families have come in that subsequent to a biometric verification of Rohingya refugees undertaken by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, some people never returned to the camps from the verification but were detained and jailed by the police”. It quoted from a report in The Hindu detailing how “panic has gripped this already marginalised refugee community in Jammu after the verification drive and disappearance of family members”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-seeks-release-of-over-150-rohingya-in-jammu/article34048572.ece
12 March 2021||Nandigram,||In Nandigram, it’s a race to the temples||Less that two decades ago, towards the end of the Left Front’s 34-year regime, Nandigram not only emerged as the sign of protest against forcible land acquisition but also became one of the biggest symbols of communal harmony. Hindus and Muslims came together to resist the acquisition of land for a petrochemical hub proposed by the then government and were united in the resistance that raged for months. In 2021, however, when Nandigram is once again taking centre stage in West Bengal politics, the political narrative is dominated by the communal divide. Months before the Assembly election was announced, a former Trinamool Congress Minister who switched to the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari, indicated that the saffron party’s campaign in Nandigram would exploit the divide. “On whose support does she [Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee] want to contest: 63,000 or 2.13 lakh,” he had asked just weeks after jumping ship. Ms. Banerjee started her campaign on March 9. Addressing a workers’ meeting at a ground in front of the Nandigram police station, she began her speech by asking people not to fall prey to the “70 and 30 divide”. But when Ms. Banerjee started chanting the “Chandi path” from the stage challenging her political opponents on their knowledge of Hindu rituals, the people realised she was referring to the percentage of Hindus and Muslims living in the area. Between March 9 and March 10 evening, she had visited half a dozen temples. According to the State BJP leadership, Ms. Banerjee’s opponent, Mr. Adhikari, has made 20 visits to temples in Nandigram in the past few days. Mr. Adhikari has accused Ms. Banerjee of uttering the “wrong mantras” at the March 9 public meeting and said she was “trying to be a fake Hindu”. Despite the high-decibel campaign, political commentator Biswanath Chakraborty said there is very little evidence of communal polarisation. “I cannot recollect any communal riot in Purba Medinipur in the recent past. The Trinamool Congress should not fall into the trap of the BJP,” said Professor Chakraborty who teaches political science at Rabindra Bharati University. Minakshi Mukerjee, a CPI(M) candidate, said these tit-for-tat temple visits were attempts to polarise the electorate but the voters will not fall into the trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-nandigram-its-a-race-to-the-temples/article34048509.ece
12 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||BJP has lost the trust of farmers, says RLD||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary on Thursday said “those who cannot see the farmers sitting on the Delhi border, I cannot see humanity in them.” He was addressing a kisan panchayat of his party in Bhojpur village of Modinagar in Uttar Pradesh. Had the BJP government been a wellwisher of the farmers, they would not have imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 crore on farmers for stubble burning. “Can any farmer afford to pay such penalty?” he asked. Every farmer present at the panchayat, he said, would have tractors that were more than 10 years old. “But the government feels they could afford to buy new ones. I am not sure whether they want to double your income or theirs,” he commented. Mr. Chaudhary said that during the lockdown, the number of billionaires in the country increased “but here, there will not be a single person whose financial condition improved in the last year”. Commenting on the no-confidence motion in the Haryana Assembly, he said that the BJP might have got the vote of 55 MLAs but it had lost the trust of farmers. “If they think farmers will forget their humiliation in the next six months and they can again divide them in the name of Hindu-Muslim, they are mistaken. The next election, big or small, will be fought on farm laws.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-has-lost-the-trust-of-farmers-says-rld/article34048550.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||44% of MLAs who switched parties joined BJP: report||An analysis of MLAs who switched parties and recontested elections from 2016 to 2020 has found that the BJP was the biggest gainer, while the Congress accounted for the most MLAs who quit to join another party. The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) report released on Thursday analysed the election affidavits of 443 MLAs and MPs who switched parties and recontested polls in the past five years. Out of the 405 MLAs across the States who quit and switched parties, 42% were from the Congress, the report found, while the BJP came in a distant second with 4.4%. On the other hand, the BJP was the party of choice for 44.9% of the recontesting MLAs, followed by the Congress with 9.4%. The report noted that the defection of MLAs was the cause of governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh and Karnataka falling in the recent past. Out of the 12 Lok Sabha members who switched parties, five were from the BJP. In the Rajya Sabha, out of 17 who quit, seven were from the Congress, the report said. The average assets of the recontesting MLAs and MPs had grown by 39%. The ADR report stated that the most plausible cause of defections were the nexus of money and muscle, absence of laws on the functioning of parties and the last of honest leaders, among others. “Until and unless these trends are not reined in, our current electoral and political situation is bound to deteriorate further...,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/44-of-mlas-who-switched-parties-joined-bjp-report/article34048553.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against wrongful prosecution||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court highlighting need for the government to frame guidelines for compensating victims of wrongful prosecution by the police or authorities. “Surprisingly, India, with a population of around 1.5 billion, has no effective statutory/legal mechanism for the wrongful prosecutions due to police and prosecutorial misconduct resulting in a pandemic of false cases which has not only destroyed the social fabric of the nation but also affected the over-burdened judiciary with alarming pendency of over 40 million cases,” a writ petition filed by Supreme Court advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay said. The government had not bothered to implement the recommendations made by the Law Commission of India in its 277th report on the miscarriage of justice in 2018, it stated. The Commission had prepared the report on the basis of a Delhi High Court order in the Babloo Chauhan case in November 2017 to undertake a “undertake a comprehensive examination of issue of relief and rehabilitation to victims of wrongful prosecution and incarceration”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-against-wrongful-prosecution/article34048562.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. leaders speak on different notes||Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Thursday took a dig at party’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury for his comment that the alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram on Wednesday was a “political gimmick”. “This is political nicety. @Citiznmukherjee [Pranab Mukherjee] would have been proud of his illustrious son,” tweeted Mr. Tewari, tagging a tweet of Abhijit Mukherjee, son of the former President, who wished Ms. Banerjee speedy recovery and demanded swift action in the case. Mr. Tewari’s tweet once again exposed the fault lines of the Congress, as the group of 23 dissenters (G-23), including Mr. Tewari, senior leader Anand Sharma and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, rallied behind Ms. Banerjee instead of backing Mr. Chowdhury, who questioned the authenticity of the attack claim. On Wednesday, Mr. Chowdhury, who is also the Congress chief in Bengal, said Ms. Banerjee was talking about an attack to gather sympathy after assessing the ground situation in Nandigram, where she is taking on BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, a close aide-turned-rebel. “This is a political gimmick. Who would believe that the State’s Chief Minister, who is also the Home Minister, would not be protected by the police. They had formed a security ring around her in Nandigram,” he told The Hindu earlier. Earlier too, Mr. Sharma had attacked Mr. Chowdhury on the Congress’s alliance with the Abbas Siddiqui-led India Secular Front. Hitting back, the West Bengal Congress chief had said some leaders were only bothered about “personal comfort spots and making remarks in tune with BJP’s agenda”. Asked to comment on the contradiction, party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the Bengal Congress chief may have “specific information” but asserted that there was no place for violence in politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leaders-speak-in-differing-notes/article34048554.ece
12 March 2021||Chandigarh,||HC bats for protection of runaway couples||To protect the life and liberty of couples who have married against the wishes of their family, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has suggested that safe houses be made available in each district of Punjab, Haryana as well as the Union Territory of Chandigarh. In a writ petition that sought issuance of directions to the Punjab government to protect the life and liberty of the petitioners who had recently solemnised marriage against the wishes of their parents, Justice Avneesh Jhingan, in an interim order, pointed out that a “number of such petitions are being filed by the couples who performed marriage against the wishes of their parents and relatives. This court is also being approached by couples stating to be in a live-in relationship... Over a period, the experience is that a number of such petitions are filed as a matter of routine. ..The net result is that petitions involving real, serious and eminent threats get mixed up with the numerous other petitions. There is another aspect of the matter. The couples who are apprehending threat have to travel all the way to this court for completing the formalities for filing the writ petition. This further exposes them to threat.” Considering the fact that in these cases time was of the essence, the court suggested that one way to tackle the problem was that safe houses be made available in each district of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. “A website or an on-line module should be provided for such couples to raise their grievances without being physically present. Providing of 24x7 help desk at Tehsil level for filing of such representations by aggrieved persons or through someone can be of great help. An existing cell in the police department can be deputed or a new cell can be created which can deal with the representation in a time-bound manner, in any case not beyond 48 hours. It can also be ensured by authorities that in case a request is made by the couples during the period of consideration of the representation, they be provided shelter in safe house,” said the court. The court added the Legal Services Authorities with the passage of time had been able to reach to the grassroot level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-bats-for-protection-of-runaway-couples/article34048971.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe in Ambani bomb scare case reaches Delhi||In the latest development in the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case, the Delhi Police Special Cell have questioned several inmates in the Tihar jail after they tracked the IP address of the device on which the Telegram channel ‘jaishulhind’ was found operating from the jail premises. On February 25, an SUV containing 20 gelatin sticks was found outside Mr. Ambani’s residence Antilia in Mumbai . On the next day, a group that identified itself as ‘Jaish-Ul-Hind’ claimed responsibility. A senior police officer said the organisation was on their radar after it claimed the responsibility for the blast outside the Israel embassy in New Delhi. Their investigation also led them to Tihar and the case was under investigation. “Intelligence agencies working on terror have never come across the organisation. There were no traces of funding or any link with terror groups. It appears that it has been created for extortion in the name of terror organisation,” said the officer. After the group claimed planting bomb outside Mr. Ambani’s house, it came under the radar of the Mumbai police and their investigation also led them to Tihar. IP address tracked As per the investigation report, it was found that the group was operating through Tor Proxy (dark web). Upon further exploitation of the phone, it was found that the virtual number apps along with other anonymous communication apps were being used by the target. The investigation report further reads that it appeared that the person was using a SIM card to run Internet on the device to operate the Telegram channel @jaishulhind. After resolving the IP address, it was found that the mobile number was likely being used which the Mumbai police or other agencies concerned may investigate further to extract more evidence. After tracking the location of the number, it is suspected that it is used near/inside the Tihar jail. The jail authorities have been instructed to be vigilant and ensure no mobile phone is used on jail premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-in-ambani-bomb-scare-case-reaches-delhi/article34048578.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru/Hassan,||South African strain: Two more Dubai travellers test positive||Two more international travellers, who returned from Dubai and landed in Bengaluru on February 24, have tested positive for the South African strain of SARS-CoV-2. Both persons had landed in Bengaluru and travelled to Ballari. Sources at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) told The Hindu on Thursday that the reports of the two samples had been sent to the Centre on Thursday and would be announced by the Centre on Friday. The samples were sent from the airport to genome testing lab at NIMHANS on February 24. Meanwhile, two family members of a person in Shivamogga, who was the first case found infected with the South African strain of the virus, tested negative for COVID-19. On Wednesday, the 53-year-old man’s repeat test results also came out negative. The samples of the other primary contacts and secondary contacts too have tested negative. The Shivamogga resident, who had returned from Dubai on February 21, had given his sample at the Bengaluru airport and reached Shivamogga to join his family the next day. Later, he tested positive for COVID-19. On Wednesday evening, it was found that he was infected with the South African strain of the virus — the first such instance in Karnataka. Now, with two more travellers testing positive for this strain, Karnataka has three South African strain positive cases. This is apart from 29 U.K. strain positive cases. Health officials had isolated him and shifted him to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. His wife and son were also isolated. “The district administration identified nine primary contacts and took their samples for testing. We have got the test reports of his wife and son. Both have tested negative,” said Rajesh Suragihalli, District Health Officer. The person was quarantined for a week after he reached Shivamogga. Later, he moved around. After the district administration learnt that he was infected with the South African strain of the virus, staff were deployed to identify his primary and secondary contacts. “We had collected 30 samples from people in the locality where he moved around all these days. All the samples have tested negative for COVID-19,” said Dr. Suragihalli. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar told The Hindu that the administration has taken measures to avoid a spread of the infection. “The individual has been isolated. His primary contacts have also been isolated. Besides that, random sampling of samples in the locality is being done as a preventive measure.”  We had collected 30 samples from people in the locality where he [man who tested positive in Shivamogga] moved around all these days. All the samples have tested negative for COVID-19 Rajesh Suragihalli, District Health Officer, Shivamogga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/south-african-strain-two-more-dubai-travellers-test-positive/article34048766.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Schools told to consider parents’ pleas on fees||Observing that educational institutions should rise to the occasion on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, the High Court of Karnataka has asked managements of schools affiliated to CBSE and ICSE to voluntarily notify parents that they will consider grievances of individual parents on payment of the full fee for the academic year 2020-21. “...this court would also implore upon the management of the institutions affiliated to ICSE and CBSE boards and the Association of Indian Schools to voluntarily issue notices on their notice boards that they would consider individual grievances of the parents and shall not insist upon the payment of full school fees in the light of the genuine grievances raised by the parents,” the court observed in its interim order passed on March 9. ‘Case-by-case basis’ Grievance of parents in the matter of payment of school fee shall be considered on case-by-case basis by school managements, directed Justice R. Devdas in the interim order passed on a petition filed by Association of Indian Schools. “The institutions affiliated to the petitioner-association are required to consider the grievance of parents, which is a genuine concern in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has affected the citizens of this country and caused severe damage to their livelihood, consequently, the income of the family,” the court observed. The court had directed the government not to take any coercive action against schools affiliated to CBSE and ICSE and members of the Association for not adhering to the Government Order of January 29, 2021 directing all schools to collect only 70% of the fee that was collected in the previous academic year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The court found substance in the contention of the petitioner-association that the government cannot take coercive action against them because the government had in 2019 had made such an assurance. The government had given the assurance of not taking coercive action in another petition, also filed by the Association, challenging the legality of the new law that empowered the State government to issue directions even to schools affiliated to CBSE. Though the government claimed that the decision to restrict school fee was taken after meeting parents’ association and school managements, it was contended on behalf of the Association that those affiliated to CBSE and ICSE were not called for the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/schools-told-to-consider-parents-pleas-on-fees/article34048526.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Covaxin taken off clinical trial mode||“This is related to reduced testing, tracking, inappropriate COVID behavior and large congregations,” Dr Bhargava said. Eight of the top 10 districts in terms of active COVID cases are in Maharashtra. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Pune with 18,474 cases topped the list, followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10,460), Mumbai (9,973), Bengaluru Urban (5,526), Ernakulam (5,430), Amravati (MH) (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4,525) and Aurangabad (4,354). Mr. Bhushan said the government “has also re-negotiated the price of the COVID-19 vaccine being bought from the Serum Institute of India (SII). The price of Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and the Oxford University and manufactured by SII has been reduced from Rs. 200 per dose (without tax) to substantially lower,” he said. However, he did not give any details about this benefit being passed on to the beneficiaries of the vaccine. In his presentation, the Health Secretary said that India is now seeing a rise in the number of active cases after touching lowest mark in mid-February. Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Maharashtra are the top States registering a rise in the number of COVID cases and Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal being the top States showing a decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-taken-off-clinical-trial-mode/article34048543.ece
12 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||‘Sabarimala virtual queue system is under-utilised’||Taking note of a report filed by the Sabarimala Special Commissioner on the issues concerning under-utilisation of the virtual queue system, the Kerala High Court has directed the State Police Chief to file an affidavit in this connection. In a recent order, judge C.T. Ravikumar and Murali Purushothaman directed the commissioner to submit whether the issues pointed out occurred due to any deceitful action by anyone and whether it was possible for any agency to make an en masse registration to have wrongful gain. The matter is now posted for further hearing on Friday. In his report to the High Court, the special commissioner has pointed out that though 5,000 virtual queue slots were booked within hours of the site being opened, the actual turnout of devotees remained far below. Pointing to the daily turnout of devotees when the temple opened for the five-day monthly pujas in February, the report stated that some who had booked virtual queue slots were deliberately not turning up at the temple. Blocking slots “This kind of blocking of the virtual queue slots by people who do not come to Sabarimala usurps the opportunity of genuine devotees who intend to go for the pilgrimage,” it said. The booking of virtual queue slots for Sabarimala darshan is done on the website www.sabarimala.org , an initiative of the Kerala Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sabarimala-virtual-queue-system-is-under-utilised/article34048533.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||SSLC, Plus Two exams postponed in Kerala||The SSLC and Plus Two higher secondary and vocational higher examinations have been postponed to April 8. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena, in a statement on Thursday, said the Election Commission of India (ECI) had given its permission for rescheduling the examinations. The examinations will now be held from April 8 to 30. The timetable has been published. The decision brings to an end uncertainty among students and parents, not to mention teachers, over conduct of examinations as scheduled from March 17 to 30. The State government’s request seeking permission for postponing the examinations, along with the Chief Electoral Officer’s recommendation, had earlier been forwarded to the ECI. The commission had sought certain clarifications on the request, including the new examination dates under consideration. The clarifications provided by the State government were forwarded by the Chief Electoral Officer to the commission, requesting an early decision on the matter. After consideration, the ECI gave its nod for postponing the examinations, Mr. Meena said. With just under a week to go for the examinations, Education Department officials had claimed they were fully geared up to conduct them as scheduled from March 17, if needed. The government had requested the postponement of examinations following an increase in the number of polling booths and the number of teaching and non-teaching deployed for poll duty. For instance, at the Pareeksha Bhavan, everyone except the Secretary, were slotted for election duty. Many DEOs and chiefs and deputy chiefs in charge of examinations too had poll duty. The two or three rounds of election training for them would clash with the examination dates. Also, most of the polling booths were in schools and the training process would also be held in schools. The government also contended that as the polling day was very close to the last day of the examination, any possible spread in COVID-19 would affect the conduct of the polls. The other board examinations were also being held in April-May, it pointed out.  The government has requested the postponement following an increase in number of polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sslc-plus-two-exams-postponed-in-kerala/article34048538.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka govt. to act against errant schools||The State government has decided to initiate action against private schools that are holding classes for lower primary students — classes 1 to 5 — on campus. In a Twitter post, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said it has been noticed that some private schools were conducting offline classes even for lower primary classes though the government had not granted them permission to do so. He suggested that the Department of Public Instruction consider disaffiliating errant schools for violating the norms. When contacted, education officials said they have been receiving complaints from parents who are worried about putting their children at risk. Sources said this was especially common in rural areas. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said Mr. Sudhakar discussed the issue with him. “This has also come to the notice of the department of public instructions. Deputy directors at the district level have been directed to initiate action against such schools that are violating government norms," he said. It was only on January 1 that the State government had given permission for schools to run classes on campus in a phased manner for high school and upper primary classes. Schools blame parents However, many school managements, while acknowledging that they were conducting classes on campus, alleged that they were being pressurised to do so by parents themselves. “Many parents are refusing to pay the fees if we do not hold offline classes,” said a private school management member. Currently, the State government has granted permission to conduct offline classes for classes six and above across the State except Bengaluru Urban and areas around the Karnataka and Kerala border. In those districts, only students from classes eight and above can travel to campuses to attend lectures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-govt-to-act-against-errant-schools/article34049166.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Trinamool, BJP spar over Mamata’s injury||State BJP president Dilip Ghosh demanded that the incident should be probed by Central Bureau of Investigation. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya pointed out that anybody with a Z plus security has at least a dozen of cars with her when she is on the move. “If in spite of a three-layer security, the State’s Chief Minister is attacked and injured, then an investigation has to take place to find out who is responsible... We want an investigation on the incident at any cost and we want to find the truth behind what happened. The people of the State need to know what happened,” Mr. Bhattacharya said. Pointing out that the Director, Security and the Additional Director, Security were with the Chief Minister (when the incident took place), he asked, “Why haven’t their statements come to the public domain yet?” CPI(M) leader Tanmoy Bhattacharya raised questions on why the Chief Minister who alleged conspiracy on Wednesday has gone silent on the same issue on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-bjp-spar-over-mamatas-injury/article34048544.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||PM to attend first Quad Summit online today||The Quad meeting, that China has referred to as an “Indo-Pacific NATO”, will be watched most closely for signals on how the grouping will deal with the challenge from Beijing’s recent moves in the Pacific as well as at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. Also of interest is whether the four leaders will issue a joint statement at the end of the meeting, which would be another first, as all Quad engagements thus far have come out with four separate readouts indicating differences in their positions. Ahead of the summit, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who will visit Japan and South Korea next week, said he expected to “see something on vaccines” as an outcome of the summit meeting, expected to begin at 7 p.m. IST on Friday. Equitable access In the Quad ministerial summit in February, the four countries had discussed the need for international cooperation to ensure equitable access to vaccines, especially in developing countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-attend-first-quad-summit-online-today/article34048545.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Japan space agencies review ties||Indian and Japanese space agencies on Thursday reviewed cooperation in earth observation, lunar cooperation and satellite navigation, and also agreed to explore opportunities for cooperation in “space situational awareness and professional exchange programme”. This was agreed during a bilateral meeting between the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) held virtually. “Both agencies signed an Implementing Arrangement for collaborative activities on rice crop area and air quality monitoring using satellite data,” an ISRO statement said. India and Japan are already working on a joint lunar polar exploration (LUPEX) mission and the two space agencies have been working on the mission that aims to send a lander and rover to the Moon’s south pole around 2024. Early this month, India and Italy decided to explore opportunities in earth observation, space science and robotic and human exploration. Last month, India and Australia signed an amendment to the MoU which will build on the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. Both countries are also in discussions for Australia to host vital tracking infrastructure to support the Gaganyaan manned space flight mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-japan-space-agencies-review-ties/article34048566.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kanpur rape: three suspended for negligence||Three police personnel were suspended in Kanpur on Thursday after a preliminary inquiry found them culpable of negligence in the matter of the death “in an accident” of the father of a minor girl, who was allegedly gang-raped on March 8. DIG Kanpur Preetinder Singh said the halka prabhari  of the Sajeti police station, the Ghatampur outpost in-charge and a beat constable were suspended for “negligence”. The latter two face action for negligence in the accident in which the father died. A detailed probe would be carried out by the SP (Rural) Kanpur. The police also arrested one more accused, Dipu Yadav, the son of a police officer posted in Kannuaj. Golu Yadav, one of the two who allegedly raped the minor, has already been arrested. The third accused, Saurabh Yadav, who is yet to be arrested, is Dipu’s brother and is accused of intimidating the minor girl’s family when they were trying to lodge a complaint against the alleged gang rape. The father of the girl, 13, died after being hit by a truck a day after she lodged a police complaint on Wednesday. The relatives of the girl alleged that he was murdered and accused the police of complicity. A case under Sections 376d (a), 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5G/6 of the POCSO Act was registered at the Sajeti police station on March 9. The girl had reached a community health centre in Ghatampur for a medical examination after the FIR, when her father and brother stepped out for tea in the morning, said a senior police officer. It was then that the father was hit by an unidentified truck and taken to a hospital where he died, said DIG Kanpur Preetinder Singh, adding that a case under accident had been registered. As per the FIR lodged on March 9 against the three accused, the girl’s father said that on March 8, when his daughter was returning home from the fields around 7 p.m., Dipu and Golu grabbed her from behind and took her to an isolated place and took turns to repeatedly rape her. They threatened to kill her if she made noise or informed anyone, he stated. The girl managed to return home late at night in a state of trauma and narrated her ordeal, the FIR said. IG Kanpur Mohit Agarwal said directions had been sent to book the accused under the National Security Act and the Gangsters Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-policemen-suspended-in-kanpur-rape-case/article34048522.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,||UoH opens gates for 2,000 additional students||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has announced a new phase of reopening its campus for enabling in-person academic activities with an additional 2,000 students permitted to return. The Vice-Chancellor has approved the recommendations of the Task Force headed by Prof. Vinod Pavarala to permit the return of all terminal semester post-graduate students, who will complete their respective programmes and graduate in June. The decision was taken after reviewing the current COVID situation and progress of the vaccine drive. However, all students returning in the latest phase must produce a COVID-negative report from an RT-PCR test, sign an undertaking, and spend a minimum of three days in isolation at a campus facility. Those returning from the six states, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat, must spend seven days in isolation as there is a reported surge in cases in those states. A statement from the University said that all Ph.D. students, except those who joined in 2020-21, can come back to resume their research work on campus. For now, all Master’s students who joined the University in 2020 will continue to have online classes. The return will be entirely voluntary and the University will continue teaching-learning activities online for those who wish to remain at their homes. The latest announcement is on top of the 1,300 students already allowed, including research scholars and final semester students in sciences and practical disciplines such as performing arts and fine arts, to return to the campus and stay in the hostels. The University of Hyderabad has already facilitated senior research scholars to complete their thesis submissions, commenced online teaching since August, reopened its main library and provided remote access to digital resources to all students and faculty, put in place a digital access grant to address problems of digital divide, and kick-started laboratory sessions for Science students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uoh-opens-gates-for-2000-additional-students/article34048745.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||60% of new COVID cases recorded in Maharashtra||The Ministry did not comment on Denmark, Norway and Iceland temporarily suspending the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine over concerns of patients developing post-jab blood clots. Giving details of the vaccination done so far the Ministry noted that the cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 2.60 crore on Thursday. A total of 2,60,73,517 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 7 p.m. today. These include 72,16,759 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 40,48,754 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 71,16,849 FLWs (first dose), 6,70,813 FLWs ( second dose), 1,021,588 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities and 59,98,754 beneficiaries more than 60 years old. Total of 3,89,337 vaccine doses were given till 7 p.m. today, the 55th day of nationwide COVID-19 vaccination. Out of which beneficiaries 3,20,247 were vaccinated for first dose and 69,090 HCWs and FLWs received second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan noted that there is no vaccine shortage in any State in the country and said the acceleration in vaccination has been achieved with active collaboration of private facilities. Seventy-one per cent of vaccine dose administered is in the public sector while 28.7% has been contributed by the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-of-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra/article34048546.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM’s photo removed from COVID vaccine certificates||The Health Ministry on Tuesday informed the Election Commission (EC) that the “necessary filters” were added to the Co-WIN platform in the four poll-bound States and one UT, removing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo from the COVID-19 vaccine certificates provided in those regions. The EC had written to the Ministry on March 5 reiterating its standing instructions on the use of photos of political leaders in government advertisements during elections. It gave the Ministry a few days to come up with a technical solution to remove Mr. Modi’s photo, an EC official said. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the Deputy Election Commissioner in-charge of West Bengal, Sudeep Jain, on Tuesday that “technical measures to comply with the directions of ECI have been explored promptly”. The EC had taken up the issue after the Trinamool Congress complained that publishing Mr. Modi’s photo on the certificates was a violation of the model code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-photo-removed-from-covid-vaccine-certificates/article34048500.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,||CBI books Hyderabad firm for defaulting Rs. 173.76 cr. to SBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a city-based Parikh Fabrics Private Limited, represented by its director Nikhal B Parikh and Rita B. Parikh on the allegations that they have defaulted Rs. 173.76 crore loan and interest to State Bank of India. Based on the complaint lodged by the SBI, the central agency also booked a case against unknown public servants/private persons under Sections 120 B, 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13(2), 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act. According to CBI officials, Nikhil and Rita availed various loan facilities between December 26, 2003 and December 31, 2010 from SBI, Commercial Branch, Hyderabad, under consortium arrangement. The bank alleged that the company had defaulted in payment of interest and instalments and the account was classified as non-performing assets (NPA) on August 30, 2011. “The accused diverted funds and manipulated books of accounts, causing loss to the tune of Rs. 173.76 crore to the bank,” the officials said, adding that searches were conducted at two places in Hyderabad and one place at Chennai, including office and residential premises of the accused which led to recovery of some incriminating documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-firm-for-defaulting-rs-17376-cr/article34048743.ece
12 March 2021||Guwahati,||Wage hike: Assam Oppn. targets BJP||A stay on hike in daily wages of some 7.5 lakh tea plantation workers has given the Opposition alliances a stick to beat the ruling BJP with in poll-bound Assam. Candidates of the Congress-led Mahajot , and the regional front headed by the AJP, have begun campaigning against the BJP’s “betrayal of trust” of tea workers. The parties stated that the hike and later court stay was a “drama” played by the ruling BJP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wage-hike-assam-oppn-targets-bjp/article34048968.ece
12 March 2021||Guwahati,||Wage hike: Assam Oppn. targets BJP||A stay on hike in daily wages of some 7.5 lakh tea plantation workers has given the Opposition alliances a stick to beat the ruling BJP with in poll-bound Assam. Candidates of the Congress-led Mahajot , and the regional front headed by the AJP, have begun campaigning against the BJP’s “betrayal of trust” of tea workers. The parties stated that the hike and later court stay was a “drama” played by the BJP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wage-hike-assam-oppn-targets-bjp/article34049238.ece
12 March 2021||Lucknow,||SP to rally behind Azam Khan with ‘cycle yatra’||With a year left for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the Samajwadi Party has decided to throw its weight behind its senior leader and former Cabinet Minister Mohammad Azam Khan. Mr. Khan, who was arrested in a forgery case, is lodged in Sitapur jail. The party will kick-off a 10-day cycle yatra on Friday from Rampur to Lucknow in support of Mr. Khan.  Akhilesh to flag off Party president Akhilesh Yadav will himself flag off the yatra from the Mohammad Ali Jauhar University in Rampur on March 12, the party said. Mr. Khan, the most prominent Muslim politician in the SP, is the chancellor of the university which has been embroiled in a number of controversies over alleged land encroachments. The cycle yatra was aimed at expressing public anger at the action taken against Mr. Khan, seen as a victim of BJP government’s vendetta, said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-to-rally-behind-azam-khan-with-cycle-yatra/article34048974.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC gives relief to associates of Shivakumar||The High Court of Karnataka ordered conditional release of Rs. 53.46 lakh cash seized from a private company and an individual during raids conducted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with a corruption case registered against Congress leader D.K. Shivakumar. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while allowing the separate petition filed by Bengaluru-based Wellworth Software Pvt. Ltd., a multi-system operator for cable TV network, and Sachin Narayan, a close associate of Mr. Shivakumar and partner in the businesses of Mr. Shivakumar’s wife. The petitioners had challenged the October 2020 order passed by a Special Court that rejected their applications for release of the amount seized. The High Court directed that the release of amount is subject to them executing indemnity bond for the equal amount and surety for the like sum to the satisfaction of the trial court in terms of the guidelines issued by the apex court in the case of Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai vs. State of Gujarat on release of seized material in criminal cases. “...from documents produced by the petitioners, explaining the source of the funds, seized from their possession, it has to be held that the petitioners are the rightful owners of the seized amount and are legally entitled for the interim custody of the seized cash. Even otherwise, the interim release of the seized property [cash] does not preclude the CBI from investigating into the source of the said funds of the public servant [Mr. Shivakumar],” the court observed. Though the CBI had disputed the genuineness of the documents produced by the petitioners, the High Court observed that “there is no prima facie material to show that the cash seized is anyway related to the proceeds of the crime” alleged against Mr. Shivakumar or his wife. The CBI had seized cash of $47,98,000 from the premises of the company and Rs. 5,48,000 from the premises belonging to Mr. Narayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-gives-relief-to-associates-of-shivakumar/article34048527.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Director of 9 firms held for loan app fraud||Continuing their probe into the alleged financial fraud by the app-based loan companies, Hyderabad Cyber Crime police on Thursday arrested the director of nine such firms based out of Bengaluru. AP native The 27-year-old -- Chinnabba Rajashekar, who hails from Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, works in Karnataka State capital. He was the directors of Yunwei Technologies Private Limited, Satime Technologies Private Limited, Reusing Technologies Private Limited, Pregla Fintech Private Limited, One Libra Financial Services Private Limited, Naqiful Technologies Private Limited, Aojing Technologies Private Limited, Heiseqian Technologies Private Limited and Feng Fintech Services Private Limited which are connected to money lending apps namely Snapit, ok cash, Mybank, Cash bee, Rupee factory, bubble loan, go cash etc., said Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty. He said that so far they have arrested 21 persons, including a Chinese national, Zhu Wei alias Lambo, K. Nagaraju, Singi Madhu Babu and Palle Jeevana Jyothi. Bank accounts During further investigation, police identified various bank accounts associated with the fraudsters and froze about Rs. 300 crore, Mr. Mohanty said. “Efforts are being made to arrest the absconding accused persons who played a key role in this multi-crore financial fraud,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/director-of-9-firms-held-in-loan-app-fraud/article34048534.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC files FIR over fake news on EVMs||The Election Commission on Thursday said an FIR had been lodged over “fake news” about hacking of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) being spread on social media. In a statement, the EC said, “It has come to the notice of Election Commission of India that an old fake news about EVM hacking is being circulated on some social media platforms/internet.” It added that the news article from December 21, 2017 said “maliciously” that former Chief Election Commissioner T.S. Krishnamurthy had “opined that a particular party won assembly elections by hacking EVMs”. “This wrongful information was previously debunked by former CEC himself, soon after this matter had come to his knowledge in 2018. This news is again being circulated by some miscreants on social media,” the EC said. It added that Mr. Krishnamurthy had on Wednesday issued a statement refuting the news again. The EC said an FIR had been lodged by the Delhi Chief Electoral Officer under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code, which pertains to punishment for defamation, and Sections 128 and 134 of the Representation of the People Act 1951, pertaining to maintenance of secrecy of voting and breach of official duty in connection with elections respectively. “Investigation has been initiated in this matter and stern action will be taken against the miscreants who have uploaded fake news to create wrong impressions about the election process,” the EC said. Mamata declares assets Meanwhile, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has declared that her net worth is Rs. 16.72 lakh. Ms. Banerjee doesn’t own any vehicle or property, according to her self-sworn affidavit filed before the Election Commission of India. The 66-year-old leader’s total movable assets are worth Rs. 16.72 lakh. Her income for the year 2019-20 was Rs. 10,34,370. The CM has Rs. 69,255 cash in hand while she has a bank balance of Rs. 13.53 lakh which includes Rs 1.51 lakh in her election expenditure account. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-files-fir-over-fake-news-on-evms/article34048551.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Trinamool’s letter is full of insinuations’||The Election Commission on Thursday responded to the Trinamool Congress’ letter, which alleged that abrupt transfers of police officials had led to Wednesday’s attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying the memorandum was “full of insinuations and averments”. The EC said the incident where Ms. Banerjee was injured was “indeed an unfortunate incident and deserves to be inquired into with promptitude and dispatch”. It added that the TMC's memorandum had questioned the very basis of the EC's creation and functioning. “It is completely incorrect to suggest the Commission has taken over the law and order machinery in the State in the name of conducting elections and appropriated the whole governance structure etc,” the Commission said, adding that the Director General of Police was removed after “recommendations from the EC's special observers”. The EC said it had asked for reports on the matter from the Chief Secretary and two special observers within 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamools-letter-is-full-of-insinuations/article34048552.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bittu to work as Congress leader in LS||Lok Sabha member Ranveer Singh Bittu from Punjab will be functioning as the Congress’ leader in the Lower House for the remaining period of the current session as Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will be busy in West Bengal because of the Assembly election. His deputy Gaurav Gogoi and Chief Whip K. Suresh are also busy with the Assembly polls in Assam and Kerala respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bittu-to-work-as-congress-leader-in-ls/article34048555.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||CM had no security, claims party||The Trinamool Congress on Thursday alleged in a letter to the Election Commission of India (ECI) that the removal of the State Director General of Police (DGP) at the “behest of BJP” had put West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s life under threat, and sought an immediate investigation into the issue. It was a “deep-rooted conspiracy”, the party said. “Within 24 hours of the removal of the erstwhile DGP, an attempt on Ms. Banerjee’s life was made in Nandigram. At the time of the assault neither the Superintendent of Police nor the local police was present, even though she is a Z Plus protectee,” the letter said. On Tuesday, the ECI ordered the removal of DGP Virendra following an adverse report from its special observers posted in the poll-bound State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-had-no-security-claims-party/article34048558.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM to flag off march to Dandi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off a march from the Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi on Friday to kick off celebrations of the 75th year of Independence, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Thursday. The Prime Minister would inaugurate cultural and digital initiatives as part of the celebrations and address the gathering at the Sabarmati Ashram as well, the Minister said. The Culture Ministry had announced last week that the celebrations would begin from Friday, March 12, marking the anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Salt Satyagraha. It also marks 75 weeks till Independence Day 2022. 25 days The march from the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari, a distance of 241 miles, would take the 81 marchers a period of 25 days, the Ministry said. The march would be joined by different groups of people along the way. Mr. Patel would lead the first stretch of 75 km of the march, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-flag-off-march-to-dandi-today/article34048561.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. seeks probe into bribe charges||The Congress on Thursday demanded a judicial probe into the allegations that Swedish automaker Scania offered bribes to government officials in India to secure business. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told presspersons, “The reports of the bus contract scam are indeed very disturbing. The Scandinavian government reports point a finger at the Central government, various Ministers, various State governments...We demand a judicial inquiry into this.” The spokesperson also demanded a probe into the death of a rape survivor’s father in a road accident in Kanpur and questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“We demand that the family be duly compensated. We demand a judicial inquiry and demand that the insensitive government wakes up and owns up its moral responsibility,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-seeks-probe-into-bribe-charges/article34049170.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahul flags report on slide in democracy||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday tweeted a news report on the findings of a Swedish institute that claimed that India had turned into an “elected autocracy” to question the country’s status as a democratic country. “India is no longer a democratic country,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted, tagging a news report about the Swedish institute’s latest finding. On Wednesday, Sweden-based V-Dem [Varieties of Democracy] Institute released a report that downgraded India as a democracy and placed it below neighbours such as Bangladesh and Nepal. Muzzling of media and frequent use of sedition clauses and defamation cases were cited to explain why India was being categorised as an ‘elected autocracy’. The report pointed out that the global decline of liberal democracies was ‘steep’ in the past 10 years in the Asia-Pacific region, Central Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Apart from India, countries like Brazil and Turkey figured among the top 10 country’s that slipped in rankings that were part of the G-20 nations. The latest report on India’s democracy comes just days after another United States-based NGO, Freedom House, had lowered India’s status as ‘partly free’ in terms of political rights and civil liberties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-flags-indias-slide-in-democratic-norms/article34048577.ece
12 March 2021||Pune,||Uddhav warns of lockdown||With Maharashtra reporting alarming case surges, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday warned of lockdown in more parts of the State and said that a decision would be taken in the next couple of days. The Chief Minister also said the situation had not yet slipped out of control. Mr. Thackeray’s statement came even as his Maha Vikas Aghadi government announced the imposition of a seven-day lockdown in Nagpur district in the Vidarbha region from March 15. “In the coming days, we may have to impose lockdown in some more areas if rules are not strictly followed. We will take this decision in the next couple of days,” said Mr. Thackeray, after being administered his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at JJ Hospital. He and his wife Rashmi were given a dose of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The Chief Minister exhorted people to strictly adhere to pandemic regulations — social distancing, wearing mask, and avoiding unnecessary travel. He dispelled rumours pertaining to adverse after-effects of the vaccine, reassuring citizens that there was no need to fear or to be in any confusion about it. The State’s active case tally has soared to nearly one lakh from less than 40,000 a fortnight ago. Nagpur’s Guardian Minister Nitin Raut said a complete lockdown would remain in force in the city Police Commissionerate area from March 15 to March 21. Essential services like vegetable stores, milk booths and medical services will remain operational across the district. Private offices would remain closed while government offices would work at 25% capacity, said Mr. Raut. Liquor would be sold only online, he said. Nagpur district has been reporting a daily average case surge of more than 1,200 cases for the last few days, climaxing with a record single-day jump of more than 1,800 new cases on Wednesday. The district has nearly 13,000 active cases and has recorded more than 3,500 fatalities. A three-day janata curfew beginning Thursday has been imposed in Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra while district authorities in Jalna in the Marathwada region have decreed all bars and permit rooms shut over the next week in the wake of rising cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-cases-spike-uddhav-warns-of-lockdown-in-more-parts-of-state/article34048836.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||34.71%||increase in the number of polling stations in Assam in 2021 compared with 2016. The State will have 33,530 stations in 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3471/article34048503.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||89.65%||increase in the number of polling stations in Kerala in 2021 compared with 2016. The State will have 40,771 stations in 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8965/article34048504.ece
12 March 2021||Srinagar,||2 militants killed in Anantnag operation||Two local Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militants were killed in a night-long operation in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Thursday. The militants, identified by the police as Adil Ahmad Bhat from Shithpora in Bijbehara and Zahid Ahmad Rather from Anantnag, were encircled around 6:05 p.m. on Wednesday at Kandipora village in Anantnag district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-militants-killed-in-anantnag-operation/article34048973.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in HC seeks priority to vaccinate mentally ill||A petition has been filed before the Delhi High Court to include severe mental illness in the list of specified co-morbidities to enable getting priority COVID-19 vaccination. The plea also sought direction to frame a policy to provide COVID-19 vaccination to homeless, mentally ill persons wandering on the streets. Currently, the government has prioritised healthcare workers, front-line workers, persons aged 60 and above and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-hc-seeks-priority-to-vaccinate-mentally-ill/article34048812.ece
12 March 2021||Jaipur,||Brahma Kumaris’ chief Dadi Hriday Mohini dies at 93||Dadi Hriday Mohini, the chief administrator of the spiritual movement Brahma Kumaris, died at a private hospital in Mumbai on Thursday. She was 93. Her mortal remains will be brought to the organisation headquarters on Abu Road in Jaipur and people will be allowed to pay their respects on Friday. Her last rites will be performed on March 13. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said she would be remembered for her efforts to alleviate human suffering and to empower people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brahma-kumaris-chief-dadi-hriday-mohini-dies-at-93/article34049168.ece
12 March 2021||Lucknow,||SP to rally behind Azam Khan with cycle yatra||With a year left for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, the Samajwadi Party has decided to throw its weight behind its senior leader Mohammad Azam Khan. Mr. Khan, who was arrested in a forgery case, is lodged in Sitapur jail. The party will kick-off a 10-day cycle yatra on Friday from Rampur to Lucknow in his support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-to-rally-behind-azam-khan-with-cycle-yatra/article34048574.ece
12 March 2021||Srinagar,||2 militants killed in Anantnag operation||Two local Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militants were killed in a night-long operation in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Thursday. The militants, identified by the police as Adil Ahmad Bhat from Shithpora in Bijbehara and Zahid Ahmad Rather from Sirhama in Anantnag, were encircled around 6:05 p.m. on Wednesday at Kandipora village in Anantnag district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-militants-killed-in-anantnag-operation/article34048575.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. avoiding discussions in Parliament’||The CPI(M) has slammed the government for ‘abandoning’ accountability towards Parliament. The party’s Polit Bureau said that Parliament has gone into four-day long recess only to help the government avoid answering uncomfortable questions on fuel hike and farmers’ agitation. In the last three days, the opposition parties have been protesting in both Houses of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-avoiding-discussions-in-parliament/article34048579.ece
12 March 2021||Chandigarh,||HC asks Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh to make available ‘safe houses’ for runaway couples||To protect the life and liberty of couples who have married against the wishes of their family, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has suggested that safe houses be made available in each district of Punjab, Haryana as well as the Union Territory of Chandigarh. The court said it has been receiving a number of petitions from such couples seeking legal help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-haryana-punjab-chandigarh-to-make-available-safe-houses-for-runaway-couples/article34048580.ece
12 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Assembly elections | Opposition targets BJP after court stays wage hike for tea workers||A stay on hike in daily wages of some 7.5 lakh tea plantation workers has given the Opposition alliances a stick to beat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with in poll-bound Assam. Candidates of the Congress-led Mahajot , or grand alliance, and the regional front headed by the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), have begun campaigning against the BJP’s “betrayal of trust” of tea workers. The “tea tribes” and “ex-tea tribes [former plantation workers]”, brought by British planters from central India almost 200 years ago, comprise about 20% of Assam’s 3.3 crore people. They are a deciding factor in 45 of the State’s 126 Assembly seats, and a majority of such seats are among the 86 going to the polls in the first two phases. “The interim hike in wage by Rs. 50 ahead of the polls followed by a court stay was a drama planned to hoodwink the tea workers. The BJP government knew this would happen as the tea companies were not consulted. We are making this an issue and telling the tea workers to be wary of who they vote for,” Dhiraj Gowala, president of Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association (ATTSA), said. Hearing a petition by the Indian Tea Association and 17 tea companies that own about 90% of 803 estates in Assam, the Gauhati High Court on March 8 upheld the argument that the wage hike was “illegal” as no committee or sub-committee had been formed, as required under relevant sections of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948. The ATTSA has influence across tea estates in northern and north-eastern Assam, where the Mahajot has allotted the Behali constituency to the CPI (Marxist-Leninist). Party candidate Bibek Das said the State Labour Commissioner had in 2018 recommended Rs. 351 as the daily wage for tea workers. “This government ignored the recommendation and made a big noise about increasing the wage by Rs. 50 and this too is being denied. The workers have been taken for a ride,” he said. Pawan Singh Ghatowar, former Congress MP and leader of the Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangh, held the Sarbananda Sonowal government responsible for the “wage hike gimmick”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had in February promised Rs. 365 as the minimum daily wage of plantation workers. “We know the tea estates may not be able to pay that much. We will bear part of the burden if we form the government,” said State party president Ripun Bora, contesting the Gohpur seat, which has several estates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-assembly-elections-opposition-targets-bjp-after-court-stays-wage-hike-for-tea-workers/article34048581.ece
12 March 2021||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||MLA challenges amendment to Town Planning Act||DMK MLA P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday challenging the amendment to the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act. It would deprive landowners of any information with regard to acquisition of lands for development, he said. In his Public Interest Litigation petition, Mr. Thiagarajan said the Act and related Rules were framed with an objective of planning development and using rural and urban lands. While developing rural and urban lands it was inevitable for the State to acquire certain private lands. The Act provided safeguards for the landowners, he said. The Act mandated authorities to prepare a detailed development plan before acquiring any private property. Once the plan was prepared by the Local Planning Authority and submitted to the Director for approval, the plan and purpose for acquiring the property would be notified in the gazette. Section 21 of the Act mandated the planning authority to consult landowners before preparing development plans. Section 20 (2)(b) of the Act mandated that details of the owners be mentioned in the development plan, so that the owners were aware that the property had been proposed for acquisition, the petitioner said. Further, Section 20 (2)(C) of the Act mandated that the plan should mention whether the area under the plan was private or public. This would inform the general public, particularly the owners, the status of their lands/buildings with respect to the plan, he said. However, the amendment notified in 2020, took away the process of consultation of owners, which had been made mandatory. The amendment also took away the details of the owners to be included in the development plan and a new clause was introduced stating ‘area covered by the plan’, he said. Mr. Thiagarajan said this would keep the landowner in the dark without any information with regard to land acquisition. The original Act made these provisions mandatory so that the landowners could object or seek a fair compensation. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to the State and observed that any acquisition made under the amendment would be subject to the outcome of the proceedings on the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-challenges-amendment-to-town-planning-act/article34049300.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Security will be intensified at vulnerable, critical poll booths||The Chennai District Election Office will facilitate additional security arrangements for electors in 565 vulnerable and 30 critical polling stations in 16 Assembly constituencies, said District Election Officer G. Prakash. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday, Mr. Prakash said improved security arrangements were needed for electors in 158 residential areas that were vulnerable to electoral offence. Over 30 polling stations at 10 locations in 16 Assembly constituencies had registered more than 90% turnout in the previous elections, and most of the votes were secured by a single candidate. Such polling stations have been categorised as critical. “The Election Commission of India (ECI) has ordered postal ballot for senior citizens, persons with disabilities and COVID-19 patients. In Chennai district, 18,268 out of 1.08 lakh senior citizens have received 12D forms for postal ballot. A total of 7,460 persons with disabilities and 90 COVID-19 patients have also been identified for distribution of for postal ballot forms,” said Mr. Prakash. As many as 1.19 lakh forms have been sent to residential neighbourhoods for facilitating postal ballot. A total of 5,236 senior citizens and 410 persons with disabilities have submitted the 12D forms to officials. “We will inform mediapersons about postal ballot shortly,” he said. The District Election Office has received 30 complaints on the toll-free helpline 1800-425-7012. As many as 49 complaints have been received on the cVIGIL App. A total of 2,762 residents called the 1950 helpline to get explanation about electoral aspects such as Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC). Residents complained about 17 violations to the model code of conduct. A total of 14 FIRs have been registered. Arrangements have been made for 9,847 voting machines with 7,292 control units and 7,474 VVPAT. Flying squads and static surveillance teams have seized 13 bags of gutkha, 2,960 kg of rice, 28.6 kg of silver and 73 g of gold so far. “Election officials have cleared graffiti, posters and banners at 45,044 locations. We will start including the expenditure in the candidates’ account in the event of fresh defacements. Returning Officers have been empowered to reject the candidates who violate COVID-19 norms, such as mask wearing. Only two persons should accompany a candidate during nomination. They should wear masks,” Mr. Prakash said.  18,268 out of 1.08 lakh senior citizens have received postal ballot forms. A total of 7,460 persons with disabilities and 90 COVID-19 patients have also been identified G. Prakash District Election Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-will-be-intensified-at-vulnerable-critical-poll-booths/article34049195.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK under fire over seat allotment||The AIADMK’s selection of candidates for the Assembly election and the distribution of certain constituencies to allies received adverse reaction publicly on Thursday from sections of members of the party. In a conversation with The Hindu , former Minister Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam, who was not fielded again in Perundurai, claimed that though he was not disappointed over the party’s decision not to re-nominate him, the candidate chosen in his place, he said, had “worked against” the party in the past. He said the difference between the AIADMK nominee and the Opposition-backed Communist Party of India (CPI)’s candidate in the Perundurai assembly segment of Tiruppur parliamentary constituency during the 2019 Lok Sabha poll was much lower than in other segments. The sitting MLA of Sattur in Virudhunagar district, M.S.R. Rajavarman, complained that Dairy Development Minister, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji was behind the denial of party ticket to him. Another disappointed party functionary in the district, ‘Gokulam’ M. Thangaraj, is mulling contesting from the Virudhunagar seat as an Independent. Ex-Congress candidate In the central district of Pudukottai, a group of AIADMK cadre staged a protest in Alangudi, demanding the replacement of Dharma Thangavel, who has been chosen for the constituency despite having defected to the party from the Congress only a few months ago. In the Alangudi town, a group of about 600 members of the AIADMK, holding party flags and carrying portraits of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Paneerselvam, took out a procession from Sandhaipettai to the bus stand, raising slogans against the selection of Mr. Thangavel. The candidate hails from a family of politicians. His father Dharmaraj, who is no more, was a member of the AIADMK and chairman of the Vadakadu cooperative society. His uncle, Pushparaj, had been a Congress legislator twice in the district. In Chennai, a section of AIADMK workers staged a protest at the party headquarters against the allotment of the Egmore constituency to Tamil Nadu Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) president John Pandian. Similarly, another group of party volunteers conducted a ‘road roko’ (blockade) at the Nazarathpet junction on the Poonamallee-Bengaluru highway to oppose the allotment of Poonmallee to the Pattali Makkal Katchi. Consequently, traffic was disturbed on the highway for a couple of hours in the morning. Padmanabhapuram seat The AIADMK, which has almost wrapped up the process of seat-sharing with its allies and distribution of Assembly constituencies among them, is yet to decide on the Padmanabhapuram constituency in Kanniyakumari district. In its list on Wednesday, the party announced N. Thalavai Sundaram for Kanniyakumari, apart from giving three seats to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Thursday, Killiyoor was set aside for the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar). As of now, the AIADMK has named candidates for 178 constituencies, apart from allotting 12 seats to seven of its allies, who will contest on the AIADMK’s symbol of “Two Leaves”. On Thursday, the party released its third list of candidates for two seats — Perambalur and Thanjavur. For Perambalur, the party renominated sitting legislator R. Tamizhselvan and in the case of Thanjavur, it chose V. Arivudainambi. With the selection of Mr. Tamizhselvan, the number of candidates in the party belonging to the Scheduled Castes went up to 30. Earlier in the day, the party stated that Tiruchuli in Virudhunagar district had been allocated to the All India Moovender Munnani Kazhagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-under-fire-over-seat-allotment/article34049215.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President showers praise on Anna University, Tamil Nadu||President Ram Nath Kovind heaped praise on the State and Anna University in his convocation address on Thursday. Mr. Kovind surprised the students and the faculty by starting his speech in Tamil. He greeted the students on their achievement. Anna University is blessed to be in Tamil Nadu “which has been the cradle of knowledge and learning since times immemorial. The long literary tradition spanning over centuries in the form of Sangam literature is a matter of pride for all Indians as it symbolises the rich cultural heritage of our country,” he said. Education is the catalyst for change and the youth are “the most potent agent of social transformation,” he said. The National Education Policy 2020 aimed to educate youth who would be able to bring in revolutionary changes, he said. The policy sought to implement a modern education system based on research, skill and acumen relevant to the evolving needs of the present. It would also include within its domain our rich cultural heritage in consonance with a futuristic outlook. It focused on inculcating moral values and promoting an understanding of Indian culture, he said. Mr. Kovind, who distributed gold medals to students who had scored the first rank in various programmes, said he was pleased to learn that 60% of the total students who received gold medals and first class degrees were women. “This excellence displayed by women is a reflection of the future of India as a developed nation,” he said. University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, who presented the annual report, said it was the first technical institution in the country to conduct examinations in the digital mode for over 1.2 lakh students in more than 1,000 different subjects. The university had recently concluded the first semester and arrear exams online for over 4.5 lakh students. As many as 1,04,075 candidates graduated on Thursday, the V-C said. Of this 69, including 42 women graduands, had received the first rank. The Department of Science and Technology had selected Anna University as a possible spoke for 100 crore grant under the national Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems jointly with the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati. Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit, who conducted the convocation proceedings, also administered the pledge to the graduands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/president-showers-praise-on-anna-university-and-tamil-nadu/article34048669.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scrap dealer, two others held for Rs. 58 crore GST credit fraud||The Chennai Outer Commissionerate has arrested a scrap dealer from Vellore and two others for allegedly committing a GST credit fraud by issuing fake invoices to the extent of Rs. 423.2 crore and passing on illegal and unlawful Input Tax credit to the tune of about Rs. 58 crore. The case against the arrested persons is that they along with some accomplices have taken GST registrations by misusing the KYC documents of other persons. 44 fictitious firms Using the KYC documents, the mastermind of the alleged fraud has floated 44 fictitious companies, according to an official statement. Out of 44, the mastermind had operated 24 companies to issue the fake invoices, while the remaining 20 companies have been sold to other persons who are engaged in the same modus operandi of issuing fake invoices and thereby passing on fraudulent Input Tax credit, it added. Besides, 56 fictitious companies were created and operated by others, for which the mastermind acted as commission agent for providing customers interested in buying fake invoices without actual supply of goods or services. All three persons have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-dealer-two-others-held-for-rs-58-crore-gst-credit-fraud/article34049427.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Vanniyar quota will not affect any other community’||One of Tamil Nadu’s senior political leaders and PMK founder S. Ramadoss  in an interview insists that exclusive reservation for Vanniyars will not lead to consolidation of other MBC communities. He believes that the people will ensure that the DMK does not return to power. Edited excerpts:  The AIADMK-PMK alliance faced a rout, attributed to the anti-Modi wave, in 2019. With rising fuel and LPG prices, what do you think will give your alliance a huge victory? There is no denying that rising petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices will affect our people. The PMK always has always insisted on reduction of taxes on fuels to safeguard the people. It is only a temporary phenomenon as oil-producing countries have decided to increase the production of crude oil; gradually, fuel prices will come down. Besides, these come under the Centre’s domain. The people are well aware that the forthcoming election is for the Tamil Nadu Assembly. The AIADMK has announced the provisioning of six free LPG cylinders, annually, to every household, and this will reduce the people’s burden to a great extent. Beyond all this, people are well aware about the harm if the DMK returns to power. Therefore, the rise in fuel prices will not have a huge impact. At the same time, the promised financial assistance of Rs. 1,500 a month will garner more votes. You placed a 10-point demand in 2019 before joining the AIADMK alliance. But now you have placed only the Vanniyar reservation demand… Separate reservation for the Vanniyar community is not a new demand. The need for the conduct of a caste-based census in Tamil Nadu was one of our primary demands in 2019. The objective is to provide population-based reservations to all communities, including Vanniyars. Now, a commission has been constituted to collect caste-based population data. Once the caste-based data is available, adequate reservation will be provided to all communities, including Vanniyars. Five of 10 demands put forth by the PMK in 2019 have been fulfilled. The party will continue to insist that the rest be fulfilled as well. There is a view that the 10.5% reservation will lead to a consolidation of non-Vanniyars in MBC, against the AIADMK and the PMK... The 10.5% reservation provided for Vanniyars will not affect any other MBC community. Every MBC community will get more reservation, except Vanniyars. The total MBC population is 20.87% and the reservation provided to them is 20%. According to the Ambasankar and Janardhanan Commissions, the population of Vanniyars is 13.6%. The population of other MBCs is 7.2%. Only 10.5% reservation is provided for 13.6% of Vanniyars, whereas the remaining 7.2% of MBCs are provided with 9.5% reservation. Hence, there is no negative impact on them. Therefore, it is wrong to state that other MBCs are rallying against the AIADMK and the PMK. No one has objected to this. Even the protests [which he described as a “single-digit crowd”] held in the southern districts were provoked by some parties. Are you not running the risk of being labelled a Vanniyar party, limiting your political growth? Please read our manifesto. We are demanding a caste census. If Brahmins are 3% of the population, give them 3% representation. In Kerala, reservation is divided into eight compartments on the basis of castes, not a cluster of castes. The Ezhavas alone have been given 14% reservation. Similarly, the Nadars, Vishwakarmas, Latin Christians... have been given reservation separately. We are saying the same. First take the caste census. It was last done in 1931 by the British. A census for SC/STs is done every 10 years. Vanniyars will constitute around 15% of the population. We have achieved 10.5% reservation as a first step. If a coconut must be divided among 100 people, it should be broken into 100 pieces. We want everyone to study, get jobs and have good health. The PMK disagreed with the NPR, the CAA and the NRC. Your MP Anbumani in 2019 said PMK would change the policies of the AIADMK and the BJP from within. Have you had a conversation with the BJP leadership regarding the issue? We do not agree with the NPR, the CAA and the NRC. We have made this clear both in party resolutions and in our election manifesto. The AIADMK’s stand on the issue has changed to an extent, and the State has written to the Centre, requesting for an announcement that controversial questions will be avoided in the process of preparing the NPR. We also strongly believe that the Centre’s stand on the issue will change. With the State’s taxation revenues falling and debt increasing, do you think the State can afford to implement liquor prohibition? What is wrong if the State loses that revenue? My dream is to see a Tamil Nadu without a drop of liquor. Former Chief Ministers Rajaji, O.P. Ramasamy Reddiar, Kamaraj, Bhaktavatsalam and Annadurai implemented prohibition. Annadurai, when asked about how we will get revenue then, retorted, “If there is butter in the hands of a leprosy patient, will we take it?” It was Karunanidhi who removed prohibition. I have fought for 40 years against liquor. In Tamil Nadu, even 12-year-olds have started drinking liquor. DMK and AIADMK businessmen are selling over-priced liquor. This is also a kind of corruption. Considering that you have been such a strong critic of the Dravidian parties, what are your thoughts on their future? In the name of Dravidian ideology, our rights have been compromised or given up to other southern States. In my opinion, they have never respected our rights. No political philosophy or party will perish. Political philosophies will sustain at all times, only their influence may differ from time to time.  We do not agree withthe NPR, the   CAA and NRC. We have made this clear both in party resolutions and in our election manifesto. The AIADMK’s stand on the issue has changed to an extent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyar-quota-will-not-affect-any-other-community/article34048659.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records over 600 COVID-19 cases again||For the second day, Tamil Nadu recorded more than 600 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. A total of 685 persons tested positive for the infection and five died, taking the overall tally of cases to 8,57,602 and the toll to 12,535. Of this, Chennai accounted for 292 cases. Coimbatore and Chengalpattu followed with 52 and 51 cases respectively. While 49 persons tested positive for the infection in Tiruvallur, Thanjavur had 37 cases. Kancheepuram and Tiruppur recorded 23 and 21 cases respectively. Other districts that had more than 10 cases were Dindigul (12), Erode (19), Salem (18) and Vellore (19). There were no new cases in Perambalur, while 25 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. The new cases included seven returnees — four from West Bengal, two from UAE and one from Uttar Pradesh. With the fresh cases, Chennai’s tally stood at 2,38,007, followed by Coimbatore with 56,298 cases and Chengalpattu with 53,391 cases. The fatalities were reported in Chennai (3) and Chengalpattu (2). This included two women in their 50s. A 50-year-old woman from Chengalpattu, who had diabetes and hypertension, died at the Government Omandurar Medical College and Hospital a day after admission on March 8 due to pneumonia and acute respiratory failure, while a 58-year-old woman from Chennai with systemic hypertension died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on March 9 due to pneumonia and respiratory failure. The number of active cases increased to 4,344, with Chennai accounting for the most at 1,940. Another 543 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the overall tally of persons discharged to 8,40,723. In the last 24 hours, 65,945 samples were tested. To date, 1,80,86,877 samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-over-600-covid-19-cases-again/article34048631.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Documentary film about kidney ailments released||Sixty-three-year-old Mohammed Lahiri goes paragliding every year. “I have also gone for trekking and mountain climbing. I want to celebrate life in every possible way after nearly embracing death,” he said. Mr. Lahiri went through a kidney transplant nearly 33 years ago and said he continued to do everything with ease. Speaking on the occasion of World Kidney Day, organised by Sapiens Health Foundation, he said, “Now my next aim is to run half a marathon and climb to the base camp of Mount Everest. I want to live till the age of 100 to show the world that this could be the lifespan of a person who has undergone transplant.” Actor Madhu Balaji recounted how he donated one of his kidneys to his sister-in-law and added that both of them were leading a healthy and normal life. Rajan Ravichandran, the nephrologist who runs Sapiens Health Foundation, said it was important to listen to a patient before beginning treatment. Both the patient’s physical and mental well-being were important. He recollected how the foundation was formed over two decades ago by a female patient who recovered and wanted to contribute in some way to relieve the suffering of people with kidney ailments. “So that was how we started this foundation,” he added. A documentary where various patients recounted their experience was released on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/documentary-film-about-kidney-ailments-released/article34049209.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Photo IDs for new voters will arrive by post||Have you applied for inclusion in the electoral roll for the first time? And are you awaiting the Elector Photo Identity Card (EPIC) from the booth-level officer or are you unsuccessfully attempting this at an e-seva centre? You may soon receive it from the Election Commission of India (ECI) by post. During an interaction, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said: “First-time voters need not wait for EPIC from the BLO or apply for EPIC through e-seva centres. They will receive them by post.” The CEO’s statement comes as a huge relief to those thronging e-seva centres, hoping to get their EPICs at the earliest. The Hindu visited multiple e-seva centres last week, where first-time voters had come without realising that they cannot get the cards from there the first time. Some first-time voters have already received the cards by post. P. Nigamanth of Anna Nagar West said: “When I applied for an EPIC, I was told that I would be intimated about the card by February, but was not told that I would receive it by post. So when I received a post from the ECI, I did not realise it was EPIC until I opened the envelope.”  Also, those intending to replace their damaged or lost EPICs will not have to go through the laborious process. “The ECI is in the process of rolling out a system wherein those who have lost their EPICs and want a replacement will be able to apply for them online without going through the long process, and it will reach them by post,” Mr. Sahoo said. Such electors need to fill up Form 001 and get the signature of the Deputy Tahsildar (elections) concerned before submitting it for getting a duplicate card. They can also apply through the e-seva centre, following the same procedure. As of January 20, about 13.09 lakh voters in the rolls are in the 18-19 age group — meaning they have entered the rolls and are set to cast their vote for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photo-ids-for-new-voters-will-arrive-by-post/article34048651.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dhinakaran to take on Kadambur Raju||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran will contest against Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju in the Kovilpatti constituency in Thoothukudi district. The DMK is yet to announce its nominee. Mr. Dhinakaran, the sitting MLA of Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar in Chennai, on Thursday released the second list of candidates for 50 constituencies. On Wednesday, the first list was out. So far, the party has given ticket to five women. The AMMK has struck agreements with six parties for 13 constituencies. The Social Democratic Party of India has been allotted the Alandur, Ambur, Tiruchi (West), Thiruvarur, Madurai (Central) and Palayamkottai constituencies. Besides giving three seats to the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), the AMMK has earmarked one seat each to Makkalarasu Katchi, Viduthalai Tamil Puligal, Gokula Makkal Katchi and Marudhu Sena Sangam. Mr. Dhinakaran has declared that he will contest from two constituencies, including one in Theni district. In the second list, the AMMK announced candidates for Bodinayackanur and Andipatti. This leaves only Cumbum for him because Periyakulam is reserved for the Scheduled Castes. The second list stands out for the inclusion of Sattur MLA M.S.R. Rajavarman, who joined the AMMK earlier in the day. While releasing its list of candidates on Wednesday, the AIADMK did not renominate Mr. Rajavarman, who won in a by-election on the AIADMK symbol in April-May 2019. As in the first list, the second list of the AMMK contained four former legislators who were disqualified by Speaker P. Dhanapal in September 2017. They were C. Jayanthi Padmanabhan (Gudiyatham), M. Kothandapani (Thiruporur), S. Mariappan Kennedy (Manamadurai), and T.A. Elumalai (Poonnamallee). The first list had the other four disqualified legislators: P. Palaniappan (Pappireddipatti), M. Rengasamy (Papanasam), N.G. Parthiban (Sholinghur), and R.R. Murugan (Harur). Confident of facing TTV Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, who will face Mr. Dhinakaran in Kovilpatti, said he was confident of emerging victorious. Mr. Raju, who arrived in Kovilpatti on Thursday, a day after being given the AIADMK ticket, said he did not see Mr. Dhinakaran as a major challenge to him. “The ‘Two Leaves’ symbol that gave a crowning victory in seven of the 10 Assembly polls in the past, will register victory again in Kovilpatti, where I have implemented several development projects, including a second drinking water scheme for the Kovilpatti Municipality. We, besides implementing all poll promises made in 2016, have also executed a good number of other welfare schemes. I am facing the election with a sense of satisfaction and the people will back me again,” Mr. Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dhinakaran-to-take-on-kadambur-raju/article34048673.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fellowship programme for women||The Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation and Studio A are offering a fellowship programme, Kanavu, comprising a year-long course in photography and filmmaking for women. Photography and films shine a light on important issues and hidden stories. Though diversity is critical in the space, gender gap still persists in these fields. The fellowship aims to mentor five candidates from Tamil Nadu and open up avenues to a new career. Candidates would be mentored by professionals and learn new artistic techniques. Besides technical knowledge in photography and filmmaking, the fellowship would provide opportunities to develop business, project and portfolio management skills. Those aged above 18 and living in Tamil Nadu may apply before March 31. More details are available on chennaiphotobiennale.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photography-fellowship-programme-for-women/article34049198.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TMC gets six seats from AIADMK||The Tamil Maanila Congress on Thursday night accepted the offer of six constituencies from the AIADMK for the upcoming Assembly poll on April 6 hours after party president G.K. Vasan, flanked by senior leaders, expressed unhappiness over the AIADMK’s offer. The TMC had sought 12 seats from the AIADMK but will now contest on the ruling party’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol. The AIADMK, however, ceded to the TMC, the Lalgudi constituency for which it had announced a candidate, T. Rajaram, only on Wednesday. The other constituencies allotted to the TMC are Thiru Vi.Ka. Nagar (Reserved), Erode East, Pattukottai, Thoothukudi and Killiyur. Mr. Vasan said the party will contest on the AIADMK’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol as the demand for the ‘Cycle’ symbol is “sub-judice”. Earlier in the day, he had said the party will fight till the last to get the ‘Cycle’ symbol. “In Andhra Pradesh, Chandrababu Naidu is seeking that symbol, in Kashmir the Panther Party wants it and in Uttar Pradesh, Mulayam Singh wants it. If we get the opportunity [to contest on the Cycle symbol] and someone files a case, there is a possibility that the victory of our candidates might be stopped,” he said. Alliance dharma “As far as AIADMK is concerned, it is the leader of the alliance. The CM and Deputy CM have successfully run the government for 10 years. We want them to come back to power for the third time and are supporting them. When we tell them something, they will discuss and call us. That is the right way and TMC has always been known for following the alliance dharma,” Mr. Vasan had said.  The party will contest on the AIADMK’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol as the ‘Cycle’ symbol is “sub-judice”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-gets-six-seats-aiadmk-withdraws-lalgudi-candidate/article34048733.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewer network scheme gets a good response||In the past fortnight, nearly 8,000 sewer connections have been provided in the added areas under the Metrowater scheme ‘Ilanthorum Inaippu’. The scheme, which was launched last month facilitates residents to pay a bill in 10 installments in five years after the house service connection is given as part of the underground sewer network. Officials noted that the scheme had gained considerable response as it was hassle-free and work was completed in just a few days. Normally, about 10,000 connections are provided every year in the city. However, the scheme enabled the sewer network to be made functional faster. At present, residents from Tiruvottiyur, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam and Sholinganallur had opted for connections under the scheme. “Once we finish the scheme, we provide a notice to the residents about the connections and raise the bill later. Earlier, it would take at least one month for connections to be given, including permission for road cuts,” an official said. The water agency plans to cover 10 areas, including Perungudi, Karapakkam and Nolambur, with 1,53,546 sewer connections in the next few months. The aim is to reduce sewage pollution. The project is being undertaken at a cost of Rs. 50 crore in the first phase. A similar scheme is being executed in core areas under the ‘Azhaithal Inaippu’ scheme, where sewer connections are provided based on calls from residents. Residents of Anna Nagar Western Extension noted that the scheme should be extended to the water supply network as well. It would help people obtain connections without delay. However, officials said sewer connections were given priority owing to environment and public health aspects. Water pipeline connections were more complex and would be considered in the next phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewer-network-scheme-gets-a-good-response/article34049202.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors carry out robotic kidney transplantation||A team of doctors from the GEM Hospital and Research Centre, Chennai, has successfully performed a complete robotic kidney transplantation on a 36-year-old female patient, who had been suffering from kidney disease for the last eight years. Her husband was the donor. Explaining the advantage of laproscopy and robotic kidney transplant, C. Palanivelu, chairman, GEM Hospitals, said at a press conference here on Thursday that it was a painless procedure and the rate of recovery of the patient and donor were faster. “With minimal invasive surgery, the chances of the patient getting hernia is lesser and immunity levels are better,” he said. He said soon after completing surgery, another person was operated on. “Everything, including joining of arteries, is done using robotic arms,” he added. Swaminathan Sambandam, head of transplantation surgery, GEM Hospital, said only three key-hole sized incisions were made and a 5 cm one to remove the kidney. These surgeries are more precise, leaving patients with small scars. Prabhu Kanchi, head of nephrology and renal transplant, GEM Hospital, said it was good that the family understood the importance of transplant, and her husband agreed to donate the organ. “We saw the kidney beginning to function on the operation table itself. The patient’s kidney function (creatnine level) improved to normal within three days,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-carry-out-robotic-kidney-transplantation/article34049211.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TANKER inaugurates 3 new dialysis machines||The TANKER Foundation inaugurated three dialysis machines at its Thiruverkadu, Ambattur and Nungambakkam units this week. According to a press release, the machines were donated by Essvee Foundation and RANE Group. Speaking on the occasion, Georgi Abraham, founder-trustee of TANKER Foundation, said as kidney diseases were on the rise, donations like these were deeply appreciated. Latha Kumaraswami, managing trustee, TANKER Foundation and president-elect of the International Federation of Kidney Foundations-World Kidney Alliance, spoke about TANKER and World Kidney Day that was observed on March 11. Around 2.5 lakh persons die of kidney failure in India every year. In Tamil Nadu, around 14,440 persons suffer from kidney failure every year and only 10% have access to treatment. From June 1993 to February 2021, TANKER provided 3,92,099 free and subsidised dialyses to 1,849 patients. It has 11 subsidised dialysis units with a total of 157 stations. S.P. Singaram and S. Vasugi of Essvee Foundation and L. Ganesh, chairman, Rane Group, were present. Meanwhile, Rela Hospital launched the “South Chennai Dialysis Support Group” on Thursday. It aims to connect and support people undergoing dialysis and create awareness among the public of dialysis, continuous renal replacement therapy and other treatments. World Kidney Day was observed at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Kidney donors and their families shared their experiences on the occasion. S. Ashokan, father of Hithendran, shared his experience when consenting to donate his son’s organs after he was declared brain dead. G. Subbulakshmi, Deputy Commissioner of the Police, Washermenpet, lauded the sacrifices made by donor families during difficult circumstances. L. Raghavan, Deputy Director of Medical Education, said 1,236 live transplants and 2,511 cadaver transplants were covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. P. Balaji, dean of the hospital, M. Edwin Fernando, head of nephrology, and J.V.S. Prakash, professor and head of urology, spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanker-foundation-launches-three-new-dialysis-machines/article34049197.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Flying squads formed to enforce use of masks’||Like flying squads for elections, the Health Department is taking measures to form flying squads to impose fines on persons who do not wear masks, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Thursday. With fresh COVID-19 infections gradually rising across the State, the department is all set to intensify collection of fines from those who violate safety norms. Persons who do not wear masks or keep their masks in pockets in any place where more than 20 persons are gathered will be fined. “People attending marriages, funerals, birthday parties and programmes at home should wear masks. All these norms will apply to election meetings and wearing of masks are must,” he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the State had intensified COVID-19 prevention efforts. On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded 13,000 cases, while Punjab recorded 1,300 cases. Though cases were gradually decreasing in the neighbouring State of Kerala, the numbers were still around 2,400, he said. “Nearly two weeks ago, we said that though cases stayed below the 500-mark in Tamil Nadu, we were worried that the infections did not reduce and that people were not wearing masks. We thought that the figures will increase, and now, they are. Chennai, which was recording 150 cases, has now started to report over 275 cases. The cases have started to inch closer to the 700-mark,” he told reporters after conducting an inspection at the Central railway station. He said the increase was a warning signal.  Noting that mask adherence was nil in railway stations, the Health Secretary said they held a meeting with officials and the railway police on how to enforce compliance. “People are taking it very casually. So, we want to intensify measures at the Tambaram, Central and Egmore railway stations. Temperature checks will be mandatory,” he said. He said there were a few problematic areas, such as Teynampet and Kodambakkam, and many cases were mainly reported in housing societies and family events, including marriages. In marriages, the complaint was not only lack of mask wearing but also exceeding the capacity of the marriage hall, he said, adding: “They can have 50% capacity or 600 persons. But there are 2,000 guests and there is no compliance with masks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squads-formed-to-enforce-use-of-masks/article34048622.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A glimmer of hope after a year of gloom and doom||Folk artist S. Sakkan, 35, of Elavudai village in Dharmapuri, recalls how crushing poverty forced a few nagaswaram artistes in Tamil Nadu to beg during the COVID-19 lockdown. Now there is a glimmer of hope with the election under way. They are getting calls to perform. He runs a troupe of nearly 20 artistes, who can thrill their audience with their performance in nagaswaram, thavil, parai, oyilattam, karakam and poikkaal kuthirai aattam. “So far, two political parties have invited us to perform in Chennai. In the past, we have staged Veethi Nadakam (street plays) on a host of subjects, including awareness of breast cancer, tuberculosis, rainwater harvesting and even on the importance of preserving tourist spots,” Mr. Sakkan says. Recently, the government asked them to perform on the importance of voting. “We [normally] get work for five or six months a year; what we earn for six months has to keep us going for the rest of the year,” he adds. R. Kaleeswaran, 57, an arts and literary professor, engages these artists for training his students in folk arts. He says it has been a very challenging time for the folk artists. “The election is a starting point for them to get opportunities; it will be followed by temples hopefully calling them to perform during the Tamil month of Aadi and other festivals this year,” he says. And it is not just about getting opportunities; there are other challenges too. “Sometimes, middlemen pocket half their remuneration; if they travel to another district to perform, sometimes they aren’t given accommodation and, on some occasions, the female artistes feel uncomfortable with comments that are passed. It is a life filled with distress, yet they fight relentlessly,” Professor Kaleeswaran says. A. Arockiya Mary, a 35-year-old folk artist, says the government should give them opportunities all through the year to help preserve the art forms. “If you want to promote a specific cause, storytelling and art is a powerful way to do it. We have made a difference in many districts. All we ask is to give us the opportunity,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-glimmer-of-hope-after-a-year-of-gloom-and-doom/article34048653.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KKCTH named India’s best paediatric hospital||The Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital (KKCTH) has been chosen as the best paediatric facility in the country, according to a survey by Newsweek magazine. The survey was done in partnership with Statista Inc., a global data research firm. It included hospitals from 25 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada and India. Selection criteria The countries were selected based on their standard of living, life expectancy, population size, number of hospitals and data availability. The results were published by the magazine on March 5. The survey considered for evaluation three data sources, including peer recommendation, patient experience and compliance with performance indicators. An international online survey was conducted, which included more than 70,000 doctors, hospital managers and healthcare professionals. It evaluated patient experience through factors like their satisfaction with the hospitals, and key performance indicators such as patient safety, hygiene measures and quality of treatment. The hospital’s medical director, S. Balasubramanian, and chief executive officer S. Chandramohan said 11 hospitals from India were featured among the world’s best hospitals in 2021. They include three hospitals specialising in oncology, two in cardiology and one each in fertility, gastroenterology, nephrology, urology, ophthalmology and psychiatry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kkcth-named-indias-best-paediatric-hospital/article34048713.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai:,TAMIL NADU||Postal dak adalat to be held on March 19||The Department of Posts will conduct a Dak Adalat at its Anna Road Head Post Office on March 19 at 10 a.m. Residents may send their grievances by post or email to doannaroadhpo.tn@indiapost.gov.in. on or before March 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-dak-adalat-to-be-held-on-march-19/article34049201.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Land of deceased person sold off by impersonation, forgery||The Anti-Land Grabbing Cell of the Central Crime Branch on Thursday arrested two persons who allegedly sold off a piece of land in Kundrathur belonging to a deceased person by impersonation and forged documents. Police said Surendranath Babu, father of the complainant Dilip, bought a 8,138 sq ft plot in Kundrathur in 2004. He died in 2014. One of the accused, Sathish, forged a power of attorney document. An impersonator was also engaged. The accused later sold off the land to Sivaroopan of Kundrathur, and the deed was registered in the buyer’s name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-of-deceased-person-sold-off-by-impersonation-forgery/article34049212.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CPI gets Valparai and Thalli, among six seats||The CPI, an ally of the DMK, will field candidates in Bhavanisagar (reserved), Valparai (reserved), Thalli, Sivaganga, Thiruthuraipoondi and Tiruppur-North Assembly constituencies. DMK president M.K. Stalin and CPI state secretary R. Mutharasan on Thursday signed an agreement to this effect at the DMK headquarters Anna Arivayalam in Chennai. “Our objective is to foil the efforts of communal forces in Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Mutharasan told journalists. “Our candidates will win the election. The DMK alliance will sweep all the 234 constituencies,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-gets-valparai-thalli-among-six-seats/article34048729.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Almost all varsities have accepted decision to cancel arrear exams, HC told||The State government on Thursday told the Madras High Court that the Syndicates of almost all universities in the State had accepted a decision taken by it on August 26, 2020 to cancel arrear examinations for a large contingent of college students due to COVID-19 threat. The universities have also declared ‘all pass’ by awarding marks based on current internal assessment and previous semester external marks. Evaluations were done accordingly, and the results were also declared in October 2020. An affidavit filed before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on behalf of the Higher Education Secretary stated that Anna University, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Education University and the Board of Technical Education alone had not adopted the Government Order (G.O.) issued on August 26. The rest of the universities in the State followed the process enunciated under the G.O. for award of marks and issued the marksheets too. However, the students were given the option of improving their marks by appearing in the supplementary examinations to be conducted online. Those supplementary examinations were conducted by different universities on different dates beginning from October 12, 2020. While some of those universities had completed the conduct of examinations, the exams in a few others were under way. One of them, Alagappa University, had scheduled the examinations in April, the government said. The affidavit submitted by E. Manoharan, Special Government Pleader (Higher Education), also stated that 1,09,518 students of University of Madras benefited from the G.O. and that 60,793 of them had chosen to take the supplementary examinations conducted between December 21, 2020 and February 26, 2021. However, since the Bench could not take up the case for a detailed hearing on Thursday due to paucity of time, it was adjourned to next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/almost-all-varsities-have-accepted-decision-to-cancel-arrear-exams-hc-told/article34048707.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-MLA gets PMK ticket||The PMK released its final list of four candidates for the Assembly election, which included the name of former MLA S.X. Rajamannar. He joined the PMK on Thursday after quitting the DMK and would contest from Poonamallee. “I am quitting from DMK because I don’t like the attitude of the current leadership. I have served DMK in various capacities for the past 25 years,” Mr. Rajamannar told reporters after joining the PMK in the presence of its president G.K. Mani. Mr. Rajamannar had lost the Assembly election in 2006, contesting on DMK ticket from Ottapidaram. After finalisation of its 23 constituencies as a part of the AIADMK-led alliance, the PMK had released two lists of 19 candidates on Wednesday. PMK vice-president S. Sadasivam will contest from Mettur, while Raja was fielded from Sankarapuram and S. Murali Sankar from Vandavasi, as per the final list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-mla-gets-pmk-ticket/article34049216.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Silver anklets, cash seized at Central station||Ahead of the Assembly election, a flying squad of the Election Commission of India on Thursday seized Rs. 18.91 lakh in unaccounted cash and silver jewellery from two passengers at the Central railway station. The two had arrived from Andhra Pradesh. According to reports, the flying squad seized Rs. 16.76 lakh and 5.5 kg of silver anklets from a passenger, who was identified as Syed Ansar Basha, 46, of Chittor, who came from Tirupati. An amount of Rs. 2.25 lakh was also seized from another passenger Gopal Singh, who came from Renigunta. Sources said the money and silver articles were seized from them as they did not possess proper documentation to carry them. They could retrieve the items after showing the necessary documents, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-anklets-cash-seized-at-central-station/article34049200.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||80,461 persons vaccinated on Thursday||Another 80,461 persons received COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, taking the total number of persons vaccinated so far to 12,06,164 — 4,53,081 healthcare workers, 2,99,846 frontline workers, 2,82,999 senior citizens and 1,70,238 persons aged 45 to 59 with comorbidities. A total of 32,313 persons aged above 60 years, 22,025 persons aged 45 and 59 years with comorbidities, 16,411 frontline workers and 9,712 healthcare workers were inoculated in 2,293 sessions. As many as 31,509 senior citizens, 21,548 persons with comorbidities, 16,111 frontline workers and 9,311 healthcare workers received Covishield. On the other hand, 804 senior citizens, 477 persons with comorbidities, 401 healthcare workers and 300 frontline workers took Covaxin as their vaccine of choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80461-persons-vaccinated-on-thursday/article34049206.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK yet to decide on one seat||The AIADMK, which has almost wrapped up the process of seat-sharing with its allies and distribution of Assembly constituencies among them, is yet to decide on one constituency — Padmnabhapuram — in Kanniyakumari district. In its list on Wednesday, the party announced N. Thalavai Sundaram for Kanniyakumari, apart from giving three seats to BJP. On Thursday, Killiyoor was set apart for Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar). As of now, it has named candidates for 178 constituencies, apart from allotting 12 seats to seven of its allies that will all contest on the AIADMK’s symbol of ‘two leaves.’ On Thursday, the party released its third list of candidates for two seats: Perambalur and Thanjavur. In respect of Perambalur, the party renominated its sitting MLA R. Tamizhselvan and, in the case of Thanjavur, chose V. Arivudainambi. With the selection of Mr Tamizhselvan, the number of its candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes went up to 30. Earlier in the day, the AIADMK said that Tiruchuli in Virudhunagar district had been allocated to All India Moovender Munnani Kazhagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-yet-to-decide-on-one-seat/article34049406.ece
12 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress to contest 15 seats, DMK 13||The Congress and the DMK on Thursday finalised a seat-sharing deal for the Puducherry Assembly elections. As per the agreement, the Congress will contest in 15 Assembly constituencies, six seats less than what it contested in the previous election in 2016. The DMK will field candidates in 13 seats, while the CPI and VCK will contest in one constituency each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-to-contest-15-seats-dmk-13-in-puducherry/article34049220.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear today case against Special DGP||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee directed the High Court Registry to number a suo motu writ petition taken up by Justice N. Anand Venkatesh to monitor a probe into the charge against a special Director General of Police (now put on compulsory wait) for sexually harassing a woman Superintendent of Police last month. The Chief Justice also ordered listing of the case before the same judge, and accordingly, it has been listed for hearing on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-hear-today-case-against-special-dgp/article34049224.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Mani||Sanjay Vijayakumar   “Nothing is permanent in politics,” PMK president G.K. Mani said, fielding questions on why his party was reluctant to contest on its own and had decided to continue in the AIADMK alliance, despite criticising the government. He said the government had fulfilled the PMK’s demand for Vanniyar reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mani/article34048657.ece
12 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industrial associations, police step up voters’ awareness campaigns||Signature campaigns were held at the office of the Police Commissioner and police stations in the city on Thursday under the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme to encourage 100 % voting. Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan launched the campaign by signing on a board on his office premises. Deputy Commissioners G. Stalin (Law and Order), E.S. Uma (Crime), R. Mutharasu (Traffic) and A. Myilvaganan (Headquarters), senior officers and staff working in the office complex also took part in the campaign. A flagship programme of ECI for voter education, SVEEP’s main aim was to spread voter awareness and promote voter literacy. It also promotes the principle ‘greater participation for a stronger democracy’. According to officials, signature campaigns under SVEEP were also held in all police stations in Coimbatore city limits where complete participation by the staff was ensured. Police personnel, who are staying away from their home constituencies, were also sensitised about postal voting. They added the lists of personnel who will be deputed for various election duties in the city limits were being prepared. At the Collectorate, District Collector K. Rajamani inaugurated a signature campaign and also launched a gas balloon that had voter awareness message. This year, industry associations have been involved in creating awareness among the public on voting. At a meeting held with industry associations in Coimbatore last week, the district officials discussed the different ways through which these organisations can take up awareness programmes. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) has put banners near its trade fair complex. Its LED wall displays voting awareness messages. The gas balloon at the Collectorate was also sponsored by the Association, said the Codissia president MV Ramesh Babu. Other associations are also expected to take part in the awareness activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-associations-police-step-up-voters-awareness-campaigns/article34049233.ece
12 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Missing man case near Anamalai takes new turn||The investigation by the Vadakkipalayam police into the missing of a youth took a new turn after his friend claimed to have pushed him into the Contour Canal of the Parambikulam Aliyar Project (PAP) near Anamalai. Though the police conducted extensive search in the contour canal based on the man’s statement, they could not trace the missing person – A. Prasath alias Purushothamman of Athiyur near Vadakkipalayam. As per the complaint lodged by Prasath’s mother Sathyapriya, her son went missing on March 7. Before leaving the house, Prasath had told her that he was going to meet a friend at Anamalai to buy a horse. The police questioned Prasath’s friend based on the woman’s statement and he claimed to have pushed his friend into a PAP contour canal following an argument. Youth not traced Though the police team led by Vadakkipalayam inspector Vijayan and sub-inspector Rajendraprasad conducted searches, the youth was not traced. “The searches were conducted based on the claim of Prasath’s friend and circumstantial evidences,” said the inspector and added that the police were yet to confirm whether he indeed pushed Prasath into the canal. The officer said that the case registered by the police in connection with the man missing was yet to be altered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-man-case-near-anamalai-takes-new-turn/article34049234.ece
12 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK leadership’s split decision on two ex-ministers||When the AIADMK announced its second list of 171 Assembly election candidates on Wednesday, it was not just the shuffling of some constituencies in Coimbatore that caught the attention of party functionaries in the western district. What also became a talking point was how the party leadership took differing decisions in respect of two ex-ministers in ticket distribution Former Agriculture minister S. Damodaran, who had quit the party to join the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and later returned to the parent party, was given a ticket to contest from Kinathukadavu. However, another former minister S.M. Velusamy, who is also a former Mayor of Coimbatore, was missing from the list. Mr. Velusamy, who was denied a party ticket in 2011 was later given the Mayoral seat that year. However, in 2014, he resigned his post, ostensibly under instructions from then supremo Jayalalithaa, and remained sidelined since then. However, he never switched political loyalties. A section of party workers claims that the influential Municipal Administration Minister from the region S.P. Velumani could have influenced the decision against Mr. Velusamy, who is his senior in the party. According to this section, Mr. Velusamy was hopeful of being nominated as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who attended his son’s wedding, had indicated that he could field him from Sulur or Singanallur. In 2001 and 2006, he had won from Palladam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-leaderships-split-decision-on-two-ex-ministers/article34048730.ece
12 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Supporters of AIADMK MLAs stage protests||Resentment over denial of ticket to their leaders to contest in the upcoming Assembly election on April 6 continued on Thursday with supporters of Vriddhachalam AIADMK MLA V.T. Kalaiselvan staging a protest in the town. The supporters staged a protest demanding that the party high command reconsider the decision after the AIADMK announced that the seat was allotted to its ally, the PMK, as part of the seat-sharing agreement. The protesters said they were opposed to the move. The PMK has fielded its district secretary G. Karthikeyan in the seat. In Kallakurichi, the AIADMK denied ticket to its sitting MLA A. Prabhu and allotted it to a newcomer, Senthil Kumar. Supporters of former MLA K. Alaguvelu Babu, who won the seat in the 2011 election, staged a protest in Kallakurichi, urging that Mr. Babu be fielded this time. The stir continued for some time and saw some tense moments after a party worker suddenly doused himself with kerosene. The protesting cadres immediately poured water over him and thwarted his attempt. It may be recalled that Mr. Kalaiselvan and Mr. Prabhu had switched loyalties to T.T.V. Dhinakaran in 2018 and returned to the parent party later. Sources from the AIADMK said the switching of loyalties and the subsequent return might have been considered when the high command announced its list of candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supporters-of-aiadmk-mlas-stage-protests/article34049374.ece
12 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Filing of nominations to begin today||Filing of nominations for Assembly elections in all the eight constituencies will begin in the district on Friday. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said that nominations will be received by the Returning Officers or Assistant Returning Officers of respective constituencies between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on March 12 and from March 15 to 19. The last date to file nomination is March 19 and scrutiny will take place on March 20. Nominations can be withdrawn till 3 p.m. on March 22. Allocation of symbols and final list of candidates will be announced on the same day. He said that only two persons are allowed to accompany the candidate within 100 metres distance of the office where the nomination is being filed. He said that candidates or their supporters should not enter the offices in large numbers where officials have painted markings on roads indicating the start of the 100m stretch. Nominations can be filed with Erode East – Returning Officer (RO), Commissioner, Corporation Office, Erode, mobile: 94434 28644 or Assistant Returning Officer (ARO), Tahsildar (Social Security Scheme), Corporation Office - Erode, mobile: 98423 57319, Erode West – Revenue Divisional Officer, Revenue Division Office, Erode, mobile: 94450 00439 or Tahsildar, Tahsildar Office, Erode, mobile: 94450 00563, Modakkurichi –Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Taluk Office, Modakkurichi, mobile: 70106 09547 or Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Modakkurichi, mobile: 98656 21212, Perundurai – District Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Officer, Taluk Office, Perundurai, mobile: 99945 79988 or Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Perundurai, mobile: 94450 00564, Bhavani – District Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer, Taluk Office, Bhavani, mobile: 99449 31659 or Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Bhavani, mobile: 94450 00567, Anthiyur – District Backward Classes and Minority Welfare Officer, Taluk Office, Anthiyur, mobile: 99655 66276 or Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Anthiyur, mobile: 94454 61899, Gobichettipalayam RDO, Gobichettipalayam, mobile: 94450 00441 or Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Gobichettipalayam, mobile: 94450 00568 and Bhavanisagar – Assistant Director (Panchayats), Taluk Office, Sathyamangalam, mobile: 94438 95338 or Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Sathyamangalam, mobile: 94450 00569.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filing-of-nominations-to-begin-today/article34048721.ece
12 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two-wheeler rally highlights importance of kidneys||To create awareness among the people on the importance of kidneys and to reduce the impact of kidney diseases and its associated health problems, a motorcycle rally was taken out here on Thursday. Organised jointly by Abirami Kidney Care Dr. Thangavelu Hospital and Erode and Karur branches of Indian Medical Association, the motorcycle rally began at Karur and reached Erode. Participants encouraged people to adopt healthy lifestyle so that kidney diseases can be prevented or kept under control. They said that regular screening for kidney diseases is needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-wheeler-rally-highlights-importance-of-kidneys/article34048717.ece
12 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 22.60 lakh fine collected in Erode||With wearing mask in public places being made mandatory from Tuesday, officials had, so far, collected a fine of Rs. 22.60 lakh from people for non-compliance. With increase in COVID-19 cases across the State, Collector C. Kathiravan said that wearing a mask in public places was mandatory and non-compliance would invite a spot fine of Rs. 200. He also warned people against spitting in public places and also asked them to ensure personal distancing while moving in commercial complexes, bus stands, railway stations, government offices and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-2260-lakh-fine-collected-in-erode/article34048719.ece
12 March 2021||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||Rangoli||R. Srikanth   The Kancheepuram district administration has been taking steps to create voter awareness for the Assembly poll. A senior official said as part of the campaign, a giant rangoli of the ballot box was made at the crowded Sriperumbudur bus terminus. It turned out to be a head turner, as commuters appreciated the design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangoli/article34048661.ece
12 March 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on development of special skills||It was essential and important to think out of the box for innovations in science and technology, said N Kalaiselvi, Director, CSIR-CECRI, here on Tuesday. Presiding over the National Science Day celebrations, held through virtual mode on the theme - Future of STI: Impacts on education, skills and work, she said that persistent efforts would help achieve desired goals. For a positive impact, the research students should focus on development of special skills and generate quality workforce. Prof. Saroj Kanta Barik, Director, CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute (CSIR-NBRI), Lucknow, was the chief guest and delivered the National Science Day lecture highlighting the importance of science and interdisciplinary research. He explained various on-going research activities at CSIR-NBRI. As a part of NSD-2021 celebrations, various competitions including poster presentation, popular scientific talks and scientific photography were conducted for research scholars and B.Tech students at CSIR-CECRI. A concept note competition, named as I 3 S (Inspiring Innovative Ideas for the Society), was conducted nationwide for under-graduate and post-graduate science students. All the prize winners were awarded with cash prize and merit certificates. A large number of students and teachers of Kendriya Vidyalaya and other schools, research scholars, scientists and staff members of CSIR-CECRI participated in the NSD-2021 celebration. Scientists K. Giribabu welcomed the gathering and P Tamilarasan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-development-of-special-skills/article34048675.ece
12 March 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Minister confident of facing Dhinakaran||Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, who will face AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran in Kovilpatti Assembly constituency, is confident of emerging victorious at the hustings. Mr. Raju, who arrived at Kovilpatti on Thursday, a day after being given the AIADMK ticket, said he did not see Mr. Dhinakaran as a major challenge to him. “The ‘Two Leaves’ symbol that gave a crowning victory in seven of the 10 Assembly polls in the past, will register victory again in Kovilpatti where I have implemented several development projects, including second drinking water scheme for Kovilpatti Municipality. We have also executed a good number of other welfare schemes in our segment. I am facing the election with a sense of satisfaction of executing all poll promises,” Mr. Raju hoped. The AMMK has fielded former councillor of Tirunelveli Corporation A.P. Balakrishnan alias Paul Kannan, organising secretary of the party, in Tirunelveli Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-confident-of-facing-dhinakaran/article34049308.ece
12 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Orientation programme held||Collector and the District Election Officer Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy held an orientation with the returning officers here on the guidelines on acceptance of nominations that is set to commence for the six Assembly constituencies here on Friday. The nominations will be accepted from March 12 to March 19, from 9 a.m to 3 p.m, excluding holidays. The officer receiving nominations for Thally constituency shall be Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Krishnagiri at Taluk Officer, Denkanikottai; for Hosur, RDO, Hosur will receive the nominations at the RDO’s office; for Bargur, Special Tahsildar, Social Protection Schemes, will receive the nominations at the Taluk Office, Bargur; for Krishnagiri, RDO, Krishnagiri will receive the nominations at the RDO’s Office; for Uthangarai, Adidravidar Welfare Officer will receive nominations at the Taluk Office, Uthangarai; for Vepanapalli, District Civil supplies Officer, will receive the nominations at the Taluk Office in Shoolagiri. The Collector underlined the enforcement of COVID-19 precautions at the time of filing of nominations by the candidates. Political party candidates are expected to file affidavits on criminal antecedents, and the returning officers were asked to ensure verification before acceptance of the nominations. Candidates shall wear masks at the time of filing of nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orientation-programme-held/article34048715.ece
12 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-servicemen for poll duty||Ex-servicemen are proposed to be recruited as special protection officers for election duty in the district. According to an administration release, those interested may contact the office of ex-servicemen welfare with their identity card, or alternatively contact the police department on 9498179501, and 9498102006 or the public relations office at the Collectorate on 04343-236134.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-servicemen-for-poll-duty/article34048714.ece
12 March 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Silver seized||Silver weighing 9.139 kg was seized from a vehicle in Thally by the flying squad on Thursday. The total worth of the item was Rs. 6.39 lakh.      A Static Surveillance Team seized Rs. 14.06 lakh from a businessman during vehicle check. The personnel intercepted a vehicle near Steel Plant Road and on inspection found the cash in the car. The money and handed over to sub-treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-seized/article34048716.ece
12 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 13.50 lakh unaccounted money seized in Madurai||The flying squad of Madurai North Assembly constituency seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 13.50 lakh being carried on a two-wheeler near Sellur roundabout here on Thursday. Returning Officer of the constituency K. Premkumar said the two-wheeler rider claimed that he was travelling from Dindigul district. “He can collect the cash from the committee only after submitting necessary documents,” he said. Mr. Premkumar said the public were advised not to carry more than Rs. 50,000. “They can instead use cheques or go for digital options for financial transactions,” he added. Data obtained from the district administration reveals that unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 5,07,120 has been seized by the flying squads and static surveillance teams from March 5 to 10. These seizures were effected in Madurai North (around Rs. 1.46 lakh), Madurai East (Rs. 3.04 lakh) and Sholavandan (Rs. 55,900) constituencies. There were no seizures mede in the other seven constituencies of the district. District Election Officer and Collector T. Anbalagan said three flying squads, three static surveillance teams and videography teams had been deployed in each of the 10 constituencies of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-1350-lakh-unaccounted-money-seized-in-madurai/article34049306.ece
12 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth cycles 3,232 km with polio message||S. Sathish Kumar, a 29-year-old freelance digital marketer who is a member of Rotary Club of Chennai – Korattur, is on a mission to spread awareness of the importance of totally eradicating polio. Mr. Kumar, who is cycling 3,232 kilometres on ‘Make the Urge’ campaign, was welcomed by the members of Rotary Club of Madurai Central here on Thursday. M. Ashok Kumar, president of the club, and other members met Mr. Kumar. Mr. Kumar started the 40-day cycle rally in Chennai on February 23. He is covering Kanchipuram, Vellore, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Salem, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Udumalaipettai, Dindigul, Tiruchi and other districts. The rally will conclude in Chennai. In each marked location, Mr. Kumar creates awareness of polio vaccination among Rotarians, school and college students, and the general public. The campaign is coordinated by ‘End Polio Now’ coordinator E.K. Sagadhevan and Ashwini Deep Kamal of Rotary Club of Chennai – Korattur. In 2019, Mr. Kumar had cycled 3,232 km from Chennai to Bhutan on a similar mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-cycles-3232-km-with-polio-message/article34049302.ece
12 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks compensation for son’s custodial death||The mother of a 17-year-old boy who died following custodial torture at the hands of S.S. Colony police in 2019 moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking an appropriate compensation from the State. The State had a liability to pay a reasonable compensation for the misconduct of its servants, the petitioner said. The petitioner, M. Jeya of Kochadai, said her son was picked up by the police on the pretext of inquiry in a case of jewel theft. He was tortured at the police station in which he sustained grievous injuries. Later, he succumbed to injuries at Government Rajaji Hospital, she said. The probe into the custodial death case was transferred to the CB-CID by the High Court. She said four policemen had been named in the final report filed by the CB-CID – Inspector Alexraj, SSI Ravichandran, Head Constable Ravichandran and Grade I Police Constable Satheeshkumar. The police had beaten up her son resulting in his death, she said. Pointing to the Sattankulam case of custodial deaths of traders P. Jayaraj and J. Benicks, where the State government paid a compensation to the family members and a government job to one of them, the petitioner said a similar compensation should be paid to her family and a government job be provided under compassionate grounds. Justice R. Hemalatha directed the State to file a counter affidavit in the case and adjourned the hearing. Earlier, the High Court had taken a serious view of several lapses in the probe on the part of the police and transferred the investigation to CB-CID. The court had said it would monitor the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-compensation-for-sons-custodial-death/article34049307.ece
12 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Petition about ‘custodial torture’ dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition filed by a man from Theni district who alleged custodial torture by police. The allegation was made up by the petitioner without filing supporting documents to substantiate his claim, the court said. The court was hearing the petition filed by B. Raja of Periyakulam who alleged that he was tortured by the police who picked him up for inquiry in a case. It was at the police station that he was subjected to torture, the petitioner said. Justice J. Nisha Banu observed that at the time of the remand the Periyakulam Judicial Magistrate had specifically recorded ‘No complaint’ against the police. The doctor certificate issued before remand and remand report had no mention of any injury. Immediately after the arrest of the petitioner, proper intimation was given to his close relatives, who did not speak about any injury or police atrocity, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-about-custodial-torture-dismissed/article34048677.ece
12 March 2021||Mannargudi,TAMIL NADU||Simmering discontent over projects||On the surface, it may be an Assembly election sans issues in the Cauvery delta region. Declaration of the delta region as a Protected Special Agriculture Zone (PSAZ) and the waiving of cooperative farm loans to the tune of Rs. 12,000 crore seem to have resolved long-pending issues of the farmers. But the simmering discontent over a “lack of progress” and the favouring of one section could play a role in the election. “Even though the State government has created the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Authority, not a single meeting has been held so far, though it should meet at least twice a year,” said V. Sethuraman, a farmer from Mannargudi. According to him, the single licensing method will come in handy for oil companies, including the ONGC, to drill through unconventional methods to extract shale, tight gas and coal bed methane. “I am reiterating this because there is no ban on existing projects and companies might opt for unconventional methods,” he said. His argument was supported by G. Varadharajan, State convener of “Save Our Rice”, who said the government had not formed State and district-level committees to effectively implement the vision behind the protected agricultural zone. “So far, there has been no effort to launch agri-based industries that will add value to farm products. What we need is an exclusive agriculture university [other than TNAU], that will do research on the subject,” he said. While off-shoots of protected agricultural zones are a matter of debate among those who know the issue inside out, what actually dominates at the grassroot level is the “favouring of a particular section” in waiving loans. “The waiving of loans has benefited mostly ruling partymen and only 25% of those who actually deserved it,” said Sami Natarajan, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association. He said medium-term loans had not been cancelled. R. Palanivel of the Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam also agreed that waiving of loans would not help much since farmers still had to pay medium-term loans. Big relief But there were others who said the loan waiver and the release of Rs. 2,500 as a Pongal gift had offered much-needed succor to people in the rural areas. Assistance given for Cyclones Nivar and Burevi had also come as relief to the farmers. “The Rs. 2,500 gift is a big amount for a farmer’s family. Waiving of loans also helped many people. The ‘Kudimaramathu’ project restored a lot of waterbodies in the district. But farmers still feel that the rate for paddy should be Rs. 2,500 a quintal,” he said. Anyone who visits villages in the delta will see the effect of ‘Kudimaramathu’ works — waterbodies brimming with water especially after heavy rain. Vanchi Koothalingam, a farmer from Pallathu near Pattukottai, said in his village alone, Rs. 2.94 crore worth loans had been waived for farmers. G. Balasubramanian, Tiruvarur district panchayat chairman, said loans were not waived when people were desperate and reeling under hardship during the pandemic. “The government made the announcement only after the DMK made a demand for it. Irregularities in ‘Kudimaramathu’ works and the MGNREGA will be in the minds of the people on election day,” said Mr. Balasubramanian, who is also a DMK functionary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/simmering-discontent-over-projects/article34048649.ece
12 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||MLA protests against exclusion from list||C. Chandrashekaran, AIADMK legislator from Senthamangalam constituency protested at Kolli Hills on Thursday urging the party leadership to offer him ticket in Assembly election. Mr. Chandrashekaran was denied party ticket and the seat was offered to S. Chandran. Opposing the decision, Mr. Chandrashekaran protested along with his supporters in the hill station. The protesters demanded that Mr. Chandrashekaran must be offered a second chance to contest from the constituency. Mr. Chandrashekaran demanded that the party should review its decision and consider him as candidate. If the decision is not reviewed, he would contest as an independent candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-protests-against-exclusion-from-list/article34048726.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||MBC/DNC candidates with high marks should be part of general merit list, rules SC||The Supreme Court has held that candidates from the Most Backward Classes/Denotified Communities (MBC/DNC) who have scored high marks should be part of the general merit list and not be thrust into filling up backlog vacancies meant for the reserved communities. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul was interpreting Section 27(f) of the Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016. In a recent judgment, the court confirmed a nine-year-old Madras High Court decision in the K.R. Shanthi case that “candidates selected on merit under open quota should not be adjusted against reserved vacancy.” The case concerned the Tamil Nadu government’s move to fill up backlog vacancies for postgraduate assistants in chemistry with meritorious MBC/DNC candidates. The Madras High Court had held that the State acted erroneously. It concluded that the meritorious candidates should be, instead, placed in the general merit list. The State appealed in the top court. Justice Kaul explained that the legislative intention of Section 27(f), which mandates the creation of “backlog vacancies” was to “propagate the social philosophy of vacancies for reserved category not lapsing in case there are inadequate number of candidates.” However, the provision did not contemplate pushing meritorious MBC/DNC candidates into filling up backlog vacancies irrespective of their high marks. He agreed with the High Court that the State had wrongly concluded that the backlog vacancies for PG Chemistry Assistants must be filled in by MBC/DNC category candidates, irrespective of merit or rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mbcdnc-candidates-with-high-marks-should-be-part-of-general-merit-list-rules-sc/article34049223.ece
12 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry logs 22 new cases||Puducherry logged 22 new COVID-19 cases and 21 recoveries on Thursday. The new cases, which were detected from testing 1,201 samples, were reported from Puducherry (20) and Karaikal (two). No new cases were reported in Yanam and Mahe. The active cases in the Union Territory stood at 176, with 86 in hospitals and 90 under home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.83%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 97.88%. The tally is 670 deaths, a total of 39,954 cases and 39,108 recovered patients. Of an estimated 6.43 lakh tests conducted by the Health Department, about 5.97 lakh returned negative in results. Meanwhile, 270 healthcare personnel, 343 frontline workers and 1,079 senior citizens/those above 45 years with co-morbidity took the first shot of Covid vaccine in the last 24 hours. So far, 21,645 persons have been immunised over phases of vaccination. This includes 11,564 healthcare personnel, 3,872 frontline workers and 6,209 members of the public. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar took his second dose of vaccine at the General Hospital. Shurbir Singh, Chief Electoral Officer, had taken the first shot on Wednesday. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan convened a meeting to review the progress of the immunisation programme across the Union Territory with top officials. Cuddalore district reported three fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 25,251. While 24,907 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 36. In Villupuram district, one person tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,299. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 10,915.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-logs-22-new-cases/article34049376.ece
12 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G, Australian envoy discuss trade, business||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday discussed possibilities for exchange of best practices and innovations in healthcare, IT and higher education over a virtual meeting with Barry O’ Farrell, Australian High Commissioner to India, from the Raj Nivas. According to a press note from Raj Nivas, the meeting featured an overview of trade and business and various other dimensions of the bilateral economic partnership. Exchange of students in areas such as higher education was also discussed. Mr. Farrell, on learning about the dual responsibility of Ms. Soundararajan as Governor of Telangana and Lt. Governor of Puducherry, congratulated her for “donning two hats adroitly and making the world community realise the key role of women in higher echelons of administration”, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-australian-envoy-discuss-trade-business/article34049372.ece
12 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Officials explain modalities of postal voting||The Elections Department held an orientation programme on the postal voting system for differently-abled members and their parents at the Sathya Special School on Thursday. V. Govindasamy, SVEEP nodal officer, explained the modalities of registering for postal voting and completing the sample application form. A live video tutorial was also demonstrated at the session. According to Elections Department officials, the polling station officer would issue postal application (Form 12 D), which should be filled and submitted along with a copy of the certificate of the authorised officer. The deadline for submission of filled forms is March 17. The returning officer will send the polling officials to the residence of the applicant, and a text message would be sent in advance notifying the date and time of visit. The officials will issue postal ballots on confirming identity of application. The secrecy of voting would be ensured. Postal voting would also help safeguard differently abled from exposure to coronavirus, an official explained. Postal ballots will be issued from March 25 and will continue till April 4. Chitra Shah, founder-director of Sathya School, also addressed the participants. More than 60 parents and disabled persons attended the orientation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-explain-modalities-of-postal-voting/article34049378.ece
12 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former Home Minister will not contest poll||Senior Congress leader and former Home Minister E. Valsaraj on Thursday announced his decision not to contest the Assembly poll. Addressing a press conference at the Pradesh Congress Committee office here, the former Minister said his decision not to contest the poll was conveyed to the party high command way back in 2016 itself. “It is not a sudden decision or anything to do with the present political situation in the Union Territory. I represented Mahe constituency for six consecutive terms till 2016. And after I failed to retain the seat in the 2016 election, I informed my party leadership about the decision not to contest elections,” he said. The decision was taken to pave the way for the younger generation in the party to contest polls, Mr. Valsaraj said, adding he would continue to serve the party in different ways. The PCC a few days ago appointed him one of the vice-presidents, he further said. ‘Congress is a family’ Asked whether the Congress had got weakened after the recent resignations of top leaders, he said, “The Congress is a family and people come and go. Even when the Congress got weakened in Tamil Nadu, people of the Union Territory were with the Congress. It is the largest party in the Union Territory and will continue to remain so.” Mr. Valsaraj said he started his political career as a Youth Congress worker. “The party gave everything to me, and the present decision not to contest polls is only to make way for youngsters to contest. I have worked under former Chief Ministers P. Shanmugham, N. Rangasamy and V. Vaithilingam and am grateful to all of them for their support.” Asked about his relationship with Mr. Rangasamy, the four-time Minister said, “I share a good friendship with him, but the relationship is apart from politics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-home-minister-will-not-contest-poll/article34049375.ece
12 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Students of Classes 1 to 9 in Puducherry declared ‘all pass’||Students of Classes 1 to 9 in all regions of the Union Territory of Puducherry were declared “all pass” as directed by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday. The Lt. Governor, who accorded approval to recommendations in this regard by the Education Department, also directed that the students of Classes 10 and 11 in Puducherry and Karaikal be declared pass as per the guidelines of the Tamil Nadu Board. Similarly, the Class 10 and 11 students of Mahe and Yanam regions would be declared pass as per the guidelines of the Kerala and Andhra Pradesh Boards, a press note from Raj Nivas said. On the timing of schools, it was decided that the institutions would function for five days a week, and Saturday and Sunday would be holidays. The schools would function till March 31 for Classes 1 to 9 and the summer vacation would commence from April 1. However, classes for 10, 11 and 12 standards would be conducted as per the schedule of examinations of the respective State Boards. The Lt. Governor also accorded approval for the two ongoing schemes — sanction of Rs. 29.65 crore for payment of Old Age/Widow/destitutes pension to 1,54,847 beneficiaries and ex post facto expenditure sanction of Rs. 24.35 lakh for purchase of diet and non-diet items to anganwadi centres of Mahe and Yanam regions. In another decision, Ms. Tamilisai Soundararajan accorded approval for declaration of dry days (applicable to all arrack, toddy, liquor shops, clubs, bars and restaurants serving liquor) under Excise Rules from April 4 to 6 on account of polling and from May 2 till 4 p.m. on May 3 on account of counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-of-classes-1-to-9-in-puducherry-declared-all-pass/article34049379.ece
12 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Allotment of seat to BJP irks AIADMK cadre||District Election Officer and Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said here on Thursday that cash or other valuables seized would be returned as and when proof is submitted but if they did not turn up even after seven days, cases would be registered as per the Election Commission guidelines. Speaking at a meeting of officials deployed for the election duty, he said that all flying and static surveillance teams should be vigilant. The ECI has permitted people to carry a maximum of Rs. 50,000 with sufficient documents. The district, which has four Assembly Constituencies, had so far booked 44 cases and seized about Rs. 45 lakh in cash. Nomination process begins on March 12 and it would come to a close on March 19 and scrutiny would take place the following day. On March 22, candidates have the option to withdraw. After the AIADMK has released its list of candidates, there were some dissent from the party cadre. The functionaries staged a demonstration in Ramanathapuram and at Pamban in protest against allotment of Ramanathapuram constituency to the BJP. They expressed shock over non-allotment of a ticket to sitting MLA and former IT Minister M Manikandan. They urged the AIADMK high command to reconsider the decision. Otherwise, they threatened to defeat the BJP candidate. In Sivaganga district, supporters of minister G Baskaran expressed their anguish over dropping his name for re-election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allotment-of-seat-to-bjp-irks-aiadmk-cadre/article34048680.ece
12 March 2021||Ranipet,TAMIL NADU||Static Surveillance Team officials seize over Rs. 7 lakh||During their routine check, officials of the Static Surveillance Team (SST) seized over Rs. 7 lakh cash, without valid documents, from a car in Ranipet district on Wednesday night. According to police, the SST officials were conducting vehicle checks at a check post near Rajeshwari theater in Ranipet assembly constituency on Wednesday. No valid documents When they intercepted a car and conducted checks, they found over Rs. 7 lakh without valid documents. The cash has been handed over to the Ranipet assistant returning officer. Further investigation is on. Meanwhile the Flying Squad Teams (FST) and SSTs in Tiruvannamalai district have seized over Rs. 24.90 lakh from the eight assembly constituencies in the district till date. Under investigation While over Rs. 8.96 lakh has been released by the committee over appeal, the seizure of the remaining cash is under investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/static-surveillance-team-officials-seize-over-rs-7-lakh/article34049428.ece
12 March 2021||SALEM/ NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements ready in Salem, Namakkal||Arrangements are on at 11 places in Salem and six places in Namakkal district for receiving nominations for the elections. According to officials, in Salem there are 11 constituencies, Gengavelli, Attur, Yercaud, Omalur, Mettur, Edappadi, Sankari, Salem West, Salem South, Salem North and Veerapandi. Security deposit of Rs. 10,000 should be paid for general constituencies and Rs. 5,000 for reserve constituencies like Gengavelli, Yercaud and Attur. Lines were drawn outside of returning officers’ offices at designated distances. In Namakkal, for the six constituencies, Namakkal, Tiruchengode, Rasipuram, Kumarapalayam, Paramathi-Vellur and Senthamangalam the nominations would be received at respective Revenue District Offices and Tahsildar offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-ready-in-salem-namakkal/article34048725.ece
12 March 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Kurangani forest fire victims remembered||Marking the third anniversary of the Kurangani forest fire tragedy on Thursday, some family members of those, who had died, visited the foothills and offered prayers by lighting lamps. On the evening of March 9, 2018, at least 36 persons from different parts of Tamil Nadu assembled at Kurangani in Bodi hills and planned trekking to Kolukkumalai the following day, a place where private tea estates are situated. It is considered as one of the peak points, where tea is grown. Though the Forest Department had not authorised or approved the Kurangani route to Kolukkumalai for trekking enthusiasts, some local people encouraged such groups. Only workers from Kurangani and surrounding hamlets used to go to Kolukkumalai to work in tea estates. The group reached Kolukkumalai and stayed there overnight. When they returned on March 11, 2018, they halted at Othamaram for lunch. A thick forest fire engulfed at that time. Taken aback, the local guide Ranjith swiftly rushed 10 people including three children, on a different route and saved them. However, 26 others, which included 17 women, suffered burns and succumbed to injuries in various hospitals. So, the Tamil Nadu government banned trekking for about two years across the State. A senior IAS officer Atulya Misra was appointed to probe the forest fire. The Commission, which conducted inquiries and visited the spot, submitted its report to the government. Meanwhile, the Forest Department framed a number of guidelines for trekking groups but enthusiasm among trekkers had dipped. The villagers in Kurangani said that it was a sorrowful day as those, who had come here from far and near to enjoy nature, died in tragic circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kurangani-forest-fire-victims-remembered/article34048685.ece
12 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 67.96 lakh seized||Flying and static surveillance squads seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 67.96 lakh from an individual travelling in a car here on Thursday. When the squads were checking vehicles at Dhamodhara Nagar in Thoothukudi constituency, they stopped a multi-utility vehicle. On frisking G. Arul Raja of Dhamodhara Nagar Junction and his belongings in the car, they seized Rs. 67.96 lakh from him. They alerted Department of Income Tax about this huge seizure. Collector and District Election Officer K. Senthil Raj said Flying Squads would check marriage functions, parties, condolences, betrothal, ear piercing ceremonies, temple, church and mosque and political functions to check possible distribution of cash or gifts for votes. “Moreover, the teams will check wearing of face mask by individuals in these functions as part of the enforcement of COVID-19 restrictions. Those who do not wear masks will be fined Rs. 200 and First Information Report registered if the situation warrants to check rise in COVID-19 cases,” he warned. In Tirunelveli district, a flying squad seized Rs. 77,000 from one Anguraj from Shencottai when the team picked him up at Maanur on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-6796-lakh-seized-in-thoothukudi/article34048686.ece
12 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to ensure cent per cent polling||The district administration has put all arrangements in place to enable all differently abled voters to cast their votes in the April 6 Assembly polls without any hassle, Collector K. Senthil Raj said. Chairing a meeting on Thursday to review the arrangements made in every polling station, he said the officials should take additional and sincere efforts to ensure cent per cent polling by the physically challenged voters either in person or through the postal ballots, whichever was preferred by the individual. If a differently abled voter wanted to cast his/her vote through post, Form 12 D should be submitted to the Polling Station Officers on or before March 16 as the official would visit the voter’s place to receive the form. On the last day of nomination, the Returning Officer would cross-check the information provided by the voter with the electoral roll and give the postal ballot if the applicant was found to be a valid voter of the constituency. On receiving the ballot at the doorstep, the voter, while ensuring secrecy, should cast the vote and hand it over to the person who had brought the ballot. If the differently abled voters download PWD App in the mobile phone, they can easily identify the location and the distance of their polling station. Arrangements had been made to keep sanitizer, gloves and masks at all booths. He participated in a demonstration of EVMs and the VVPATs (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-ensure-cent-per-cent-polling/article34048687.ece
12 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Recession, voter discontent in Tiruverumbur constituency||A highly industrialised Assembly segment in Tiruchi district, Tiruverumbur is in the grip of economic recession and voter discontent. A large number of small and medium industries, all ancillary units of the public sector major Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, have turned sick due to a variety of reasons in recent years. The pandemic has only aggravated the problems for the industry, which once staked claim to the status of being the steel fabrication capital of the country. The rapid urbanisation and commercial development in the constituency were largely due to the growth BHEL and MSMEs. But with the industries stagnating, a large number of skilled and semi-skilled workers have been rendered jobless in the constituency. The MSMEs are looking for more government support to emerge out of the red. And so are the electorate to resolve some of their long-felt grievances. A substantial part of the constituency is spread over the five newly added wards of the Tiruchi Corporation, following the merger of the Tiruverumbur and a handful of panchayats with the civic body in 2011. Residents have a slew of complaints over the lack of amenities and point out that they have been shelling out higher levies, by way of property tax, water charges and charges for the upcoming sewer line but have seen little improvement in civic amenities. A new drinking water scheme under execution to supply Cauvery water to the five wards is dragging on for years and the underground sewer line extension works have left interior roads bruised and battered. But topping the list of the voter discontent is the row over the laying of service lanes, between Palpannai and Thuvakudi on the Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway. Just when the issue seems to have been settled, following court intervention leading to the commencement of land acquisition process, traders and property owners who face displacement have upped the ante demanding that an elevated corridor be built instead so as to avoid acquiring their lands for the service lanes. The National Highways Authority of India had dropped its original plan to building service lanes, while developing the highway as a four-lane one over a decade back, owing to opposition from traders then. This had led to a series of agitations by the Federation for Retrieval of Tiruchi-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Roads, an umbrella organisation of residents' associations lobbying for the construction of service lanes, over the years. In recent days, traders too have resorted to agitations. “We are now representing our case to the political parties, suggesting the construction of an elevated corridor as an alternative, and requesting them to include it in their manifestos,” said S. Raghunathan, secretary, Tiruchi-Thanjai NH67 Salai Virivakka Panikalal Bathikapaduvor Kootammaippu. However, residents are sceptical of the suggestion and contend that greater good should prevail. “They could have made the suggestion 10 years back. To come up with the suggestion now, after all the people’s struggle, appears only to be an attempt to scuttle the project (to build service lanes),” observed R. Venkataraman, Secretary, New Town, Muthu Nagar Integrated Residents Welfare Association. Residents also demand proper storm water drains, expediting the drinking water supply and underground drainage schemes and repairs to cross roads dug up for laying sewer pipes. Reclamation of the Ariyamangalam garbage dump remains another long-pending demand. A bio-mining project taken up by the civic body is yet to be completed. Down the years, the constituency has been favourite turf for the DMK, which has won here six times since 1967. The AIADMK has won thrice, the Congress, the DMDK and the CPI (M) veteran late Pappa Umanath have emerged victorious once each. In 2016, Mahesh Poyyamozhi, grandson of the late Anbil Dharmalingam, a yesteryear stalwart of DMK, emerged victorious in the constituency defeating D. Kalaiselvan of the AIADMK. And as some residents aver, any candidate who gets elected from here would have its hands full and would need considerable skill and articulation to get the issues resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recession-voter-discontent-in-tiruverumbur-constituency/article34048667.ece
12 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in cases in delta||The central districts on Thursday saw an increase in fresh cases of COVID-19 with 68 testing positive. Nearly half of them belonged to Thanjavur. No death due to the viral infection was recorded, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Thanjavur reported double the number of cases — 37 — compared to Wednesday's figures. Senior health officials, however, said they were isolated cases and denied emergence of any clusters. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 10 fresh cases. Nagapattinam reported nine, and Tiruchi eight. Six patients tested positive in Tiruvarur and four in Karur. Three fresh cases were reported in Pudukottai. Meanwhile, Ariyalur district reported one fresh case for COVID-19 while Perambalur reported none on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-cases-in-delta/article34048629.ece
12 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Replace Thuraiyur nominee’||About 30 AIADMK members staged road roko at Thuraiyur town in the district on Thursday opposing the announcement of the party's candidate for the Thuraiyur Assembly constituency, T. Indira Gandhi. Holding party flags, the cadre led by Sorathur Nagarajan, the party's Sorathur branch secretary, staged road roko in front of Thuraiyur bus stand. They wanted the party to give preference to a native of the Assembly segment instead of a fielding an “outsider.” Meanwhile, upset over denial of party ticket to contest from Jayankondam constituency in Ariyalur district, K. Vaithi, a senior leader of the PMK and secretary of Vanniyar Sangam, resigned from the primary membership of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/replace-thuraiyur-nominee/article34048639.ece
12 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MNM||R. Krishnamoorthy   Seeking to strike a personal chord through a door-to-door campaign, MNM members seem to have hit the ground early. The MNM cadre, who have spread out in small groups, seem to be certain after the direct interface with voters across age groups that a change for transparency in governance is what people are looking for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm/article34048655.ece
12 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||BJP has to mollify AIADMK workers||Even before electioneering is started in Tirunelveli Assembly segment, the rift between the AIADMK, leading the NDA in Tamil Nadu, and its junior partner, the BJP, is wide open with the cadres of the Dravidian party gradually moving away from the election-related works as the segment has been allotted to the BJP. While the AIADMK was hopeful of fielding its Tirunelveli district secretary N. Ganesa Raja in Tirunelveli constituency, the BJP started preliminary election work in this segment much ahead of the commencement of seat sharing talks by portraying its state vice-president Nainar Nagenthran as its candidate that irked the AIADMK. Even as the BJP was taking out two bike rallies in the segment, the AIADMK pasted posters appealing to the voters to vote for the ‘Two Leaves’. As expected, the BJP got the constituency and fielded Mr. Nainar Nagenthran. “Since he has been elected to the Assembly from Tirunelveli on two occasions and is a ‘familiar face’ to the voters of the constituency, we’ve be fielded Mr. Nainar Nagenthran. We’ll win the constituency for sure,” says A. Dhaya Shankar, in-charge of Tirunelveli constituency and former Tiruenlveli district president of BJP. However, the AIADMK cadres are not ready to accept this decision and most of the office-bearers here, who worked really hard for Mr. Nainar Nagenthran when he was fielded here on four successive elections since 2001 as AIADMK candidate, are keeping very low profile now. Sensing the mood in the AIADMK camp, Mr. Nainar Nagenthran called upon Mr. Ganesa Raja even as he was camping in Chennai on Wednesday immediately after Tirunelveli constituency was allotted to the BJP and the former minister was subsequently fielded in this Assembly segment. “Though it was termed as ‘courtesy call’, we deem it as a step to appease Mr. Ganesa Raja, who is deeply hurt on Tirunelveli constituency being allotted to the BJP. Since he (Mr. Ganesa Raja) had done excellent people-friendly groundwork in Tirunelveli over the past four years, particularly during the pandemic-induced lockdown, he was hopeful of being fielded in Tirunelveli as AIADMK candidate. Another problem surmounting this segment is the agitation by the Yadhava community voters, seeking fielding of a candidate from their community in the AIADMK. To highlight this demand, they organised a demonstration in front of Azhagumuthu Kone statue in Palayamkottai on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-has-to-mollify-aiadmk-workers/article34049417.ece
12 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK workers stage demonstrations in Palladam||Cadre from the AIADMK and DMK staged separate demonstrations at Palladam in Tiruppur district on Thursday expressing their discontent at the candidate selections announced by the respective parties for the Palladam Assembly constituency. Police sources said that after the AIADMK announced former Minister and party’s organisation secretary M.S.M. Anandan as the candidate for Palladam constituency, around 50 supporters of the incumbent MLA Karaipudur A. Natarajan staged a demonstration outside Palladam Bus Terminus.  Demand for ticket They raised slogans demanding that Mr. Natarajan must be given ticket to contest from Palladam once again. The DMK cadre also staged demonstrations at two locations on Wednesday evening following the announcement that MDMK will be contesting from Palladam constituency. Sources said that party workers gathered on Palladam four-way road and Arulpuram respectively demanding that a DMK candidate must contest from the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-workers-stage-demonstrations-in-palladam/article34049229.ece
12 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Norms explained to political parties while filing nomination papers||Tiruppur District Election Officer and Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Thursday chaired a meeting with representatives from recognised political parties on the filing of nomination papers by the candidates in the eight Assembly constituencies. The filing of nominations will begin on March 12 (Friday) and will continue till March 19 (except on Saturday and Sunday), a release said. The candidates can file their papers at the office of the Sub-Collector, Dharapuram for Dharapuram (reserved) constituency, Kangeyam taluk office (Kangeyam constituency) Avinashi taluk office (Avinashi-reserved constituency), Corporation Zone-I office at Velampalayam (Tiruppur North constituency), Tiruppur Corporation headquarters on Mangalam Road (Tiruppur South constituency), Palladam taluk office (Palladam constituency), Udumalpet Revenue Divisional Office (Udumalpet constituency) and Madathukulam taluk office (Madathukulam constituency). As part of the COVID-19 precautionary measure, only two persons apart from the candidate will be allowed inside the respective offices> Only two vehicles per candidate will be permitted within 100 metres of the offices, according to the release. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan also said that a special camp on the electronic Electors Photo Identity Card (e-EPIC) will be conducted for the first-time voters in 1,043 polling stations across the eight Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/norms-explained-to-political-parties-while-filing-nomination-papers/article34049230.ece
12 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held with zonal officers, bank officials||Collector and District Election Officer K. Vijayakarthikeyan conducted training programme for zonal officers and assistant zonal officers appointed for the 297 zones in the eight Assembly constituencies of the district recently. A release said the officers were advised to inspect whether basic facilities such as drinking water, electricity and toilets were available in the polling stations present in their respective zones. The officers must know how to operate the electronic voting machines and must conduct awareness campaigns for voters in their zones, he said. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan also held a meeting with bank officials and advised them to maintain vigil regarding suspicious transactions ahead of the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-with-zonal-officers-bank-officials/article34049226.ece
12 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 3 lakh cash seized||Election officials seized cash of over Rs. 3 lakh within Palladam and Tiruppur North Assembly constituencies on Thursday and Wednesday. Sources said that on Thursday, officials from a flying squad seized cash of Rs. 1 lakh from a car during a vehicle check at North Avinashipalayam within Palladam constituency limits. No valid documents were available with the driver and the seized cash was handed over to the treasury. On Wednesday, a Static Surveillance Team seized cash of Rs. 2,32,600 from a car during a vehicle check in Vanijpalayam within Tiruppur North Assembly constituency. The cash will be handed back if the required documents are furnished before the authorities, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-3-lakh-cash-seized/article34049231.ece
12 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive for polling staff under way||The Health Department is carrying out a COVID-19 vaccination drive for the 17,590 staff members assigned for poll duty in the district. Sources said that the drive began on Tuesday and 1,717 staff members were vaccinated as of Wednesday. Age restrictions will not be applicable for these officials for vaccination, as the vaccines are currently being administered to those over the age of 60 years and those in the age group of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities. The polling officials will be required to produce their Aadhaar cards and government identity cards for verification at the vaccination centres, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-polling-staff-under-way/article34049227.ece
12 March 2021||Tiruvallur,TAMIL NADU||ATMs||Vivek Narayanan   In Tiruvallur district, a reminder to cast votes will be given even as you draw cash from Indian Bank ATMs. Collector P. Ponniah on Wednesday inaugurated a voting awareness programme through the bank’s branches. Now, messages about the importance of voting will be printed behind ATM receipts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atms/article34048647.ece
12 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Houses, vehicles damaged in rain||A few houses as well as vehicles were damaged at Quinshola near Kil Kotagiri after heavy rain hit parts of the Nilgiris on late Wednesday night. Local residents said that rain started around Kotagiri and Coonoor towns at around midnight and continued till 3 a.m. An average rainfall of 21.53 mm. was recorded across the Nilgiris with Kotagiri along receiving around 120 mm. of rain. Heavy rain was also recorded in Kundah, Geddai, Coonoor, Burliar, Yedapalli and Kil Kotagiri. Due to the rain, a pick-up truck, a car as well as a motorcycle were washed away into a stream in Quinshola. A few houses in the area were also damaged. Farmers in the area also complained of crop damage due to the rain in Kotagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/houses-vehicles-damaged-in-rain/article34048708.ece
12 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||489 licensed firearms surrendered to Nilgiris police||A total of 489 licensed firearms have been surrendered to the Nilgiris district police by licensed gun owners in the run-up to the State assembly elections. District Superintendent of Police, the Nilgiris, R. Pandiarajan, said that there were 543 gun licenses in the district, out of which 48 licenses have been given exemptions. “These weapons are being used to protect banks,” clarified the SP when speaking to reporters on Wednesday. The SP also said that a total of 115 persons, designated as being anti-social elements and history-sheeters, have been bound over under Sections 109 and 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Security for good behaviour from suspected persons and habitual offenders). Mr. Pandiarajan said that out of the 115 persons, four are in jail, while the others will be closely monitored by the police to ensure that they do not cause any trouble. Since the model code of conduct came into force, 19 cases have been registered against various political parties for model code of conduct (MCC) violations. The violations include distributing gifts as well as for pasting stickers and flags on public and private property. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that the police were continuing to co-ordinate with the police from Malappuram, Wayanad and Chamrajanagar districts in Kerala and Karnataka to ensure that there is no movement of liquor illegally from neighbouring states into Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/489-licensed-firearms-surrendered-to-nilgiris-police/article34049235.ece
12 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 19 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,097 with 19 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 20,664 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 82. The district's death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, two cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,264. In Tirupattur district, four new cases were reported on Thursday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,654. In Tiruvannamalai district, four new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,536. Out of this, 19,232 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-19-new-cases/article34049429.ece
12 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 19 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,097 with 19 new cases reported on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-19-new-cases/article34049380.ece
12 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Sattur AIADMK MLA Rajavarman joins AMMK||Within 24 hours of his being denied a party ticket for his re-election, AIADMK MLA from Sattur Assembly constituency M.S.R. Rajavarman joined the AMMK and got its ticket to fight from the same Assembly segment. After his meeting with AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran was made official, the ruling party expelled him. However, within hours, the AMMK declared him its candidate from Sattur Assembly seat. Complaining that Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji was behind the denial of party ticket to him, Mr. Rajavarman joined the AMMK in Chennai on Thursday. He had already warned that his supporters would ensure Mr. Bhalaji’s defeat in the Assembly election. Mr. Bhalaji, a two-time MLA and Minister from Sivakasi Assembly constituency, has now shifted to Rajapalayam. ‘Spent a lot for party’ Meanwhile, another disappointed AIADMK party man ‘Gokulam’ M. Thangarj (57) is mulling the option of contesting from Virudhunagar Assembly seat as an independent. Mr. Thangaraj complained that he had spent his fortune on distributing welfare assistances in Virudhunagar Assembly constituency for the last three years after he was promised of party ticket from Virudhunagar Assembly seat. “I had distributed essential commodities to at least 68,000 families during the COVID-19 pandemic. I also spent for the party expenses when Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami visited Virudhunagar twice. I had done all the works only as per the advice of Mr. Bhalaji,” said Mr. Thangaraj, who is a realtor and industrialist. He was awarded with the post of party MGR Mandram district secretary. “Even party coordinator O. Pannerselvam gave me an assurance that the party ticket would be given to me,” he added. However, Mr. Thangaraj was in for a shock when Virudhunagar Assembly constituency was allocated to the BJP on Wednesday. Stating that his supporters were insisting that he should contest from Virudhunagar Assembly constituency as an independent, he said he was weighing his options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-mla-joins-ammk/article34048670.ece
12 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Congress to contest from Sivakasi and Srivilliputtur||The Congress will contest in Sivakasi and Srivilliputtur (reserved) Assembly constituencies. Its candidate Sreeraja Chokkar had fought the 2016 election when he lost to ruling party’s K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji. Earlier, the Tamil Maanila Congress led by G.K. Moopanar, had won the seat in 1996 – R. Chokkar and 2001 – A. Rajagopal. In Srivilliputtur, the Congress will test its strength after nearly four decades. Its candidate P. Karuppaiah Thevar had lost to R. Tamaraikkani of AIADMK in 1980. Meanwhile, the DMK has allotted Sattur constituency to MDMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-to-contest-in-sivakasi/article34048626.ece
12 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||244 vulnerable booths identified||The district administration has identified 244 vulnerable and seven critical polling booths in the district. While Tiruchuli Assembly constituency has the highest number of vulnerable polling stations, Virudhunagar Assembly seat has the lowest number of 21 polling stations. The vulnerable polling stations are measured by the past records of law and order problem, lower turn out of voters and caste-wise and communally sensitive areas, District Returning Officer and Collector R. Kannan said. The number of vulnerable and critical booths would be revisited. Meanwhile, among the seven critical polling stations identified, Srivilliputtur and Sivakasi Assembly constituencies have two such polling stations each and Rajapalayam, Sattur and Virudhunagar Assembly seats have one each. Those polling booths were those where the percentage of polling was over and above 90% in the past and where 75% of the votes have gone to one particular candidate. “We will deploy central paramilitary forces at those polling stations identified as vulnerable and critical. Besides, each polling station will have a micro-observer,” he said. The micro-observer will be an officer nominated from any of the Central Government departments or nationalised banks. Stating that the Election Commission has asked to provide web-streaming or closed circuit television cameras for 50% of the total number of 3,270 polling booths, the Collector said that the vulnerable and critical booths would be covered under provision of this facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/244-vulnerable-booths-identified/article34048683.ece
12 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||SUV||S. Sundar   Srivilliputtur MLA M. Chandraprabha was shell-shocked after the reserved constituency was not allotted to her. “I was promised the Srivilliputtur Assembly seat for a second term. I was advised to buy a new SUV for the campaign,” she said. She had raised a bank loan for a new vehicle and its modification for use in campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suv/article34048663.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stage set for filing papers||With filing of nominations scheduled to begin on Friday, authorities in central region have set the stage for the process. In constituencies such as Manapparai, Thuraiyur (Reserved), Mannachanallur and Manapparai in Tiruchi district, taluk officers have been made Returning Officers. Candidates can file nominations with their taluk offices where elaborate arrangements have been made to receive nominations. In Srirangam, Tiruchi (West), Musiri and Lalgudi, Revenue Divisional Officers have been appointed Returning Officers and candidates can file nominations with them. Also, candidates can present papers with taluk offices where Assistant Returning Officers will receive nominations. For Tiruchi (East), Assistant Commissioner (Ariyamangalam) of Tiruchi Corporation will be the Returning Officer. Besides filing nominations with the officer, the candidates can present papers with the Assistant Returning Officer at Tiruchi (East) taluk office. The EC guidelines for conducting elections will be followed in letter and in spirit, District Election Officer and Collector S. Sivarasu, who held a meeting with Returning Officers, Assistant Returning Officers and election officials, told The Hindu . Nominations will be accepted between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. March 19 will be the last date of filing of nominations. They will not be received on holidays.The forms are available at offices of Returning and Assistant Returning Officers and candidates can collect them well in advance to fill up details. A candidate can file nomination in a maximum of two constituencies. All candidates should follow COVID-19 precautionary norms while filing papers. Only two persons will be allowed with a candidate while filing nomination papers, the Collector said. In Karur district, the Revenue Divisional Officer of Karur and the Sub Collector of Kulithalai have been appointed Returning Officers of the two constituencies. The Tahsildars of Karur and Kulithalai will be Assistant Returning Officers. As far as Krishnarayapuram (Reserved) and Aravakurichi constituencies are concerned, the Tashildars will be Returning Officers. According to Collector-cum-District Election Officer S. Malarvizhi, nominations will be received by Returning and Assistant Returning Officers. Not more than two vehicles will be allowed up to 100 metres from their offices. All arrangements have been made to ensure smooth conduct of the process. Extensive training has been given to officials on the electoral process right from the date of filing of nominations to counting. The Revenue Divisional Officers of Ariyalur and Udayarpalayam have been appointed Returning Officers of Ariyalur and Jayankondam constituencies. The Tashildars of Ariyalur and Udayarpalayam will be Assistant Returning Officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stage-set-for-filing-papers/article34048635.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Activist to contest poll||An organiser of the Federation for Retrieval of Tiruchi-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Roads has decided to contest the Assembly election from Tiruverumbur constituency primarily to fight for building service lanes along the city stretch of Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway. S. Sakthivel, 66, an organiser of the federation comprising residents’ welfare associations of the locality, has decided to take the plunge into electoral politics after being in the forefront in lobbying for the cause over the past several years. He plans to contest on behalf of the New Generation People’s Party, a registered unrecognised party which has been allotted ‘pot’ symbol. A former senior manager of BHEL, Tiruchi, Mr. Sakthivel has also been one of the organisers of the Federation of Tiruchi City Residents Welfare Associations. Explaining the reasons behind his decision, Mr. Sakthivel told The Hindu that he and many of those in the forefront of the fight for laying service lanes were convinced that one of them should enter the fray to bring in the “much-awaited” project to fruition. “Both AIADMK and DMK do not show wholehearted interest in executing the project and attempts are made to scuttle the project. We thought only if we get into the fray directly that we can bring the project to execution. However, I did not want to contest on behalf of the federation as it has people from various political affiliations,” he said. “I also view this as a journey towards change under which MLAs remain one among the people and work for their welfare which is not the case now,” Mr. Sakthivel said. Mr. Sakthivel, who has also brought out a book, Oozhalattra Tamizhagam (Corruption-free Tamil Nadu), suggesting measures to weed out corruption, has also come out with a pledge comprising 25 promises to residents of the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activist-to-contest-poll/article34048672.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre protest fielding ex-Congress man for Alangudi seat||Dissatisfied with the announcement of Dharma Thangavel, a former Congressman, who had joined the AIADMK two months ago, as the party’s nominee for the Alangudi Assembly constituency, a group of AIADMK cadre staged a protest in Alangudi town demanding his replacement. Mr. Thangavel, who was the Congress south district president of Pudukottai, had joined the AIADMK in January after meeting Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. A group of about 600 members of the AIADMK holding party flags and carrying portraits of Mr. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Paneerselvam took out a procession from Sandhaipettai to the bus stand in Alangudi town, raising slogans demanding the replacement of Mr. Thangavel. Only a person who had worked hard for the party in Alangudi should be nominated as the candidate, they demanded. Mr. Thangavel’s late father, Dharmaraj, was a member of the AIADMK and was the chairman of the Vadakadu cooperative society. His uncle Mr. Pushparaj was an MLA of the Congress twice in Pudukottai district. A postgraduate in Information Technology, the 43-year-old is a native of Vadakadu village in Alangudi taluk in the district. This is the first time that he will be fighting in an Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-protest-fielding-ex-congress-man-for-alangudi-seat/article34048633.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Contests held to create awareness on voting||To create awareness on the need to vote in the Assembly election, rangoli competition and administering of awareness pledge were held at the Collectorate on Wednesday. As part of the Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) that aims at achieving 100% voting in the election, employees of Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihood Mission and Mahalir Thittam took part in a rangoli competition. The rangolis stressed on the need to vote, displayed date of polling, the toll-free number to lodge election-related complaints at 1950 and also the cVIGIL app that enables citizens to lodge complaints related to violation of model code of conduct. Also, women employees performed ‘kummi pattu’ and asked electors to exercise their franchise. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the rangolis and also inaugurated the media centre at the Collectorate. District Revenue Officer Murugesan, Collector’s P.A Balaji (General) and Eswaran (Accounts), Information and Public Relations Officer S.K. Satheesh Kumar, Chief Coordinator (SVEEP) and TAHDCO Manager Jeyanthi and others were present. In Salem, students of a private college drew mehendi in their hands to create awareness on 100% voting. Collector S.A. Raman launched the SVEEP activities at Shri Sakthikailassh Women’s College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contests-held-to-create-awareness-on-voting/article34048724.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK allots seats to Congress, Left parties||The Congress has also been allotted Velachery in Chennai, which is held by actor Vagai Chandrasekar of the DMK, Ponneri (reserved), Sriperumbudur (reserved), Sholinghur, Uthangarai (reserved), Omalur, Melur, Sivakasi, Srivaikundam, Killiyur, Erode East, Tenkasi, Aranthangi, Virudhachalam, Nanguneri, Kallakurichi (reserved), Srivilliputtur (reserved), Thiruvadanai, Udumalaipettai and Mayiladuthurai. Mr. Balakrishnan told journalists that it was true that his party could not get a few seats that it was keen on. “But it is inevitable when a constituency is demanded by more than one party.” He said the weakness in the AIADMK-BJP front was highlighted by the “revolt” by those who could not get seats. “The alliance will be defeated in all the constituencies,” he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the talks had proceeded well. “This alliance will bring about a change in the government and will be an example for the rest of India. Our aim is not just to change the government [in Tamil Nadu] but also to ensure that people live with hope, growth and security,” he said. He said the Secular Progressive Alliance was created for social justice and communal harmony. “This electoral victory will not only be Tamil Nadu’s victory but India’s. We will win 100% and put an end to the efforts of the RSS and the Narendra Modi government to split India, and will remove the corrupt AIADMK government.” The seat-sharing talks between the DMK and the Congress were locked in stalemate for more than a week. A phone call between Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and Mr. Stalin sealed the deal a few days ago. The identification of constituencies took nearly three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-allots-seats-to-congress-left-parties/article34049221.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Congress, BJP to face off in five Assembly seats||Consequently, the DMK could not release its list of candidates. It is likely to be announced on Friday. Velachery seat The Congress has also been allotted Velachery in Chennai, which is held by actor Vagai Chandrasekar of the DMK, Ponneri (reserved), Sriperumbudur (reserved), Sholingar, Uthangarai (reserved), Omalur, Melur, Sivakasi, Srivaikundam, Killiyur, Erode East, Tenkasi, Aranthangi, Virudhachalam, Nanguneri, Kallakurichi (reserved), Srivilliputtur (reserved), Thiruvadanai, Udumalaipettai and Mayiladuthurai.  Change in govt. Speaking to reporters after the agreement was reached with the DMK, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said the talks had proceeded well. "This alliance will bring about a change in the government and will be an example for the rest of India. Our aim is not just to change the government [in Tamil Nadu] but also to ensure that people live with hope, growth and security," he said. Mr. Alagiri said the Secular Progressive Alliance was created for social justice and communal harmony. "This electoral victory will not only be Tamil Nadu’s victory but India’s victory. We will win 100% and put an end to the efforts of the RSS and the Modi government to split India, and will remove the corrupt AIADMK government," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-bjp-to-face-off-in-five-assembly-seats/article34048735.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Exercise your right to franchise’||A rally by women SHGsand signature campaigns formed part of SVEEP activities carried out by District Election Wings of Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts on Thursday. Members of women SHGs, who took out a rally from near Thanjavur railway junction to Panagal Building in Keezhavasal, carried placards urging voters to exercise their franchise without fail. District Election Officer, Thanjavur district, and Collector M. Govinda Rao flagged of the rally. In Tiruvarur, persons with disabilities took out a rally on retrofitted scooters to impress upon the electorate to cast their votes without fail. DEO, Tiruvarur, and Collector V. Santha flagged off the rally. Both Collectors launched a signature campaign to promote 100% participation of voters in the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exercise-your-right-to-franchise/article34048627.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Divine night||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/divine-night/article34048710.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||19 arrested||Lalgudi Police have arrested 19 persons in connection with a stone-pelting incident during a temple procession at Anbil on Wednesday. A few police personnel and some others who were carrying the deity of the goddess were injured. Police sources said the case was booked under various IPC Sections including 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) on a complaint lodged by a police constable, who was part of a striking force team long with other police personnel in the village on Wednesday. The arrested persons wer charged with illegally assembly with deadly weapons and pelting stones at another group carrying the deity amid police escort to Aachirama Valliamman temple from a nearby Sivan temple for a festival. The Collector promulgated prohibitory orders and police pickets posted were in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-arrested/article34048636.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foolproof arrangements||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foolproof-arrangements/article34049426.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||88.57%||voter turnout in the Palacode constituency in Dharmapuri district was the highest in the 2016 Assembly election. The Harbour constituency in Chennai had the lowest turnout of 55.4%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8857/article34048664.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Expert session on financial inclusion, 10.30 a.m.; Online workshop on financial awareness and consumer training, 1.30 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on Healthy Life - World's kidney day celebration, 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34049228.ece
12 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tough challenge for Jarkiholis||The Jarkiholi brothers, the Gokak-based sugar barons and political strongmen, may be facing the biggest challenge of their public life in the scandal allegedly involving former Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The Jarkiholis have faced several ups and downs, but the recent exposé has rattled the brothers as it has affected the image of the family in a way that goes beyond political differences and skirmishes they are accustomed to. The aspect of personal and familial pride being hurt was emphasised by Mr. Ramesh in the first press conference he held after the scandal broke. Mr. Ramesh lost his first election, fought as Jarkiholi Ramappa Lakshman in 1985, to Muttennanavar Mallappa, senior Nayaka community leader and Janata Party candidate. The defeat kept him away from electoral politics for 14 years, though he continued to be active in the youth Congress. He came back to the fray with a changed name, financial prospects and clout in 1999. It has been a long stint since then. His younger brother Satish Jarkiholi, earlier with the JD(S), joined the Congress in 2008, rising to the position of KPCC vice-president in 2020. Meanwhile, Balachandra Jarkiholi, the third brother, entered the Assembly on a JD(S) ticket, only to join the BJP in 2013. In January 2017, Income Tax officers raided the houses and offices of Mr. Ramesh. The houses of his brother Lakhan Jarkiholi and supporters Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Ali Attar and H.D. Mulla were also raided. In 2018, Ms. Hebbalkar rebelled against him over elections to the taluk rural development bank. In 2019, Mr. Ramesh complained of a suffocating environment in the Congress and quit the party. He also claimed to have influenced 16 others to resign. He and his friends were disqualified and fought the elections as BJP candidates. In Gokak, Mr. Lakhan fought unsuccessfully against him. But, the present crisis seems to be different in that what has come into question is the individual morality of the leader. Also, the implications of the present crisis has blown up across the country on TV channels and gone viral on social media. Reach in BJP Despite his BJP membership being 15 months old, Mr. Ramesh had gained access to the top functionaries in the party. He is said to have met party national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh each time he went to Delhi. He also drove with Home Minister Amit Shah when he toured north Karnataka recently. He has openly lobbied for his friends to be made Ministers. But, he will not be able to claim the same proximity to the party leaders, till his name is cleared of this controversy, say party leaders. “Our senior leadership is very sensitive about issues that tend to affect the personal image of leaders. They will not entertain him, till an enquiry acquits him or at least the people forget about it,” said a senior leader. Party leaders say Mr. Ramesh’s resignation could affect the party’s prospects in the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls and the three Assembly bypolls in north Karnataka. The BJP was trying to project him as the leader of the Nayaka community, by sidelining B. Sriramulu. He was supposed to address rallies in pockets with Nayaka and other ST and backward communities in Maski, Basava Kalyan and Sindagi. All these plans will be rejigged now, said another leader. Interestingly, though divided between parties, the brothers — Satish Jarkiholi and Mr. Lakhan in the Congress, besides Mr. Balachandra in the BJP — have stood with him. Mr. Balachandra told The Hindu that he was confident that his brother would emerge unscathed from the alleged scandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tough-challenge-for-jarkiholis/article34048933.ece
12 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||RPF constable saves man at railway station||A Railway Protection Force constable rescued a passenger who got stuck in the gap between the platform and the train at Vasco-da- Gama railway station on Wednesday. The passenger tried to board the moving Vasco-da-Gama-Patna Superfast Express Special at the station on platform number 1, but slipped into the gap between the platform and the train. K.M. Patil, RPF Head Constable who was on duty, immediately rushed to help the passenger and pulled him to safety. The CCTV cameras captured the incident. Arvind Malkhede, Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi, has appreciated the RPF constable’s presence of mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rpf-constable-saves-man-at-railway-station/article34048753.ece
12 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||RTI activist attacked||An RTI activist from Dharwad has complained to the police that a gram panchayat member and a Panchayat Development Officer attacked him for trying to get information about certain irregularities. Mallikarjun Rottigwad, a resident of Kanavihonnapur, said he sustained injuries and had to be treated at the district hospital. He had accused Yerikoppa Gram Panchayat officers of financial irregularities to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh. He claimed the officers had misused funds in connivance with the elected members. He filed RTI applications seeking detailed information on the funds released and utilised. He filed several applications at the DC’s office, ZP, and other offices. The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department subsequently asked a nodal officer to look into the issue and conduct an inquiry. The officers also asked Mr. Rottigwad to appear before the inquiry officer in Dharwad. Police protection was given to the applicant for this. However, Mr. Rottigwad was attacked when he left home after the inquiry. A team of six persons allegedly stopped his car near Nuggikeri and attacked him. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rti-activist-attacked/article34048757.ece
12 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Angadi’s mother dead||Somavva Channabasappa Angadi, 92, of Kanavi Kuruvina Koppa village, died on Thursday. She was the mother of Suresh Angadi, former Union Minister. She had not been not keeping well for a while.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/angadis-mother-dead/article34048752.ece
12 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat||EPFO’s first pension adalat will be held at the Hubballi Regional Office on March 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-adalat/article34048754.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many schools stop online classes||Schools are finding it difficult to comply with the State government’s order to conduct on-campus and online classes for students due to the limited number of teaching staff on their rolls. Many managements have stopped online classes for higher primary and high school students as teachers are unable to juggle both sessions and also ensure that students have grasped concepts. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said that out of 5,000 higher primary and high schools affiliated to the Association, nearly 80% have stopped online classes as teachers are unable to manage the workload. “If we have to run both online and offline classes, we need more staff. But schools cannot hire more teachers as they don’t have the funds. The government has said that we have to cut tuition fees by 30% for this academic year,” he said, and added only schools affiliated to central boards had enough corpus to run online and offline classes. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, also said that teachers are finding it difficult to conduct offline as well as online classes simultaneously. As a result, parents have no choice but to send their children to school. Ravi S., an auto-driver said that he did not want to send his son who was in class eight to school, until he was vaccinated. “Initially, we had a tough time accessing online classes. I got my son a new phone to login to his classes and he was learning well. Now the classes have stopped. Teachers have asked him to study on his own and take our help if he cannot attend classes on campus. But neither my wife nor I can help him with his lessons,” he said. Schools in Karnataka reopened in a phased manner for high school and upper primary classes from January 1. On an average, private schools are reporting 60% attendance. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, Delhi Public Schools group, said it was not feasible for teachers to conduct both types of classes. “The sound acoustics are not good. Students who have logged into the session online are unable to hear what the teacher is saying,” he said. Other principals pointed out that streaming a class live for students learning from home does not ensure that they are grasping concepts. Some teachers said that they tried to schedule their online classes after they were done with teaching students on campus. “But we cannot sustain this, and many of us are experiencing burnout due to the long working hours,” said a teacher in a private school in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-schools-stop-online-classes/article34049187.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Renal patients at high risk from COVID-19’||When a family of three from Bengaluru, including a 53-year-old renal transplant individual, contracted COVID-19 in August, the family only prayed that the disease should not create more complications in the kidney recipient. While two members from the family developed classical COVID-19 symptoms, including high fever, cough, and loss of taste/smell, the person who had undergone the transplant had very mild symptoms. Doctors said this was because of his poor immune response due to immunosuppressants. No classical symptoms City-based nephrologists, who have noticed a high incidence of COVID-19 among people with kidney disease and other severe chronic medical conditions, said although persons with renal issues and those who have undergone transplant did not exhibit classical symptoms, they were at a higher risk of more severe illness. To study this aspect, a group of doctors from Manipal Hospitals documented the impact of COVID-19 on patients with kidney disease, kidney recipients, and those on dialysis in a review article titled ‘Coronavirus Disease 2019 and the Kidney’. The article, published in the Journal of Internal Medicine , an official publication of the Association of Physicians of India, Karnataka chapter, was compiled by Ravi Jangamani, Chakravarthy Thirumal, and Sankaran Sundar from the Department of Nephrology at Manipal Hospitals in Bengaluru. “Besides our own findings, we have also put together global observations regarding the impact of the virus on the kidneys of patients,” Dr. Jangamani told The Hindu on Thursday. “Patients with chronic kidney diseases (CKD) and immune- mediated kidney diseases should be regarded as at risk to experience a more severe disease mediated kidney diseases should be regarded as at risk to experience a more severe disease of immunosu- ppression drugs,” he said. Dr. Sundar, head of international transplant services at the hospital, said that 20% to 40% of critically ill COVID-19 patients who did not have any renal issues prior to the infection had developed acute kidney injury. “Those predisposed with renal issues were the worst hit. As most did not exhibit fever or other classical symptoms, they did not seek timely medical advice and went for self-medication. This led to complications at a later stage and we have noticed high mortality in such patients,” he said.  Pointing out that the pandemic had hit those on dialysis the most, Dr. Sundar said, “Dialysis patients had a high exposure to the virus as they had no other go but to visit hospitals for the procedure.” Dr. Jangamani said that over 20% of patients who sought dialysis at Manipal Hospitals were infected. Dialysis patients who were infected by the virus in the city had a tough time in the initial months of the pandemic as COVID-dedicated hospitals did not have dialysis facilities. However, things changed for the better after August when private hospitals set up dedicated COVID-19 wards. To mark World Kidney Day, Manipal Hospitals provided free vaccination to everyone undergoing dialysis at all its centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renal-patients-at-high-risk-from-covid-19/article34048768.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel for abolition of posts, merger of departments to cut expenditure||With 2020-21 marking the first revenue deficit Budget in the last 16 years and COVID-19 rendering a severe blow to the State’s revenue, the Fiscal Management Review Committee headed by the Chief Secretary has recommended drastic measures such as rationalisation of subsidy schemes, abolition of posts, merger of some departments, and revision of user charges to contain expenditure commitments. Karnataka has continuously maintained revenue surplus since 2004-05. The estimated revenue surplus in the 2020-21 Budget was Rs. 143 crore. But the slowdown due to the pandemic resulted in a reduced revenue collection of the State and the revenue deficit is estimated to be Rs. 15,133.60 crore in 2020-21. Long way off In the Medium Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) 2021-25 of the State government, the Fiscal Management Review Committee (FMRC) said: “Despite recovery, reaching pre-lockdown levels will take time.” It suggested some measures to contain committed expenditure. Noting non-revision of user charges by some departments for more than three years, it said that “irregular and non-revision of charges periodically” led to slow growth in non-tax revenue of the State. The non-tax revenue largely comprise royalty from major and minor minerals, interest receipts and dividends and user charges for delivery of services. The non-tax revenue is estimated at Rs. 7,730 crore in 2020-21. Loan recovery The FMRC has suggested that all departments review and revise user rates wherever the rates have not been revised for more than three years. The government’s recovery of loans and advances made to boards/corporations and its own agencies has also been slow, it said. The MTFP said: “It will be difficult to adhere to Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act parameters unless long term reforms are taken up.” Besides rationalisation of subsidy schemes for various sectors, the committee recommended merger of certain departments, abolition of unnecessary posts across various departments. Subsidy share According to Budget documents, subsidies constituted nearly Rs. 20,000 crore in 2020-21. The panel suggested that one of the ways to reduce expenditure was by removal of schemes whose size was less than Rs. 20 crore from the next financial year (2021-22). According to the Planning Department, nearly 50% of the schemes size was less than Rs. 20 crore and it recommended convergence of schemes. Because of the shortfall in revenue, in 2020-21, the committed expenditure (Rs. 1,62,359 crore) to the percentage of revenue (Rs. 1,59,709 crore) was 102% against 87% in 2019-20. Owing to the increased committed expenditure, part of the borrowings were used to fund the revenue expenditure and allocation for the capital expenditure (for undertaking various development works/projects) had come down from Rs. 46,512 crore to Rs. 39,125 crore in 2020-21. Reduced revenue has resulted in increased borrowings and interest payments. The percentage of interest payments to revenue receipts increased from 9.3% in 2018-19 to 14.2% in 2020-21, the MTFP said.  It will be difficult to adhere to Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act parameters unless long-term reforms are taken up. Fiscal Management Review Committee     The panel suggested that one of the ways to reduce expenditure was by removal of schemes whose size was less than Rs. 20 crore from the next financial year (2021-22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-for-abolition-of-posts-merger-of-departments-to-cut-expenditure/article34048938.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State targets addition of 20 GW of clean energy||Karnataka aims to add 20 GW of renewable energy (RE) projects with or without energy storage systems, including 2 GW of rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) projects, according to the Draft Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2021-26 which has been opened for objections. According to the document published by the Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd. (KREDL), the State is also looking at exporting energy outside Karnataka. The State, the policy document says, is one of the leaders in the country in RE, with a lot of potential, including solar, wind, solar-wind hybrid, biomass, waste to energy and small hydro projects. “Karnataka has about 86,792 MW of estimated RE potential, making it one of the country’s top five renewable rich States. Karnataka is the first southern State in India to notify the Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2009-14 in 2009. The policy initiatives have enabled the State to achieve capacity addition of 2,014 MW during the five-year policy period,” it added. Further, with the Karnataka Solar Policy 2014-21 targetting development of 6,000 MW solar capacity by 2021, the State has surpassed the target with a solar installed capacity of 7,366 MW as on December 2020, it said. “As RE becomes cheaper generation source for electricity in India (especially solar and wind energy), efforts are being made to initiate gradual replacement of existing conventional power generation capacities with renewable power generation capacities. “The key advantage of conventional power generation is high Plant Load Factor (PLF), firmness and flexibility in power supply. “In order to have same attractiveness, RE sources shall have these three attributes and the Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2021-2026,” the draft policy says, explaining that RE projects such as solar-wind hybrid with energy storage could be promoted. The focus of Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2021-2026 is to advance the RE market development in the State and facilitate the Central government efforts in meeting the RE target of 175 GW by 2022, it added. Senior KREDL officials told The Hindu that the objection period is under process, after which the policy will be submitted to the government for final approval. “The five-year plan has given emphasis on all renewable energies such as solar, solar-wind hybrid and battery charging, among others, apart from adding additional capacity of 20 GW. As Karnataka now has surplus power and demand has been met, we are in a position to export power to other States who have deficit. We will be able to do this through central government’s transmission network,” an official said. Green energy corridor The policy aims to develop Green Energy Corridor (GEC) for evacuation of large-scale renewable energy projects. “Karnataka has the highest installed capacity of renewable energy i.e. about 15,037 MW (as on December 2020) in the country. To attract more RE investments in the State, Karnataka is strengthening its transmission infrastructures,” it said, adding that the State is home to one of the world’s largest solar parks at Pavagada with a capacity of 2,050 MW, and having hosted private solar farms, Karnataka will now look at the development of wind park/wind solar hybrid park identified by the MNRE at Chitradurga, Davangere and Ballari, as well as Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks. With renewable penetration of about 50% in terms of capacity (as on December 2020) and about 30% in terms of energy (as on March 2020), the policy has also mentioned the need for energy storage system for incorporating further RE projects into the grid.  Karnataka has the highest installed capacity of renewable energy (15,037 MW). To attract more RE investments, Karnataka is strengthening its transmission infrastructures Draft Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2021-26||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-targets-addition-of-20-gw-of-clean-energy/article34048756.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Classes offline, but notes and study material shared online||When the Karnataka government gave the green signal for high school, pre-university and degree colleges to conduct classes on campus, students, especially those from lower income groups or living in rural areas, heaved a sigh of relief. A majority of them had been at a disadvantage during the lockdown as they did not have access to smartphones, laptops or tablets, or a reliable internet connection. However, resumption of classes in schools has not bridged the digital divide, as lectures and teachers continue to send notes, study material and assignments via email or on social messaging platforms. Shivalinga, who studies in a government pre-university college in Mysuru, said that although it had been over a month since classes on campus began, lecturers continue to rely on online tools. “I initially did not have a phone as it is not permitted to have mobile phones in my hostel. But it became very difficult for me as I had to stay back after class and ask my friends who had phones to share the study material. It is time-consuming to write down everything manually,” he said. According to students, teachers have to complete teaching the syllabus and do not want students to spend time in the classroom copying notes. Several school teachers admitted to sending study material and notes online to make up for lost time. H.M. Sithara, Bengaluru district president, All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO), said that more often than not, the notes are sent as PDF files. Lecturers are trying to cover six topics in three hours. “Prior to the pandemic, the same lesson plan would be covered in six hours. In schools and PU colleges, they have cut the syllabus, but in engineering and degree colleges, lecturers still need to cover the entire curriculum,” she said. Degree colleges re-opened in a phased manner from November 17. T.M. Manjunath, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said that teachers simply do not have the time to dictate notes. “In 90 working days, we get around 70 classes per subject. We need to complete the syllabus, conduct tests and seminars, and assess students. It is not possible for lecturers to dictate notes, but they are doing everything they can to help students. We need to finish portions for this semester for all intermediate semesters by March 20,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-offline-but-notes-and-study-material-shared-online/article34048765.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State records a spike||Karnataka on Thursday reported 783 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,57,584. Of these, 492 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. In fact, the State has been recording a spike in numbers in the past few days. From 590 cases on Tuesday, the new cases rose to 760 on Wednesday. Concerned over the rising numbers, members of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Thursday discussed the need for fixing revised testing targets across districts. Sources in the TAC told The Hindu that it is now essential to fix testing targets based on the prevalence of the disease in the districts. “It is essential that a minimum of 20 secondary contacts are traced and tested apart from all the primary contacts. We should be all the more vigilant now and will have to continue aggressive testing,” one of the members said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, attributed the upward trend to uninterrupted crowding at social, religious, and political gatherings without wearing masks. “It is everyone’s responsibility to contain the spread. Just because vaccine is available, it does not mean the virus has disappeared. We are noticing that masks are now mainly worn by hospital staff. People should not become complacent now,” he said. The State reported two deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 12,381. This is apart from 19 deaths owing to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-records-a-spike/article34048767.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Migration to large cities can be lowered’||There are three important changes that have taken place due to science and technology, which can be used to move forward with regard to climate change: availability of clean and renewable energy, change in the nature of manufacturing, and the way data is going to be used, said K. Vijaya Raghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India. He was speaking during the inaugural session of a webinar series on ‘Best Practices: Deliberating on a Way Forward’ organised by the Future Earth South Asia, Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) on Thursday. The future of the planet is indeed in our hands, he said, eventually elaborating on how we find ourselves in this situation, including the journey from how humans came about, through industrialisation and, the onset of the consequences of industrialisation, such as depletion of natural resources and enormous effects on climate change. Speaking about the important changes that have taken place due to science and technology, which need to be used to move forward apart from carbon capture, policies reducing emission of greenhouse gases and the like, he said availability of clean, renewable, cheap energy is important. “With better roads and internet connectivity, the migration to large cities can be lowered. Manufacturing will also be dominated largely by design,” Dr. Vijaya Raghavan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/migration-to-large-cities-can-be-lowered/article34049180.ece
12 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat on March 15||Employees Provident Fund Organisation, Regional Office, Peenya, is organising a pension adalat on March 15 between 11.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. to address the grievances of pensioners. The adalat will be held on its premises at Pragathi Mahalakshmi Building, No. 62, 3rd Cross, Industrial Suburb, Yeshwantpur II Stage. Pensioners having grievances if any, may send them on or before March 12, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-adalat-on-march-15/article34049179.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 11.84 lakh vaccinations||The total vaccinations in the State touched 11,84,401 on Thursday. This includes 2,17,085 senior citizens and 38,124 persons above 45 years with co-morbidities, who have been vaccinated since March 1. On Thursday, 12,427 senior citizens and 2,474 people above the age of 45 with co-morbidities took the jab. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers — 91,312 and 13,054, respectively — in these categories. So far, 4,74,982 healthcare workers and 1,71,684 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 2,74,015 healthcare workers have taken the second dose. In a tweet on Thursday, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar expressed concern over Maharashtra reporting 13,000 new cases. “This should be a warning bell... it is all the more important to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-1184-lakh-vaccinations/article34048769.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||T.N. Seshagopalan selected for music award||Sri Ramaseva Mandali Trust will confer the Sri S.V. Narayanaswamy Rao Memorial National Award, 2021, on noted Carnatic vocalist T.N. Seshagopalan. The award carries a purse of Rs. 50,000, a citation and a memento. Venue Sree Ramaseva Mandalu Trust, in a release, said the award will be presented to the renowned musician on May 1 at Gayana Samaja, Bengaluru. Earlier, the trust has conferred the award on 24 personalities. Objective The award has been initiated to perpetuate the memory of late S.V. Narayanaswamy Rao, founder of Sree Rama Seva Mandali, Chamarajpet, Bengaluru. He passed away in 2000. The trust said that the objective of the award is to promote Indian classical music by honouring an eminent musician who has made a significant contribution in preserving and propagating the art of classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tn-seshagopalan-selected-for-music-award/article34048935.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seminar on Adiga||A two-day national seminar on poet M. Gopalakrishna Adiga will be held from March 12 on Jain Deemed to be University premises, J.C. Road, in Bengaluru. It is being organised to mark the birth centenary celebration of the late poet. Further details can be obtained fromhttp://karnatakasahithya academy.org/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seminar-on-adiga/article34048936.ece
12 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cheating case||Hassan Extension Police have registered a complaint against a person on charges of cheating the reserve police constable recruitment authority. Gopal B. Kalliguddi, a native of Gokak in Belagavi district, had allegedly sent someone else on his behalf for the physical test, conducted as part of the recruitment process. H.A. Abrar, first divisional assistant of KSRP 11th battalion at Gadenahalli near Hassan, has filed the complaint with the police. Abrar said during the document verification of the candidates who applied for the posts he suspected Gopal B. Kalliguddi’s selection in the physical test. Upon verifying he was found to be 167 cm height, while the candidates to be eligible for the post should 170 cm of height. Later, it came to light the candidate had sent someone else on his behalf during the physical test held in Hassan on January 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheating-case/article34048913.ece
12 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Valuables stolen from house in Hassan||Unknown people made away with valuables worth Rs. 5.98 lakh after breaking open a house at Visvesaraya Extension in Hassan. Samkash S. Bhardwaj, a resident of the city, in his complaint to Pension Mohalla police said he and his family members had left the city on March 5. When they returned, they noticed the main door was opened and valuables including 50 grams of gold and three kg. of silver items were missing. The police registered the complaint on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/valuables-stolen-from-house-in-hassan/article34048914.ece
12 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP govt. in ‘intensive care unit, has no strength’||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, on Thursday, said the BJP government had been in the “intensive care unit” since it came to power. The government had no strength to address the issues bothering the common man of the State. He spoke to media during his visit to Haradanahalli, his native place in Holenarsipur taluk. The turn of events in recent days had made the public feel disgusted about politics and politicians. “Some people say there are a few more CDs related to other politicians. BJP MLA Yatnal said there are 23 such CDs. The people holding responsible positions must be spending sleepless nights over the CDs, instead of responding to people’s issues”, he said. ‘Disappointing’ The government had not taken up any development work for the benefit of people. The budget presented by the Chief Minister was also disappointing, he added. Mr. Kumaraswamy, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, former Minister H.D. Revanna and their family members took part in special prayers at the Eshwara temple in their native place on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-govt-in-intensive-care-unit-has-no-strength/article34048918.ece
12 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Best performing police staff honoured||The Chitradurga district police have identified their best performing staff and honoured them with certificates of appreciation and mementos. The exercise was conducted in this district for the first time to recognise the services of staff under 16 categories. Chitradurga Superintendent of Police G. Radhika and Additional Superintendent of Police Mananing B. Nandaganvi presented prizes andcertificates at a programme held as part of the annual police sports meet in Chitradurga on Wednesday. The ceremony was followed by a feast, in which senior officers served food to the staff — a practice followed in all the districts at the valedictory function of the sports meet. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Radhika said wherever she worked earlier she had the practice of identifying the best performers and honouring them. “Earlier, I did this in Mandya and Belagavi city. Now we have done the same in Chitradurga. The staff and officers are all happy. They said that such a thing had happened for the first time in the district.” The policemen were divided into different sections with different responsibilities. The 16 categories included investigation team, station writers, sentry duty staff, court staff, information technology wing, and records processing staff. “We did this to motivate our staff. This encourages them to work with enthusiasm and dedication. Initially, we identified the three best candidates under each category at the sub-divisional level. Later, the list was finalised at the district level. This achievement will be entered into their service register and it will be part of their career,” the SP said. The police staff selected as the best performers were elated by this gesture. B.M. Gnana Puneetha, head constable, who secured the first prize in the ‘Best Disciplined Staff’ category, said, “I am happy to receive this prize. Many thanks to the senior officers for recognising the best performing staff members. This recognition motivates us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/best-performing-police-staff-honoured/article34048760.ece
12 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three-day urs from March 29||The three-day annual urs at Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swami Dargah in Chikkamagaluru taluk will be held between March 29 and 31. Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh on Wednesday held a meeting with district officials to discuss the preparations for the event. He directed the officials to ensure basic amenities, such as drinking water, transport, and a temporary shed facility, for the devotees participating in the urs. He said the road to the shrine, Manikyadhara and Galikere should be repaired. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation officials were directed to ensure transport facilities for the devotees. Officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department were told to ensure an ambulance and emergency health facility at the shrine. Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay said that the police would take measures to prevent untoward incidents during the event. Regional transport officer Murugendra Shirolkar, tahsildar Kantharaja and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-day-urs-from-march-29/article34048761.ece
12 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CRS inspects railway track electrification||The inspection of the electrification of 65 route km (RKM) between Hubballi and Alnawar was conducted recently by the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) A.K. Rai. According to a press release issued by the Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway (SWR) the inspection was held recently with Mr. Rai and his team inspecting various aspects of the electrified rail route. Mr. Rai inspected the Traction Substation (TSS) at Hubballi, Sub sectioning and Paralleling Post (SSP) at Dharwad, Kambarganvi, Kashanatti and Sectioning and Paralleling Post (SP) at Kyarkop, Overhead Equipment, Level Crossing Gates, Foot Over Bridges and other works on the section. The Commissioner of Railway Safety also conducted speed trial with AC Loco from Alnawar to Hubballi, which is part of Hosapete - Hubballi – Vasco Da Gama section. Electrification between Kariganuru – Harlapur (73 RKm) which was taken up Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) was completed this year. With this, Electrification work has been completed from Hosapete to Hulkoti (99 Rkm), the release said. According to the release, electrification Work between Hulkoti to Hubballi and Alnavar to Castle Rock which is in progress is targeted completion in June 2021. The mandatory Electric Loco trial prior to the inspection by Commissioner of Railway Safety was conducted on March 3 in this section. So far 138 Km has been completed on this section. During the inspection by Mr. Rai, Divisonal Railway Manager of Hubballi Arvind Malkhede, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer of SWR Manoj Mahajan, Chief Project Manager-Railway Electrification of RVNL M. Ramakrishna, General Manager of RVNL Dinesh Jain, Joint General Manager ofRVNL H. Vijay Kumar and others were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crs-inspects-railway-track-electrification/article34048750.ece
12 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mixed reactions to State Budget||The Budget presented by Chief Minister and Finance Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for the year 2021-22 received mixed reactions from various quarters. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has praised the State Budget as the one which would pave the way for the progress of Karnataka. “It is for people of all regions, for the welfare of all, and has considered the aspirations of all communities,” he has said calling it a ‘women empowerment Budget’.  Job opportunities Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that the Budget comprised specific proposals for encouraging woman entrepreneurs and facilitating industrialisation in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. Listing out various proposals in the Budget, Mr. Shettar has said that the Budget proposals included investments proposals Rs. 10,000 crore in the next three years, which would create direct and indirect employment opportunities for nearly five lakh persons. National General Secretary of Janata Dal (Secular) and former MLA N.H. Konaraddi termed the budget disappointing especially for the Belagavi revenue division. While allocation for ‘Kalyana Karnataka’ was a welcome move, the Belagavi division had received poor treatment in the Budget, he said. Mr. Konaraddi said the Budget proposals pertaining to the region were small ones and major irrigation projects had not received requisite budget. As the Krishna basin projects required huge funds, the State government should prevail upon the Centre to get the Krishna project as a national project, he said. Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) termed the budget a ‘status quo’ and a ‘no tax hike normal’ Budget. President of KCCI Mahendra Ladhad and other office-bearers who spoke to presspersons after watching the live telecast of the Budget welcomed some of the proposals especially those relating to woman employees and entrepreneurs. Barring the railway project between Dharwad and Belagavi, not many development projects had been sanctioned to North Karnataka, they said. Although KCCI had submitted a proposal for the establishment of an industrial park in Hubballi-Dharwad Zone, Aerospace and Special Economic Zone proposals, they had not been considered in the Budget, the office-bearers including Vinay Javali, Siddehswar Kammar and others said. Working class neglected Criticising the Budget, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had neglected the working class and the Budget had failed completely to mitigate the sufferings of the common people. The State government had totally neglected the 32 point demand put forward by the working class and no relief had been announced to them and there was no proposal for any job creation, District Secretary Mahesh Pattar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mixed-reactions-to-state-budget/article34048748.ece
12 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Devotees throng temples||A large number of devotees on Thursday thronged temple across Kalaburagi city for Maha Shivaratri celebrations. The devotees came early in the morning to offer prayers and perform special pujas. The Ramtirth temple and the shivalinga at Bhramakumari’s Amrit Sarovar on the outskirts of the city were decked for the celebrations. A 24-feet high Shivalinga at Armit Sarovar in Geeta Nagar was decked up with plastic beads and flowers. Devotees from faraway places also reached Kaleshwar temple at Kalagi town, 30 km from Kalaburagi city, to pay their obeisance to the deity. People also made a beeline for the Sharnbasaveshwara temple and Shiva temples in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/devotees-throng-temples/article34048749.ece
12 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Private bus owners to suspend services via Hejmady from Mar. 15||Private bus owners operating shuttle services in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts have warned of suspending services via Hejmady from Monday onwards protesting compulsory levy of toll for buses plying through Hejmady village road. Kinnigoli Valaya Bus Malakara Sangha president and Canara Bus Owners’ Association vice-president Durgadas Hegde told The Hindu that toll plaza operator, M/s Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd., has been insisting on toll fee payment by shuttle buses plying via the Hejmady village road too from February 17. Erection of toll gate on the village road per-se was illegal; however villagers had agreed for the move as it prevented unauthorised movement of heavy vehicles inside the village to avoid the toll payment at the main toll plaza. The company had exempted shuttle buses from paying the toll since then (2019). Of the about 40 shuttle buses, 32 were now operating post COVID-19 lockdown and they make two to three round trips every day. The company was demanding Rs. 200 for every round trip, which the operators were resisting. They could not pass on the additional burden on passengers as they travel only short distances. Mr. Hegde said several representations to Navayuga and the district administrations of both the districts went unheard. Unlike express buses plying on the Mangaluru-Udupi sector, shuttle buses do not ply on the entire length of the national highway and move through interior village roads. They operate between different destinations, including Mangaluru-Karkala via Padubidri, Kinnigoli-Padubidri, and other places via interior roads. Bus owners, who were already under loss, do not want to further incur losses and hence have decided to suspend the operations from March 15, Mr. Hegde added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-bus-owners-to-suspend-services-via-hejmady-from-mar-15/article34049320.ece
12 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth sentenced to life for murdering relative||The 3rd Additional District and Sessions Judge Basappa Balappa Jakati recently sentenced 26-year-old Rajesh Poojary of Baltila village in Bantwal taluk to life and fined him Rs. 10,000 for murdering his cousin Ranjith, 27, in 2017. The judge also sentenced Rajesh to undergo imprisonment of six months for the offence under Section 324 of Indian Penal Code for assaulting Ranjith’s father Ganesh Poojary. He was also sentenced to undergo one month imprisonment and pay fine of Rs. 200 for the offence under Section 447 of IPC. All the sentences will run concurrently, the judge said. According to the chargesheet, Rajesh is the son of the Ranjith’s uncle Raju Poojary. On May 15, 2017, Ranjith went to a bar where Rajesh was and advised him not to fight with his parents. As they returned home, they had a fight. Rajesh went home, took a machete, and came to Ranjith’s house. He then attacked Ranjith and also hit Ganesh Poojary on his hand as he tried to intervene. Rajesh left his blood-stained shirt and escaped. Ranjith died on the way to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-sentenced-to-life-for-murdering-relative/article34049317.ece
12 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE sets up Centre for cGMP at Manipal||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) has set up a Centre for current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences in Manipal. Quoting Girish Pai Kulyadi, coordinator of the centre, a MAHE release said, “There is a huge industry-academia gap with respect to GMP concepts in academic curriculum and actual industry practice, and therefore academia has a major role to inculcate a strong GMP foundation in young brains.” He said the centre shall be rolling out well defined achievable objectives that will benefit the pharma students and technical staff at pharma companies. The cGMP centre shall be assisted by a five-member in-house team from academia and two experienced industry experts. The in-house team includes Girish Thunga, Muddukrishna BS, Arvind Pai, Vasudev R Pai, Ravindra U Shenoy. Mentors from pharma industry include Harish K Jain, Director of the Bengaluru-based Embiotic Laboratories (P) Ltd, and G Sundar, Director at the Chennai-based PharmQA Compliance Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-sets-up-centre-for-cgmp-at-manipal/article34049318.ece
12 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Paediatric nephrology unit opened||A paediatric nephrology division was inaugurated at Kasturba Medical College Hospital in Manipal on Thursday. It will provide diagnostic evaluations, medical treatments, and follow-up monitoring for children who suffer from the entire spectrum of kidney and urinary diseases. The new division will be overseen by Dharshan Rangaswamy who has obtained the Clinical Fellowship in Paediatric Nephrology, approved from Royal Australasian College of Physicians, Sydney, Australia, a hospital release said. Speaking after inaugurating the new division, Pushpa G. Kini, professor and unit head, Department of Paediatrics of the hospital, said that kidney disease patients should not take any medicines without consulting doctors. They should follow a healthy diet and should consume adequate water. The hospital also organised an educative session on kidney disease on the occasion of World Kidney Day. This year’s theme was ‘living well with kidney disease.’ Speaking on the occasion, Sharath K. Rao, Dean, KMC, Manipal, said that chronic diabetes and hypertension affect the kidneys. According to recent research, food grown from industrial waste can also cause kidney disease, the dean added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paediatric-nephrology-unit-opened/article34049324.ece
12 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||2.41 kg of gold seized at city airport||In one of the biggest seizures of smuggled gold in Mangaluru in the recent past, Customs officials seized 2.41 kg of gold valued at Rs. 1.1 crore from a passenger at Mangaluru International Airport on Thursday. A Customs release gave the name of the passenger as Mohammed Ali Sameera from Kasaragod in Kerala who was arrested. She was intercepted after arriving from Dubai in an Air India flight. According to the release, the passenger “tried to smuggle gold by concealing in both her inner garments including sanitary pads and also in socks. Foreign origin cigarettes violating COPTA regulations were also seized from her possession”. The release added that further investigation is under progress. The team was led by Kapil Gade, Deputy Commissioner, Air Customs, Mangaluru, and comprised Preeti Suma, Superintendent, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/241-kg-of-gold-seized-at-city-airport/article34049323.ece
12 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Train No. 06605 Mangaluru Central - Nagercoil Daily Reserved Special will be partially cancelled between Mangaluru Central and Shoranur Junction on March 14 and March 21 to facilitate the track maintenance work. The work will be taken at the Pallippuram Yard from 10.30 a.m. to 2.15 p.m. on those two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34049321.ece
12 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MyMUL polls: HDK to seek support||In a move apparently aimed at defeating the candidates loyal to disgruntled JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda in the ensuing elections to Mysuru Milk Union (MyMUL), former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday announced that he would be touring the district in support of the candidates who are the followers of the JD(S) as they wish to cleanse the “corruption-hit” system. Denying that he had taken the election as a prestige issue as Mr. Gowda, who has distanced himself from the JD(S) and the candidates loyal to his camp are trying to romp home in the March 16 elections, Mr. Kumaraswamy said, “I am here to save my party’s identity. The candidates who are my and my party’s followers have formed a group and are fighting the elections. In their interest, I am now getting involved in the election. The syndicate also has candidates loyal to the Congress.” Addressing a press conference here, Mr .Kumaraswamy said his participation in the election should not be seen as his show of strength. “The effort is to retain our strength. Therefore, I will be touring H.D. Kote, Periyapatna and Hunsur from Monday to seek votes for my party followers although it’s an apolitical poll.” Clarifying that he never took any interest in elections of this kind as it was entrusted to the leader of this area (without naming G.T. Deve Gowda), he said the recent political developments has prompted him to get involved in elections on the insistence of my party followers. “My brother H.D. Revanna used to take interest in elections of cooperative institutions. But, elections to such institutions are not governed by any rules. There is no rule book and the decisions taken by the officials of those institutions are final,” he said, narrating what his party supporters told him about how the elections are fought in such institutions, including MyMUL. Taking a dig at Mr. Gowda, Mr. Kumaraswamy said some leaders had taken the leadership in the past in such institutions. “The leaders whom we had trusted are not with us anymore. The voters should not get pressured by anybody, as there are allegations of corrupt practices which my party followers brought to my notice, prompting me to get involved in the polls to set things right. Money power will not sustain here,” he said, referring to his detractors. Mr. Kumaraswamy said if elections are fought on common guidelines in other cooperative institutions in the State, it is fought on a different rule book in MyMUL, which has not been questioned at all. “I don’t know who framed these rules and why there are two divisions of Mysuru and Hunsur when it comes to MyMUL elections.” When reporters asked why Mr. Kumaraswamy chose to take the lead in MyMUL elections, he said his family discharges its duties responsibly – “right from the time of Haradanahalli Anjaneya Seva Society till the Red Fort.” All elections matter, including small and big, as we need to stand in support of our supporters. There is no transparency in cooperative institutions and the government has kept silent to the wrongs happening there, he added. Former Minister S.R. Mahesh and leaders of the party were present. Mr. Mahesh has been put in charge of elections in Hunsur division while T. Narsipur MLA Ashwin Kumar is in charge of Mysuru division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mymul-polls-hdk-to-seek-support/article34048924.ece
12 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Renewable energy lights up tribal hamlet||In a move that will ensure uninterrupted power supply and ensure adequate lighting at tribal hamlets, the National Institute of Engineering (NIE) has proposed to install microgrids powered by solar and other forms of renewable energy. This will not only be an eco-friendly initiative, but will also give a boost to tapping solar energy and other forms of renewable energy such as wind. A pilot project in this regard has already been started at Hemmige tribal haadi in Hunsur taluk by the Centre for Renewable Energy and Sustainable Technologies (CREST) at the NIE. S. Shamasundar, head and chief coordinator of NIE-CREST, told The Hindu that the microgrid at Hemmige was a pilot project. The microgrid was of 1 kW capacity and was powered by solar photovoltaic, wind turbine, and biodiesel, making it a hybrid unit, and the trials which are on have shown encouraging results. He said eight houses in the hamlet have been energised using renewable energy sources, and this could prove to be a template to power remotely located tribal hamlets and rural areas where power supply is at best intermittent, if not totally absent. This is a first-of-its-kind renewable energy microgrid installed by NIE-CREST in this region, and is the way forward to the path of sustainable development based on renewable energy which is also decentralised. Students and staff of the mechanical engineering department, electrical, electronics and communication, industrial production and civil engineering departments, alumni of NIE, and tribal youth participated in the endeavour, according to Dr. Shamasundar. Cost of endeavour There are 30 more hamlets in the region, including haadis around the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, and NIE-CREST has prepared a proposal and will submit it to the government to cover these hamlets as well through renewable energy-powered microgrids. The installation cost of the microgrids is expected to be around Rs. 5 lakh per hamlet, covering all the households. S. Sreekanth of Development Through Education (DEED), an NGO working on tribal issues, coordinated with NIE-CREST on the pilot project. He said the concept was encouraging and had come as a ray of light for locals. “Nearly 4,000 tribal households in the region live without power in Hunsur and surrounding areas. Hence, we perceive the installation of renewable energy-based microgrids as a permanent solution as the power is free and decentralised, which means the local youngsters can be trained to maintain it,” Mr. Sreekanth. This initiative will not only ensure free and uninterrupted power supply to the tribal hamlets, but is also eco-friendly with low carbon footprint, which is in tune with the tribal culture and way of life, Dr. Shamasundar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renewable-energy-lights-up-tribal-hamlet/article34048763.ece
12 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Land acquisition policy welcomed||The budgetary proposal to formulate a new policy to enable the government to purchase the corridor area between two forest tracts to prevent human-animal conflict has evoked positive response from the officials. Sources in the Forest Department said there are small patches of private estates and lands between two swathes of forests close to established wildlife corridors. If the private land could be purchased then it will help widen the corridor and enable the free movement of animals, the sources added. A case in point is the requirement of nearly 50 acres to 75 acres of land abutting BRT Tiger Reserve and MM Hills for widening the Edyarahalli-Doddasampige elephant corridor. Sources said the local community was more than happy to surrender the land in lieu of compensation by cash or land allocation elsewhere. This is because some of the villages were on the fringes of the established ancient elephant corridors and there was no guarantee of an assured agricultural income because of the elephant movement that was high in the region. Though efforts were made in the past to widen the corridor it did not materialise as there were differences over the quantum of compensation. But with a policy in place the officials say they could pursue the issue afresh and even be in a position to pay for the local farmers willing to sell their land to the Forest Department. Though Karnataka did not have a policy as such for land acquisition to widen corridors, there were many such initiatives as part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) or NGOs purchasing land from private entities and handing it over to the Forest Department. But a policy for land acquisition for corridor widening is expected to give a fillip to the exercise, according to the officials. However, NGOs are sceptical of eco-tourism activities including starting of a wildlife safari in Gopinatham area of Chamarajanagar district for which Rs. 5 crore has been allotted in the budget. “These forests at MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary and even the adjoining Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary should be out of bounds for the public. On the one hand the government announces projects for reducing human-animal conflict. On the other hand it promotes tourism and related activity which will have a cascading impact on wildlife in the long run’’, bemoaned a wildlife activist working in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-acquisition-policy-welcomed/article34048916.ece
12 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Shivapura in Maddur to host ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’||Shivapura village in Maddur is among 75 places in the country which are commemorating the 75th anniversary of the freedom movement – Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav – on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be inaugurating the programme at Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat on Friday. The Mandya district administration is celebrating the occasion at “Satyagraha Soudha” in Shivapura, holding day-long events beginning at 6 a.m. The programme will take off with a yoga performance by about 75 yoga enthusiasts from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. This is being done on behalf of Ayush Department. In addition, a mass cleanliness drive will be taken up across Maddur town at the same time. This will be followed by “Sarva Dharma” prayer by the members of Department of Public Instruction from 7 a.m. to 7.15 a.m. The area around “Satyagraha Soudha” will come alive as attractive rangolis will be drawn using millets (siri dhanya). Also, a rangoli competition will be organised after the drawing of tricolor rangoli, from 7.30 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. A cycle jatha has been organized from 7.15 a.m. to 8 a.m. on behalf of the Department of Sports and Youth Empowerment which will be followed by a half-marathon at Maddur taluk stadium from 8 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. Other highlights of the occasion are march past at the stadium, procession of bullock carts on the streets of Maddur, procession of participants dressed like the people who were in the forefront of the freedom movement, police band and NCC and NSS cadets’ march past from 8.30 a.m. to 9 a.m. The Khadi Board has organised an expo of its products, books on freedom struggle, postal stamp’ display inside the Soudha besides a horticulture expo at 9.15 a.m. and the screening of a documentary on Dandi March. Interestingly, the history behind the freedom movement at Shivapura will be narrated in the form an exhibition at the Soudha. This will be followed by cultural programmes marking the occasion at the main stage in front of the Soudha at 10 a.m. From 4 p.m. to 5 p.m., the Forest Department will be planting over 75 different species of plants in the town besides the planting of medicinal plants by the Ayush Department. Another attraction awaiting the participants is the laser show at 7 p.m. on the history of freedom movement of Shivapura. Outside the Soudha, people from the Khadi Board will be carry out charka demonstration and students will be painting images of the freedom movement on the white cloth put up across the main streets of Maddur to mark the occasion.  a mass cleanliness drive will be taken up across Maddur town  Yoga performance on behalf of Ayush Department, ‘Sarva Dharma’ prayer, cycle jatha and mini-marathon also planned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivapura-in-maddur-to-host-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav/article34048922.ece
12 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mahashivaratri celebrated with fervour||Mahashivarathri was celebrated with religious fervour and devotion on Thursday with devotees making a beeline to Shiva temples apart from maintaining night-long vigil. At the Mysuru palace premises, the cynosure of all eyes was the Trinayaneshwara temple which has a hoary past. The temple traditionally draws a large crowd and it was no different on Thursday. The main deity was adorned with a golden mask to watch which the devotees make a beeline. It was presented to the temple by the last Maharaja Jayachamaraja Wadiyar and adorns the deity only during Mahashivaratri after which it is handed back to the authorities for safe keeping. The Gurukula on the Ramanuja Road, which has 108 Shivalingas, also drew a large crowd while there was a steady flow of devotees to other famed temples including the Mahabala temple atop the Chamundi Hills, the five temples dedicated to Lord Shiva at Talakadu including Sri Vaidyanatheshwara and Mudukuthore Mallikarjunaswamy temples, Maruti temple at T.K. Layout, and Chandramouleshwara temple at V.V. Mohalla. A 21 ft Shivalinga was made using over 8,000 coconuts by the Prajapita Brahmakumari Ishwariya Vidyalaya at Lalitha Mahal Palace grounds and drew a large crowd. However, the crowd was relatively less due to the fear of the pandemic in some temples. At MM Hills in Chamarajanagar district, there were restrictions on the devotees visiting the Male Mahadeshwara temple. The temple otherwise draws thousands of devotees not only from Mysuru and surrounding regions but also from Tamil Nadu. Similarly, Srikanteshwara temple at Nanjangud normally attracts a large crowd. But it was relatively less compared to the earlier years due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahashivaratri-celebrated-with-fervour/article34048928.ece
12 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Parva to make stage debut today||Friday will see the theatrical adaptation of S.L. Bhyrappa’s magnum opus Parva , which presents the story of Mahabharata from a non-mythological perspective, focusing on the psychological dilemmas of characters. The play will be staged by Mysuru-based theatre repertory Rangayana in what is billed as one of the longest dramas produced in recent years. Fast filling up The 7.30-hour-long play, interspersed with lunch and tea breaks, will be staged at Kalamandira in Mysuru on March 12, 13 and 14 from 10 a.m to 6.30 p.m. Theatre aficionados are making a beeline for procuring the tickets for the play directed by Prakash Belwadi who has adapted the novel to the theatre form. According to Rangayana Director Addanda C. Cariappa, more than 70% of the tickets have already been sold out and they expect a full house when the play unfolds. The adaptation of the novel to the stage has come more than four decades after the novel was first published. For Rangayana, the production is an affirmation of its reputation as an institution which has gone beyond the stereotypes in drama production. It has adapted and brought to stage the works of eminent writers to highlight contemporary issues plaguing society.  One of the plays Malegalalli Madumagalu, based on Kuvempu’s novel and produced in 2010, was a nine-hour-long production. In 2018, it produced Kuvempu’s Sri Ramayana Darshanam to mark 50 years of the Jnanpith award conferred on the writer. More than 40 artistes have rehearsed Parva for almost six months with Dr. Bhyrappa, who lives in Mysuru, himself witnessing it on a few occasions and giving his inputs. The play will subsequently move to other cities after being staged in Mysuru. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in his Budget tabled on March 8 has also announced Rs. 1 crore for the theatrical performance of Parva through Rangayanas in different parts of the State.  The 7.30-hour-long play, interspersed with lunch and tea breaks, will be staged at Kalamandira in Mysuru on March 12, 13 and 14 from 10 a.m to 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parva-to-make-stage-debut-today/article34048944.ece
12 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Let people decide GTD’s fate: Kumaraswamy||Ahead of the elections to the Mysore Milk Union (MyMUL), former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday said he has left to the discretion of the people to decide on the fate of disgruntled JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda, who has distanced himself from the party following differences with the leadership. When reporters sought to know whether the party will act against the MLA, the former Chief Minister said, “The people are watching his conduct despite being elected on the party symbol. Let them take the call. I personally don’t know where he is (apparently saying in which party). All are equal in the JD(S) with no culture of high command.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/let-people-decide-gtds-fate-kumaraswamy/article34048920.ece
12 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Probe unlikely to yield much: Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday said the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to probe former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s CD case will not be of much help since there are not many instances of the guilty in such probes being prosecuted. Speaking to reporters here, he sought to know against whom the government will act if the FSL finds the CD to be fake. Barring one or two cases, no one has been punished based on the outcome of the SIT probes, Mr. Kumaraswamy said. “I don’t know on what basis the order on constituting SIT has been issued,” he said. Taking a jibe at six Ministers of the Cabinet who sought injunction orders from the court against airing of any defamatory content against them soon after the alleged CD scandal emerged, Mr. Kumaraswamy asked: “When the Ministers are not in a position to protect themselves, how can they protect the people of the State?” “Mr. Jarkiholi appears to have realised now that he would not have been in this situation if I was in the Chief Minister’s chair,” he said. During his press conference, Mr. Jarkiholi, who is said to have played a key role in toppling the Congress-JD(S) coalition government, had thanked Mr. Kumaraswamy for the moral support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-unlikely-to-yield-much-kumaraswamy/article34048942.ece
12 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Track electrification work inspected||Track electrification has received a major impetus during the current financial year despite the economic downturn and financial constraints consequent to the pandemic. The railway authorities have completed electrification of 162 route km of track in the State spread across the three railway divisions. The Commissioner for Rail Safety, Abhai Kumar Rai, completed the mandatory inspection of a 50.56 km stretch between Thalaku and Chitradurga in the Mysuru Railway Division recently. The stretch is part of the ongoing electrification project between Rayadurga and Chikjajur. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru Division’ Manoj Mahajan, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer, South Western Railway; Dinesh Jain, General Manager (Electrical) Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL); and other senior officers were present during the inspection and trial run. The authorities said the section is energised with 25000 volts, 50 Hz, AC supply. Statutory warning boards have been exhibited at important places to create awareness among public, passengers and workers for their safety. The railway authorities here said that track electrification is part of the ongoing drive by the Indian Railways to complete electrifying the broad gauge network by 2023. Incidentally, the Mysuru Railway Division received adequate funding in the Union Budget for track electrification and this is expected to expedite the work. The division has received Rs. 112 crore for the year 2021-22 for the Mysuru-Hassan section which also connects to Mangaluru and is a major route for both freight and passenger traffic. This stretch in the Mysuru division also received the highest allocation in the entire State for electrification. As track electrification works does not hinge on land acquisition the works are expected to be completed as scheduled, according to the sources. The Mysuru-Chamarajanagar section which received Rs. 17.83 crore will cover 61 km and the Kadur-Chikkamagaluru section covering a distance of 46 km has received Rs. 5.89 crore. Apart from 50.56 route km of track in the Mysuru division, electrification of 47 route km of track between Periyanagathunai - Palakkodu, which is part of Baiyyappanahalli-Omalur section, and a 65 route km of stretch between Hubballi and Alnawar which is part of Hosapete-Hubballi-Vasco section, has also been completed and the sections were inspected by the CRS recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/track-electrification-work-inspected/article34048917.ece
12 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Banking services to be affected on March 15, 16||Banking services in Mysuru region will be hit on March 15 and 16 consequent to a nationwide strike called by various bank employees unions to protest the privation of public sector banks. As the banks remain closed on second Saturdays and Sundays, banking services will remain affected for four days though ATMs will be replenished with cash to enable withdrawals. But other services including cheque clearance will be affected. The United Forum of Bank Unions in Mysuru said their organisation consisting of 9 bank unions and representing nearly 1 million employees, will go on a two-day strike from Monday. H. Balakrishna, Convenor, United Forum of Bank Unions, said that there are nearly 500 bank branches in Mysuru district alone and almost 3,000 employees all of whom will participate in the strike. The employees will assemble at the SBI zonal office near T.K. Layout on Monday and on Canara Bank premises at Nazarbad on Tuesday and stage a protest demonstration. He said the hard-earned money of the public and the commoners is at stake and hence they seek their support. The private banks do not implement most of the government programmes that entails extending loans to farmers or local entrepreneurs, poverty alleviation programmes etc., and are driven only by profit motive. This will have a bearing on mass banking, said Mr. Balakrishna who pointed out that the government’s policy has also ushered in a low interest rate regime with the depositors unable to survive on the returns. With privatisation things will go from bad to worse and hence the public should also support the strike, he added. The bank unions said it was a myth that private enterprise epitomises efficiency and if that were to be the case there should not have been any NPAs running into crores of rupees from large private corporate entities. The UFBU said the nationalisation of 14 private banks in 1969 and 6 more in 1980 helped reach out to the common man and bank branches began functioning even in remote rural areas. Class banking was transformed to mass banking and the commoners could access banking services,. Dubbing the proposed privatisation move as regressive, the UFBU furnished the operating profits of the public sector banks of the last 10 years and said instead of strengthening them, the present policies are aimed at weakening them. Instead of tightening the laws to recover large NPAs and take criminal action against defaulters, the government has introduced insolvency and bankruptcy code which results in write-offs and dents the balance sheets of public sector banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banking-services-to-be-affected-on-march-15-16/article34048919.ece
12 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir DC instructs officials to complete SCP/TSP projects on time||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has instructed officials to complete the works under Schedule Castes Plan/Tribes Sub Plan. She reviewed the progress of development works under the SCP/TSP projects on Tuesday. “Officers should not wait till the end of March but implement the works once they get the administrative approval,” Dr. Ragapriya said. The DC further instructed the officials to provide the details with the progress report to the Social Welfare Department after implementation of the work. The district-level committee has given its nod on the proposal to distribute sites for the nomads. “The nomadic population in the district is around 42,581 and vacant sites have been identified in Hanchinal, Mudbul, Khanapur and Bevinalli villages,” Dr. Ragapriya said. “An amount of Rs. 33.26 lakh has been given to 1,563 students of the nomadic community from Classes II to X,” Prabhu Dhore, Officer of Backward Classes Welfare Department, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-dc-instructs-officials-to-complete-scptsp-projects-on-time/article34048751.ece
12 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||BJP will be taught a lesson in coming elections in five States: Khandre||Eshwar Khandre, KPCC working president, has said that people will teach the BJP a lesson in the elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, and Puducherry. He was talking with reporters in Yadgir. Mr. Khandre said that Central government has made the life of the common man miserable with its bad governance. The prices of petrol, diesel, and essential commodities have gone up. Because of all these reasons, the BJP will definitely face defeat in the elections, he added. He added that the State government is also following anti-farmer policies. Farmers, whose crops were damaged by natural disaster, were not paid compensation still. “Kalyana Karnataka still remains backward because of the stepmotherly treatment by the government,” he said. Against the announcement of Rs. 1,500 crore to the KKRDB, the government had released only Rs. 1,136 crore. “No development projects have been taken up,” Mr. Khandre said. He said that the Congress will take these issues in the coming byelections in Basavakalyan, Maski, and Sindagi for the Assembly, and in Belagavi for the Look Sabha. Mr. Khandre expressed confidence that his party will register victory in all by elections. He also said that a mammoth rally will be organised in Shivamogga on March 12 against the false case registered against Sangamesh, Bhadravathi MLA. When asked about Madhu Bangarappa joining the party, he said that party will get additional strength by his joining. Mr. Khandre said that ‘janadhwani’ programme will be organised in 100 constituencies to create awareness about the BJP’s governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-be-taught-a-lesson-in-coming-elections-in-five-states-khandre/article34048755.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||IMA victims may start getting some money||More than a year and a half after the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) Group of Companies investment fraud came to light in 2019, investors, who lost their savings, can look forward to getting some of their funds back. The competent authority overseeing the disbursal of funds announced on Thursday that a maximum of up to Rs. 50,000 will be transferred to all eligible claimants. Payment to those who can be covered in the approximately Rs. 5 crore available with the competent authority will be made on March 12, said Harsh Gupta, special officer and competent authority for IMA case in a press release on Thursday. The amount will be calculated after adjusting the payouts or profits received by claimants from their respective principal amounts, However, all claimants will not be paid simultaneously. The settlement is being done as an ad hoc payment, starting with depositors having the least eligible amounts to be paid. “Further amount would be transferred as per the orders of the court as and when more amount becomes available with the Competent Authority after confirmation of attachment of IMA properties by the court and sale of the same,” stated the press release. In February, the competent authority had told the Karnataka High Court that 65,258 claims had been received as against 69,099 accounts making a total claim of Rs. 2,695.13 crore. In the status report submitted to the court, Gupta had said that the first stage verifications of around 45,000 claimants has been completed, and the remaining claimants would be verified within a month. Those who have filed the online claim application either through Aadhaar OTP authentication or through UTR number authentication will be eligible to receive the amount only after completion of additional authentication. Check status Applicants can check the status of their claim verification and payment on the website imaclaims.karanataka.gov.in. In the menu, click on ‘on-line claim information’’ and select ‘know your claim status’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ima-victims-may-start-getting-some-money/article34049191.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Action to be taken against errant schools||He suggested that the Department of Public Instruction consider disaffiliating errant schools for violating the norms. Education officials said they have been receiving complaints from parents who are worried about putting their children at risk, especially in rural areas. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said Mr. Sudhakar discussed the issue with him. “This has also come to the notice of the department of public instruction. Deputy directors at the district level have been directed to initiate action against schools that are violating government norms,” he said. It was only on January 1 that the State government had given permission for schools to run classes on campus in a phased manner for high school and upper primary classes. However, many school managements, while acknowledging that they were conducting classes on campus, alleged that they were being pressurised to do so by parents themselves. “Many parents are refusing to pay the fees if we do not hold offline classes,” said a private school management member. Currently, the State government has granted permission to conduct offline classes for classes six and above across the State except Bengaluru Urban and areas around the Karnataka and Kerala border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-to-be-taken-against-errant-schools/article34049178.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Youth killed in washroom||An armed gang hacked a 19-year-old to death in a public washroom in Siddapura on Wednesday night. According to the police, the victim, Aakash, resided in Siddapura slum. “On Wednesday around 8.30 p.m., while Aakash was in the washroom near Moorumara Junction in Siddapura, five men armed with lethal weapons attacked him. They escaped before passers-by reached the spot,” said a police officer, adding that he died on the spot. A preliminary probe revealed that the assailants were looking for Aakash’s father, Velu, who they believed was responsible for the death of their cousin. “When they were unable to track him down, they decided to kill his son,” said a senior police officer. Incidentally, the deceased cousin, Rajavelu, would often have a drink with Velu. “A little over a month ago, the two men had visited a bar in Wilson Garden. While returning home, Rajavelu collapsed and died under mysterious circumstances,” said the police. The Wilson Garden police are waiting for the FSL report to ascertain the cause of death. However, Rajavelu’s cousins were convinced that Velu had killed him and decided to avenge him, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-killed-in-washroom/article34049188.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Book release on Saturday||The Kannada version of People’s History of India series volume 6, 7 and 25, compiled by Irfan Habib, Professor Emeritus of History, Aligarh Muslim University, will be released on March 13. The three books are: Post-Mauryan Political and Economic History of India, People’s History of India Volume 6 and Society and Culture in Post-Mauryan India. Dr. S. Chandrashekar, historian; Dr. K. Aruni, ICHR; and Dr. S.P. Vaagishwari, Christ University; will speak on the books. Translators of the books Dr. K.M. Lokesh, S.N. Swamy and T. Venkatesh Murthy will share their experience. After the release, there will be a lecture on ‘Why People’s History of India Series’ by Prof. Irfan Habib. Zoom meeting ID 89452788162 password 464071. The programme will be streamed live on YouTube and Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-release-on-saturday/article34049177.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-spirit/article34049183.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Biker dies in accident||A 30-year-old motorist died after losing control over his bike and ramming into a median near a hotel in Domlur in east Bengaluru on Wednesday night. The deceased, Jagadish Achari, was a carpenter. He was residing in Murugeshpalya, near Indiranagar, on Old Airport Road, said the police. He sustained severe head injuries and died on the spot. The Halasuru traffic police have taken up a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biker-dies-in-accident/article34049184.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Food delivery partner out on bail||The delivery partner who was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly punching a customer on her nose after they got into an argument was let out on station bail. The accused, Kamaraj, who has since been let go by food delivery app Zomato, told the police that the woman not only abused him but also attacked him with a slipper, following which he punched her in self-defence. “We are probing these allegations, as the victim has claimed to have attacked him only after he fractured her nose,” said a senior police officer. The incident came to light when make-up artist Hitesha Chandranee posted a video online describing the alleged attack, which occurred on March 9. She had ordered food around 3.30 p.m. and the delivery was expected within an hour. When the food did not arrive, she called the firm’s customer care number to lodge a complaint seeking a free delivery or cancellation of the order. When she was on the phone, Kamaraj arrived with the food. Later, the two got into a fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-delivery-partner-out-on-bail/article34049189.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru   Sheni Gopalakrishna Charitable Trust: Harikathe Ravana Vadhe by P. V. Rao, Sharavu Mahaganapathi temple premises, 4.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34049322.ece
12 March 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||It’s poll mode in Alappuzha||While the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has announced its candidates for eight of the nine Assembly constituencies in the district, the United Democratic Front (UDF) is expected to declare its candidates in the coming days. The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has so far announced three candidates. The candidates of the LDF and the BDJS have begun campaigning for the polls. In the LDF, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] is contesting in six seats, the Communist Party of India (CPI) in two and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in one. On Thursday, election convention of Thomas K. Thomas, NCP candidate in the Kuttanad constituency, was inaugurated by Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran. The election convention of P. Prasad, CPI candidate in the Cherthala constituency, was inaugurated by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. Other LDF candidates — P.P. Chitharanjan (Alappuzha), H. Salam (Ambalappuzha), U. Prathibha (Kayamkulam), Saji Cherian (Chengannur), Daleema Jojo (Aroor) and M.S. Arun Kumar (Mavelikara), all of the CPI (M) — have also hit the campaign trail. Meanwhile, the CPI is yet to finalise its candidate for the Haripad constituency where Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress will be seeking re-election. Among the BDJS candidates, Aniyappan will seek people's mandate from Aroor, while P.S. Jyothis and Pradeep Lal will contest from the Cherthala and the Kayamkulam Assembly constituencies respectively. In 2016 Assembly polls, the LDF won eight seats in the district. The UDF had to settle for Haripad, where Mr. Chennithala emerged victorious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-poll-mode-in-alappuzha/article34048875.ece
12 March 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Tribespeople, plantation workers hold key in Kalpetta segment||Kalpetta constituency is the only segment allotted for the general category among the three Assembly segments in Wayanad district. The constituency had favoured the United Democratic Front (UDF) in theAssembly and Lok Sabha polls in the past few elections, except in the Assembly polls in 2016. M.V. Shreyams Kumar of the Janata Dal (Secular) had been representing Kalpetta since 2006. However in 2016, Mr. Kumar, who was then part of the Janata Dal (United), was defeated by C.K. Saseendaran of the CPI(M) by a margin of 13,083 votes. Congress candidate M.I. Shanavas wrested the Wayanad constituency in the 2014 Lok Sahba polls for the second time by a margin of 20,870 votes. However, party leader Rahul Gandhi got the highest margin of 63,754 votes from the segment in the Lok Sabha elections held in 2019. He secured 1,01,229 votes, and his opponent P.P. Suneer of the LDF won 37,475 votes. The votes of its tribal population, and tea and coffee plantation workers will be the decisive factor in the Assembly elections in Kalpetta. However, going by the trend in the last local body polls, Kalpetta may favour the UDF this time, since the UDF had won eight of the 11 civic bodies, including the Kalpetta Municipality, in the polls. The LDF had bagged nine of the 11 civic bodies in the 2015 local body polls. The LDF allotted the segment to Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) after the entry of the party into the front. M.V. Shreyams Kumar will contest again in the constituency, this time for the LJD. The UDF is yet to announce its candidate in the segment. There are 1,98,598 voters, including 1,01,347 women and 97,251 men, in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribespeople-plantation-workers-hold-key-in-kalpetta-segment/article34048783.ece
12 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man, girl found dead||A man and a girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging inside a makeshift shed at Thazhemittom tribal hamlet at Ellumannam near Edavaka in the district on Thursday. The Mananthavady police identified the deceased as Vineesh, 27, of Thazhemittom tribal hamlet and Layana, 16, of the Perinjerymala tribal hamlet at Makkiyad near Vellamunda in the district.  The suicide prevention helpline of Disha can be reached on 1056, 0471-2552056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-girl-found-dead/article34048781.ece
12 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF will retain power, says Kanam Rajendran||Communist Party of India State secretary Kanam Rajendran on Thursday said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) would retain power with more seats in the coming Assembly elections. Speaking to reporters here, he said the achievements of the LDF government in the past five years of its rule had increased popular support for the front. Mr. Rajendran said the LDF had the support of all sections of the people. Despite a strong campaign by the Opposition against the government and the front, the LDF won a landslide victory in the local body elections, Mr. Rajendran said. The United Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party were working in alliance. The Congress was supporting the BJP’s policy of misusing Central investigating agencies for political purposes. The party did not realise that the biggest victim of the Central agencies outside Kerala was that party itself. Candidates for the four seats of the CPI would be announced within two days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-will-retain-power-says-kanam-rajendran/article34048778.ece
12 March 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Ire in CPI over seat to Chandrasekharan||Protests are brewing within the Communist Party of India (CPI) against the decision of the party to nominate Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan for the third term from the Kanhangad constituency. Ten branch secretaries boycotted a constituency convention to mark the campaigning of the Minister for the Assembly election on Thursday and intimated the district leadership their willingness to resign. The decision was announced by the branch secretaries of the Madikkai and Ambalathukkara local committees. They alleged that by giving another chance to Mr. Chandrasekharan, the party was neglecting Bangalam Kunhikrishnan, the Left Democratic Front constituency convener, who was on top of the nomination list submitted by the district committee of the CPI. ‘Demand ignored’ Mr. Kunhikrishnan, who is also a State council member of the CPI, tendered his resignation from the post of the LDF constituency convener. He told The Hindu that though most of the party members supported him and suggested his candidature, their demand was ignored. Hence, it was inappropriate to continue as the constituency convener. “I have forwarded my resignation to party secretary Kanam Rajendran. However, he asked me to reconsider my decision,” Mr. Kunhikrishnan said, adding that a final decision would be taken after further discussions. He said protests were brewing within the LDF as deserving people were being denied the opportunity to contest. The CPI has excluded Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, Forest Minister K. Raju and Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman from the initial list published early this week for the Assembly elections. They had contested the Assembly polls three times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ire-in-cpi-over-seat-to-chandrasekharan/article34048891.ece
12 March 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||CPI(M) may field Ramesan in Manjeswaram||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) constituency committee has proposed district committee member V.V. Ramesan as its candidate in Manjeswaram for the Assembly polls. The CPI(M), which announced 83 candidates on Wednesday, had left out Manjeswaram. Party district secretary N.V. Balakrishnan said here on Thursday that the State committee would be informed of the proposal, which would announce its decision. The district secretariat had decided to field Shankar Rai in Manjeswaram, which was reconsidered following opposition from the constituency committee. Mr. Rai had failed to garner expected votes as the CPI(M) candidate in the last Manjeswaram bypoll, with the party coming behind the Indian Union Muslim League and the Bharatiya Janata Party. It was against this backdrop that the party decided to field K.R. Jayananda in place of Mr. Rai. However, his name was rejected after the constituency committee leaders expressed doubts about his acceptance among Hindu voters. Following this, the name of Mr. Ramesan, former Kanhangad municipal chairman and Democratic Youth Federation of India State treasurer, was suggested. His candidature was accepted at the district secretariat meeting on Wednesday and was presented at the constituency committee meeting held at Manjeswaram on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-may-field-ramesan-in-manjeswaram/article34048864.ece
12 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Uproar over KC(M) candidate in Piravom||Protests by Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers in Kuttiyadi over the party conceding the seat to the Kerala Congress (M) have its echoes in faraway Piravom, with seat aspirant and KC(M) youth wing leader Gils Periappuram quitting the party. Irked by the KC(M)’s decision to field Sindhumol Jacob, a CPI(M)-backed block panchayat member from Uzhavoor, he said on Thursday that it was a “payment seat”. “Money changed hands with a Congress leader, who has for long been eyeing the seat, brokering the deal,” alleged Mr. Periappuram, two-time councillor at Piravom. He said he had a longer association with the KC(M) than Jose K. Mani, the party supremo himself. Through the day on Thursday, the CPI(M) was in a bind over the question of a party member being fielded as candidate of another political formation. CPI(M) stance In the evening, however, V.N. Vasavan, party district secretary in Kottayam, cleared the air saying Ms. Jacob was no longer a branch committee member of the CPI(M) and was free to contest the elections as a KC(M) candidate on its symbol. “She had contested the local body polls as a CPI(M)-backed Independent but had not renewed her party membership. There was some confusion about this among Uzhavoor local committee members, but the talk of her having been ousted is wrong, as only the district committee can expel anyone. But she is not a party member in the first place,” Mr. Vasavan said, adding that she was a good candidate for the front from Piravom. Earlier in the day, Ms. Jacob had herself said that her candidature had been approved by the State leadership of the CPI(M). “I have never held any official position in the party and contested the local body polls on all four occasions only as a Left Democratic Front-backed Independent,” said Ms. Jacob. The uproar would have little impact on her electoral prospects, she said. Sources said the KC(M) and the LDF fielded her as she was from the constituency where Jacobite votes were decisive. “She is a member of the Church and this is going to help for sure,” said a leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uproar-over-kcm-candidate-in-piravom/article34048888.ece
12 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cycle lane delineators on smart roads soon||Delineators will be installed on bicycle lanes on ‘smart roads’ in the city to prevent other vehicles from parking on them, official sources said. This comes in the wake of the impending launch on Saturday of the first lot of 360 shared bicycles that will be based at 60 terminals across the city, as part of a joint initiative of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) to launch 1,000 shared bicycles. It will be tried out first on Abraham Madamakkal Road. There were widespread complaints from cycling enthusiasts that even heavy vehicles were being parked on the lanes, despite their discernible green colour and markings. Many motorists park vehicles on road shoulders, footpaths, and cycle tracks, even though there are pay-and-park facilities in the vicinity. The under-utilised parking space owned by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) at Marine Drive ground is a case in point, they added. CSML has readied a pair of cycle lanes on either side of the stretch from Rajendra Maidan to Queen’s Walkway on Chatiath Road, as part of the initiative to promote non-motorised transport. Furthermore, the agency is readying a scale-up plan, to have more such dedicated lanes on other arterial roads. A list of priority roads is being readied, it is learnt. Accidents That the city is not quite safe for bicycle riders can be gauged from an accident that occurred a week ago in Thripunithura, when a boy was run over by a lorry after he fell off his cycle on an ill-maintained stretch beside the road. “Lack of earmarked lanes for bicyclists is a major hurdle that we face,” said Legi Philip Pothen, a former Air Force officer, who often moves around on a bicycle in his neighbourhood. “Unauthorised and haphazard parking by cars and other vehicles is yet another problem, including on service roads of the NH Bypass,” he added. Regaining space KMRL Managing Director Alkesh Kumar Sharma and his wife are among those who cover long distances on bicycles at dawn. “The pandemic and the ensuing increased health consciousness have led to a huge demand for cycles. This manifold increase in their number has in turn led to a marked change in the way motorists view cyclists. Back in 2019 when I arrived in Kochi, motorists used to honk to prompt cyclists to give way. Now, it is the other way round, and they give way to us, including at junctions. After all, roads are meant for pedestrians and cyclists too. They must reclaim this right. Although not mandatory, helmet is being seen as a safety requirement by cyclists,” he said. Last-mile connectivity On the impending shared cycle venture, Mr. Sharma said they would come in handy for people who seek last-mile connectivity. “That there are 60 terminals where they can be stationed is an added attraction, since they are available every 500 metres. We must take cue from cities like Barcelona, Bogota, Medallin, and even Pune, where cycling is accorded the pride of place. “After all, the average speed of vehicles in Kochi is around 20 kmph during peak hours, and it is easier to bicycle to a destination than rely on car or scooter. It is also a sustainable way of living / transport. Ultimately, Kochi must become like Singapore or European cities where pedestrian is the king,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-lane-delineators-on-smart-roads-soon/article34049287.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Back on the pitch again for those fabulous replays||There were a few bald heads out there on the pitch, while some of them had fast receding grey hair and quite a few spotted a paunch. But then looks hardly mattered, names did. For, the names that featured in the exhibition match between the veterans of the Kerala Police team and Bolgatty FC at the Ambedkar Stadium on Thursday brought back an avalanche of memories of an era when Kerala football was probably at its zenith, and an Indian side without some of those marquee Malayali players was unthinkable. For the Kerala Police, there were the likes of I.M. Vijayan who roamed around the opposition box with his now legendary predatory poaching instincts, while Kurikesh Mathew took the ball to 20 yards off the box before letting loose a fierce strike, and K.T. Chacko dived to the left to gather a catch. Playing for his boyhood club in the opposition rank and marshalling the midfield was P.P. Thobias, in whose honour the match was held. For Bolgatty FC, a 48-year-old club from Ponjikkara, Mr. Thobias remains its most celebrated son, and there was no better farewell than bringing together his teammates for an exhibition match. “We were planning to organise a farewell for him when it became clear that many of his teammates from the Kerala Police team would be turning up,” said Bonny Thomas, an artist and an avid football fan from Ponjikkara. Mr. Thobias, who retired as chief marshal at the Kerala Assembly, burst into limelight captaining the Indian youth team in Bangkok in 1982-83 before donning the Indian colour in the SAF Games in 1992. While former Indian and Kerala players who turned up for the event recalled his exploits, the best compliment came from his first coach Rufus D’Souza. “His character and sincerity shone through. In football, you need to respect the ball, and the ball will give that respect back. He had that quality,” said Mr. D’Souza. “Even in the past, footballers mostly came up from impoverished grounds, and the background of players like me and Vijayan proves it. So, it is my mission to identify and groom players from such backgrounds,” said Mr. Thobias, who also sought support from all for his proposed football academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-on-the-pitch-again-for-those-fabulous-replays/article34049292.ece
12 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sea cucumbers worth Rs. 5.45 crore seized||The Lakshadweep Forest Department has busted an inter-State sea cucumber poachers’ racket with the seizure of 486 dead sea cucumbers worth approximately Rs. 5.45 crore, along with two fishing boats. Seven persons were arrested on Wednesday night. The Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force watchers of the Thinnakkara anti-poaching camp who were on night patrol around Perumalpar islands caught the seven red-handed. They hailed from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi, and West Bengal. The seized vessels and the arrested persons were taken to the Agatti range office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-cucumbers-worth-rs-545-crore-seized/article34048899.ece
12 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vypeen swings between rival fronts||Though Vypeen has swung between the two major fronts over the years, S. Sarma, the two-time sitting MLA, had turned it into a safe bet of sorts for the LDF in the last decade by notching up two back-to-back impressive victories. In the first election in 2011 since the constituency, previously known as Njarakkal, was delimited and rechristened as Vypeen, Mr. Sarma emerged victorious with a margin of 4,958 votes and a vote share of 50.37% against his Congress rival Ajay Tharayil. He further tightened his grip five years later when he improved his vote share to 52.24% and almost tripled the lead to 19,353 against the Congress rival K.R. Subhash, one of the biggest victory margins for an LDF candidate in Ernakulam district in that election. But the LDF dominance had little impact in the Lok Sabha election held three years later when the Congress candidate from Ernakulam constituency, Hibi Eden, literally swept through the Vypeen Assembly constituency, comprising eight panchayats, to notch up an impressive lead of 23,241 votes against his immediate LDF rival P. Rajeev. Balance of sorts was restored in the last year’s local body poll when both fronts shared the spoils with the UDF winning Mulavukad, Edavanakkad, Nayarambalam, and Elamkunnapuzha panchayats and the LDF bagging Kadamakudy, Kuzhipilly, Njarakkal, and Pallippuram panchayats. In the 14 elections since 1957, the constituency has voted for the Congress and the Left seven times each though Congress candidate K.C. Abraham made a formidable start by registering a hat-trick of victories in the elections held in 1957, 1960, and 1965. The LDF decision to replace Mr. Sarma with debutant K.N. Unnikrishnan seems to have led to a sudden spike in Congress aspirants for Vypeen , with numerous names like that of former MP K.P. Dhanpalan, INTUC national secretary K.P. Haridas, and former minister Dominic Presentation making the rounds. Mr. Unnikrishnan is a member of the CPI(M) district secretariat. Mr. Sarma’s absence is likely to throw open the electoral arena like never before in the last decade. V4 People and Twenty20 are also likely to field their candidates in the constituency. The BJP is rumoured to be toying with the idea of taking back the seat from its ally, Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), this time. In the last election, the BDJS candidate managed to secure just 10,051 votes, which was marginally improved by the BJP Ernakulam Parliament constituency candidate, K.J. Alphonse, to 14,940 votes in the Lok Sabha poll in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vypeen-swings-between-rival-fronts/article34049295.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||20% of sitting MLAs faced tight race||The previous State Assembly elections held in 2016 were a close call for many of the legislators, going by their margin of victory. Twenty-seven of the 140 sitting MLAs passed the electoral battle by securing a margin of less than 5,000 votes. Of them, eight were candidates of the CPI(M)and one was an Independent backed by the LDF. The IUML was second, with five of its MLAs making it to the Assembly through a margin of less than 5,000 votes. They were followed by the CPI (4), the Congress (3) and the KC(M) (3). The Congress (S), NCP and the NSC marked one each.  Among the CPI(M) legislators, four cleared the electoral test by a margin of less than 2,000 votes. The corresponding number of candidates of the IUML was also four as they had a neck-and-neck race with the LDF candidates. Only one of the four MLAs of the Congress figured in the category of elected members who could manage a lead of less than 2,000 votes. Two CPI MLAs also figured on this list. Eleven candidates of the NDA had won over 20,000 votes in the constituencies in which the winning candidate had a victory margin of fewer than 5,000 votes. Of them, six secured more than 30,000 votes. Anil Akkara of the Congress entered the Assembly with the lowest victory margin of 43 votes in the race for the Wadakkancherry constituency. P. B. Abdul Razak of the Muslim League, who represented Manjeswaram, edged past K. Surendran of the BJP by a lead of 89 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20-of-sitting-mlas-faced-tight-race/article34048871.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Dharna to denounce ‘arbitrary’ Church rule||The Joint Christian Council will hold a dharna in front of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese office here at 3.30 p.m. on Sunday, demanding the rollback of a new rule passed by the Syro-Malabar Church Synod, under which action can be taken against people who make critical statements about priests. The rule reminds one of Inquisition that was introduced in the 12th century and was in vogue for 200 years. Sunday’s dharna will be inaugurated by retired civil servant Thomas Mathew. Felix Pulloden of the JCC will preside. The protest comes in the wake of an individual being made to apologise and fall at the feet of a priest in Iritty, after he reportedly criticised the priest. Such rules have far-reaching repercussions and contravene the Constitution, the JCC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dharna-to-denounce-arbitrary-church-rule/article34049288.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Absconding accused held||The Chengamanad police on Thursday arrested a man who has been absconding in a case registered for immoral traffic. The accused man, identified as Sooraj, 40, was arrested from Palakkad. The case was registered by the police on spotting a car found suspiciously parked near the Kochi airport. The case was registered in an intensified drive being carried out by the police to nab long absconding accused ahead of the forthcoming Assembly elections. A team led by Chengamanad Station House Officer L. Sajin, assistant sub inspector Rajesh Kumar and civil police officer Sebastian made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/absconding-accused-held/article34049297.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||557 recoveries, 205 new cases in district||Ernakulam district witnessed 557 recoveries from COVID-19 and 205 new cases on Thursday. Two health workers tested positive for the virus. There were 20 new patients at Edappally, nine each at Thrikkkaara and Perumbavoor, seven each at Aluva, Mulanthuruthy and Mazhuvannur and six each at Ernakulam South and Thripunithura. The active caseload in the district dropped to 5,265. A total of 6,565 swab samples were sent for testing on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/557-recoveries-205-new-cases-in-district/article34049293.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for duping businessman||The Central police on Thursday arrested the key accused in a case of fraud in which he allegedly duped a businessman of Rs. 75 lakh on the promise of securing him a bank loan of Rs. 11 crore. The arrested is Jeo Mathew, 44, of Idukki. The fraud was carried out by convincing the petitioner that he needed to deposit Rs. 50 lakh as fixed deposit in the bank and shell out Rs. 25 lakh as commission. The members of the gang masqueraded as bank representatives to pull off the fraud. When the petitioner realised the fraud and confronted the accused, he was allegedly issued a death threat. Following this, the petitioner approached Central police who formed a special squad to nab the perpetrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-duping-businessman/article34049298.ece
12 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Aged couple found dead||After an aged couple were found dead at Chennoor in Kadamakkudy, the Varapuzha police said the husband, who apparently suffered from mental illness, had murdered his wife before taking his own life. Joseph, 80, and his wife Leela, 76, were found dead at their home on Wednesday around 10 p.m. “It is confirmed that the husband murdered the wife even as the immediate family has no doubt about it. She was probably hit with an axe on the head,” said Mahendra Sinhan, Station House Officer, Varapuzha. The couple were alone in the house as their three children stayed separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aged-couple-found-dead/article34049290.ece
12 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||LDF poll conventions today||P. Rajeev and Shaji George, Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates of Ernakulam and Kalamassery respectively, will formally kick-start their campaigns with election conventions on Friday. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac will open the convention in the Kalamassery constituency at 4 p.m. and the one in Ernakulam at 5 p.m. The Ernakulam convention will be held at the Ernakulam Town Hall and the Kalamassery meeting at Chakolas Pavilion Event Centre. CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan and other LDF leaders will attend. Meanwhile, the candidates visited prominent personalities in their respective constituencies. Mr. George met literary critic M.K. Sanoo. CPI(M) leader P.N. Seenulal, Kochi Corporation standing committee chairman P.R. Renish, and book publisher CICC Jayachandran accompanied the candidate. He also met CPI leaders in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-poll-conventions-today/article34049289.ece
12 March 2021||Kollam,KERALA||LDF campaign gathers pace||With the Left Democratic Front (LDF) kicking off its election conventions on Thursday, campaigning has gained momentum in the district. While seven sitting MLAs, including Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, are in the fray, the CPI(M) has fielded State secretariat member and former Rajya Sabha MP K.N. Balagopal in Kottarakara and newbie Sujith Vijayan in Chavara apart from M. Naushad (Eravipuram) and actor M. Mukesh (Kollam). In the four CPI seats, G.S. Jayalal and R. Ramachandran will seek re-election from Chathannur and Karungapally respectively. The candidate for Punalur is P.S. Supal and the party is yet to announce the candidature of J. Chinju Rani in Chadayamangalam reportedly due to internal disputes. Kovoor Kunjumon of the RSP(L) and K.B. Ganesh Kumar of Kerala Congress (B) are the other names on the LDF list. Ms. Mercykutty Amma was elected from the Kundara constituency thrice and she is also the only woman minister from Kollam. K.N. Balagopal, another senior leader and former CPI(M) district secretary, has replaced P. Aisha Potty who had represented Kottarakara three times in a row. For actor-turned-politician Mr. Mukesh, it will be his second time, like M. Naushad, and both are expected to build their poll campaign on the development plank in their respective constituencies. CPI's P.S. Supal, a popular leader who replaced Minister K. Raju, has represented the Punalur constituency before. Tough battle Mr. Ramachandran is expected to face a tough battle in Karungapally, while Chathannur is the only constituency where a triangular contest is likely. The Chavara seat had fallen vacant after the death of N. Vijayan Pillai in March last year and his son, Sujith Vijayan, will be contesting there as an LDF independent candidate. Mr. Kunjumon and Mr. Ganesh Kumar were elected from Kunnathur and Pathanapuram respectively for four consecutive times since 2001 and both are gearing up for their fifth electoral battle. Meanwhile, all the three RSP candidates contesting in the district — Shibu Baby John (Chavara), Babu Divakaran (Eravipuram) and Ullas Kovoor (Kunnathur) — had an early-bird advantage as their names were announced on March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-campaign-gathers-pace/article34048877.ece
12 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Veteran and newcomer in fight for coastal seat||A former Minister pitted against a first-timer — Chavara is all set to witness an interesting electoral battle between Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) stalwart Shibu Baby John and Sujith Vijayan, LDF Independent and the son of the late MLA N. Vijayan Pillai. In nine out of the 10 Assembly polls since the formation of the constituency in 1977, Chavara has stood with the RSP and it is no secret that the party enjoys a massive vote base there. But in 2016, the segment threw in a surprise when Communist Marxist Party (CMP) candidate and Left Democratic Front ally N. Vijayan Pillai defeated Mr. John by a margin of 6,189 votes in the RSP stronghold. The Chavara segment covers seven divisions of the Kollam Corporation (Maruthadi, Sakthikulangara, Meenathuchery, Kavanad, Vallikeezhu, Alattukavu and Kannimel) and five grama panchayats (Chavara, Neendakara, Panmana, Thekkumbhagom and Thevalakkara). Baby John, one of the founders and formidable leaders of the RSP, had represented the constituency six times and his son, Mr. John, was elected from Chavara in 2001 and 2011. After Baby John’s death, Mr. John formed the RSP(B) and contested the election as a coalition partner of the United Democratic Front (UDF) in 2001. He defeated RSP’s V.P. Ramakrishna Pillai by a margin of 12,483 votes, but in 2006, he lost to RSP leader and current Kollam MP N.K. Premachandran. Past results In 2011, the tables were turned and Mr. John won the electoral battle defeating Mr. Premachandran. Later, the RSP(B) merged with its parent party and Mr. John once again entered the fray as UDF candidate in 2016. Though everything seemed to be in favour of him, Mr. John received the biggest setback of his political career when Vijyan Pillai clinched the victory. Vijayan Pillai, who started off as an RSP worker, had later joined the Congress and then the CMP. He had served as a local body member for over 20 years and was quite acquainted with workers of both fronts. After he won the 2016 election as an LDF Independent candidate, the pro-LDF faction of the CMP merged with the CPI(M). Flanked by the Arabian sea and Ashtamudi Lake on two sides, the constituency has a considerable population of fishers. Mr. John has been a constant presence in all protests organised by the UDF against the alleged deep-sea fishing contract and the front is expected to turn the issue into a major poll plank. While the RSP will leave no stone unturned to recapture its citadel, the LDF camp seems equally determined to retain it. The National Democratic Alliance, which fielded M. Sunil of the BJP during the last Assembly polls, is yet to announce its candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veteran-and-newcomer-in-fight-for-coastal-seat/article34048860.ece
12 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||It’s Mani legacy vs Mani namesake in Pala||The last time Pala went to the polls two years ago, the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani had bet heavily on a runaway victory that would help maintain its predominance in Central Travancore. The Assembly segment, represented by the KC(M) continuously for 54 years till 2019, was widely regarded as its citadel. But that was only until K.M. Mani, its founder leader, contested from the seat. In the byelection that followed Mani’s death, Mani C. Kappan, Left Democratic Front candidate, pulled off an improbable victory and, in doing so, shook the KC(M)’s supremacy over the rubber heartland. Upset victory The upset victory notwithstanding, a reshuffle of the State’s long-standing coalition equations followed. Despite the setback, Mr. Jose K. Mani still maintained his grip on the party and oversaw a transition of the KC(M) to the Left coalition. Mr. Kappan, in return, joined the rival coalition and floated a new outfit on his own – the Nationalist Congress Kerala. Now with the State on the threshold of another election, Pala is in for a direct fight between Mr. Mani and Mr. Kappan. The rivalry is so intense that even their family members are on the street reaching out to every voter in person. Mr. Kappan had cashed in on the infighting in the KC(M) to win the bypoll two years ago. Since then, he had kept his stake for the seat alive through systematic work. Mr. Mani joined the battle call in January when he resigned from the Rajya Sabha. Kappan’s performance The performance of Mr. Kappan over the last 16 months as a legislator with the support of the Left Democrtic Front government now serves the Congress-led United Democratic Front’s purposes. Adding to the sitting MLA’s confidence is the UDF machinery which has now lined up behind him. The CPI(M)-led LDF camp, however, is confident. It has worked out a coordinated action plan as both the KC(M) and the CPI(M) command a significant booth-level presence across the segment. Strict directives have been issued to the lower rungs of the coalition to maintain the momentum gained during the local body elections and ensure Mr. Mani’s victory. “The local body election results have shown that Mr. Mani can make a comeback despite temporary setbacks. But several of the panchayats in the Assembly segment still favour the UDF. And if P.C. Thomas, another Kerala Congress veteran, joins the race as the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance candidate, Pala is in for a high-stake battle,” observed a veteran leader. Some of the key factors that may decide the candidates’ fortune include the undecided voters, who may have voted for the ruling front in the previous election, the stance of the Catholic Church, and the perceived crisis in the natural rubber sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-mani-legacy-vs-mani-namesake-in-pala/article34048867.ece
12 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Where legislators made a mark||From an overgrown town, Kozhikode has transformed into a tier-III city in the past decade or so. And, legislators of Kozhikode North Assembly constituency have been the driving force behind the rapid transformation of the city. Right from the erstwhile British era, the region has been the hub for governmental activity. But today, the cityscape reflects the infrastructure growth, gesturing towards a positive sign of development in the future. The civil station, the military barracks at West Hill, Calicut Diocese Bishop’s House, major educational institutions such as the government medical college, government homoeopathy college, Malabar Christian College, Devagiri St. Joseph’s College, Providence Women’s College, government engineering college, government polytechnic college, and the women’s polytechnic college fall under this Assembly segment. The urban constituency comprising 32 divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation has a demographic profile with over 60% belonging to the Hindu community, the majority being Nairs. Muslims and Christians constitute 25% and 15% respectively of the remaining population. In the recent three-tier local body polls, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front won 23 divisions; the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) four, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) five. Left parties garnered 47,977 votes, while the UDF and the BJP received 34,616 and 30,678 votes respectively, thereby indicating a three-cornered contest in the Assembly polls. The electoral history of Kozhikode has interesting facts – the CPI(M) has been winning the Assembly polls hands down after it fielded A. Pradeep Kumar in the 2006 polls. Before the delimitation of Assembly segments in 2008, the constituency was known as Kozhikode- I. However, in the Lok Sabha polls, as was seen in most Assembly segments in Kozhikode district, the UDF had an upper hand. Congress candidate M.K. Raghavan had secured a lead of 1,862 votes in 2009 parliament elections. The same pattern was repeated when Mr. Raghavan got 1,519 and 4,558 more votes than the CPI(M) candidates in the 2015 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Incidentally, Mr. Pradeep Kumar was fielded to take on Mr. Raghavan in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. For long since 1977, the segment was held by the CPI (M). The late Congress leader A. Sujanapal had captured the seat in 1991 polls. From then the electorate has been switching loyalties. The late CPI (M) leader M. Dasan, who wrested the seat in 1996 elections, however lost to Sujanapal in the subsequent polls held in 2001. Now, the CPI(M) has decided to field former Mayor Thottathil Raveendran to retain the seat, while the BJP is planning to nominate its State general secretary M.T. Ramesh and the Congress K.M. Abhijith, State president of the Kerala Students Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-legislators-made-a-mark/article34048775.ece
12 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Search ‘Avakasham’ to know more about postal voting||A portal titled ‘Avakasham’ to disseminate information on postal voting is among the highlights of the Assembly polls in Kozhikode district. ‘Clear doubts’ District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao told the media on Thursday that senior citizens, differently abled people, COVID-19 patients, those who are under observation, and other sections can utilise postal votes. http://www.avakasham.kerala.gov.in would go live soon. Doubts can be cleared by calling 1950, 18004251440, and differently abled people can dial 18005990469. 24.7 lakh voters Mr. Rao said that steps were being taken to ensure basic facilities in all polling stations. Protective measures against COVID-19 would be taken. A total of 24.7 lakh voters were spread across 13 constituencies in the district. The final figure of voters might change. There would be 3,790 polling stations, of which 2,179 are main polling stations and the rest are additional facilities, where there are over 1,000 voters. All the polling centres would be disabled-friendly and green protocol would be enforced. There are 1,230 sensitive booths, 82 vulnerable booths, 77 critical booths, and those facing Maoist threat are 67. Web casting had been arranged in 1,900 polling stations. Squads had been formed to oversee the election process, Mr. Rao added. The administration has appointed two police observers, seven public observers, and three others to keep a tab on the expenses. Football match Meanwhile, a friendly football match would be held under the aegis of the district administration and the Kerala Suchitwa Mission on March 17 to create awareness on the polls. Sushanth Mathew, former ISL player, would participate in the match to be played at the corporation stadium at 4.30 p.m. Entry is free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-avakasham-to-know-more-about-postal-voting/article34048784.ece
12 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Discontentment in LDF over seat-sharing||The entry of the Jose K. Mani-led Kerala Congress (M) into the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has not only deprived existing partners of the front their traditional seats but has caused discontentment in the CPI(M) as well. In the seat-sharing arrangement in the front, the CPI(M) had to sacrifice seven seats to its constituents, including its traditional seat Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode. Of these, five were the party’s sitting seats. As of now, the CPI(M) will contest 85 seats; Communist Party of India (CPI) 25, down from 27; Janata Dal (Secular) four; Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Indian National League, three each; and Congress (S), Janadhipathya Kerala Congress, Revolutionary Socialist Party (Leninist) and Kerala Congress (B) one each. The Kerala Congress (Skaria Thomas), which contested a seat last time, was not considered. However, the biggest gainer in the seat-sharing package was, of course, the Kerala Congress (M) which secured 13 seats. The party was offered the Kuttiyadi segment where it did not even have a clear voter base. Instead, the party had asked either the Perambra or the Thiruvambady seat in Kozhikode district. Several other constituents, particularly the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), which was inducted into the LDF recently, were unhappy with the seat arrangement. When the party as the State unit of the Janata Dal (United) was in the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) camp, it had contested seven seats in the 2016 polls. “Switching coalition was a losing proposition although we secured three sitting seats. But we are not sure whether these seats are really safe now,” a senior leader said. The Janata Dal (S), its rival socialist partner, was given four seats, possibly out of loyalty after the party had stayed with the LDF. Both the LJD and the CPI leadership feel that the perception generated within the LDF that the entry of the Kerala Congress (M) will help the front garner votes of the Christian community in Kottayam, Idukki and Ernakulam regions was far from reality. Certainly, its entry had salvaged the LDF parties in the three-tier local body polls, a CPI leader said.  The biggest gainer in the seat-sharing package is KC(M) which got 13 seats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discontentment-in-ldf-over-seat-sharing/article34048861.ece
12 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Test positivity rate falls to 2.95% in Kozhikode||The COVID-19 daily test positivity rate (TPR) slumped to 2.95% in Kozhikode district on Thursday, when only 261 of the 8,839 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. This is the lowest TPR recorded in recent months here. Just two months ago, the TPR here had been hovering around 12%. However, by February mid-weeks, cases started declining and more recoveries are being reported now. Experts say that if the TPR is below 5% for consecutive weeks, that could signal a low transmission of the infection. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 228 locally acquired infections and the source of 29 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 69 cases, Thamarassery 12, and Thurayoor 9. As 388 people recovered from the infection, the active caseload went down to 3,871. Meanwhile, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao asked the sectoral magistrates to increase the surveillance on face mask usage in crowded places such as markets, beaches, and parks. Special focus should be on places where rallies, and public meetings are held for the Assembly polls. Fine should be collected from those who don’t follow the COVID-19 protocol. A maximum of 200 people can attend feasts and other events. The sectoral magistrates were also told to supervise COVID tests and vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-falls-to-295-in-kozhikode/article34048776.ece
12 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man kills wife, ends life||A native of Atholi in Kozhikode district, who was accused of killing his wife by smashing her head with a log, was found dead on Thursday morning. According to sources, Krishnan, 59, hit his wife, Shobhana, 50, when she was sleeping. The murder reportedly occurred around 12 a.m. Shobhana died some time later and there was none else at home. Though the police and local residents searched for Krishnan who fled the spot after the incident, he could not be found. Later, Krishnan was found hanging near their ancestral house. Family disputes are reported to have led to the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-kills-wife-ends-life/article34048777.ece
12 March 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Anwar back after business trip in Sierra Leone||Nilambur MLA P.V. Anwar, who was away in Sierra Leone in West Africa for the past couple of months in connection with a Rs. 20,000-crore business project, returned to the State on Thursday. Mr. Anwar, who was elected from Nilambur as Communist Party of India (Marxist) Independent in the 2016 elections, will be contesting the April 6 Assembly polls from the same constituency. Several CPI(M) workers with party flags were at the Karipur airport since morning to receive him. The MLA’s absence in the poll-bound State had sparked off various speculation, including that he was behind bars in the African nation. However, Mr. Anwar clarified through a video post on social media a few days ago that he was in the African nation in connection with a gold-diamond mining project and would return to India to contest the Assembly elections. “I came to Sierra Leone for a gold-diamond mining project after researchers had found deposits of gold and diamond in the 50,000-acres forestland. The project has a potential of generating about 25,000 jobs,” he had stated. Mr. Anwar had also stated that he had 30% stake in the project. The ruling CPI(M) on Wednesday released its list of candidates for the Assembly polls.  He clarified through a video post that he was in the African nation in connection with a gold-diamond mining project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anwar-back-after-business-trip-in-sierra-leone/article34048901.ece
12 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Cong. leader issues ultimatum||Dissident Congress leader A.V. Gopinathan has issued an ultimatum to restructure the party district committee if the party wants him to continue in the Congress. The former district president of the Congress said here on Thursday that he would wait until Friday night for the Congress leadership to take a decision. He indicated that he would quit the party along with a good number of followers if the Congress did not respond to his demand for restructuring the district leadership. Meeting of supporters “The leadership cannot go ahead by ignoring the feelings of the party workers. I continue with my demand for overhauling the district leadership,” Mr. Gopinathan said at his house at Peringottukurissi. A meeting of his followers was held at his house on Thursday afternoon. Several Congress leaders, including Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, Oommen Chandy and K.C. Venugopal, had contacted Mr. Gopinathan to appease him. KPCC working president K. Sudhakaran had held discussions with him and assured him an amenable solution. Mr. Sudhakaran, after discussions with Mr. Gopinathan, had described him as a leader with a mass following.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-leader-issues-ultimatum/article34049365.ece
12 March 2021||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||Sabarimala to open on March 14||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala here will be opened on March 14 for the five-day monthly pooja for the Malayalam month of Meenam and for the Uthram festival. According to the Travancore Devaswom Board, Melsanthi V.K. Jayaraj Potti will open the sanctum sanctorum under the guidance of Tantri Kandararu Rajeevaru at 5 p.m. on March 14. Pilgrims will be permitted temple entry from the next day morning. In view of the COVID-19 situation, only devotees who have booked slots through the virtual queue will be allowed darshan. Officials said only those producing COVID-19 negative certificates tested within 48 hours of the visit would be permitted entry to the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-to-open-for-five-day-puja/article34048880.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP works only for the affluent, says Kodiyeri||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) works for the interests of the affluent alone, despite claiming to represent a majority of the country’s population, Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said. He was inaugurating a Left Democratic Front (LDF) convention organised to drum up support for V.K. Prasanth, its candidate in Vattiyurkavu Assembly constituency, on Thursday. ‘Bent on privatising’ “Besides setting a dangerous precedent of dividing the nation on religious lines for a few votes, the Sangh Parivar is now hell-bent on privatising the country. The Prime Minister has gone to such an extent to espouse privatisation that it is bound to affect large sections depending on public sector enterprises,” he said. Mr. Balakrishnan, who had kept off public programmes since October 2019 due to health reasons, said the Left alone could counter the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-Sangh Parivar agenda since the Congress had diverged from its founding principles on secularism. He added that the Congress has begun to self-implode with the “exodus” of numerous party workers, the latest being veteran leader P.C. Chacko. Mr. Prasanth said projects worth Rs. 1,123 crore had been implemented in Vattiyurkavu constituency since he had been elected legislator 17 months ago. The government has initiated various infrastructure projects in each of the 24 wards in the segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-works-only-for-the-affluent-says-kodiyeri/article34049397.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF, UDF hopeful here, cautious too||The Neyyattinkara Assembly constituency has kept swinging between parties, without any overwhelming favourite, for the past six decades or so. The upcoming elections will be closely watched to see if the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) rivalry throws up a tight contest here, even as the increased presence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) heightens expectations of a three-cornered fight. Few can forget the dramatic events that unfolded here in the early years of the past decade when MLA R. Selvaraj of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] resigned in March 2012, sending shock waves through the political establishment. The controversy Mr. Selvaraj, Parassala MLA, wanted to contest from there itself in the 2011 Assembly polls, but was shifted to Neyyattinkara against his wish. He defeated Congress strongman Thampanoor Ravi by a comfortable margin of 6,702 votes. Mr. Ravi had won from here three consecutive times in 1991, 1996, and 2001. However, following turmoil within the CPI(M), Mr. Selvaraj resigned, citing factionalism. The MLA also alleged that he was being targeted by a section of the district leadership. He crossed over to the Congress, and fought the 2012 byelection where he was pitted against F. Lawrence of the LDF and O. Rajagopal of the BJP. Mr. Selvaraj secured 52,528 votes against the 46,194 bagged by Mr. Lawrence. Mr. Rajagopal raised his party’s tally in the constituency by over four-fold when compared to the the 2011 election, securing 30,507 votes. Mr. Selvaraj’s win also upped the UDF’s slender majority in the 140-member Assembly to 73. In the 2016 Assembly elections, K. Ansalan of the LDF defeated Mr. Selvaraj by a margin of 9,543 votes. It was sweet revenge for the LDF, still hurting from the 2012 loss at the hands of its former MLA. The National Democratic Alliance’s Punchakkari Surendran polled 15,531 votes. First winner In the first elections held in 1957, R. Janardhanan Nair of the Communist Party of India won from Neyyattinkara. In 1960, P. Narayanan Thampi of the Praja Socialist Party emerged victorious. Five years later, G. Chandrasekhara Pillai secured a win for the Congress. In 1967, the Congress retained the seat through R.G. Nair. In 1970, R. Parameswaran Pillai of the CPI(M) defeated former MLA R. Janardhanan Nair of the CPI to reach the Assembly. In both 1977 and 1980, R. Sundaresan Nair, an Independent, defeated Mr. Parameswaran Pillai. In 1982, S.R. Thankaraj claimed the segment for the Janata Party, winning against Mr. Sundaresan Nair of the National Democratic Party. Five years later, he retained the seat defeating K.C. Thankaraj of the Congress. Hat-trick for Cong. Thampanoor Ravi won the next three Assembly elections here; in 1991, 1996, and 2001. In 1991, he won against S.R. Thankaraj, in 1996 against Charupara Ravi of the Janata Dal, and in 2001 against S.B. Rosechandran of the Janata Dal (Secular). In 2006, V.J. Thankappan of the CPI wrested the seat from the Congress by defeating Mr. Ravi by a slender margin of 746 votes. But the constituency swerved the Left way again in 2011. Post-delimitation There are 1,83,295 voters in the constituency – 89,039 males, 94,254 females, and two from the transgender community – as per the voter list on January 20. After the delimitation exercise a few years ago, the constituency comprises the Neyyattinkara municipality, and Athiyannoor, Chenkal, Karode, Kulathoor, and Thirupuram panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-hopeful-here-cautious-too/article34049394.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||FRAT releases its wish list||The Federation of Residents’ Association Thiruvananthapuram (FRAT) has spelt out its demands to the three political coalitions for the Assembly polls. The umbrella organisation of residents’ associations in the district submitted a list of 17 demands relating to the capital district’s development for inclusion in the election manifestos of the CPI(M), the Congress, and the BJP. The federation has demanded steps to realise the district’s long-standing dream of a shipyard in Poovar which, they say, is crucial for exploiting the potential of the Vizhinjam international seaport. The preparation of a master plan to develop the capital as a port city is also essential. Medium metro rail They have also proposed the creation of a Greater Trivandrum Corporation or a separate department for the capital city’s development. Urging political parties to drop the ongoing efforts for a Light Metro, the FRAT has sought a medium metro rail project that links the Vizhinjam seaport, the international airport, IT parks, and the satellite city. Other demands include an All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) centre, a High Court Bench, Attukal township, a beach and backwater tourism circuit linking Kovalam, Veli, Kadinamkulam, Varkala and Kappil beach, and a hill tourism circuit linking Ponmudi and Neyyar dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frat-releases-its-wish-list/article34049395.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SVEEP activities get under way||Stern action would be taken against poll officials who do not act impartially, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said on Thursday, adding that the cooperation of the public was essential for free and fair elections. Mr. Meena was speaking after inaugurating the district-level Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activities in connection with the April 6 Assembly polls in the State. Mr. Meena also released the logo. Informed decision The Election Commission of India had made arrangements to create an environment that will enable voters to exercise their franchise without fear. The election process was transparent, Mr. Meena said, urging voters to avoid considerations of religion and caste when casting their vote. SVEEP is the flagship programme of the Election Commission for spreading voter awareness and promoting voter literacy in the country. It is aimed at encouraging all eligible citizens to vote and make an informed decision during elections. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who presided, urged all electors to exercise their franchise in the upcoming Assembly elections. The election would be conducted in strict accordance with COVID-19 guidelines and Green Protocol, she said. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty, Rural SP P.K. Madhu, DCP Vaibhav Saxena, District Development Commissioner Vinay Goyal, and SVEEP brand ambassador Tiffany Brar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sveep-activities-get-under-way/article34049404.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister’s remark pushes Sabarimala into pollscape||Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran appeared to have made Sabarimala an active talking point in the Assembly election campaign on Thursday. Mr. Surendran remarked that the events that had unfolded in the wake of the Supreme Court’s majority decision allowing women of all age groups to worship at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in 2018 had “saddened” everybody. The State had witnessed widespread social upheaval and violent protests against the Left Democratic Front government’s bid to implement the judgment. Mr. Surendran’s remark appeared to have evoked images of the tumultuous days in several quarters. Nair Service Society (NSS) general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair reacted sharply to Mr. Surendran’s comment. He said a passing expression of regret would not pull the curtains down on the highly emotive issue. He dared Mr. Surendran to file a fresh affidavit in the Supreme Court considering the 2018 decision. The political circumstances that prompted the Minister to express the regret were obvious. He should display his sincerity if he were true to his words. He should file a new affidavit in the apex court seeking a ban on the entry of women between the age of 10 and 50 to the temple, Mr. Nair said. The NSS said the LDF government had favoured the entry of women of all age groups to the Ayyappa temple in an affidavit filed in the apex court in 2007. The United Democratic Front government countermanded the sworn statement in 2012. It pointed out in a fresh affidavit that the earlier administration’s sworn statement in the matter contravened Rule 3(B) of the Kerala Hindu Places of Public Worship(Authorisation of Entry) Rule, 1965. The LDF government which came to power in 2016, revived the first affidavit and paved the way for the SC order in 2018. The NSS said the LDF government had not factored in the sentiment of the Ayyappa devotees. It also attempted to impose the Supreme Court order without consultations and in a ham-fisted manner. Chennithala’s stance Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Mr. Surendran attempted to weep crocodile tears for Ayyappa devotees with an eye on the elections. Mr. Surendran and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan owed a public apology to Ayyappa devotees. The Congress had stated that Sabarimala was an election issue in the minds of the electorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministers-remark-pushes-sabarimala-into-pollscape/article34048894.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool drops by 50%||The rapid drop in Kerala’s active pool of COVID-19 cases has been phenomenal, with the active caseload dropping by nearly half in just a month’s time, even when the State is recording close to 2,500 cases daily. The active pool had 33,785 patients on Thursday. On February 11, the number of active cases was 63,915. The State has been reporting a significantly good number of recoveries, much higher than new cases on a daily basis, which has helped the active case pool drop rapidly. However, Kerala continues to report a steady number of deaths, on an average 15 deaths daily. On Thursday, the number of new cases reported in the State was 2,133 when 69,838 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden of COVID-19 cases to 10,85,663. Test positivity The test positivity rate on Thursday dropped to the lowest levels reported till date after the cases surged to a peak in October last at 3.05%. With 3,753 recoveries being reported on Thursday, the cumulative recoveries now stand at 10,47,226. On Thursday, the addition of 13 deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State took the cumulative toll to 4,355. Of the new cases, 1,876 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections, through contact with other infected persons. These include infections reported in 14 health-care workers. In 77 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States. No history of travel or contact with infected persons was reported or known in the case of 180 infections Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 261, followed by Pathanamthitta reported 206 cases, Ernakulam 205, Kannur 200, Kottayam 188, Malappuram 179, Thrissur 172, Alappuzha 168, Kollam 152, Kasaragod 117, Thiruvananthapuram 116, Palakkad 88, Idukki 46, and Wayanad 35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-case-pool-drops-by-50/article34048789.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||275 venues identified for campaign meets||The district administration has identified 275 venues in the 14 Assembly constituencies in the district for holding public meetings during the election campaigns for the upcoming polls. District Collector Navjot Khosa said public meetings and conventions should strictly adhere to COVID-19 norms. While 40 of the venues have been arranged in the city, the rest are spread across the other parts of the district. In city, the prominent venues (spread across the Kazhakuttam, Vattiyurkavu, Thiruvananthapuram and Nemom constituencies) include Karyavattom University ground, Karyavattom LNCPE ground, Vanashree auditorium in Vazhuthacaud, Chandrasekharan Nair Stadium, Central Stadium, University Stadium, Shanghumughom beach and Valiyathura ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/275-venues-identified-for-campaign-meets/article34049398.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three pairs of MEMU to operate in State||The Railway Board has permitted running of three pairs of 12-car mainline electrical multiple units (MEMU) express unreserved special trains in the State. Kollam Junction-Alappuzha MEMU express special (06014) will leave Kollam Junction daily at 3.30 a.m. from March 15 to reach Alappuzha at 5.45 a.m. and the pairing train (06013) will leave Alappuzha daily at 5.20 p.m. from March 17 to reach Kollam at 7.25 p.m. Alappuzha-Ernakulam Junction MEMU express special (06016) will leave Alappuzha daily at 7.25 a.m. from March 15 to reach Ernakulam Junction at 9 a.m. and the pairing train (06015) will leave Ernakulam Junction daily at 3.40 p.m. from March 17 to reach Alappuzha at 5.15 p.m.. Ernakulam Junction-Shoranur Junction MEMU (06018) will leave Ernakulam Junction daily at 5.35 p.m. from March 15 to reach Shoranur Junction at 8.50 p.m. and the pairing train (06017) will leave Shoranur Junction daily at 3.30 a.m. from March 17 to reach Ernakulam at 6.50 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-pairs-of-memu-to-operate-in-state/article34048904.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No fuel pumps within 50 m of schools: child rights panel||No permission should be given to build petrol pumps within 50-m radial distance of schools in the State, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. Acting on a petition that alleged construction of a petrol pump within 50 m of Government Upper Primary School, Thaikattussery, commission member K. Nazeer said as per a circular issued by the State Pollution Control Board, petrol pumps should not be allowed within 50-m radial distance of schools and hospitals. If at all a petrol pump had to be set up within 50-m owing to some exigency, local bodies should ensure that safety guidelines stipulated by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation were being strictly followed. However, on no account should the pump be located within 30-m radial distance from the school. The PCB circular, the commission said, had been issued on the directions of the National Green Tribunal. Ensure compliance The Local Self-Government Secretary, Panchayat Director, and Municipal Director should issue orders that the local bodies had to ensure compliance with these safety guidelines before giving permission for setting up petrol pumps, the commission said. The grama panchayat secretary’s report to the commission said the panchayat committee had unanimously decided against giving permit to the petrol pump after receiving complaints from the school management committee, the headmistress, and the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-fuel-pumps-within-50-m-of-schools-panel/article34048873.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Date for birth registration||The government has issued an order extending the last date till June 22 this year for birth registration of children born before June 23, 2015. Those who have not made the registration yet should do so before the last date, said a press release from Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/date-for-birth-registration/article34049391.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||116 new cases in capital||The active COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram fell below 2,000 for the first time in several months to reach 1935 on Thursday. As many as 116 COVID-19 cases and 193 recoveries were recorded during the last 24 hours. The district administration placed 1,094 people under quarantine. With this, there are currently 15,725 in quarantine at houses and 42 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/116-new-cases-in-capital/article34049400.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested||Shaji, 32, was arrested by excise officers on charge of possessing 1.5 kg of ganja near Nedumangad on Thursday. He was arrested during an inspection conducted at the Vattavila junction in Kallayam and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested/article34049401.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Union flays examination postponement||The Kerala School Teachers’ Union has that postponement of the SSLC and Plus Two examinations was an injustice to lakhs of students. In a statement here on Thursday, the union alleged that only a pro-Left teachers’ union had claimed difficulties for teachers in carrying out election duty during the examinations. A majority of teachers’ organisations had said that the election duty would not affect the conduct of the examinations. With Ramzan fasting beginning in April, students would be put to lots of hardship to appear for the examinations, particularly in the harsh summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-flays-examination-postponement/article34048905.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kidney diseases centre set up||The first centre for prevention and early detection of chronic kidney disease (CKD), an initiative of the Tamil Nadu Kidney Research (TANKER) Foundation with the cooperation of the Kerala Kidney Research Foundation and St. Behanans Church, has begun functioning at Vennikulam in Pathanamthitta district. P. J. Kurien, former Deputy Chairman, Rajya Sabha, formally opened the centre. Community model Georgi Abraham, a leading nephrologist in Chennai, who founded the TANKER Foundation, said that the centre was set up as a community model for promoting early detection and treatment of kidney diseases. “An estimated 2,50,000 persons develop chronic kidney disease in the country every year. However, setting up more dialysis centres is not the answer for tackling the burden of CKD in the community. We need to counsel people and encourage them to undergo simple basic tests like serum creatinine and urine albumin periodically, which would give the first indication that they could be at risk of developing chronic kidney disease,” Dr. Abraham said. The TANKER Foundation centre at Vennikulam will counsel patients and pay for the basic tests to be done at the nearest primary health centre. The data would be reviewed by a doctor and the patient referred at the appropriate time to a nephrologist, so that treatment can be initiated at the earliest. Dr. Abraham said that he intended to maintain the documentation of patients and follow them up. Kerala has a huge population of people with diabetes and hypertension and one in three with diabetes go on to develop kidney disease, which is silent or asymptomatic and progressive. Once end-stage organ damage has set in, the patient has to undergo permanent haemo dialysis or renal transplant. Dr. Abraham said that the focus has to turn towards helping people achieve better control of their blood sugar levels and blood pressure so that these do not result in organ damage.  The centre will counsel patients and pay for the basic tests to be done at the nearest primary health centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tanker-foundation-sets-up-centre/article34048882.ece
12 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Applications for German courses||The Department of German, University of Kerala, has invited applications for admission to its German certificate and German A1 Level (short-term) courses. While the 80-hour German A1 Level course requires a course fee of Rs. 8,000, the German certificate course will be spread over a year and has a course fee of Rs. 2,153.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-for-german-courses/article34048906.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala accuses CM of poll code violation||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of violating the model code of conduct. In a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner, Mr. Chennithala said Mr.Vijayan had used his press conference on February 4 and 6 to gain a propaganda advantage over the Opposition by elaborating on the schemes and achievements of the LDF government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-accuses-cm-of-poll-code-violation/article34048896.ece
12 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Classes to clear doubts on VICTERS channel||With the SSLC and Plus Two exams postponed to April 8, fresh classes based on focus areas stipulated by the SCERT and live phone-in programmes to clear students’ doubts in the context of the recently held model examinations will be telecast on the KITE VICTERS channel, KITE CEO K. Anvar Sadath said in a statement here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/classes-to-clear-doubts-on-victers-channel/article34048897.ece
12 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||ESAF founding day celebrated||The ESAF has completed 29 years since its inception and the ESAF Small Finance Bank has turned four. “The ESAF institutions have enabled creation of lakhs of job opportunities through micro-entrepreneurs,” said managing director and Chief Executive Officer of ESAF Small Finance Bank K. Paul Thomas, while speaking at ESAF’s founding day celebration held at ESAF Corporate Office, Mannuthy, near here. Former Supreme Court judge Kurian Joseph inaugurated the event via videoconferencing. “In a very short span of time, the ESAF Small Finance Bank has been able to fulfil the big dreams of the common people by establishing its inevitable presence in the non-banked areas of rural India,” Justice Joseph said. For the past 29 years, the ESAF has contributed much to lessen the income disparity in rural areas. The ESAF has also helped several families amidst the uncertainties of the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID care loans The bank has disbursed over 3 lakh COVID care loans to the tune of Rs. 552 crore. The bank has achieved a list of remarkable milestones, which includes 45 lakh customers, 527 banking outlets and 286 customer service centres across the country in a short span since its inception, according to a press release. Digital payment On its founding day, ESAF also introduced a digital payment facility for Sangam members and an application for financial transactions of micro, small and medium enterprises. Government Chief Whip K. Rajan, ESAF Financial Holding CMD Marina Paul, ESAF Co-founder Jacob Samuel, ESAF Small Finance Bank executive vice-presidents George Thomas, George K. John and Ajayan M.G. were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esaf-celebrates-founding-day/article34048872.ece
12 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Pinarayi is an autocrat, says Muraleedharan||Criticising Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for a seat-sharing formula with the Kerala Congress (M), Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has said the Chief Minister favours the ‘two leaves’ more than the red flag. Mr. Muraleedharan told newspersons here on Thursday that Mr. Vijayan was playing favouritism. “Those who agree with him will exist in the party. The Left front has been destabilised under the autocracy of Mr. Vijayan.” The CPI had become insignificant in the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Mr. Muraleedharan said. “Like everywhere in the country, the CPI(M) is a sinking ship. Workers with self-respect will escape from the ship. The CPI(M) thinks that the people can be fooled with PR work,” he said. Mocking at the remark of Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran that the Sabarimala incident was unfortunate, Mr. Muraleedharan said it was a political gimmick. There was no sincerity in that remark, he said. A meeting of State BJP leaders held here on Thursday made the final round of discussion on candidate selection for the Assembly elections. The announcement will be made in New Delhi on Friday. Earlier, BJP State president K. Surendran said Suresh Gopi, MP, could choose the constituency of his choice to contest. Informal reports said the national leadership of the BJP would decide whether Mr. Muraleedharan should contest or not. Reports said that technocrat E. Sreedharan would contest from Palakkad. Meanwhile, Union Minister Prahlad Joshy and Mr. Muraleedharan called on Archbishop of Thrissur Mar Andrews Thazhath at the Bishop Palace here. However, the Ministers said they discussed general issues, not politics.  The CPI(M) thinks that the people can be fooled with PR work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-is-an-autocrat-says-muraleedharan/article34048892.ece
12 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||R. Bindu applies for voluntary retirement||R. Bindu, Principal-in-charge of Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, has applied for voluntary retirement. Ms. Bindu, wife of CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan, is the LDF candidate at Irinjalakuda. She submitted her application for voluntary retirement to the Cochin Devaswom Board on Tuesday when she has two years for retirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/r-bindu-applies-for-voluntary-retirement/article34048893.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘We Help’ to beat students’ examination stress||The Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell of the Higher Secondary Education wing of the General Education Department will on Friday launch ‘We Help,’ a toll-free telephone service, to alleviate various pressures experienced by students in connection with the Plus Two examinations, and provide them, and their parents, necessary support. This year has been unlike any other for students. Stuck at home for months, students find it difficult to motivate themselves in the absence of peer interaction, and student-teacher interaction too suffered. Students may be unhappy with their preparations, or worried how to remember all that they studied, or be bogged down by pressure from family or friends to perform well. Parents too may be anxious about their wards’ performance in the examinations. Toll-free number Whatever be the problem, students and parents can call the toll-free number 18004255459 from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. to seek counselling. The number will be operational on all working days till the examinations conclude, a statement said. Ten counsellors associated with Souhruda Clubs functioning in schools under the cell will provide the counselling in two shifts. They have been provided training by the Bengaluru-based National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences and the Child Development Centre at the Government Medical College Hospital here. Souhruda Club coordinators in all 1,680 higher secondary schools have also been trained to provide support to students to beat the exam blues. On YouTube On Saturday, the counselling cell will organise a programme on mental health and how to face examinations with confidence for students. A panel of four psychiatrists will respond to students’ queries collected through school Souhruda Club coordinators, C.M. Azeem, State coordinator of the counselling cell, said. The programme can be viewed by Plus One and Plus Two students and their parents on the Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell’s YouTube channel. The cell in association with the Malappuram district administration has made arrangements for a telecounselling service at the Collectorate there, while in Kollam district, students have been provided contact numbers of teachers to seek their help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/we-help-to-beat-students-examination-stress/article34048788.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The Priest falters after initial promise||Subtlety in presentation is something that makers of new age thrillers, and even horror flicks, focus much on, as much as the plot twists and the story. But, when a mainstream star comes into the picture, often subtlety becomes a casualty. In The Priest , debutant Jofin T. Chacko has the unenviable task of striking such a balance, but gets away almost unscathed in letting the content take precedence over the star, although the same cannot be said if the movie as a whole is considered. Father Carmen Benedict (Mammooty), who spends more time on criminal investigation than on priestly duties, is investigating a series of suicides in the Alatt family, which he suspects to be murders. During the investigations, he comes across young Ameya Gabriel (Baby Monica), who seems to have a few mysteries of her own.  The Priest gets many things right in the first half, which remains focused on a series of deaths in the family. In fact, the first half could even work as a standalone movie, for the latter half takes off on a different tangent, which has nothing much to do with the initial investigation.  The one element of surprise kept in store for the interval might not be a surprise at all for those who have paid enough attention all along. Not much mystery left Even in the second half, when the horror elements kick in, the script is on track initially, when it manages to keep us guessing, and alternately evokes some chills. But, before long, things end up all over the place, with the audience getting more than a clue on what the mystery is all about. From this point on, one has to plod on through tedious, repetitive sequences for the script to tie up the whole thing officially. The weakest link is perhaps the reason for some of the mysterious happenings, which can make some go –“That’s all?” A few sequences at ‘explaining’ what actually had happened seemed to have been included probably because the makers underestimated the intelligence of the audience. The tone and mood of the film is a bit loud and uneven at various points, but it is still a notch better than some of the horror flicks in Malayalam. A word of caution Mammootty, the star, takes a backseat most of the times, letting the investigator priest take over except for a few fan-pleasing scenes, which is a welcome shift from many of his movies of the recent past. Manju Warrier’s role is almost a short cameo, while Baby Monica steals the show as Ameya. However, some of the rather violent sequences involving the child can be hard viewing for other children, and even adults. Coming from a debutant, The Priest works in parts, but it falls short, after some initial promise. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-priest-falters-after-initial-promise/article34048780.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||cVIGIL app a big hit among voters||The cVIGIL Citizen Mobile App of the Election Commission, developed to fast-track receiving and addressing complaints about violations of the model code of conduct, appears to be a hit with the voters in the State. Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena says the people have started using the app effectively to register complaints, with over 11,000 complaints received so far. Of these, over 7,000 are from Kannur. In fact, the voters had used the feature successfully in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when about 64,000 complaints were received. Of these, 58,000 were found to be genuine, leading to action taken, he says. It is a weapon in the hands of the citizens to report complaints wherever code violations are noticed and to bring such violations to the attention of the poll officials, Mr. Meena adds. Geo-tagging feature The android-based mobile app allows every citizen/voter in a constituency to report breach of the model code of conduct and expenditure violations by taking photo/audio/video using mobile phones and uploading them after signing in to the application. The app even permits citizens to register anonymous complaints. It also automatically enables geo-tagging when users switch on their mobile camera to post complaints, helping field staff to ascertain the precise location of the incident. The app does not allow uploading of prerecorded or old images and videos. What one has to do is simply click a picture or shoot a video, describe the activity and upload it. This enables flying squads to reach the spot soon. The application connects the vigilant citizen with the district control room, returning officer, and field verification units such as flying squads, static surveillance teams, ensuring rapid and accurate reporting and instant action. The cVIGIL Investigator app helps field units reach the spot and investigate the cases and upload reports. Launched in 2018, the app was widely used in the Assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Telangana, and Mizoram held in the same year. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, a total of 1,10,030 cVIGIL complaints were redressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cvigil-app-a-big-hit-among-voters/article34048863.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gearing up for polls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gearing-up-for-polls/article34048786.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poster campaign for bypoll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poster-campaign-for-bypoll/article34048903.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Selfie time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selfie-time/article34048869.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sivaratri fete||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivaratri-fete/article34049368.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-time/article34049370.ece
12 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntakal railway station now resembles an international airport||The Guntakal railway station now resembles an international airport after it has been given a major facelift with a lot of greenery and a monumental national flag pole overlooking the modified facade of the building. As part of the redevelopment of the entire station premises, a new platform has been constructed to have a direct approach from the entrance improving the ease of accessing the train compartments for passengers coming with heavy luggage. The entire set of works executed by the South Central Railway (SCR) cost Rs. 11.5 crore. One of the key railway junctions in the South, it has connectivity in all directions like Mumbai (west), Secunderabad (north), Vijayawada (east), Chennai, and Bengaluru in the south. The SCR says the station has been developed with world-class standards with an improved circulating area and elegant looks. A state-of-the-art steam locomotive model now enhances the beauty of the station, and these works have been taken up as part of the Indian Railways’ ‘Redevelopment of important Railway Stations’ project across all the zones, for providing best of its class amenities complying with green norms, according to SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya. Eco-friendly features The new station building has been provided with energy-efficient and eco-friendly features like vertical gardens, rainwater harvesting, solar panels, LED lighting, energy-efficient devices, insulation on the rooftop, and extensive use of solar lighting. The steam loco model has been built in-house by the Diesel Loco Shed, Guntakal which is the replica of the original Steam Loco YP2204. Now an open-air amphitheater, children’s park, water fountain system, display of typographical structure titled "I Love Guntakal" made of steel, and an inverted umbrella shading with integrated rainwater harvesting, are the visible changes. Improvement to the existing waiting halls, new open waiting halls and disabled-friendly approaches are some of the changes carried out inside, in addition to fixing CCTVs, clocks, mobile charging points, fans, and signages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntakal-railway-station-now-resembles-an-international-airport/article34048610.ece
12 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ballari-Gooty NH works may be completed by March next: MP||The National Highway-67 widening and four-laning project, which has been in progress for the past four years, is likely to be completed by March next, Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah said here on Thursday. The MP said that the works on the stretch between Bellari and Gooty was progressing at a snail’s pace. “I raised the issue in the Parliament last month. Union Minister of State for Road Transport Vijay Kumar Singh has written a letter to me, hoping that the portion would be completed by September-end, while the Railway Bridges portion would take some more time and the entire road is likely to be opened for traffic by March 2022,” he said. Meanwhile, another project pertaining to the four-laning of the NH-42 stretch passing through the Anantapur city has been sanctioned, following a demand by Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy. The estimated project cost has been put at Rs. 311 crore. The old flyover near railway station would be widened with a composite flyover, said the MLA. Separate approaches would be created for people to cross from one side of the track to the other, without having to climb over the bridge on the NH 42, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ballari-gooty-nh-works-may-be-completed-by-march-next-mp/article34048611.ece
12 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed, 27 injured in bus crash||One person died on the spot and 27 others were injured, four of them grievously, when a private bus proceeding from Nagpur to Bengaluru overturned after hitting the crash guard on the National Highway No. 44 near Mamillapalli village in the district in the early hours of Thursday. Kanaganapalli police said the deceased was identified as Kadiala Vatav, 25, a resident of Yelahanka in Bengaluru. Police suspect that the driver could have dozed off at the wheel and the bus hit the two-foot poles erected as crash guards and fell into a drain five feet below. There were 45 passengers in the bus. Police rushed to the spot and arranged ambulances to shift the injured to hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-killed-27-hurt-in-bus-crash/article34049274.ece
12 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mask made must as devotees throng temples on Maha Sivaratri||Devotees made a beeline for Siva temples across the district and offered prayers on the occasion of auspicious Maha Sivaratri on Thursday. In view of the surge in the coronavirus cases in the recent weeks, the the temple authorities made it mandatory for the devotees to wear mask. Devotees also underwent thermal scanning before being allowed to the temple premises at many places. Tight police bandobust was in place at the Srikalahasti and the Talakona temples. Heavy rush at Talakona temple Nearly two lakh devotees had darshan of Lord Siddeswara Swamy at the famous Talakona temple in Yerravaripalem mandal. They strated arriving at the temple from the early hours of teh day. Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy presented silk vastrams to the presiding deity and offered prayers. The Siva temple at Mallaiahkonda near Madanapalle witnessed heavy congregation of devotees from across the western mandals and the neighboring Karnataka. Devotees trekked to the hill shrines at Sadasiva Kona, Battinayya Kona and Anantarayala Konda and performed pujas. A heavy congregation of devotees from Tamil Nadu was witnessed at Kailasanatha Kona near Puttur. The Lord Mogileeswara temple at Mogili on the Chittoor-Bangalore national highway saw thousands of devotees from the district and Tamil Nadu as well. Same was the situation at the Koti Lingala temple on the Chittoor-Karnataka border. The Lord Pallikondeswara Swamy temple at Surutupalle, which was renovated in the 12th century, drew thousands of devotees from Chittoor, Nellore and Tamil Nadu. Hundreds of devotees from the district went to Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu to participate in the festival. Arrangements were made for distribution of anna prasadam, water and buttermilk sachets to the devotees free of cost at many temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wearing-mask-made-mandatory-at-temples-on-maha-sivaratri/article34049334.ece
12 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress plans State-wide awareness campaign on SCS||Claiming that the YSRCP and the TDP are scared to bring pressure on the BJP-led NDA government the grant the Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh, former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member P. Chinta Mohan on Thursday said that his party would organise a series of awareness campaigns in a phased manner to educate people on the benefits of getting the tag. “Only the Congress could fulfil the promise made to the State in the run-up to the bifurcation,” Mr. Chinta Mohan told the media at Varadaiahpalem, after visiting several SC colonies in Satyavedu assembly constituency. “Neither the YSRCP nor the TDP is serious about fighting for the SCS tag. Even as the Jana Sena Party had initially championed the cause, it made a U turn after forging a tie-up with the BJP, which had ‘out-rightly denied’ the privilege to the State,” he said. Bifurcation blues Post bifurcation, he said, Andhra Pradesh was in financial crisis, coupled with spiraling unemployment. “Industrialists are reluctant to invest in the State, given the volatile situation. At this juncture, only the SCS tag can salvage the State’s finance,” said Mr. Chinta Mohan. The Congress government at the Centre had set the things in motion for according the SCS to the economically backward areas such as Jammu and Kashmir and north-eastern States. “Losing the SCS battle will be an irreparable loss to the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-plans-state-wide-awareness-campaign-on-scs/article34048613.ece
12 March 2021||GUDIVADA (Krishna Dt.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan takes part in Sivaratri celebrations||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took time off to participate in the Maha Sivaratri celebrations at NTR Stadium here on Thursday. On being invited by Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateshwara Rao (Nani), the Chief Minister arrived here at 11.30 a.m. to a traditional welcome by priests. Amid chants from ‘Sri Rudram’, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy performed ‘abhishekam’ to the ‘Sivalingam’ specially installed at the stadium. As the priests and Mr. Nani handed him over milk and water in a brass conch-shaped vessel, the Chief Minister performed the ritual and later garlanded the ‘Sivalingam’. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was ushered into the ‘yagasala’, where the priests helped him wear the traditional turban. Carrying the ‘purnahuti’ material on his head, the Chief Minister went round the ‘homagundam’ and performed ‘homam’. The stadium reverberated with chants in praise of Lord Siva. Life-size portraits of Advaita seers such as Kanchi Paramacharya and Sringeri Sri Sharada Peetham pontiff Bharathi Tirtha were put up at vantage points. The flexies of Mr. Nani too were conspicuous at the venue. Endowments Minister V. Srinivasa Rao, Transport Minister Perni Venkatramaiah, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, and Brahmin Corporation Chairman Malladi Vishnu were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-takes-part-in-sivaratri-celebrations/article34049347.ece
12 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to felicitate Pingali Venkaiah's daughter||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will begin the 75th Independence Day celebrations in the State by felicitating the family members of Pingali Venkaiah, who designed the national flag. The Chief Minister will visit Macherla in Guntur district on Friday and facilitate Seethamahalakshmi, daughter of Pingali Venkaiah, and other family members. Mr. Jagan will fly down to Macherla at 11 a.m. and drive to the house of Ms. Seethamahalakshmi and felicitate the 99-year-old woman in front of her family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-felicitate-pingali-venkaiahs-daughter/article34048614.ece
12 March 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. committed to welfare of minorities, says Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister B. Amzath Basha on Thursday said the YSRCP government was committed to the welfare of the minorities. Speaking as chief guest at the inaugural of the All India Christian Churches Council meeting here, he said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had a vision for the development of the minorities. Andhra Pradesh was the only State to provide financial assistance to Christians for their pilgrimage to Jerusalem, he said. He further said that the promise of providing an honorarium to the pastors in churches would be fulfilled soon. “A special legislation will be brought to protect the properties of Christian minorities,” he added. Senior functionaries of the council Rev. Bishop Mohandas and Y. Praveen were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-committed-to-welfare-of-minorities-says-deputy-cm/article34049343.ece
12 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pharma unit will pay ex gratia to blast victims’||The ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased and to those injured in the blast at Tyche Industries Limited’s pharma unit will be announced after talks with the company management on Friday, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said. “I have explained Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the incident. A decision has been taken to ensure that the pharma company bears the medical expenses of the injured and offers ex gratia to the families of the deceased persons,” Mr. Kannababu told The Hindu . “By Friday, the ex gratia to be offered to the victims will be decided. The company authorities have been directed to close down the unit with immediate effect and stop operations until further orders,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pharma-unit-will-pay-ex-gratia-to-blast-victims/article34049345.ece
12 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thousands have darshan at Srisailam on Maha Sivaratri||Every road in the Rayalaseema districts and some parts of Telangana led to the Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple at Srisailam on Thursday with devotees converging on the temple complex in thousands. Every inch of space on the top of the hill was occupied as people queued up for having a darshan of the presiding deities since early hours. People waited with a bated breath on the hot summer afternoon for the Prabhotsavam in which the processional deities were taken on a tastefully decorated Prabha on the streets around the temple complex. Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao led the procession as Veda pandits chanted hymns and conducted rituals sitting on the sleek chariot. Devotees took a holy bath in the pushkarini and the Krishna river at several places around the temple town before entering the temple for darshan on Maha Sivaratri. Security guards kept a watch at bathing ghats and on the steps from where the devout came walking with kids and infirm in tow for a few kilometres on the hills. There was a beeline of VIPs coming to the temple. Principal Secretary, Endowments, G. Vani Mohan visited the temple on Wednesday while APSRTC Vice-Chairman P. Thakur along with his wife had darshan on Thursday afternoon. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli, who was stationed at Srisailam to keep a tab on law and order, accompanied the VIPs into the temple. In the evening, several cultural programmes were lined up by the devasthanam authorities. The Kalyanamahotsavam began at midnight. The Bhramotsavams will come to a conclusion on Friday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thousands-have-darshan-at-srisailam-on-maha-sivaratri/article34049359.ece
12 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja seized from bus||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials seized 18 kgs of ganja that was being transported in a bus from Hyderabad to Bengaluru on Thursday evening. The SEB personnel arrested two persons Haridas (28), and Mithun Dali (27), both hailing from Malkangiri district of Odisha, and registered a case. The contraband was reportedly being transported in a KSRTC bus. Four bundles of ganja were stashed inside two bags in the luggage cabin of the bus. The estimated market value of the seized contraband would be around Rs. 80,000, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-seized-from-bus/article34049247.ece
12 March 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Effort to revive indigenous art and crafts||At Sankalp Art Village (SAV) at Pedagadi, about 46 kilometres from Visakhapatnam, the air is filled with the periodic chirrup of birds and the click-clack of the spinning wheel. Under a thatched shelter, a pair of deft hands spin out yarns from the wheel while at another corner a woman boils myrobalan (haritaki) to prepare the natural dyes for the yarns. The hum of the wheel is interspersed with a sound of a distant chisel at work coming from within a compound wall nearby. Here, coconut shells are being transformed into cups and wooden toys being given shape. This small Andhra Pradesh-based production centre of naturally dyed handloom, wooden toys and products is slowly making its way into international markets and major cities across India. The self-sustainable unit supports seven families of artisans in its Pedagadi facility and 15 families of weavers in Palakollu where its handloom unit is based. “There is a growing preference towards sustainable living and in the past one year during the pandemic, it has been more pronounced. The demand is particularly increasing for naturally-dyed fabrics and pre-designed kids’ wear. We are catering for a US-based firm and startups and enterprises in Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” says Jameelya Akula, creative design head of Sankalp Art Village. Natural dyes At Sankalp, the yarns are coloured with dyes made with plant seeds and roots like annato seeds, manjista roots, turmeric, pomegranate and onion peels, eucalyptus bark and fenugreek seeds. A concept that began about eight years ago, the seed of the idea was sown much before that. “We came here from Rajahmundry and have been managing a nursery since 1997. With the zeal for making herbal dyed fabrics, we started to look for artisans doing the craft of weaving natural handlooms and making wooden handicrafts. Our aim was to revive the indigenous art and crafts that were on the verge of dying and create a platform for artisans to improve their designs and help them in marketing,” says A. Chalapati Rao, founder of SAV. According to Ms. Jameelya, who completed her course in product design from UPES School of Design in Dehradun, the game-changer in the sustainable products segment has been the increasing preference for schools supporting alternative learning methodologies like Montessori and Waldorf which stresses on wooden toys. “We have bagged orders from some of these prominent schools,” she says. “We have also launched our kids’ wear segment which is packaged in eco-friendly boxes and are available for orders in Amazon and through our website,” she adds. While the pandemic came with its own set of challenges, the weavers of Sankalp Art Village did not stop production. “It gave us time to create our stock and understand the market better to improvise our designs. The handloom production and dyeing is a laborious process. Each weaver can weave up to 10 metres per day. The making of wooden toys is an equally taxing process,” says Ms. Jameelya. Last month, Sankalp opened its store at Pandurangapuram in the city, which it hopes will open up more avenues for the artisans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/effort-to-revive-indigenous-art-and-crafts/article34049355.ece
12 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rudraksha Sivalinga’ draws huge crowd in Ongole||The Maha Sivaratri was celebrated with religious fervour in Ongole on Thursday. Shedding fears of coronavirus, devotees made a beeline for the Siva temples on the auspicious occasion. A huge ‘Sivalinga’ was installed by arranging lakhs of rudraksha beads at the Santhapeta Sai Baba temple was the cynosure of all eyes. It was tastefully decorated with rudraksha garlands. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and his wife Sachi Devi, along with a large number of devotees, took part in the ‘Mahadhanvantri’, ‘Maha Mrutyunjaya’ and ‘Mahachandi Yagam’ performed by a group of Vedic priests led by Mathampalli Dakshinamurthy. The rituals were performed seeking the blessings of the Lord to tide over the coronavirus pandemic. The rudraksha beads ranging from two to 14 faces were specially procured from Nepal for the worship, said the head priest said before performing the ‘Purnahuti’. Devotees started arriving at Siva temple since the early morning hours and performed ‘abhishekam’ to the Lord. Observing a day-long fast, devotees visited the Tripurantakeswara temple at Tripurantakam, which is considered the ‘eastern gateway’ to Srisailam, Amaralingeswaraswamy temple at Manetikotoa, Pathala Nageswaraswamy temple at Giddallur, Ramakoteswaraswamy temple at Chinnaganjam and Lingothbava Swamy temple at Chadalavada. Many devotees stayed awake through out the night for the ‘Lingothbhav’ darshan at many temples including the one at Jambulapalem which has 1,116 Sivalingas. Many ventured into the Nallamala forest guided by Chenchu tribals to visit the Gundla Brahmeswaram temple. Bhairavakona temple in the Nallamalla forests also witnessed a huge rush of devotees. Bull race organised A bull race was organised as part of the celebrations at Chinna Cumbum. The organisers said that the competition was aimed at kindling interest among farmers to protect the endangered Ongole bull, which is considered the vehicle of Lord Siva. After the competition, the bull trainers were presented with Sivaratri gifts including cash awards and new clothes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-make-a-beeline-for-rudraksha-sivalinga-in-ongole/article34049337.ece
12 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trafficking victims turning to ‘old ways’: survey||Twenty-six-year-old Usha (name changed) was rescued from a sex workers’ den in Ongole last year. Forgetting the bitter past, she resolved to live with dignity. She ran from pillar to post for the benefits of the rehabilitation, but in vain. She is now back to her old ways of living. “This is not an isolated case. Many the victims of human trafficking have similar tales of woes to narrate. They are choosing their miserable ways of life again even after being rescued and the trend is slowly growing. The alarming situation calls for stern measures from the authorities concerned,” says civic society organisation HELP Director N.V.S. Rammohan. Poor awareness among the rescued victims about the rehabilitation benefits and failure of the authorities in implementing proper rehabilitation measures and poor conviction rate in trafficking cases are among reasons that force the victims back to sex trade, he explains , adding most of the hapless girls who fall prey to the trafficking and subsequently got rescued, get trafficked again. According to a survey conducted by the HELP, an NGO that works for the welfare of sex workers and their children, the State police registered only about 1,500 cases against alleged traffickers between January 2014 and September 2018. “The number is far less than the incidences of trafficking. The rate of rescue also saw a sharp decline during the period from a monthly average of 32 rescued victims to 23. The failure of the prosecution to prove the case effectively in courts add to the woes of the victims,” says Mr. Rammohan. ‘Guidelines not followed’ The survey teams found that investigative officers were not being sensitised about the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and Juvenile Justice Act. As per the Act, minor victims should be presented before the CWC, which was not followed in many cases, he laments. The survey also found that in many rescue cases, statements of victims or the witnesses were not recorded before the magistrate and 88% of the mediators presented for witness turned hostile during the trials. “This indicates towards the non-involvement of local government officials as mediators by the law enforcement agency. Women constable witnesses were not available in 56% of the cases, indicating that the rescue protocols were not followed by the police,” Mr. Rammohan points out. Meanwhile, Meharunneesa, State convener of ‘Vimukthi’, a community-based organisation, expresses concern over the government ‘delaying the benefits and falling to provide full-fledged rehabilitation facilities to the rescued victims in time’. “This is forcing many victims to turn to their old ways of living. It is time the authorities concerned ensured speedy disbursement of benefits to the victims and created job opportunities for them,” she suggests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trafficking-victims-turning-to-old-ways-survey/article34049335.ece
12 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD resolves to complete outer cordon works||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to complete the construction of the outer security cordon with chain-link mesh with a budget outlay of Rs. 9.10 crore in 2021-2022 financial year. The ambitious project was planned to strengthen the security at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. With the TTD acquiring all private houses and buildings around the shrine in 2003 as part of the implementation of its master plan, the main temple complex stood exposed from all sides. Inner security cordon As an immediate measure, the TTD constructed an inner security cordon by providing steel frame fencing along the mada streets encircling the hill shrine, while the proposal of the outer cordon was still in a nascent stage. The construction of 10.8 km outer cordon with the facility of mobile patrolling became imperative for the TTD, following the recommendations of then Additional Director General (Intelligence) in 2012. Consequently, the TTD decided to undertake the cordoning works in different phases with an initial focus on the plain areas owing to topographical constraints as the proposed stretch remains dotted with deep valleys and steep cliffs. The works in the plains were completed in first two phases, covering 3.5 km from the 57th hairpin bend on the first ghat road to the Kakulakonda Road junction abutting the Gogarbham dam at a cost of Rs. 3.98 crore. ATR sought The issue again came to fore in May last year, with the State intelligence security wing requesting the TTD to furnish the action taken report with regard to the completion of works, while insisting the latter for laying a black top concrete road to enable round-the-clock patrolling. It is in this backdrop that the TTD decided to undertake the leftover works and run it along the Tiruvenkatapatham ring road from Kakulakonda road junction, encompassing Narayanagiri rest houses, Padmavati Nagar, GNC toll gate and complete the circuit with chain-link mesh, besides providing entry and exit points at certain identified points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-resolves-to-complete-outer-security-cordon-works/article34049357.ece
12 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abhishekam performed to Kshetrapalaka||Abhishekam was performed to the Kshetrapalaka at the Gogarbham dam about two furlongs from the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala on Thursday. The programme was organised marking the annual Maha Shivaratri celebrations. The priests, carrying all the traditional paraphernalia, reached the place and performed the rituals to the Kshetrapalaka Sila, which is considered to be a form of Lord Shiva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abhishekam-performed-to-kshetrapalaka/article34049338.ece
12 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sundarakanda parayanam on March 18||The eleventh phase of the Akhanda Sundarakanda Parayanam will be organised at Tirumala on March 18. About 156 slokas from the Sundarakanda will be recited by more than 200 eminent Vedic scholars who have been invited by the S.V. Veda Patasala, Vedic and National Sanskrit Universities and S.V. Higher Vedic Studies. The mass recitation programme will be organised at the Nada Neerajana Mandapam situated in front of the Lord Venkateswara temple complex. It will be telecast live on the TTD’s SVBC channel between 7 a.m.to 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sundarakanda-parayanam-on-march-18/article34049339.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power utilities brace for summer demand||With the State Load Dispatch Centre of APTransco and the Discoms expecting the grid demand to surpass 11,500 MW and the maximum daily energy requirement to touch 218 MU in the coming days due to summer, the power utilities are striving to ensure smooth supply to all the sectors. Power consumption in the State had reached 213 MU on March 9, which was met successfully by the utilities. In fact, the demand had risen significantly compared to 2017. The demand on March 9, 2017, was 161 MU. The demand had crossed 213 MU the same day in 2021, largely due to rising economic activity. Action plan Keeping this in view, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the Energy Department to prepare an action plan to ensure uninterrupted supply during summer. Accordingly, Energy Secretary N. Srikant instructed the officials to take steps. The Discoms are contemplating buying power from the exchanges, while utilising the long -term power generation sources. Emphasis has been laid on maintaining the required coal stocks at the thermal plants and measures are being taken to avoid shutdowns. Supply to farm sector Besides, utilisation of additional gas generation has been planned by the Discoms. Special attention is paid to power supply to the farm sector. On its part, the Transco augmented the capacity of power transformers and took steps to avoid overloading of extra HT lines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-utilities-brace-for-summer-demand/article34049353.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDF MLCs urge teachers to vote for their candidate in Council polls||MLCs belonging to the Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) on Thursday appealed to the teachers to cast their vote in favour of their candidates in the Council elections on March 14. At a press conference, PDF Floor Leader in the Council V. Balasubramanyam and Deputy Floor Leader K.S. Lakshmana Rao said elections to the Teacher MLC posts ought to be conducted in a transparent and honest way. “But unfortunately, some candidates are resorting to violations such as distribution of cash and gifts,” they alleged, and urged the teachers to reject such appeasements and exercise their franchise in support of the right candidates. Host of issues They said the education sector was replete with issues such as shortage of teaching staff, need for more junior colleges, promotion for junior lecturers, and the need to stop closure of aided institutions. Solution to the issues of model schools, service rules for teachers, PF accounts for municipal teachers and upgradation of the posts of Secondary Grade Teachers (SGTs) were also kept in abeyance, they pointed out. Referring to the problem of reduced teaching time due to the many new apps introduced by the Education Department, they said the payment of salary for teachers who were transferred had stopped. The MLCs said the PDF would help the teaching community to solve these crucial issues by raising them on the Floor of the Council. They said Boddu Nageswara Rao, the PDF-backed candidate, was the right person to be elected, as he would take up issues of the contract and outsourced teaching staff in schools, and also the repeal of Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pdf-mlcs-urge-teachers-to-vote-for-their-candidate-in-council-polls/article34049348.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements made for counting of votes||The State Election Commission has made arrangements for the counting of votes polled in the elections to 12 municipal corporations and 71 municipalities / nagar panchayats, on March 14, according to an official release. The counting centres in the municipal corporations are: Vizianagaram - Rajiv Sports Complex near APSRTC bus complex; Visakhapatnam - Andhra University; Vijayawada - Andhra Loyola College; Machilipatnam - Krishna University; Guntur - MBTS Government Polytechnic College, Government Textile Technology Institute, and Loyola Public School; Anantapur - SSBM Junior College; Kurnool - Rayalaseema University, Pullaiah Engineering College, and St. Joseph Degree & PG College; Chittoor - PVKN Government College, and Tirupati - Sri Venkateswara Arts College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-made-for-counting-of-votes/article34049351.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ from today||Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations will begin on Friday in the district with a rally from Swaraj Maidan to Bapu Museum in the evening, said District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. At a press conference, Mr. Imtiaz said that as part of the Union government's initiative to celebrate 75 weeks before 75th Independence Day in August 2022, the district will organise various programmes for 25 days from March 12 to April 5. The activities involving school and college students include cycle rallies, group discussions, seminars besides photo exhibitions and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-from-today/article34048607.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebrities urged to join fight for Vizag steel plant||People of the State are hit hard by the curse of unemployment, especially after bifurcation, and if the Centre goes ahead with divestment in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, the crisis will further compound, warns State president of A.P. Unemployed JAC S. Hemantha Kumar. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Kumar said the support announced by actor Chiranjeevi and Telangana IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao to the cause of protecting the VSP was heartening, and appealed to political parties, celebrities, sports persons, intellectuals and others to unite in the fight against the privatisation move. Stating that people of A.P. had been contributing a great deal to the success of Telugu films, he said it was now the turn of the film stars to support the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebrities-urged-to-join-fight-for-vizag-steel-plant/article34049349.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newsletter on volunteers||The Department of Village and Ward Volunteers and Village and Ward Secretariats is bringing out a newsletter in Telugu from this month to popularise the services being rendered by them. Director Narayan Bharat Gupta has invited editorials from retired IAS officers and short articles from the volunteers on the success stories and implementation of various schemes before March 15. The editorial and articles have to be sent to gswsmedia@gmail.com . Details can be obtained from the department’s Joint Director (media) on the phone number 9440863723.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newsletter-on-volunteers/article34049352.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children drown in Krishna||Two children drowned in the Krishna on Thursday at Peddapulika village of Penamaluru mandal in the district. According to information,13-year-old Sameer and 16-year-old Abdul Rehman ventured into the Krishna river near their village in the afternoon. Bodies fished out They drowned one after the other while swimming and it was noticed by locals who alerted the police. Their bodies were fished out later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-children-drown-in-krishna/article34048608.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kollu arrested for ‘disturbing’ poll activity||Former Minister and Telugu Desam Party leader Kollu Ravindra was arrested by the Machilipatnam police at his residence on Thursday/. Mr. Ravindra was booked under Sections 356, 506 and 188 of the IPC for allegedly disturbing municipal election activity on Wednesday. Bail granted Police reached his house and apprehended him amidst resistance from his followers. Meanwhile, Mr. Ravindra was granted bail after a few hours by a court. Mr. Ravindra reportedly staged a protest at a polling station against the alleged highhandedness of police officials. TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh condemned Mr. Ravindra's arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kollu-arrested-for-disturbing-poll-activity/article34049341.ece
12 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into ‘suicide’ by college girl||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Thursday inquired into the circumstances that led to the alleged suicide by a girl student Dasari Lasya of Sri Chaitanya College girls’ campus at Punadipadu in Krishna district on Thursday. The Minister directed the department officials to conduct a probe and submit a detailed report. Meanwhile, leaders of Student Federation of India (SFI), staged a dharna at the government general hospital where the girl’s body was kept in the mortuary, and demanded that the government look into the disturbing trend of increasing number of suicides by students studying in corporate institutions. They said private educational groups like Narayana and Chaitanya had been violating norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-ordered-into-suicide-by-college-girl/article34049360.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District administration shifts focus to counting of votes||Now that elections to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation are over, the district administration and GVMC officials have turned their focus on ensuring that the counting process is conducted smoothly. Speaking to The Hindu , Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the counting will start at 8 a.m. on March 14 and it will done for all 98 wards of the GVMC at the same time. For the first time, the district administration has identified 98 rooms on the Andhra University campus for the counting process — one room for each ward. “The counting of votes will be done for each ward in their respective allotted rooms, which is why we have identified 98 rooms,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. The ballots have already reached the strong rooms on the AU campus and the boxes for each ward are kept in a room adjacent to the counting room, to save time needed to shift the boxes to the counting rooms. For the counting process, the district administration has separated the locations zone-wise. In the north campus of the university, counting for zones 2, 3, 4 and 6 will be done, and in the south campus, the counting for zones 1, 5, 7 and 8 will be done. Command centre set up According to the Collector, CCTV cameras have been installed in all the 98 counting rooms and each room will have a videographer. A Command and Control Centre, equipped with integrated LED screens that are linked to the CCTV cameras, has also been set up on the campus to enable officials to closely monitor the counting process. “The counting process is expected to take at least 12 hours and will run non-stop. About 3,000 staff from the district administration and GVMC will be involved in the process,” he said. Apart from the 3,000 staff, there will be a returning officer, AROs, GVMC zonal commissioners and eight officers of the rank of Deputy Collector. Each of the two campus locations will be under the control of one Joint Collector and they will report to the District Collector and GVMC Commissioner. Depending on the size of the mandate of the wards, each room will have five to 10 tables. Each table will have one counting supervisor and three counting assistants. Since the counting process will be a non-stop process, free food and water is being provided. The agents from various parties who will be present in the room will be provided paid refreshments. Candidates also can be present in the room. Counting process Once the ballot papers are extracted from the sealed boxes in the presence of senior officers, they will be bundled with 25 papers in each. Thereafter, they will be randomised by putting them in a big drum. After randomisation, each counting assistant will be given 40 bundles at a time, which will be considered as rounds. Media centre For centralised dissemination of information, the district administration is setting up a media room with all facilities such as computers, power connection and Wi-Fi. “We are also planning to install two LED screens to display the round-wise results for regular updates,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. If everything goes as per plan, final results may be declared by 8 p.m., he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-administration-shifts-focus-to-counting-of-votes/article34049497.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP workers elated as KTR, Chiranjeevi and Subramanian Swamy support stir||The workers and employees of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), who have been staging relay hunger strikes, dharnas and traffic blockades for over three weeks now, are elated at getting support from the unexpected quarters such as Telangana Minister K.T. Rama Rao, BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy and actor Chiranjeevi. The agitating workers performed ‘palabhishekam’ to the portrait of Mr. Rama Rao in appreciation of his support, at the dharna camp at Kurmannapalem on Thursday. They raised slogans such as ‘Visakha Ukku, Andhrula Hakku’ and ‘KTR zindabad’, and on continuation of the VSP in the public sector. Appeal to KCR The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee leaders, while thanking Mr. Rama Rao, also sought the support of his father and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao. They demanded that the Government of Andhra Pradesh take pro active steps to resolve the issue, taking a cue from the support offered by the Telangana leader. ‘Symbol of sacrifice’ Meanwhile, Mr. Chiranjeevi took to the Twitter to extend his support to the agitation by the VSP employees. “Visakha steel plant is a symbol of numerous sacrifices. Let’s rise above parties and regions. With a steely resolve, let’s save Visakha steel plant,” he tweeted. Mr. Chiranjeevi recalled how, as a student of YNM College at Narsapur, he used to write: ‘Visakha Ukku sadhistham’ (we will achieve Visakha steel plant). “We had participated in hartals, dharnas and relay hunger strikes. About 32 persons, including a nine-year-old boy, had sacrificed their lives in the agitation. When the steel plant commenced production, we all had celebrated. We recognise the steel plant as a symbol of sacrifice. We take pride in the fact that Visakha steel has a unique place in the country,” he said. Mr. Chiranjeevi also tweeted that the failure to allocate captive mines to the plant was responsible for its losses, and the decision to privatise it on the pretext that it was incurring losses was not acceptable. He urged the Centre to rethink its decision to privatise the plant, which was providing livelihood to lakhs of families directly and indirectly. “It is our prime responsibility to save VSP, and it should be done by sinking regional and political differences,” Mr. Chiranjeevi observed. Meanwhile, TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao thanked Mr. Rama Rao and Mr. Subramanian Swamy for supporting the agitation by the VSP employees. Demands Earlier in the day, the porata committee had served a strike notice on the VSP management. The committee said it would launch strike on or after March 25. The committed demanded the repeal of the approval accorded on January 27, 2021, by the CCEA for 100% strategic sale of RINL. It also sought scrapping of the inter-Secretaries group constituted to study the strategic sale and the the MoU signed with POSCO on October 23, 2019, for a JVC for construction of an integrated steel plant. The committee also sought suspension of the recently concluded MoU with the NBCC on redevelopment and monetisation of land parcels at Maddilapalem. It also demanded that employment be provided to all the left out R-card holders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-workers-elated-as-ktr-chiru-and-swamy-support-stir/article34049278.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure transparency in counting, says Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed officials to ensure transparency and avoid mistakes in the process for counting of votes in the elections to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). The Collector was speaking at a training programme for counting of votes at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Thursday. The validity of the ballot paper should be ensured and counting should be done after the ballot papers to the agents of the candidates. The counting officials and staff should understand various aspects of counting and abide by the rules. Any mistake in counting of votes would make them liable to face action, he said. He said that postal ballots should be counted first, and later the ballots in the boxes could be counted. On completion of each round, the details should be given to the agents of the contesting candidates and their signatures taken. On receiving of the ballot boxes from the strongroom, the ballots should be tied into bundles of 25 each. On completion of counting, they should be rebundled into 50 ballots candidate-wise. Counting of votes will also be done for the Narsipatnam and Elamanchili municipal elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-transparency-in-counting-says-collector/article34049482.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maha Sivaratri celebrated in city||Spiritual fervour and gaiety marked the Maha Sivaratri celebrations in the city on Thursday. Devotees thronged the temples of Lord Siva and had darshan from the early hours. Special pujas were performed at the temples to mark the occasion. Swings were erected on the beach and near Jalaripeta and children were seen enjoying on them. They stayed awake all through the night, in accordance with the tradition in villages as well as many parts of the city. A huge Siva Lingam, formed with 1.08 crore small Siva Lingams, was the special attraction at R.K. Beach. Former Union Minister T. Subbarami Reddy, along with Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham head Swaroopanandendra Saraswati Swami, performed Kumbhabhishekam. A large number of devotees formed queues to pour holy water on the Lingam. Special counters were set up to distribute prasadam and water to devotees. The is the 36th annual Kumbhabhishekam being organised under the aegis of Mr. Subbarami Reddy. The entire premises of Sri Sathya Sai Prema Sadan Mandir at MVP Colony wore a festive look and vibrated with the chanting of the Vedas. The programme began with Ganapati Pooja, followed by Mahanyasa Poorvaka Ekadasha Rudrabhishekam. The teams of Sri Sathya Sai Seva organisations of the city chanted Namakam and Chamakam on the occasion. Abhishekam was performed to Spatika Lingam and the powerful Sri Chakram simultaneously. Abhishekam, Bilvarchana and Kunkumarchana were also performed. The event concluded with Maha Mangala Aarti and distribution of prasadam. Later in the evening, the celestial wedding of Goddess Parvathi with Lord Siva was also performed. State president of SSSSO S.G. Chalam and City Samithi convener P.R.S.N. Naidu participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maha-sivaratri-celebrated-in-city/article34049485.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going the extra mile to make Agency roads safer||City-based Ken Foundation has pasted reflective stickers at accident-prone areas along the ghat roads of the Agency area in Visakhapatnam district in the hope of minimising road mishaps. Volunteers of the NGO have covered a stretch of 40 km between Araku Valley and Anantagiri, pasting stickers at hairpin bends and dangerous turns. Last month, four persons were killed and 20 persons injured when a private bus fell into a gorge at Anantagiri mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency. After the accident, the NGO has decided to come up with a temporary measure to minimise such accidents. Founder of Ken Foundation, P. Santosh, said the Agency ghat roads witness several accidents every year. “The ghat road spans for more than 50 km. There are eight hairpin bends (steep curves) in the 40 km-long ghat road between Vizag city and Araku Valley. There is no proper illumination on the road and no radium stickers on the retaining walls of the steep curves, so it becomes difficult for motorists and other road users in the Agency areas,” he said. Mr. Santosh said that a group of five volunteer members coordinated with Mr. Krishna Prasad from Paderu to paste the reflective waterproof multicoloured (red/yellow/white) stickers on rocks, trees, and boundary walls at all curves to alert the drivers. It took two days for them to cover the 40-km stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/going-the-extra-mile-to-make-agency-roads-safer/article34049509.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals hold peace rally against Maoists||A large number of tribals took part in a peace rally against the Maoists protesting the attacks on villagers, at Sileru in G.K. Veedhi mandal of Visakhapatnam district, here on Thursday. Locals took out a candlelight rally from Ramalayam Junction to Main Road Junction. Later, they formed a human chain and expressed solidarity with the family of Korra Pilku (35) who was allegedly killed by the Maoists on March 5. A group of 15 Maoists, reportedly led by Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan of Galikonda area committee, came to Kothapalle, took away Pilku, a former militia member, and murdered him. Police said the Maoists killed Pilku as they suspected him to be a police informer as he had stopped working for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-hold-peace-rally-against-maoists/article34049512.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC elections see low polling percentage of 59.41%||Despite an awareness campaign run by the district administration and the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation, the municipal polls recorded a final voting percentage of 59.41%, as against 52.48 % in the year 2007, which is about 6% higher than the previous Urban Local Body (ULB) polls. Out of 17,26,158 voters in the 98 wards of GVMC limits, as many as 10,25,442 voters exercised their franchise, while 7,00,716 voters did not take part in voting. On the day of elections, voting started on a very slow pace. By 1 p.m., after almost six hours of voting, the polling percentage was just 36.09%. Officials expected the voting percentage to increase later in the day. However, only 20% more votes were polled in the last four hours till 5 p.m. The final turnout was declared to be 59.41%. Out of 98 wards, only eight wards have registered over 70% voting. Among them, two wards are from Zone I (Bheemili), three wards are from Zone VI (Gajuwaka), two from Zone VII (Anakapalle) and one is from Zone VIII (Vepagunta). Ward 80 in Zone VII (Anakapalle) saw the highest voting percentage of 79.11%. The second and third highest voting percentage was reported from Ward 77 (Zone VI) with 76.83 % and Ward 88 (Zone VI) with 76.49 %. It may be noted that Ward 77 and 88 cover areas of Vadlapudi, Kanithi, Old Vadlapudi, Satyavanipalem, parts of Duvvada, Steel Plant School, Islampeta, Pittavanipalem, Appikonda, and Chepalapalem. Meanwhile, Ward 4, which includes five panchayats – K. Nagarapalem, Kapuluppada, Nidigattu, JV Agraharam, and Chepaluppada, which were merged into the corporation, witnessed 72.93% voting. Seven wards saw less than 50% voting. Of these, three are from Zone V (Gnanapuram). Ward 40 from Zone V saw the least voting percentage of 19.05%. Out of 20,142 voters, including 6,848 female voters, only 3,838 voters exercised their franchise. According to sources, out of 14 polling stations in the ward, most of them were seen vacant throughout the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-elections-see-low-polling-percentage-of-5941/article34049489.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep kidney diseases at bay with active lifestyle’||World Kidney Day is observed annually on the second Thursday in March to raise awareness on kidney diseases and the effective methods to keep them at bay. The theme for this year is: ‘Living well with kidney diseases’. Maintaining an active lifestyle, checking blood sugar levels regularly, keeping blood pressure under control, eating a balanced diet, quitting smoking, avoiding painkillers, going for kidney function tests once a year, for those with risk factors, after the age of 35 years and drinking at least three litres of water a day are some of the ways to prevent the disease. Kidney diseases are the silent pandemic of the 21st century. Changing lifestyles and dietary patterns have led to a surge in kidney diseases. These diseases cause a huge burden on the patient, their families and society as a whole, says Dr. G. Ravindra Varma, senior consultant nephrologist and transplant surgeon of Asian Institute of Nephrology and Urology, Visakhapatnam. Regular exercise The risk of kidney disease could be minimised by keeping the blood sugar and blood pressure under control and HbA1C below 7%. Painkillers should be avoided or their use should be minimal. One should quit smoking, exercise regularly to avoid the use of drugs, which damage the kidneys. Further, consumption of foods which are high in fat should also be avoided, says Dr. R.K. Mahesh, consultant nephrologist, KIMS ICON Hospital.  Symptoms of the disease The foods to be avoided include: red meat, prawns, fast food, soft drinks, sugar and salt. Symptoms of kidney disease are reduction in urine flow, brownish colour of urine, bloating of face or body, high BP, lack of appetite, vomitings, diminishing of eyesight, excessive urine during night and foam in urine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-kidney-diseases-at-bay-with-active-lifestyle-good-diet-say-nephrologists/article34048615.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains to be cancelled||Train 08519 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special express, leaving Visakhapatnam from March 12 to 30 and 08520 LTT-Visakhapatnam special express leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus from March 14 to April 1 are proposed for cancellation. The cancellation is proposed to facilitate safety-related modernisation works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trains-to-be-cancelled/article34049483.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Software body organises event to honour women||A women empowerment workshop titled ‘Naari Shakti’ was organised by Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), Government of India, at the Pulsus Group office with the participation of over 1,000 women employees as part of Naari Shakti Utsav Week. M.P. Dubey, Joint Director and Office-In-Charge, STPI said that women were playing a dominant role in various sectors, especially in IT/ITeS industry. He said the IT industry in Visakhapatnam was growing fast and expressed confidence that the region would become a hub for ITeS units. Women have become a backbone in IT and ITeS sectors and have contributed significantly to the country’s economy during COVID-19, he said. In her address, K.R. Rajini, a professor at AU, spoke on the UNESCO declaration on women empowerment. She said financial independence was the true indicator of women empowerment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/software-body-organises-event-to-honour-women/article34049507.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||23 COVID cases in Vizag||The district reported 23 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending on Thursday morning, taking the overall tally to 60,694. This is for the second time this month that the district has reported over 20 COVID-19 cases in a single day. As many as 153 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district since March 1. Eighty-three persons have recovered from the virus in the last 11 days. The number of active cases which was 24 on March 1 has now increased to 94.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/23-covid-cases-in-vizag/article34049510.ece
12 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khazana Jewellery opens new showroom||Noted jewellery retailers, Khazana Jewellery, expanded its network by unveiling its 50th showroom in Gopalapatnam area in the city on Thursday. The showroom is spread over two floors and houses a range of traditional and modern designs across gold, diamond and silver. As a special inaugural offer, customers can avail Rs. 100 off per gram on gold jewellery and Rs. 10,000 off per carat on diamonds for a limited period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/khazana-jewellery-opens-new-showroom/article34049491.ece
12 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord Siva temples wear festive look in N. Andhra||Hundreds of devotees thronged the famous Sri Pasupathinadheswara Swamy Alayam at Ring Road in Vizianagaram to offer prayers to the presiding deity on the occasion of Maha Sivaratri. The temple has replicas of Ashtadasha Jyotirlingams, enabling the devotees to perform Abhisekham on their own to Shiva Lingams. Special arrangements Temple trustees Cherukuri Sridhar, Gudisa Srinivasa Rao and Gudisa Shivakumar made special arrangements for Rudrabhisekham, Sahasra Lingarchana and other prayers. In Srikakulam, the Sri Endala Mallikarjuna Swamy temple in Ravivalasa, Sri Mukhalingeswara Swamy temple at Srimukhalingam, Koteswara Alayam in Srikakulam town and Siva Balaji temple in Bankers’ Colony, Srikakulam also witnessed a huge rush of devotees from the early hours of Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lord-siva-temples-wear-festive-look-in-n-andhra/article34049383.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Glowing worship||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/glowing-worship/article34049468.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive clicks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-clicks/article34048618.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wooing buyers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wooing-buyers/article34049362.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Arrangements in place for MLC elections in State||Extensive arrangements are in place for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ onstituency elections for Telangana State Legislative Council, set to be conducted on March 14. Polling will be conducted on the day from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Graduate voters who registered themselves in nine districts, Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Narayanpet, Ranga Reddy, Vikarabad, Medchal Malkajgiri, and Hyderabad districts, are eligible to vote. 5.36 lakh voters Of over 5.31 lakh registered voters, 3.36 lakh are male and 1.95 lakh are female, while 68 are others. Medchal-Malkajgiri has the highest number of voters at 1.31 lakh, while Narayanpet has the lowest at 13,899. There are a total of 799 polling stations in all the districts, 199 in Ranga Reddy, 198 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 191 in Hyderabad, 56 in Mahabubnagar, 44 in Nagarkurnool, 31 in Wanaparthy, 22 in Jogulamba Gadwal, 20 in Narayanpet, and 38 in Vikarabad. Ballot is being taken to the doorstep of vulnerable voters, including senior citizens over 80 years of age, COVID-19 patients, and the disabled. Due to high number of contestants at 93, jumbo ballot papers and ballot boxes were being especially commissioned. A total of 1598 ballot boxes will be kept per polling station, with 324 more boxes kept in reserve. A total of 3,835 personnel will participate in the conduct of elections, of whom 959 will discharge responsibilities as presiding officers and 2,876 as other polling officers. A flying squad and a static surveillance team have been deployed for every Assembly constituency to enforce the model code of conduct and to monitor the election process. Polling material is to be collected by the staff from the indoor stadium of the L.B. Stadium. Counting will take place in Saroornagar indoor stadium on March 17, and the election process will come to an end on March 22. Last-ditch efforts As the electioneering for the March 14 Legislative Council election to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency is set to end on March 12, the contestants of the major political parties as well as the independent candidates are making last-ditch efforts to reach out to graduates to boost their electoral fortunes. A few contestants reportedly planned to hold caste-based meetings on the closing day of the campaigning on Friday in a bid to garner their support, sources said. The campaign managers of a contestant of a major political party have already held a string of meetings with a host of caste-based organisations and associations representing professionals to brighten their candidate's electoral prospects in the last couple of days. With a tough electoral contest on the cards in the prestigious Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency with around 71 candidates in the electoral fray, the contestants are leaving no stone unturned to impress upon the graduates to cast vote in their favour at the hustings. Meanwhile, in a statement Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate N Tirumala Rao alleged that the ruling TRS leaders were holding caste-based meetings in flagrant violation of the election commission norms. "Action should be initiated against those seeking votes on the basis of caste and resorting to unethical practices to win the election," he demanded. He called upon the graduates to vote for him in the March 14 MLC election to enable him raise their voice in the Legislative Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arrangements-in-place-for-mlc-elections-in-state/article34049271.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad stinks up as garbage remains uncleared||Unresolved issues of garbage clearance between the GHMC authorities and labourers are set to stink up the city, the tremors of which are already being felt across various locations. On Thursday, despite it being a festival day, trash mounds were found uncleared at several spots, which had the residents wincing and complaining. The garbage got accumulated at locations where the trademark blue bins of GHMC had existed earlier. The bins have been removed recently, but the waste kept accumulating at the locations due to lack of any alternative system to collect garbage. Several social media users complained of uncleared garbage, and questioned the GHMC’s decision to remove the bins without making alternative arrangements. “Dear GHMC, Everyday I am seeing this in Attapur area, this is on the Erraboda main road. Please understand that we cannot walk or drive on the road by smelling the garbage. Please make our Hyderabad as swatch city. We want to see clean roads,” tweeted one Sarveswara Rao Eluri, posting a picture of trash dumped on roadside. Garbage mounds could be found at locations including Asifnagar, Attapur, Amberpet, Chikkadapally, Khairatabad, Nampally, Malakpet and several other areas. GHMC sanitation wing officials have not responded to queries about the situation, while workers’ unions allege that this is a ploy on part of the authorities to privatise garbage transportation notwithstanding resistance by workers. President of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Employees’ Union (GHMEU) Udhari Gopal said workers have been on agitation mode for quite some time against the move to bring in Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited (REEL), the concessionaire partner of GHMC for solid waste management, into garbage transportation. Though as per the original agreement penned with REEL, the whole cycle of waste management, along with transportation is to be handed over to the concessionaire partner, it could not be done due to vociferous opposition from unions. “This is an attempt to bring in Ramky through back door. In Khairatabad, Malakpet and Kavadiguda, our workers are being stopped from lifting garbage. They have now removed the bins so as to create unrest among public, so that the transition from public to private could be easy,” alleges Mr. Gopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-stinks-up-as-garbage-remains-uncleared/article34049258.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GO on erstwhile APDDCF assets set aside||The Telangana High Court had set aside the State government’s GO 8 of Animal Husbandry department transferring rights over Milk Products Factory at Lalapet in Hyderabad belonging to erstwhile A.P. Dairy Development Co-operative Federation (APDDCF) Limited to Telangana State Dairy Development Co-operative Federation (TSDDCF) A division bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Vinod Kumar pronounced verdict to this effect in a writ petition filed by APDDCF in 2016 challenging the GO issued by Telangana government. The action of Telangana in issuing the GO was illegal, arbitrary and contrary to the A.P. Reorganisation Act-2014, the judgment said. Another GO, No. 17, issued by Telangana was declared to be only an interim arrangement. The APDDCF was not bound by that GO, the verdict said. The bench said the Union Home Ministry had no jurisdiction in apportionment of assets and liabilities of Schedule IX institutions except in ‘adjudicating’ any disputes between A.P. Dairy Development Co-operative Federation and Telangana State Dairy Development Co-operative Federation. The order said the APDDCF had the option of remedy of invoking Article 226 of the Constitution seeking apportionment of assets and liabilities of APDDCF. The Telangana HC had jurisdiction to decide such plea, the judgment said. The administrative office of the APDDCF and its assets and liabilities should be divided between APDDCF and TSDDCF in the ratio of 58.32 : 41.68. While first and second floors of the building go to TSDDCF, the third and fourth floors go to APDDCF. The ground floor should be used by both of them, the order said. The market value of the guest house at Somajiguda should be determined by the Comptroller and Auditor-General and it should be apportioned between APDDCF and TSDDCF in the ratio of 58.32 : 41.68. Both federations were given liberty to approach the CAGI to assess market value of the property. The Comptroller and Auditor-General should, within eight weeks of receiving such request from either party, complete the valuation and pass on details to the two federations. Within three months of receiving information from CAGI, the TSDDCF should transfer 58.32% of the share to APDDCF. The bench made it clear that the milk products factory at Lalapet in Hyderabad could not be said to be ‘common facility’. It rejected the AP Advocate General’s contention that Lalapet factory was part of ‘headquarters’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/go-on-erstwhile-apddcf-assets-set-aside/article34049267.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t fall into KCR’s trap: Congress||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju has said that the Congress is willing to withdraw from the MLC elections if Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announces 45% fitment to all government employees in Telangana. At a press conference here, he urged the employees not to believe in intentional leaks given on new PRC and a 29% fitment and fall into his trap before the elections. He said the KCR had contempt for employees and it reflected in the Chief Minister’s statement describing them as ‘the tail of the dog’. Now he wanted to woo the same employees. Terming all the promises made by KCR ‘bubbles on the water’, he appealed to employees and graduates to be careful about the election dramas being played out using the union leaders. During the 2018 elections he promised to pay Rs. 3,016 monthly stipend to unemployed graduates but failed to do so. During the GHMC elections, he promised to pay Rs. 100 crore to Rs. 200 crore additional flood relief fund to Hyderabad but nothing was done even after the Mayor and the corporators were elected. Farm loan waiver was also not implemented, he slammed. Mr. Sravan also clarified that it was the Congress which had brought 15 tmcft of Krishna water and 10 tmcft of Godavari water to Hyderabad for ensuring continuous drinking water supply to citizens. He alleged that Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao was talking lies on water and employment despite there being nothing great done by him. Mr. Sravan also found fault with State Election Commission’s announcement of removing bogus voters just two days ahead of polling date, and it reflected the illegal nexus between the EC and KCR who was trying to win the elections at any cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-fall-into-kcrs-trap-congress/article34049269.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Throwing caution to wind, devotees throng Shiva temples||Unmindful of the harmful effects of crowding on the spread of the deadly COVID, devotees thronged Shiva temples across the State in large numbers on Maha Shivaratri since the early hours of Thursday. The temples reverberated with chants of ‘Om Namah Shivaya’ throughout the day. Queues Most of the devotees wore the safety masks but no safeguards against moving close to each other were followed. Even the temple authorities made no effort to enforce distancing between people. The queues in front of temples and scenes of rituals performed at the idols explained how the safeguards were given a go by. The crowd at Rajarajeswara Swamy temple at Vemulawada was as usual huge as it marks the beginning of the annual five-day event to celebrate the celestial marriage of Lord Shiva and Parvathi. After rituals on Thursday, the Shiva Parvathulu (brides of Shiva) practice their traditional marriage with Lord Shiva by adorning themselves as brides. They carry tridents (trishul) along with a bell and flowers, place jaggery and jeera mixtures on their heads and wear a yellow thread around their neck. Ministers’ offerings Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy offered silk clothes to the deity on behalf of the government. The Endowments Commissioner Anil Kumar and Sircilla Collector Krishna Bhaskar were present. Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy and Rajya Sabha member of TRS J. Santosh Kumar were among the early visitors to the Ramalingeswara Swamy temple at Keesara. The Thousand Pillar temple at Hanamkonda, where Lord Shiva goes by the name Rudreswara Swamy, witnessed steady visitors throughout the day. Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao presented clothes to the deity. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao presented clothes at Durga Bhavani temple at Edupayala in Medak district. Health Minister Eatala Rajender offered special prayers at a temple at Bornapalli village in Huzurabad mandal on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/devotees-throng-temples-on-maha-shivaratri/article34049276.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Contract assistant professors allege ‘same work, less pay’||“Same work, less pay” is considered discrimination and about 1,500 contract assistant professors working in all the universities in Telangana consider themselves discriminated in pay, administrative positions and academic duties, compared to regular teachers. Interestingly, they outnumber the regular teachers showcasing the academic burden they carry in the universities while getting lesser money. For example, in Osmania University, out of the 1,254 sanctioned posts of assistant professors, associate professors and professors, only 385 regular teachers are on the rolls while the contract assistant professors are around 425. Similar is the case with all other universities. And these are not just newcomers. Some of them have put in more than 25 years in service while many are in the 10 years bracket while a few passed away too. The main demand of these teachers is equal pay on a par with the regular staff at least if their services are not regularised for administrative reasons. Contract assistant professor in OU Ch. Parandhamulu says they ought to get salaries as per the 7th Pay Commission meant for university teachers but they were drawing half of what a new entrant gets in that position. “We have a PhD, NET or SLET qualification as per the norms and we demand that at least we should be paid salaries as per our work,” he says, adding that the workload on them is more than the regular teachers. This is echoed by Dharma Teja, who teaches at the University B. Ed College. He says Rs. 43,000 is being paid to them while those with seniority of 25 years draw about Rs. 70,000, which is the maximum. Rs. 70,000 is being drawn by the freshly recruited assistant professors and we want this discrimination to end. The contract assistant professors were appointed for the regular sanctioned posts when the varsities could not recruit for administrative reasons. “About 250 out of the 425 in OU actually are appointed in the sanctioned posts in the conventional courses and not new courses started in the self-finance mode,” argues Anand Goud, another contract assistant professor. ‘Representations made’ Their problems are not new and were represented to the university and the government several times. In a recent memorandum submitted to Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao, these teachers have requested enhancement in payments, job security, support to families of lecturers who passed away and appointment in administrative positions. They say the Telangana government increased their minimum salary from Rs. 24,840 to Rs. 43,470 in 2018 apart from sanctioning 3% annual increment. “We expect similar support from the government now,” says Mr. Parandhamulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contract-assistant-professors-allege-same-work-less-pay/article34049264.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five people, including a couple, killed in accidents||A supervisor of a heavy machinery manufacturing unit was charred to death after the trailer lorry he was travelling in caught fire near Shamirpet here on Thursday morning. According to police, three trailers carrying heavy machinery left from Bhopal to NTPC Salem, Tamil Nadu, and when they reached Shamirpet, a brick-laden lorry coming from Karimnagar, tried to overtake the slow moving vehicles from left. “While over taking, the lorry hit one of the heavy machinery carrying vehicles, as a result of which it caught fire. While others in those vehicles managed to escape, supervisor Mukhesh Kumar Singh was stuck and was burnt alive,” police said, adding that the driver suffered minor injuries. “The lorry has hit a hydraulic trailer loaded with 765kV 80MVAr reactor which was manufactured by CG Power & Industrial Solutions Limited at their Mandideep plant in Madhya Pradesh and was on the way to Ariyalur Substation of TANTRANSCO which is being constructed by BHEL on turnkey basis,” an official release from CG Power & Industrial said. The vehicular movement towards Hyderabad, which was affected for a few hours, was restored after police allowed two way traffic on one side of the divider. “We are making efforts to remove the accident vehicles from the spot so as to restore normalcy on the road,” the police said when last reports came in. Painter, wife killed In another case, a couple riding on a two-wheeler were killed at Japal village in Manchal mandal of Ranga Reddy district on Thursday afternoon. Police said that the accident took place around 2 p.m. when Jatoth Laxman, 32, a painter from Bodakonda village, and his wife Jatoth Manga, 25, were going towards Japal village. “In the meantime, while trying to negotiate a curve, his bike skidded and hit a current pole, due to which they both died on the spot,” Manchal police said. Their bodies were shifted to Ibrahimpatnam Government Hospital for autopsy. Two teenagers die Meanwhile, two teenagers, including a minor, travelling on a bike were killed after they came under the wheels of an APSRTC bus at New Malakpet on Wednesday night. The victims were identified as Mohammed Shohaib, 19, and Mohammed Ilaaf, 13, both students and residents of Peace Colony, Old Malakpet. According to Chaderghat police, the accident took place at around 11 a.m. when the victims tried to overtake the bus from the left, lost control and came under its wheels. “When Shohaib applied sudden brake, he lost control,” police said, adding that the duo were going towards Chanchalguda from Nalgonda crossroads. Their bodies were handed over to the family members after the autopsy at Osmania General Hospital morgue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-among-five-killed-in-separate-accidents/article34049255.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Australian diplomat visits NMDC office||The Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell visited National Mineral Development Corporation headquarters here on Thursday to discuss how Australia could play a critical and strategic role in mining activities of the Navaratna company. He was accompnaied by Ms Sarah Kirlew, Consul General (South India) and Mr Percy Bell, Minister-Counsellor (Economic). They met Sumit Deb, chairman and managing director of NMDC, Mr. Amitava Mukherjee, Director (Finance), Mr. Alok Mehta, Director (Commercial) and Mr. Somnath Nandi, Director (Technical). A release said the two sides also discussed mutual cooperation and investment opportunities in mining in Australia. The NMDC, with an experience of over six decades in mining is present in Australia through its subsidiary, Legacy Iron Ore Ltd., and is undertaking exploration activities for gold projects. Mr. Sumit Deb expressed his happiness to host the Australian High Commissioner and praised him for looking to expand horizons between Australia and NMDC. He said they had a constructive discussion on the prospects of a joint collaboration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/australian-diplomat-visits-nmdc-office/article34049263.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to reappoint NREGS field assistants||National Backward Classes Welfare Association president R. Krishnaiah has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to take back (reappoint) over 7,600 field assistants who were working on contract basis for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and were removed by the government in March last year following an indefinite protest by them. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Thursday, Mr. Krishnaiah said the field assistants, who were playing a key role in the implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme till they were removed unceremoniously last year, and their families were suffering badly in the absence of any alternative employment opportunity. Most of them had crossed the upper age limit for competing for other jobs as they had served in the NREGS for about 15 years. Removal of field assistants on the ground of going on strike without permission was illegal, as they were on contract basis, Mr. Krishnaiah said many of them belonged to SCs, STs and BCsand about 26 of them had died of mental agony arising out of financial problems and inability to feed their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-reappoint-nregs-field-assistants/article34049265.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI welcomes KTR support to VSP issue||Telangana State Council of the Communist Party of India (CPI) has welcomed the support extended by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president K.T. Rama Rao to the agitation against the Centre’s move to privatise Visakha Steel Plant (RINL). In a statement, State secretary of CPI Chada Venkat Reddy said here on Thursday that there was a need to oppose such unilateral moves being taken by the a Modi government and all the opposition parties should come together to oppose such moves. Mr. Reddy said it was an opportunity for TRS to agitate for the promises made to Telangana at the time of bifurcation of AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-welcomes-ktr-support-to-vsp-issue/article34049389.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Indian American to head Gandhi Mandela Foundation in US||Indian American businessman and a Democratic Party leader in the US, Lutfi Hassan, who migrated to the US from Hyderabad in the early 1980s, joined the Gandhi Mandela Foundation (GMF) as a trust member on Thursday. Founder chairman of the Apex Group of Companies in the US, Mr. Hassan took oath as the chairman of the Foundation for the Americas – US and the region. He was administered oath by secretary general of the GMF Nandan Jha at the Foundation headquarters in New Delhi on Thursday. According to a press release issued by the GMF, president of Jama Masjid United Forum Syed Yahya Bukhari was present during Mr. Hassan’s oath taking. Mr. Bukhari presented Gandhi Mandela Medal as a souvenir to Mr. Hassan on the occasion. On his new role, Mr Hassan said, “My job would be to involve younger generation in the work being done by GMF and get them engaged with the ideology of Gandhi and Mandela. I see a lot of young people here who are very excited to be part of this fabric. Similarly, I would like to expand the mission in the US and carry it forward”. The GMF is a Government of India registered trust that promotes individual freedom, civil liberties and human rights across the globe with its headquarters in New Delhi and has its presence in America, Africa, Russia, Great Britain, Switzerland, China, Nepal and Bangladesh. Mr. Hassan is an established civic leader representing the South Asian community in mainstream American politics. He has served as an advisor on Presidential, Gubernatorial, Senatorial, Congressional, Mayoral and Judicial campaigns in the US, including as a national finance co-chair for the Obama for America campaign in both 2008 and 2012. Recently, Mr. Hassan served on the board of advisory for South Asians for Joe Biden during the presidential run-up. He was among the select few from the South Asian community who were invited at the Biden-Harris inauguration ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indian-american-to-head-gandhi-mandela-foundation-in-us/article34048742.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panjagutta Metro Station to host ‘Great Hyderabad Expo 2021’||A unique event encompassing a host of fun-filled creative engagements, learning opportunities, rewards and recognitions while promoting the local artistic talents, The Great Hyderabad Festival & Expo 2021, is all set to welcome visitors at Expo Galleria, Panjagutta L&T Metro Station (level 1). Adding glamour quotient to the expo, international beauty pageant winner Rashmi Thakur will inaugurate the event on March 13. The expo is open to public on March 13 and 14 from 10 a.m to 9.30 p.m. According to the organisers of the expo, the event is focused on supporting and promoting the artists with special attention to the local art and culture of Telangana. Apart from bringing the artists on to a common platform, the expo also provides an opportunity to those who want to have some hands-on crash course on dramatics and artistry. Some of the well-known city-based artists are expected to throng the show and provide their insightful learnings to those interested in dabbling such creative domains. Free promotions and stalls are being provided to the artisans and creative entrepreneurs participating in the two-day festival and expo. The event will also have a fashion show on March 13 at around 4 p.m. followed by rewards and recognition. On the culmination day, the organisers will felicitate the artists and other achievers for their efforts during the event, a press release from the Hyderabad Metro Rail said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panjagutta-metro-station-to-host-great-hyderabad-expo-2021/article34049253.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||30 held for Bhainsa clashes||In connection with the Sunday’s communal clashes in Bhainsa town in Nirmal district, police have booked 21 cases till Thursday, and arrested 30 persons. Another 21 persons, whose role is suspected in the violence, in which more than 10 persons, including three police personnel were injured, were taken into custody for questioning, an officer said. Based on the available evidence, and eye-witness accounts, the investigators suspect the involvement of 78 persons, and teams were formed to nab 36 others who are still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-held-for-bhainsa-clashes/article34049256.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC restarts incentive scheme||In a bid to increase revenues and give incentives to the crew, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation has revived the Depot Incentive Scheme, after putting it on hold on account of the lockdown following the spread of the COVID. According to a circular issued by the RTC, the fixing of targets for each current month is based on the earning per kilometre of the previous months. This is raised by a decided percentage so as to arrive at the target earning per kilometre of the current month. Incentive for achieving targets is based on different slabs – ranging from 100% achievement of target to over 130% of target - for different types of buses such as Palle Velugu, City Ordinary, Express, Metro Express, Rajdhani, and Pushpak. The incentives will be paid on the spot, and not at the end of the month. Earnings based incentives are for mofussil operations. However, in connection with city services, a decision will be taken based on volume of operations and EPK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-restarts-incentive-scheme/article34049272.ece
12 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||farmer died||A farmer from Vikarabad died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General hospital here on Wednesday night. The victim, K. Srinivas (40) from Bantaram village in Vikarabad district, attempted to end his life jumping into flames, allegedly due to debts.   (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-died/article34049261.ece
12 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Maha Shivaratri celebrated with spiritual fervour||Spiritual aura enveloped Teerthala village in Khammam rural mandal as a large number of devotees swarmed the famous Sangameshwara Swamy temple to attend the jatara on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri on Thursday. The jatara site situated near the confluence point of Akeru, Munneru and Buggeru rivers teemed with hordes of devotees from far and wide. A steady stream of devotees thronged the temple from the early hours of the day to offer special prayers. Children had a gala time enjoying a rides on the giant wheel and participating in some fun-filled activities at the jatara grounds. A large posse of police personnel was deployed at the jatara site. Ahead of the MLC election slated for March 14, several supporters of some candidates special prayers at Sangameshwara Swamy temple. Elsewhere in the district, the temples dedicated to Lord Shiva in his various avatars witnessed heavy influx of devotees. The historic Ganapeshwaralayam in Kusumanchi dating back to the Kakatiya era, Neeladreeshwara Swamy temple in Penuballi mandal, Sri Mrutyunjaya Swamy temple in Madhira, and a host of other famous Shiva temples witnessed heavy rush of devotees. Maha Shivaratri was celebrated with great devotion and religious fervour at Shiva temples across the length and breadth of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Annual religious jataras got underway at Sri Veerabhadra Swamy temple in Tegada village and Sri Uma Ramalingeshwara Swamy temple in Pujarigudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jataras-add-gaiety-to-the-celebrations/article34049280.ece
12 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Ancient Shaivite temples in Nalgonda teem with devotees||Centuries-old Shaivite temples in undivided Nalgonda teemed with devotees throughout the day for special prayers and darshan of the presiding deity on the auspicious Maha Shivratri on Thursday. Chaya Someswara Swamy temple, popular for its architecture and the mysterious shadow on the linga in the sanctum sanctorum, and the Pachala Someswara Swamy Temple, characteristic of linga in green colour, both located at Panagal on the town outskirts, witnessed thousands of devotees. Local legislator K. Bhupal Reddy and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and others took part in the temple events. The Jadala Ramalingeswara Swamy Temple on Chervugattu hillock also drew a number of devotees from in and around the district. Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and other leaders visited the Erakeswara temple at Pillalamarri in Suryapet. Along with Nameswara and Trikuta temples here, built in the 13th century, the Erakeswara temple is popular for its architecture, inscriptions and acoustic characteristics. The Someswara Swamy Temple at Kolanupaka village in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district also reverberated with festival fervour. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy offered prayers at Swayambhu Shambulingeswara Swamy Temple at Mellacheruvu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ancient-shaivite-temples-in-nalgonda-teem-with-devotees/article34049273.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Routine film on farming||Karthik (Sharwanand) is the son of a farmer, Kesavulu (Rao Ramesh), and works for an IT company. He repays his father’s debt to Sai Kumar who is a land shark in the village. He is well aware that most of the villagers have mortgaged their lands and migrated to the city where they become daily wage labourers. Karthik quits his job and moves to his village and much against his father’s wishes, begins tilling the soil. He introduces to the fellow villagers, the concept of joint farming and inspires the rest who left their homes to return. The conflict arises when Sai Kumar, who cannot digest the dry Rayalseema land turn green and people clear their debts, creates differences among the villagers on revenue that comes from joint produce. The director makes the plot interesting by using the right emotional connect and dialogues by Sai Madhav Burra. But somewhere down the line, it reminds you of Bheeshma and Maharshi . Using technology to connect, communicate and turning dry land into a green patch is obviously interesting but not new. This time last year, we read about farmers directly sending fruits and vegetables to homes. This film taps into that situation when Karthik arranges for live streaming of farming and everyone becomes aware of it.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)    Sreekaram   Cast: Sharwanand, Priyanka Arul Mohan Direction: Kishore Reddy  Music: Mickey J Meyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/routine-film-on-farming/article34049251.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In full devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-full-devotion/article34049388.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Governing body alleges financial irregularities by DDU administration||Delhi government representatives in the governing body of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) college on Thursday alleged that the college administration was refusing to disburse salaries to staffers despite the availability of a fund of Rs. 22 crore. Alleging financial irregularities by the college administration, governing body member Anil Chaudhury said: “While the principal is claiming that the Delhi government has not given money for payment of salaries, when we looked into the matter, it was very clear that the government has regularly been paying all its dues.” However, teachers, who had assembled at the press conference, claimed that facts were being distorted as the available fund was part of the students’ fund which cannot be used to pay salaries. DDU principal Hem Chand Jain also said that the available fund was part of the Student Society Fund. “This is students’ money collected under different heads. So how can I use it for paying salaries? This is against resolutions of the Executive Council passed on December 8 last year. If the college is collecting funds from students, it has to be used for students. So, it cannot be used for any other purpose. The same rule is applicable for all colleges across the country as per norms laid down by the University Grants Commission (UGC). So how can DDU overrule this decision?” asked Mr. Jain. At the press conference, the governing body members also alleged that the college had failed to submit the Utilisation Certificate (UC) for the third quarter, which was required for the release of the fourth quarter grants. Rubbishes allegations However, Mr. Jain dismissed the allegations and said, “The UC was submitted a month ago and the same was shown to the accounts officer of the Delhi government who took cognisance of the same and said that it was sufficient for releasing the grant.” The Delhi government in a statement said that according to rules, it could pay colleges on the basis of “deficit funding”, which was the total expenditure of the college, excluding the funds or revenue of the college. “If a college has money in its account then the funding norms clearly state that the colleges have to first use that money and then any further payment can be made. The college has no right to keep it in surplus. The college cannot accumulate surplus funds, as per the financial norms of the Delhi government,” it stated. The government also said that the 12 colleges had not submitted the UCs of previous instalments, which had delayed the release of the final instalment. It added that an investigation would be conducted into the alleged financial irregularities. Meanwhile, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association has gone on a strike to protest against the non-payment of salaries. On Wednesday, DUTA had again written to Chief Minister demanding the release of grants for payment of salaries and dues to the teaching and non-teaching staffers. The teachers’ body has lined up a serious of protests and marches over the coming week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/governing-body-alleges-financial-irregularities-by-ddu-administration/article34048960.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Plea to include mental illness in list of comorbidities||A petition has been filed before the Delhi High Court to include severe mental illness in the list of specified co-morbidities to enable getting priority COVID-19 vaccination. The plea also sought direction to frame a policy to provide COVID-19 vaccination to homeless, mentally ill persons wandering on the streets. Currently, the government has prioritised healthcare workers, front-line workers (personnel in State and Central police department, armed forces, home guard and civil defence organisation, including disaster management volunteers, municipal workers, poll officers in election-bound States), persons aged 60 and above and those aged between 45 and 59 with identified 20 comorbidities for COVID-19 vaccination. One major group overlooked in the list of comorbidities is persons with severe mental illness, the petition said. It clarified that the 20 points of list of specified comorbidities include persons with intellectual disabilities and ones with disabilities having high support needs. “As per The Schedule of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, intellectual disability and mental illness are two different things,” the petition argued. It said the Schedule of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 term “intellectual disability” as a condition characterised by significant limitation both in intellectual functioning (reasoning, learning, problem solving) and in adaptive behaviour, which covers a range of every day, social and practical skills, including “specified learning disabilities” and “autism spectrum disorder”. However, only a mentally ill person with a valid certificate is eligible for the COVID-19 vaccination. A mentally ill person, who don’t have any kind of certificate, is not eligible for the same, the plea said. “Thousands of mentally ill persons who either don’t have a valid certificate... or are homeless [not having any kind of valid ID proof with them] have been prohibited by Respondents [authorities] to participate in the vaccination drive on priority basis,” the plea, which is likely to be heard on Friday, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-to-include-mental-illness-in-list-of-comorbidities/article34048951.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Petition in HC seeks expansion of ambit of electric vehicles scheme||A petition filed before the Delhi High Court has sought direction to expand the ambit of the FAME (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles) India Phase-II scheme to the hydrogen energy infrastructure. The petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar sought direction to the government to allocate a part of the unutilised funds from the FAME India Phase-II Scheme for promoting and incentivising demand for hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles and construction and operation of hydrogen refuelling stations. The plea said FAME scheme has not been able to adequately utilise its budget towards adoption of electric vehicles. It said that out of a total budget of Rs. 700 crore for setting up charging infrastructure, only Rs. 20 crore have been disbursed during the period from 2019 to February 10, 2021. “In the fight to reduce the dependence of India’s transport sector on imported oil and gas, it is paramount that the government supports and incentivises alternate fuel technologies, such as hydrogen-powered fuel cell electric vehicles, which can be effectively used in both long-distance heavy transport and for passenger vehicles,” the plea said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a National Hydrogen Energy Mission [NHEM] during his speech in December 2020 and the Finance Minister during her budget speech in February 2021 also mentioned the NHEM. However, till date, no details of the mission have been made publicly available,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/petition-in-hc-seeks-expansion-of-ambit-of-electric-vehicles-scheme/article34048949.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man killed in celebratory firing at brother’s birthday party in Dwarka||A 36-year-old man was killed in an alleged case of accidental firing during the celebration of his brother’s birthday in Dwarka’s Najafgarh in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. No arrest has been made in the case so far. The police said that it appears to be a case of celebratory firing. They said that the victim has been identified as Anuj Sharma, a resident of Uttam Nagar, and the accused has been identified as his friend, Naveen. The police said that they received a call at 12.58 a.m. from a private hospital and were informed that a man with a bullet injury was brought to the hospital dead. During preliminary inquiry, the police said, it was found that a party to celebrate the birthday of Anuj’s younger brother, Prateek Rishi, was being held at a farmhouse and 10-12 persons were attending the same. “One of Anuj’s friends, Naveen, started firing from a pistol and a bullet hit his chest on the left side. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead,” a senior police officer said, adding that nine empty cartridges have been recovered from the spot. “A case has been registered and teams are looking for the accused,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-killed-in-celebratory-firing-at-brothers-birthday-party-in-dwarka/article34048953.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Labourer dies, 8 hurt during railway work||A 20-year-old labourer died and eight others sustained injuries after they fell from a height while repairing the railway lines in east Delhi’s Shakarpur on Wednesday night. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said that the deceased has been identified as Shehzad, a resident of Alwar. Iron mesh slipped The police said that the incident took place at 11.45 p.m. on Wednesday and they were informed by the hospital around 1 a.m. on Thursday. “The workers were standing on an iron mesh and doing the repair work. The iron mesh slipped and they fell along with it. They fell from a height of about 15-20 feet,” said a senior police officer. All the injured persons were rushed to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital where Shehzad was declared brought dead. Others are currently undergoing treatment. The injured have been identified as Sohib (20), Kalibhawan (22), Sudhir (38), Raghubir (22), Sonu (20), Golu (20), Anis Khan (20) and Imran (21). The police said that a case under Section 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety), 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the contractor and further investigation is under way. A labourer, who did not wish to be identified, said that the workers were not provided safety gear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/labourer-dies-8-hurt-during-railway-work/article34048955.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman, boyfriend held for trying to kill husband||A 41-year-old woman and her boyfriend have been arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to kill her husband and make it look like an outcome of a road rage in Defence Colony area, police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused have been identified as Babita and Rohan (23) who had allegedly planned to kill Bheem Raj. The police received a call around 9 a.m. on Wednesday and were told that a bike rider shot at a man, who was driving a taxi in Andrews Ganj, and fled. The driver sustained injury on his neck and is undergoing treatment. During probe, the police claimed to have examined over 100 CCTV camera footage, after which they zeroed in on the registration number and an address to Kabir Nagar. They subsequently reached the bike owner, who stated that he had sold it to one Lakhan, who had further sold it to Manish alias Rohan. Mr. Thakur said the investigators then reached Rohan and arrested him followed by the arrest of Babita. During interrogation, the police said, Rohan revealed that he and Babita had hatched a conspiracy to kill Bheem Raj because of their relationship. He had also bought a semi-automatic pistol and cartridges from a friend in Burari, the police said, adding that Babita had helped him with a sum of Rs. 30,000. “The accused had also attempted to murder the victim on an earlier occasion in a park, but was unsuccessful. The conspiracy was hatched around 15 days ago at the victim’s house,” Mr. Thakur said.  The accused had also attempted to murder the victim on an earlier occasion in a park, but was unsuccessful. The conspiracy was hatched around 15 days ago at the victim’s house Atul Thakur Deputy Commissioner of Police (South)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-boyfriend-held-for-trying-to-kill-husband/article34048952.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for supplying arms and ammunition||A 30-year-old man was arrested for allegedly supplying arms and ammuniation in Delhi-NCR, the police said on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Aligarh district in Uttar Pradesh, they said. According to the police, Kumar used to procure arms and ammunition from Madhya Pradesh for supplying in Delhi-NCR and U.P. “On Tuesday, the police got a tip-off that Kumar would come near Inderprastha Park gate number 2 on Outer Ring Road, following which a trap was laid and the accused was apprehended around 10 p.m.,” DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-supplying-arms-in-delhi-ncr-up/article34048958.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||City records hottest day so far this year||The national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 35.2° Celsius on Thursday, six notches above normal and the highest so far this year, the India Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature settled at 17.2° Celsius, three notches above normal. Light rain, hail and gusty winds are likely towards the night, the IMD said. The mercury is expected to settle around 35° Celsius for the next three to four days, it said. Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the ‘poor’ category. The 24-hour average air quality index was 242, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-records-hottest-day-so-far-this-year/article34049239.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The show must go on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-show-must-go-on/article34048957.ece
12 March 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana challenges warrant issued in case filed by Akhtar||Actor Kangana Ranaut has approached a sessions court here challenging a bailable warrant issued by a magistrate in a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Ms. Ranaut’s plea, filed on Wednesday, is slated to be heard on March 15, her lawyer said. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate’s court had on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against the actor after she failed to appear before the court. Magistrate R.R. Khanhad earlier issued a summons to her in February. As the actor failed to appear, the court issued a bailable warrant against her and posted the matter for hearing on March 26. Ms. Ranaut was at liberty to approach a higher court to challenge the summons but she could not evade appearance before his court, the magistrate said. Earlier, the police had submitted a report on Mr. Akhtar’s complaint, saying an offence of defamation was prima facie made out against Ms. Ranaut. Mr. Akhtar has accused the actor of making false statements about him and damaging his reputation when she spoke about a ‘coterie’ in Bollywood in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death last June. Ms. Kangana’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said her plea in the sessions court would be heard on Monday. The summons itself was issued without complying with the Code of Criminal Procedure as four witnesses named by Mr. Akhtar in his complaint had not been examined on oath, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kangana-challenges-warrant-issued-in-case-filed-by-akhtar/article34048831.ece
12 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Three delivery boys held for stealing cooking gas||The Sanpada police have arrested three delivery boys for illegally and unsafely filling gas from domestic LPG cylinders through a nozzle pipe into empty cylinders and further selling them in the market. The trio, identified as Manoj Sonaram Bishnoi (21), Manoj Hanuman Ram Bishnoi (22), and Ramswarup Jagdishram Bishnoi (21), and their two absconding accomplices, all  hailing from Rajasthan, have been stealing gas for the last several months. All the accused worked as delivery boys for Bharat Gas Company’s Axel Bharat Gas Agency in Sector 5, Sanpada. Police constable Bhausaheb Holgir from Sanpada police station on his way home after duty on Tuesday smelled gas leak and ultimately caught the five red-handed. However, two of them managed to give him the slip. The accused would fill two-three kg of gas in an empty cylinder and then stamp it with a duplicate seal to sell it to customers. The police seized 25 cylinders — 15 of which were filled for domestic use, eight were empty, and two were partially filled — nozzle pipes, and a Mahindra Maximo Tempo from the possession of the accused. All five have been charged under the Essential Commodities Act and relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code, senior police inspector Subhash Nikam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-delivery-boys-held-for-stealing-cooking-gas/article34048832.ece
12 March 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records 14,317 fresh cases||Maharashtra reported yet another staggering spike of 14,317 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday as the State’s active case tally breached the one lakh mark to reach 1,06,070. While warning that the State stood on the verge of a lockdown if cases continued unabated, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray nevertheless said that the government had no wish to impose one. “I have said earlier that we stand on the edge of a lockdown…We can still avoid it if citizens adhere to norms. There have been cases of entire families testing positive. So, I appeal to people not to hesitate to get yourselves tested. We should try not to reach the peak figure that we had attained in September last year. Hence, we will have to abide by certain restrictions if we do not want to go the way of countries like Brazil,” Mr. Thackeray said. Just 7,193 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with the State’s recovery rate now down to 92.94%. As many as 57 deaths pushed the fatality toll to 52,667. While the total case tally has reached 22,66,374, the cumulative recoveries stand at 21,06,400. “Of a total 1,72,13,312 laboratory samples tested thus far, 22,66,374 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.17%) have returned positive with over 98,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality had incrementally dipped to 2.32%. Pune district continued to see ever-increasing surges, reporting an alarming spike of more than 2,800 new cases — the highest in the State in any district — to take its total case tally to 4,29,973. As per the State Health Department figures, nine deaths were reported as the death count rose to 8,114. However, as per the district authorities, the active case tally has surged past 15,700. Mumbai city recorded 1,509 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,38,643 of whom 10,563 are active. Four fatalities took the city’s toll to 11,519. Nagpur district in Vidarbha, which goes under a lockdown on March 15, registered a record single-day surge of more than 2,100 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-records-14317-fresh-cases/article34048833.ece
12 March 2021||Pune,||Protests erupt across Maharashtra as govt. postpones MPSC exam||The Maharashtra government’s decision to postpone the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases sparked protests across the State on Thursday, with aspirants taking to the streets in Pune, Aurangabad and other cities even as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that fresh dates would be announced on Friday. “This postponement is not for two or three months, but merely for a few days. I have directed MPSC officials to end this confusion and announce the new exam date on Friday. The exams will be held within eight days of the new schedule,” said Mr. Thackeray. During these protests, agitators unfortunately threw social distancing and pandemic norms to the winds. In damage control mode, the Chief Minister said that the alarming case surge had compelled a majority of the administrative staff to be deployed in combating the renewed pandemic wave. “Before Deepavali last year, when we had announced the MPSC exam dates [to be held on March 14], I had promised that it would not be postponed again…While I completely sympathise with the feelings of students, we have been forced to push it because of the COVID-19 situation and the fact that a lot of government officials who were to be deployed in various capacities during the conduct of the exams, be it collecting papers or supervision, are engaged in combating the pandemic,” he said. Mr. Thackeray stressed that the soaring cases had made it imperative to get these officials tested before they were deployed for exam duties. “We cannot play with the health of the students. So, it is vital to ensure whether or not these officials are negative. Students should not be in any doubt that whether officials in the room, who are handing out the question papers, are COVID-19 positive or not,” the Chief Minister said. The case spike had also posed the problem of exam centres being in containment zones, said Mr. Thackeray. “I have no intention of playing either with the emotions of students nor with their health. The dates will be announced tomorrow. So, I appeal to you all to drop this worry. There will be no problem regarding the age limit of students. I apologise for this inconvenience [of postponement],” Mr. Thackeray said. In a thinly veiled rebuke to the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he urged students not let others fire a political gun over their shoulders. The State government’s decision provoked sharp criticism not only from the Opposition BJP, but also from ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders, notably among the Congress. Senior Congressman Prithviraj Chavan termed the move to postpone the exams as being “grossly unfair” on the students, while Maharashtra Youth Congress president Satyajeet Tambe called the decision “unjust” and inimical to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/protests-erupt-across-maharashtra-as-govt-postpones-mpsc-exam/article34048834.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||China Parliament approves 5-year plan||China on Thursday formally approved the outline of its 14th five-year plan (2021-25), which highlights a number of key strategic projects to be pursued as a priority, including the first dam in Tibet on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo or Brahmaputra, a Sichuan-Tibet railway line near the India border, and a push for self-sufficiency in emerging industries such as Artificial Intelligence (AI). The draft outline of the five-year plan (FYP) and objectives through the year 2035 were passed by the National People’s Congress, the ceremonial legislature, as it closed its six-day annual session. Among the key projects is the building of a hydropower base on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo, which refers to the sections of the river in Tibet just before it enters India in Arunachal Pradesh. While four dams have been approved on the upper and middle reaches, this is the first project in the lower reaches of the river. Che Dalha, deputy Communist Party chief of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), said at the NPC that authorities should “strive to begin construction this year” of the dam and for “environmental impact assessments for the project to be approved as soon as possible”. India has expressed concerns over the four previously announced dams on the upper and middle reaches, the first of which, in Zangmu, was operationalised in 2015. The impact of the dams on downstream flows is not clear, and Indian officials have said they are monitoring flows of the river closely, both through independent assessments and using the hydrological data that China provides under a bilateral arrangement. The Brahmaputra is not entirely dependent on upstream flows with an estimated 35% of its basin in India, according to officials. High-priority project Dams on the lower reaches and at the Great Bend of the river near the border, which has been cited as a possible location for the new project, would raise worries because of the location across the border from Arunachal Pradesh in an ecologically sensitive canyon. Past projects to tap the enormous hydropower potential of the Great Bend were not given approval, but the inclusion of the project in the FYP suggests it has been sanctioned at the highest level and is now a high-priority official policy, viewed as a key element of a broader push to diversify China’s energy mix and meet a target of peaking carbon emissions by 2030. The hydropower base was listed in the outline of the FYP among projects that serve major national strategies, along with the Sichuan-Tibet railway. The FYP highlighted the railway from Ya’an in Sichuan to Nyingchi in Tibet as a key infrastructure project. It also called to “advance the preparatory work” for building a railway line from Xigaze in Tibet to Gyirong along the Tibet-Nepal border, which is part of an already agreed plan to build a cross-border railway link connecting China and Nepal. The FYP also emphasised opening up access to key border highways, including the strategically important G219 national highway that runs along the entire length of the India-China border in Xinjiang and Tibet. The rail from Ya’an to Nyingchi in Tibet, which lies just across from Arunachal Pradesh, is the first segment of a line that will eventually run to Lhasa and is the second major rail link from China’s hinterland to Tibet. President Xi Jinping in November officially “gave the instruction” to begin work on the project, calling it “a major step in safeguarding national unity and a significant move in promoting economic and social development of the western region.” Zhu Weiqun, a senior Party official formerly in charge of Tibet policy, said last year the railway will help “transport advanced equipment and technologies from the rest of China to Tibet and bring local products out” and “if a scenario of a crisis happens at the border, the railway can act as a 'fast track' for the delivery of strategic materials.” Beyond the strategic infrastructure projects, the broader goal of the FYP and the 2035 outline emphasised establishing China’s self-sufficiency in key high-tech industries. While the FYP for the first time did not outline a growth target, it listed an annual target to increase R&D spending “by more than 7% per year”. It said China “will take self-reliance in science and technology as strategic underpinning for national development” and “will focus on the development of strategic emerging industries including information technology, biotech and new energy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-parliament-approves-5-year-plan/article34048511.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||China overhauls Hong Kong’s poll system||China on Thursday passed sweeping changes for Hong Kong’s electoral system that will give Beijing-appointed politicians a greater say in running the Special Administration Region (SAR), marking the biggest change since the handover in 1997. The National People’s Congress (NPC), the Communist Party-controlled legislature, approved “to improve” Hong Kong’s electoral system as it ended its week-long session, with President Xi Jinping and 2,894 other delegates supporting the move. One abstained and none opposed the change, which was passed with thunderous applause from the Party-appointed delegates to the NPC in Beijing. At the heart of the new proposal is a move to give Beijing-appointed politicians greater power in running the HKSAR’s politics, through a newly expanded Election Committee of 1,500 members. The NPC said the move was to ensure that “the electoral system should conform to the policy of ‘one country, two systems’, meet the realities in the HKSAR and serve to ensure that Hong Kong is administered by people who love the country and love Hong Kong”. The idea to “ensure the administration of Hong Kong by Hong Kong people with patriots as the main body” was described by Beijing as a response to the 2019 pro-democracy protests that roiled the city and called for universal suffrage. Wang Chen, vice chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, said the new move was to plug “clear loopholes and deficiencies, which the anti-China, destabilising elements jumped on to take into their hands the power to administer the HKSAR”. More legislators Currently, only half of the 70 members of Hong Kong’s Legislative Council (LegCo) are directly elected and the rest are nominated. With this change, the number of LegCo members will be increased to 90, with the additional members also nominated, thereby reducing the share of elected representatives. The expanded Election Committee will be composed of 1,500 members, up from 1,200 previously, with the new members set to include the Beijing-nominated Hong Kong members of the NPC (the legislature) and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (the political advisory body or upper house). The Election Committee, as previously, will be responsible for electing the Chief Executive, and will also choose some of the members of LegCo. The selection of “patriots” will be ensured by the setting up of a new candidate qualification review committee, which the NPC said “shall be responsible for reviewing and confirming the qualifications of candidates for the Election Committee members, the Chief Executive, and the LegCo members”. The new electoral system is the second significant change in the administration of the HKSAR since the 2019 protests, with a national security law passed last year that lists penalties for “secession” and “subversion” and, in the view of Hong Kong’s pro-democracy parties, has eroded the political freedoms that distinguished Hong Kong from the mainland under the “one country, two systems” model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-overhauls-hong-kongs-poll-system/article34048512.ece
12 March 2021||MANDALAY,||Junta spurns UN, keeps using lethal force||Spurning an appeal by the United Nations to top using lethal force against peaceful demonstrators, security forces in Myanmar on Thursday fatally shot at least 10 people protesting against last month’s military coup. The military also lodged a new allegation against Aung San Suu Kyi, the elected leader it ousted on February 1. It charged at a news conference in the capital, Naypyitaw, that in 2017-18, she was illegally given $6,00,000 and gold bars worth slightly less by a political ally, former Yangon Division Chief Minister Phyo Min Thein. Military spokesman Brigadier General Zaw Min Tun said Phyo Min Thein had admitted giving the money and gold to Ms. Suu Kyi, but presented no evidence. The accusation was clearly aimed at discrediting Ms. Suu Kyi, and perhaps charging her with a serious crime. She and President Win Myint are both being detained on less serious allegations. Myanmar has been roiled by protests and other acts of civil disobedience since the coup toppled Ms. Suu Kyi’s government just as it was to start its second term.. Press reports and posts on social media on Thursday said there were six deaths in Myaing, a town in the central Magway Region, and one each in Yangon, Mandalay, Bago and Taungoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/junta-spurns-un-keeps-using-lethal-force/article34048515.ece
12 March 2021||Washington,||Biden’s $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief Bill passes U.S. Congress||In a massive and early victory for the Democrats, the House of Representatives approved 220-211 a$1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief Bill, voting almost entirely along party lines. The Bill, having already passed the Senate, will be signed into law by President Joe Biden on Friday. “Help is here,” Mr. Biden tweeted shortly after the House had voted on the American Rescue Plan. He called the Bill — which is one of the largest stimulus measures on record — a “historic victory” for the American people. Eligible Americans will receive $1,400 cheques under a $400 billion measure contained in the Bill. Another $350 billion will be directed towards vaccine distribution, assistance to State and local governments and to fund tax credits for those with children. The Bill extends by six months a $300 weekly unemployment insurance scheme which was due to expire in March. It also covers assistance to schools to facilitate the return of children to classrooms, a 15% increase in food stamp benefits for another six months and assistance for the heating and cooling of homes income for poor families among other measures. Many of those eligible for the cheques are expected to receive them by the end of the month. Unlike what Mr. Trump had done with two sets of relief cheques that went out earlier, Mr. Biden will not have his name on the cheques. Over 5,00,000 Americans have died of thecoronavirus pandemic. Over 18% of Americans have been vaccinated and Mr. Biden has said the country will have vaccines for everyone who wants them by the end of May. Previewing his first prime time address, due to be delivered on Thursday, Mr. Biden said: “I’m going to launch the next phase of the COVID response and explain what we will do as a government and what we will ask of the American people. There is light at the end of this dark tunnel of this past year.” Before the House vote, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi addressed the child-related aspects of the Bill, saying child welfare was her main reason for entering political life. “The Biden American Rescue Plan is about the children, their health, their education, the economic security of their families,” she said, adding: “This legislation is one of the most transformative and historic Bills any of us will ever have the opportunity to support.” Republican opposition On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said that if the Bill was passed Americans would be met by “some measure of prosperity” after the pandemic. Republicans, all of whom opposed the Bill, both in the Senate and the House, argued that the Bill was too expansive and pushed through a raft of progressive policy priorities. “This isn’t a rescue Bill, it isn’t a relief Bill, it is a laundry list of left-wing priorities that predate the pandemic and do not meet the needs of American families,” House Minority (Republican) Leader Kevin McCarthy said, as reported by the Washington Post.  Measures Republicans have opposed include a $86 billion bailout to failing multi-employer pension plans, on the grounds that it is not related to the pandemic. The sole House Democrat who had opposed the Bill, Jared Golden of Maine, said some of the Bill’s measures were unnecessary while others were absent — such as a provision to set the federal minimum wage at $15, up from $7.25 per hour — which could not pass the Senate version of the Bill. Nevertheless, a significant majority of Americans (70%) support the Bill, according to a survey released by the Pew Research Center on Wednesday. The same survey said 41% of Republicans and independents who lean Republican support the measures. The stimulus is expected to boost the global economic recovery from COVID-19, the OECD had said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bidens-19-trillion-covid-19-relief-bill-passes-us-congress/article34048521.ece
12 March 2021||Washington,||Blinken to meet Chinese officials||Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan will meet their Chinese counterparts, Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs Yang Jiechi and State Councillor Wang Yi in Anchorage on May 19, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said via a statement. The U.S. will raise the many concerns it has with Beijing’s actions and behaviour that pose security challenges to the U.S. and its partners, Mr. Blinken told the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC). A State Department statement noted that the meetings will take place after Mr. Blinken meets with his counterparts in South Korea and Japan — which is scheduled to happen earlier next week. “This is an important opportunity for us to lay out in very frank terms the many concerns we have with Beijing’s actions and behaviour that are challenging the security, the prosperity and the values of the United States and our partners and allies,” Mr. Blinken told the House. “So we intend to raise and we will raise a host of issues... We’ll also explore whether there are avenues for cooperation, and we’ll talk about the competition that we have with China to make sure that the United States has a level playing field and that our companies and workers benefit from that,” he said. Mr. Blinken also made clear that next week’s meeting was not a strategic dialogue. “This is not a strategic dialogue. There’s no intent at this point for a series of follow-on engagements. Those engagements if they are to follow really have to be based on the proposition that we’re seeing tangible progress and tangible outcomes on the issue of concern to us with China,” he said. Mr. Blinken also confirmed during his hearing that he was not contemplating concessions to the Chinese government going into the Anchorage meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-to-meet-chinese-officials/article34048514.ece
12 March 2021||Albany,||Cuomo aide accuses him of harassment||New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, already under investigation for sexual harassment, is facing a new allegation of groping a female aide, local media reported on Wednesday. She is the sixth woman to accuse him of harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cuomo-aide-accuses-him-of-harassment/article34048518.ece
12 March 2021||London,||Prince William denies British royal family is ‘racist’||Prince William on Thursday defended the British royal family after his younger brother Harry and wife Meghan accused them of racism in a bombshell interview watched around the world. “We’re very much not a racist family,” Prince William, 38, told reporters during a visit to a multi-racial school in a deprived area of east London. The Duke of Cambridge, as he is formally known, is the first senior royal to speak out publicly about the explosive row that has engulfed Britain’s most famous family. He said he had yet to speak to Prince Harry since the interview with U.S. chat show host Oprah Winfrey, first aired in the U.S. on Sunday night.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-william-denies-british-royal-family-is-racist/article34048517.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Politics apart, troubles aplenty for Kerala||Kerala faces several serious challenges, which political parties seldom focus on as objects of resolution and include in their propaganda. Coming together under two coalitions in the State — the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front — these political parties attribute issues of misrule, financial corruption, and nepotism against each other. While the ruling Front puts up proof of achievements in development and people’s welfare, the Opposition brings up charges of financial corruption and development failures against the ruling Front. Probing, rarely, any of the genuine challenges (often due to their own conflicting interests and goals within the front), the Opposition creates a politically disengaging environment. I would like to briefly focus on some of the crucial political challenges awaiting the new government. Sustenance of social security Compared to the other States, Kerala has been concerned about the development consequences and is committed to resolving them by combining growth with equity. Severely hit by the severe cyclonic storm Ockhi in 2017, floods in 2018 and 2019, and the novel coronavirus pandemic lockdown now, Kerala’s growth rates that were above the national rates are currently under downward pressure. Inflation hovers around 8%, worsening the situation. But the State provided commodities at fair prices through cooperatives such as SupplyCo (Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation) and ConsumerFed (State Cooperatives Consumers’ Federation). Likewise, it could tide over the crisis of the pandemic lockdown by ensuring food security through its extensive Public Distribution System network. With a governmental restructuring of the economy into an equitable alternative for extending goods, services and credit to people, it could reverse the capitalist redistributive functions. Similarly, the long-term sustenance of the State’s health sector is a big task. It must be noted that the State’s health sector has been globally celebrated for retaining gains in indices such as high life expectancy, infant mortality rate, birth rate, and death rate, for containing the Nipah viral outbreak in 2018 and 2019, and COVID-19 now and has already been transformed through the Aardram mission, the State Health Insurance Agency 2020, and the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi 2020 besides multiple health insurance schemes. Building an ecologically sustainable and resilient New Kerala is a big problem too. Projects such as the GAIL pipeline and City Gas are praiseworthy. Transport infrastructure development through the construction of roads, bypasses and highways is great. So does the expansion of the Kerala Highway Research Institute as a Centre of Excellence for innovation in design, construction, maintenance, quality assurance, and safety of roads. Making all this effort towards rapid urbanisation (which involves land diversion, wetland reclamation, and deforestation) to be environmentally sustainable is too difficult. It should go well with the State’s move to invest tremendously in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry, and the traditional industries. A major engagement is the opening up of ecologically sustainable alternative development paths leading to systemic change in the economy. Adding to this, climate change-induced disasters (though they hardly ever spread panic unlike the pandemic), need special emphasis to make sure that planners do not overlook them in future development. Knowledge economy With the distinct understanding that investment in knowledge and human capital guarantees long-run development, Budget 2021-22 leapfrogs into the knowledge economy. It is for the first time in the country that a State Budget has recognised new knowledge, a crucial non-finite resource and democratisation of its benefits, as the key driver to future productivity-growth and equitable social development. It quite realistically envisages various schemes for boosting accumulation of knowledge-based capital through higher education institutions and provides for the growth of hi-tech industries, innovative start-ups, expansion of the service sector, and the opening up of avenues of self-employment. Universities are called upon to fill their curricula with the latest science-tech hybrid fields of knowledge as current in the developed world. Indeed, it is important that higher education institutions develop the necessary competency to create and transact new knowledge for the growth of the State’s intellectual property. However, people, who generally glorify the knowledge economy, seldom realise the fact that it is techno-capitalism, the latest version of capitalism dependent on technology and science, for the production and exchange of marketable knowledge. Organised into corporates, capitalists have globally established huge research centres for the generation of knowledge in various science-tech hybrid fields, which as intellectual property and patents (intangible assets), have unimaginable rates of exchange value. Deploying thousands of youth they confiscate their intellectual property by cleverly blurring the actual relationship with its author through the phenomenon called fetishism of both the commodity and capital. But the struggle lies in gaining precedence of critical knowledge over the production, consumption and exchange of marketable knowledge. An uncritical promotion of the knowledge society means only augmentation of knowledge-consuming people, who only buy it rather than creating it. The call has to be understood as an apposite political response to the fast developing techno-capitalist global economy that demands that youth acquire innovative expertise and rare work-space skills in science-tech hybrid fields. Decline of democracy The decline of democracy and secularism and the rise of communalism (a global and national threat), pose a big question to the state polity. In India, caste divisiveness adds to this degenerative process which involves the loss of the foundational spirit of the country’s Constitution and the political quality of the citizenry. Communal beliefs feigning to be traditional knowledge find a place in all national policy papers including the Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy  document. Traditional beliefs are being distinguished as indigenous science, without knowing that science is universal unlike beliefs, and which always improves itself through scientific proof. Beliefs obfuscate independent inquiries, undermine the credibility of research establishments, and curb the curiosity of youth. Kerala has been untiringly opposing communal obscurantism and fascism to champion the cause of secularism and democracy. But in recent times, the play of deadly sentiments, false identities, and obscurantism has set in, thereby harming humanism and scientific temper. A State that awe-inspiringly demonstrated oneness during the recent crises of floods and disease in the sharing of prayer halls and worship spaces across religions soon showed the face of divisiveness too. An upper caste identity crisis and patriarchal prejudices spread obscurantism to block the entry of women to Sabarimala and the casteist organisation  could misuse the sentiments for political gains.  Similarly, obscurantism of two rival Christian factions could block the implementation of a Supreme Court order using the threat of religious strife. Kerala’s polity is increasingly facing an impairment of democracy and secularism as an ever intensifying threat due to politicians nibbling at the jigs of votes on the anglers of religious and caste heads. Confronting global economy Like any other State in India, a major political problem before Kerala lies in addressing the local consequences of the global economy that reaches everywhere in search of cheap labour, low tax, and a least regulatory environment. Its reckless accessing of natural resources through networks of worldwide communication, decentralised extraction, production, and exchange affects life even in the recesses of villages. Any local situation today owes its stress to the global process that makes the national economy fragmented and entangled in the process of world economic development. Developmental consequences range from a loss of employment and livelihoods, forced displacement and relocations, health hazards and disabilities and even suicides and democides. Indirect developmental consequences by way of ecological destruction, climate change, and natural disasters affect people in the same way too. Making the government through the process of electoral contests is hugely expensive for the nation as well as political parties. Most parties generate income through questionable means when they are in power, for what they mobilise from the clientele is insufficient in managing the electorates. A transnational class that manages the global economy decides which coalition should constitute the government, be it national or regional, and for what priority. They manage it through a mutual relationship of exchange — exchange of money for access to natural resources under the control of state power to enhance capital gains. This is inevitably an exchange at the expense of social justice, democracy and environment. How to confront the global economy through a feasible type of upheaval is a huge challenge for a genuine democratic government. Rajan Gurukkal is Vice Chairman, Kerala State Higher Education Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/politics-apart-troubles-aplenty-for-kerala/article34048496.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Working towards climate justice in a non-ideal world||The election of Joe Biden as U.S. President has catapulted climate change to the top of the global agenda, allowing him to keep his promise to “lead a major diplomatic push” to increase global climate ambition. This also works well for him in rebuilding the trans-Atlantic alliance apart from keeping at bay the domestic fissures from a tenuous hold of the Democrats in the U.S. Congress while being resolute on climate change. It is also in line with the legacy ambitions of his team, led by former U.S. Secretary of State, John Kerry (and now Special Presidential Envoy for Climate), with many of them being old climate warriors, some even from the days of the U.S. President, Bill Clinton. The U.S.’s moves Interestingly, the U.S. is not just striding back to the Obama signature achievement of the Paris Accord with its voluntary commitments but also to the Bush days. This is, perhaps, best evidenced by the presidential call to reconvene the Major Economies Forum (MEF) starting with a Leaders’ Climate Summit in April this year. The MEF, which was first convened in March 2009, originated in the Bush-era U.S. efforts to rope in major emitters. It was also to push a way forward on climate change without heed to the principle of differentiated responsibilities and recognition of historical responsibilities, which are rightly hallowed principles of the climate discourse given the decades of staying power of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere. The serious unwillingness of emerging economies to be labelled “major emitters” saw the meeting retitled “Major Economies Meeting” given the clear link between GDP and GHG. While the meeting’s purport was not hidden, the retitling provided a feel-great and one from which retraction was not possible for the emerging economies. Stern message, border levies This time the push appears to have come to shove, with all countries being told to commit to net zero (GHG emissions) by 2050 with credible plans to ensure meeting this domestic target. Indeed, the Chinese, who posited themselves as reaching there by 2060, have been sternly told to be there a decade earlier. Taking a cue from the new U.S. Administration, the UN Secretary-General has even called on countries to declare national climate emergencies apart from building a coalition for a carbon-neutral world by 2050. As of today, countries representing around 65% of global CO2 emissions have already agreed to this. The UN Secretary-General would like this figure to reach 90% within 2021. These plans and their implementation will, undoubtedly, be subject to international reviews and verification. Not said as yet, but non-compliance may not be just naming and shaming. Historical responsibilities and differentiation, obviously, have no place in this discourse; but neither does the level of development. India, with its huge population and now one of the world’s largest economies, can easily be in the crosshairs of such a discourse no matter its extraordinarily small carbon footprint in per-capita terms and huge development imperatives. Adding to the challenges of this proposed global goal is the distinct possibility of the EU imposing carbon border levies on those who do not take on high carbon cut-down targets and do so unilaterally if there is no global agreement. While as of now the U.S. Administration appears ambivalent on these border levies, the possibility of their coming around cannot be ruled out. In such a scenario, World Trade Organization rules that presently exclude the use of tariffs on environmental grounds will certainly get modified. A fund pay-in idea The issue of money, especially the lack of it, is a perennial one in the climate discourse. In this context, Raghuram Rajan has recently put forward a proposal for India to consider — it calls on countries to pay into a global fund amounts based on their carbon emissions over and above the global per-capita average of five tons. This obviously disincentives coal in a big way while incentivising renewables. Those above the global average would pay, while those below would receive the monies. While this would suggest a certain equity, it may be unacceptable to the developed countries even though Mr. Rajan has gone along with the drumbeat to forget historical responsibility. As far as India is concerned, for starters such a proposal may appear attractive as India today has per capita CO2 emission of only 2 tons and is a global record setter in pushing renewables. But will real politics allow a major economy to benefit from such fund flows or indeed even be the recipient of any form of concessional climate finance? Unlikely. Moreover, the long-term implications of such a proposal in a setting of a sharply growing economy and reliance on coal-produced electricity for several decades require examination in detail, quite apart from factoring in the twists and turns that negotiations could give to such an idea. And then, of course, there are alternatives such as emission trading. Furthermore, the proposal focuses on current and future emissions, and in keeping with the contract and converge approach, allows practical considerations to trump fairness by not only giving a short shrift to historical responsibility but also denying priority access to the remaining carbon space for developing countries. In that sense, it double penalises them while giving developed countries a certain free pass. Here it bears noting that more than 75% of the carbon space available to humankind to keep global temperature rises to 1.5° C has already been taken up by the developed world and China. Climate negotiations are not just about the environment and human well being or even energy, but are also about global governance, and will henceforth be pursued with a vigour which requires India to carefully calibrate its approach including on the economic and political fronts. Climate justice is an imperative for India, which needs to leverage its green and pro-nature commitment to ensure carbon and policy space for its developmental and global aspirations. India’s diplomatic and negotiating efforts must be quickly geared to that end. Manjeev Singh Puri is a former Ambassador and Lead Negotiator at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. He is also Distinguished Fellow, TERI: the Energy and Resources Institute. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/working-towards-climate-justice-in-a-non-ideal-world/article34048498.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Frontier politics||The BJP’s rise to power in Assam in 2016 was remarkable, and the party has set an even higher goal this time, to win 100 of the 126 Assembly seats along with its allies, the Asom Gana Parishad, United People’s Party Liberal and the Rabha Joutha Mancha. The electoral landscape is significantly different this time, with rearranged alliances and the emergence of new issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Going by 2016 figures, the Mahajot of parties including the Congress, the All India United Democratic Front, and the Bodoland People’s Front has 48.81% share of the votes. The combined vote share of the Congress and AIUDF was higher in 17 seats the BJP had won last time. An alliance of regional parties, the Assam Jatiya Parishad and Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal, both formed six months ago following the anti-CAA movement, could make the contest triangular, at least in the eastern parts. The Congress is facing a leadership vacuum and tussle at the same time; and the BJP has to reconcile with the friction arising out of the fact that its most effective and popular leader is Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, a former Congressman. The BJP claims Assam saw fast-paced development and there is no noticeable anti-incumbency. The outcome will be determined by other issues, and particularly identity questions that have become more fraught this time. Regional variations in political trends are sharp, and the BJP’s attempt is to construct a Hindu identity that subsumes ethnic and linguistic ones. Mr. Sarma has been targeting Muslims in his rhetoric. The CAA, along with the National Register of Citizens, got the religious fault line intertwined with the ethnic one, denying the BJP any clear advantage. The fear of illegal migrants overrunning indigenous populations has been a perennial issue; but this time, the focus has shifted from migrant “Bangladeshi” Muslims to “Bangladeshi” Hindus, whose side the BJP sought to take through the new citizenship regime. The party is now trying to underplay the CAA as an electoral issue, but the other two alliances are trying to keep the focus on it, and put the BJP on the back foot among the indigenous population. The issue is also a red flag for a majority of Muslims, who constitute 34% of Assam’s population. The BJP has been trying to mobilise sentiments around the encroachment by ‘Bangladeshis’ of forests and swathes of land belonging to Vaishnav monasteries. Floods that wash away farmland and dwelling areas, and the distress among plantation workers — a voting block, particularly in 45 seats in eastern and southern Assam — are also campaign issues. Sadly, such material questions are only secondary in a campaign overwhelmed by identity issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/frontier-politics/article34048490.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Scope for scandal||It is quite regrettable that politicians are often hit by scandals arising from leaked footage purportedly showing them in intimate proximity with women. The latest episode involves former Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who resigned in the wake of visuals allegedly showing him in such a situation. Speculation about the existence of more such compact discs that could surface in the media has resulted in a lawyer and BJP member obtaining an interim High Court order, that media organisations should abide strictly by the Programme Code prescribed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act. About 70 media organisations, including television channels, social media platforms, digital media outlets and newspapers have been arrayed as respondents. The order is unexceptionable. The broadcast media are expected to conform to the Code. However, when such an omnibus order is passed, it could become a tool of harassment. Under the Act, district magistrates, sub-divisional magistrates and police commissioners are the ‘authorised officers’ to ensure that the Programme Code is not breached. The Bengaluru Police Commissioner has also issued an order prohibiting the broadcasting of anything that breaches the Code. The Code, which is part of the Cable Television Network Rules, is widely worded. For instance, anything that offends good taste or decency, or amounts to criticism of friendly countries, are violations. It also considers defamation, half-truths and innuendo as potential violations. In the absence of judicial orders, it may be unsafe to leave such matters to the discretion of the ‘authorised officer’. A key consideration to decide on the content of any broadcast that may be controversial is whether it touches upon any public interest. In this case, it is not merely the private moment of a serving Minister, but his public conduct that is under scrutiny — for the allegation is that he had promised a job to a woman in exchange for sexual favours. That he and others said to be contemplating preventive legal action against the future release of such footage were defectors who brought about the fall of the JD(S)-Congress government not long ago, would impart the episode with a deeper cause for a thorough investigation. Of course, in the absence of any complaint from the woman, or even any knowledge about her, it is difficult to prove any wrongdoing. And not even public interest can justify a flagrant breach of privacy of anyone, or the depiction of women in a derogatory manner. But sections of the media may have considered that there is enough public interest to draw attention to the footage, even if they had no intention to air it. The onus is on media outlets to show discretion in dealing with such ‘leaks’. Greater discretion may be warranted for political leaders, especially those with a record of political dishonesty, for it is difficult to blame the public if they expect the worst of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/scope-for-scandal/article34048491.ece
12 March 2021||Chennai,||Kraft paper shortage hits more than 2,000 carton box units||More than 2,000 corrugated or carton box units in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are on the verge of closure due to an export-led shortage and sudden increase in kraft paper prices. Following this, the South India Corrugated Box Manufacturers’ Association (SICBMA) has urged the Centre to impose an immediate ban on export of kraft paper in any form as its supply to the local market had shrunk by more than 50% in the recent months. Kraft paper is the main raw material in the production of corrugated boxes used mainly by sectors such as pharma, FMCG, food products, automobiles and electrical appliances. Though the demand for the boxes is steadily growing post COVID-19, the manufacturers are not able to ensure supply, as thousands of tonnes of kraft paper are leaving Indian shores for export markets. According to SICBMA president G. Nagaraj, the cost of kraft paper typically accounts for 85% of the production cost of corrugated boxes. With the steep rise in the price of kraft paper, triggered largely by the export-led shortage, the cost of manufacturing of corrugated boxes has risen by 60%. It is a highly competitive sector and the box manufacturers work on a very thin margin, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kraft-paper-shortage-hits-more-than-2000-carton-box-units/article34048474.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tata Motors bets big on CV growth, unveils range of trucks||Tata Motors expects the commercial vehicles industry to grow more than 30% in the next fiscal on the back of cyclical demand uptick and overall recovery of economic activity, according to a top company official. The company, which on Thursday unveiled its latest range of intermediate and light commercial trucks (I&LCV) — the Ultra Sleek T-Series — starting from Rs. 13.99 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi), is also seeking to cash in on the return of demand and enhance its market share in the segment. “One can now say that the economic recovery is well and truly in place and we see the last quarter GDP growth has been positive,” Tata Motors President Commercial Vehicle Business Unit, Girish Wagh told reporters in a virtual conference. He further said the CV industry is very closely linked to the overall economic activity. “We do see that next year the CV industry should grow, do well and we should be getting into a cyclical upturn again after having two years of downturn.” On the growth expectations for the upcoming fiscal, Mr. Wagh said, “Next year, therefore, we are looking at growth rate in the higher 30s, that’s the kind of growth rate we are looking for the overall industry.” The domestic CV industry, which started to go on a slump from November 2018 is now recovering gradually, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-bets-big-on-cv-growth-unveils-range-of-trucks/article34048480.ece
12 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Pandemic slowed IT deal conversions: LTI’s Jalona||The process of contracting for large deals has become quite complex as the solution components and customer collaboration models have changed with the pandemic, said Sanjay Jalona, CEO and MD, Larsen & Toubro Infotech (LTI). “Because of this, deal conversion takes longer than usual. But we are witnessing the beginning of the end of this crisis, and are hopeful that the pace will gradually become faster,” he said. The tech firm has been actively chasing large deals in the last several quarters. ”We have successfully closed several multi-million, multi-year deals in the last few quarters. A reflection of this is the 22 new clients we signed in Q3 [this year],” he said. According to him, all aspects of business had witnessed accelerated digitalisation during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-slowed-it-deal-conversions-ltis-jalona/article34048468.ece
12 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Govt. owning bad bank is more capital efficient’||Amid confusing reports about the control of the proposed bad bank, a brokerage has called for government ownership, saying state-funding was more capital efficient apart from speeding up implementation and also lowering the credit costs for the banks. The government owning the proposed bad bank would not only be more capital efficient but also not impact the fiscal numbers, as otherwise, it would have to keep on recapitalising the state-owned lenders as they would be the biggest beneficiaries of the proposed bad bank, Bank of America Securities India said in a report. Again, such a set-up could lower the credit charge on banks to a fifth in the worst-case scenario from the 100% now, the report added. As of March 2020, the gross non-performing loans of banks stood at 2.8% or Rs. 2,89,500 crore, which is 1.3% of the GDP, according to the report. This would go up to 13.5% by this September, a two-decade high, given the impact of the pandemic on the companies and banks, according to the Reserve Bank of India.  Pandemic woes may drive gross NPAs from 2.8% in March 2020 to 13.5% in September 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-owning-bad-bank-is-more-capital-efficient/article34048471.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kalyan Jewellers Rs. 1,175-cr. IPO to open on March 16||Kalyan Jewellers India Ltd. fixed a price band of Rs. 86-87 a share for its Rs. 1,175-crore initial share sale, which will open for public subscription on March 16. The three-day public issue would conclude on March 18 and the bidding for anchor investors would open on March 15, Kalyan Jewellers announced. The initial public offer (IPO) comprises issuance of fresh equity aggregating up to Rs. 800 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of Rs. 375 crore. Kalyan Jewellers’ promoter T.S. Kalyanaraman would be offloading shares worth up to Rs. 125 crore, while Highdell Investment Ltd, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, would sell up to Rs. 250 crore worth of shares through the OFS route.  Proceeds from the fresh issue would be utilised for working capital requirements and general corporate purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kalyan-jewellers-rs-1175-cr-ipo-to-open-on-march-16/article34048476.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Economies to see pre-Covid activity only by ’22’||Moody’s Investors Service on Thursday said the credit downturn arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic would be short-lived but that most economies would not return to pre-pandemic activity levels until 2022. In the year since the World Health Organisation declared COVID-19 a pandemic on March 11, 2020, the virus has disrupted the global economy and triggered a credit downturn accompanied by a spike in bond defaults. Stating that most economies would not return to pre-pandemic activity levels until 2022, Moody’s said it expected a slow and bumpy global recovery and that uncertainty around the macroeconomic outlook remains much higher than usual. Policy actions will continue to support economic activity and financial markets after the pandemic has eased, it added. Policymakers will continue to support economic activity long after the pandemic has faded, in some cases for years, Moody’s said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economies-to-see-pre-covid-activity-only-by-22/article34048482.ece
12 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘MFI gross loan portfolio grew 6.4% as of Dec.’||The gross loan portfolio of the microfinance sector grew by 6.4% to Rs. 2.27 lakh crore as of December 2020 as against Rs. 2.13 lakh crore a year earlier, according to a report. The average ticket size of microfinance loans stood at Rs. 34,900 in the December quarter of the current fiscal, according to a report by credit information bureau CRIF High Mark. “With a nearly 80% increase over the previous quarter [Q2 FY2020-21], disbursements by value stood at Rs. 56,090 crore [in Q3 FY 2020-21], which was 11.5% lower than Q3 FY2019-20,” the quarterly report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfi-gross-loan-portfolio-grew-64-as-of-dec/article34048477.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Apple starts to make in India its iPhone 12’||Apple Inc is commencing assembly of its iPhone 12 model in the country, a move expected to help the firm consolidate its position in the smartphone market in India. Apple has partnered with third-party manufacturers such as Foxconn and Wistron to make some of its phones in India. These include the iPhone SE, iPhone 10R and iPhone 11. Sources said Foxconn would be making the iPhone 12 at a T.N. facility. Comments from Foxconn could not be immediately elicited. Apple had started making iPhones in India in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apple-starts-to-make-in-india-its-iphone-12/article34048472.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||PLI: Centre’s nod for 33 API applications||The government has approved 33 applications with a committed investment of Rs. 5,082.65 crore under the production linked incentive scheme for active pharmaceutical ingredients, an official release said on Thursday. Setting up of these plants will make the country self-reliant to a large extent in respect of these bulk drugs, it noted. The Department of Pharmaceuticals had unveiled a PLI scheme for the promotion of domestic manufacturing in four different target segments with a total outlay of Rs. 6,940 crore for the period 2020-21 to 2029-30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pli-centres-nod-for-33-api-applications/article34048478.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC declares interim dividend of Rs. 7.76 per equity share||Public sector mining major NMDC on Thursday declared an interim dividend of Rs. 7.76 per equity share (face value of Rs. 1 each) for 2020-21. The interim dividend will be paid/dispatched as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, NMDC said informed the stock exchange. This is the first interim dividend this fiscal from the country’s largest iron ore producer, in which the Centre holds 69.65% stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-declares-interim-dividend-of-rs-776-per-equity-share/article34048465.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Google Pay adds new privacy features; users will now be able to delete transaction details||Google Pay on Thursday announced new features for improved user privacy, including the option to delete transaction records as well as the choice to opt out of getting personalised offers and rewards. “All users will be asked to choose whether they would like to turn the control on or off as soon as they upgrade to the next version of the Google Pay app,” Ambarish Kenghe, vice president – Product, said in a blog post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-pay-adds-new-privacy-features-users-will-now-be-able-to-delete-transaction-details/article34048470.ece
12 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||White ball evens out the gap||After being outplayed by India in the Tests, England will be desperate to put up an improved show in the five-match T20 series, which commences here on Friday. On paper, the shortest format should provide a more even contest between the two teams. The full-strength England squad includes the likes of Jos Buttler, Jonny Bairstow and Moeen Ali — all of whom took rest breaks during the Test series. Pace ace Jofra Archer has been declared fit, which lends great heft to the bowling unit. Pitch will not matter The pitches at the Narendra Modi Stadium — which caused the visitors much discomfort in the third and fourth Tests — will not play as significant a role. Heavy hitters Eoin Morgan, Ben Stokes, Dawid Malan, Jason Roy, Buttler and Bairstow, armed with the licence to attack from the get-go. There is, however, no escaping the might of the Indian team, which, in recent years, has firmly established themselves as a powerhouse across formats. The white-ball specialists join the old guard to give the home team a fresh yet formidable look. Emphatic answer A selection question — choosing an opening partner for Rohit Sharma — received an emphatic answer from Kohli. The skipper stated in a media interaction on Thursday that K.L. Rahul gets the nod ahead of Shikhar Dhawan. Rahul, who donned the wicketkeeping gloves in Australia, will feature as a specialist batsman, given that Rishabh Pant has cemented his place behind the sticks. If a recent training video posted on his social media is taken at face value, Hardik Pandya could return to pace bowling duties. The electric Baroda cricketer has bowled only sparingly since suffering a back injury over a year ago. Pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who missed a significant part of the IPL due to a thigh injury and last played for India in December 2019, is set to take the new ball. Despite the cliche about focusing on the here and now, both teams will have an eye on the ICC T20 World Cup to be held in India in October. All selection conundrums must be resolved well before the mega event, which only increases the stakes for players hoping to seal long-term spots. This is a battle between the top two T20 sides in the world, studded with exceptional talent. Expect fireworks galore.  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma (Cice-capt.), K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Yuzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Rahul Tewatia, T. Natarajan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini and Shardul Thakur.   England: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley, Mark Wood.   Match starts at 7 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/white-ball-evens-out-the-gap/article34048589.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shaw’s century-spree continues||Skipper Prithvi Shaw continued his relentless onslaught with a 122-ball 165 as Mumbai dethroned Karnataka by inflicting a 72-run defeat in the Vijay Hazare Trophy here on Thursday for a place in Sunday’s final against Uttar Pradesh. At the Air Force ground, Palam, Shaw’s fourth century of this year’s competition saw Mumbai set a stiff target of 323. The Karnataka top-order failed to fire and with Samarth and Manish Pandey falling cheaply, the chase was never on. Asked to bat, Mumbai had the better of the exchanges as Shaw took six overs to settle down and then rode his luck to raise another big century. Dropped at 38 by Devdutt Padikkal at cover off Shreyas Gopal, Shaw prospered to play a match-winning innings studded with 17 boundaries and seven sixes. He was particularly severe on Shreyas whom he hit for two sixes over cover-point and one over mid-wicket. Ronit More, who took five wickets in the quarterfinal, went for 20 runs in the 37th over with Shaw smashing 16 and Shams Mulani (45, 4x4) hitting a four. Century stand Shaw and Mulani raised 159 off 23.4 overs for the third wicket before departing in successive overs. In fact, Mumbai traded eight wickets for 81 runs in the last 10 overs. Medium pacer Vyshak Vijay (4/56), who trapped Shaw leg-before, was the only Karnataka bowler to make any impact on this day. Providing hope When Karnataka chased, only Padikkal (64, 64b, 6x4, 1x6) and B.R. Sharath (61, 39b, 8x4, 2x6) provided some hope. With five wickets down for 152 in the 31st over, Karnataka was staring at defeat. Though the next 12 overs produced nearly 100 runs, Mumbai was happy to bowl out the opposition. Off-spinner Tanush Kotian, playing only his second match, stood out with figures of 10-1-23-2. Akshdeep bats well The other semifinal at the Ferozeshah Kotla, too, proved one-sided with Uttar Pradesh stopping Gujarat with five wickets and 7.2 overs to spare. After Akshdeep Nath (71, 8x4) led the chase, Upendra Yadav (31 not out) provided the finishing touches a six and a four in succession.  The scores: Mumbai 322 in 49.2 overs (Prithvi Shaw 165, Shams Mulani 45, Vyshak Kumar 4/56) bt Karnataka 250 in 42.4 overs (Devdutt Paddikkal 64, B.R. Sharath 61).   Gujarat 184 in 48.1 overs (Het Patel 60) lost to Uttar Pradesh 188/5 in 42.4 overs (Akshdeep Nath 71).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaws-century-spree-continues/article34048642.ece
12 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||Rahul-Rohit first-choice opening pair: Kohli||K.L. Rahul and Rohit Sharma form India’s first-choice opening pair, with Shikhar Dhawan as back-up, says skipper Virat Kohli. “The starting combination will be Rohit and Rahul. They have been consistently performing at the top. In a situation where Rohit takes rest, or Rahul has a niggle, Shikhar will come in,” Kohli said at a media interaction here on Thursday. System in place On spinner Varun Chakravarthy, who has reportedly been ruled out of the T20 series after failing the fitness test, Kohli said: “Individuals have to understand and appreciate the system created for the Indian team. We should try and operate at very high levels of fitness and skill. “There is a reason why this is the top of the ladder when it comes to playing cricket. You expect players to abide by what is required to be a part of Team India. There should not be any compromise in that regard.” With the addition of newcomers like Ishan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav, Kohli believes the issue of inadequate batting depth has been addressed. “The players we’ve added to the squad gives the batting more depth. We have explosive batsmen in the team now, who can change the game even if we are two or three wickets down. “This time around, you will see guys play more freely, and not be worried if we have enough batsmen to take care of things if we lose a couple of wickets,” Kohli said. Asked if in-form offie R. Ashwin can find a spot in the T20I squad, Kohli said, “Washington (Sundar) has been doing very well for us. You cannot have two players of the same discipline playing in the same spot.”  We’re playing against one of the best sides in the world. Have to learn a huge amount from this series, and improve before the World Cup begins Eoin Morgan England captain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-rohit-first-choice-opening-pair-kohli/article34048591.ece
12 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Indian women appear to hold the edge||With the five-match series level 1-1, India and South Africa will strive to defy the conditions in the third One-Day International at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium here on Friday. ‘Hard to score in the morning, and tough to take wickets in the afternoon’, has been the trend so far. The challenge The challenge would be putting up a competitive total, as the moist conditions in the morning have compelled captains to opt to bowl. The early moisture and the heat later in the day are distinct factors dictating the flow of the matches. With a lot more discipline in shot selection, the Indian team looks to be better equipped to handle the situation, even though South Africa may also be entertaining similar thoughts. The return of medium-pacer Mansi Joshi, in place of the gentle left-arm pace of Monica Patel, and the nippy bowling of the tall Jhulan Goswami has lent a menacing look to the Indian attack. While the second match saw the ball swing appreciably in the morning, there could be some spin in the strip to be rolled out for the third match. South Africa captain Sune Luus was quoted as saying that the team could come up with a better performance by handling the first 10 or 15 overs with more caution. Laying the foundation That is one point the Indian team has grasped quickly, after having let the momentum slip in the first one-dayer — establishing a good foundation. While left-arm spinner Rajeshwari Gayakwad has been able to make an impact, Harmanpreet Kaur is capable of better purchase than what she has managed so far. South Africa has to find a way to score runs once the openers Lizelle Lee and Laura Wolvaardt — they put on 169 in the first ODI — are out. Luus and Lara Goodall have done well, but a lot more is required to make a contest of it. It will be interesting to see how the match unfolds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-appear-to-hold-the-edge/article34048587.ece
12 March 2021||Paris,||PSG lays Barca ghosts to rest||Lionel Messi scored one stunning goal but then had a penalty saved as Barcelona failed in its attempt to produce a second Champions League comeback for the ages against Paris Saint-Germain on Wednesday, a 1-1 draw taking the French side through to the quarterfinals 5-2 on aggregate. Kylian Mbappe had netted a hat-trick as PSG stunned Barca 4-1 in the first leg last month, and he extended its advantage in this last-16 tie by netting a first-half penalty in the second leg to put last season’s runner-up ahead on the night. But Messi made it 1-1 with a ferocious strike from 30 metres and the Argentine had the chance to put Barca ahead after Antoine Griezmann was fouled in the area, only for the outstanding Keylor Navas to tip his spot-kick onto the bar. Going for it Barcelona certainly went for it, but there was to be no repeat of its infamous recovery against the same opponent at the same stage four years ago, when it lost the first leg 4-0 but triumphed 6-1 in the return. Liverpool eased past RB Leipzig into the quarterfinals with a 2-0 win in Budapest that coach Jurgen Klopp said helps his side put its Premier League woes to one side.   The results: Liverpool 2 (Salah 71, Mane 74) drew with RB Leipzig 0. Liverpool wins 4-0 on aggregate.   Paris Saint-Germain 1 (Mbappe 31-pen) drew with Barcelona 1 (Messi 37). Paris Saint-Germain win 5-2 on aggregate .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-lays-barca-ghosts-to-rest/article34048488.ece
12 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Mystic Bay lives up to its billing in feature||Mystic Bay, ridden by C.S. Jodha, won the Byramn N Jeejeebhoy Trophy, the main event of Thursday’s (March 11) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Jamshed Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. B.E. Saldhana. M. Narredu trains the winner.  1. BLUE RIBBON PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: SPECULATOR (C.S. Jodha) 1, Lambretta (A. Prakash) 2, Caesar (S.J. Sunil) 3 and Shadows (S. Amit) 4. Not run: Forever Free and Cupido. 3/4, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 25.75s. Rs. 20 (w), 14, 13 and 36 (p). SHP: 23, FP: 66, Q: 34, Tanala: 481 and 254. Favourite: Speculator. Owners: Mr. Shiven Surendranath rep. Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Haider Soomar, Reuben S. Solomon, K.H. Vaccha & Ms. Monica Gupta. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  2. FERRARI PLATE (2,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: HISTORIAN (Vishal Bunde) 1, Forever Together (Suraj Narredu) 2, Athulya (S.J. Sunil) 3 and Gloriosus (Sandesh) 4. 3, 5-1/2 and Nk. 2m, 4.89s. Rs. 222 (w), 53 and 10 (p). SHP: 52, FP: 706, Q: 154. Favourite: Forever Together. Owners: Mr. Kundan R. Poonawalla & Mrs. Asha Narredu. Trainer: M. Narredu.  3. WORTHWHILE PLATE (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: SULTAN SULEIMAN (Trevor) 1, Enid Blyton (Neeraj) 2, Mount Moriah (Parmar) 3 and Revelator (Sandesh) 4. Not run: Sunrise Ruby. Nk, 1/2 and 3-1/2. 1m, 24.26s. Rs. 17 (w), 15 and 18 (p). SHP: 34, FP: 56, Q: 36, Tanala: 91 and 41. Favourite: Sultan Suleiman. Owners: M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, Mrs. Aban N. Chotia & Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: Altaf Hussain.  4. BYRAM N JEEJEEBHOY TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: MYSTIC BAY (C.S. Jodha) 1, Gazino (Chouhan) 2, St. Andrews (Aniket) 3 and Silver Flames (Trevor) 4. 1/2, Nose and 2-3/4. 1m, 10.87s. Rs. 18 (w), 14 and 16 (p). SHP: 24, FP: 39, Q: 36, Tanala: 179 and 147. Favourite: Mystic Bay. Owners: Mr. Jamshed Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. B.E. Saldhana. Trainer: M. Narredu.  5. AHMED I. RAHMITOOLA TROPHY (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: VIKTORINA (Trevor) 1, Narakamicie (Sandesh) 2, Executive Decision (V. Jodha) 3 and Circuit House (Chouhan) 4. 2-3/4, 1-3/4 and 1/2. 59.53s. Rs. 16 (w), 10 and 15 (p). SHP: 25, FP: 21, Q: 18, Tanala: 127 and 79. Favourite: Viktorina. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Geoffrey B. Nagpal, Mukul Sonawla, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. S.R. Sanas. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  6. F. K. VAKIL TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: EXOTIQUE (Kaviraj) 1, Wayin (Chouhan) 2, Flaming Lamborgini (Neeraj) 3 and In Contention (Trevor) 4. 1-1/4, Sh and Lnk. 1m, 38.15s. Rs. 27 (w), 14, 16 and 15 (p). SHP: 41, FP: 156, Q: 54, Tanala: 703 and 301. Favourite: Exotique. Owner: Mr. K.H. Vachha. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. D W REID PLATE (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ENDEAVOUR (Raghuveer) 1, Spring Grove (A. Prakash) 2, World Is One (M.S. Deora) 3 and Wild Fire (Kaviraj) 4. 1-1/4, 7-1/4 and 2. 58.21s. Rs. 25 (w), 13, 13 and 10 (p). SHP: 36, FP: 51, Q: 23, Tanala: 85 and 87. Favourite: Spring Grove. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd., Mr. & Mrs. Homi Mehta, Mr. Jehangir Mehta, Mrs. Liane Luthria & Mr. Milan Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  8. BLUE RIBBON PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: BLAZING BAY (A. Prakash) 1, Fencing (Santosh G) 2, Arrecife (A. Imran Khan) 3 and On Va Danser (Kaviraj) 4. Not run: Nusrat. 3/4, 2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 25.88s. Rs. 145 (w), 35, 49 and 34 (p). SHP: 136, FP: 1,716, Q: 2, 562, Tanala: 14,070 and 6,030. Favourite: Aspiration. Owners: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,816 (142 tkts.) and 30%: 93 (1,839 tkts.). Treble: (i) 6,460 (1 tkt.), (ii) 152 (73 tkts.). Super jackpot: 70%: 5,724 (4 tkts.) and 30%: 164 (60 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mystic-bay-lives-up-to-its-billing-in-byramn-n-jeejeebhoy-trophy/article34049213.ece
12 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Indian youngsters make the main draw at All England||A bunch of rising Indian badminton players like Ashwini Bhat, Shikha Gautam, M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila are set for an experience of a lifetime at the All-England Open Championships, scheduled to begin in Birmingham next Wednesday. The marquee tournament has seen a few pull outs — most notably of Chinese players — helping a number of Indians qualify for the main draw, especially in doubles. Arjun and Kapila, part of the Indian team that secured a bronze medal at the Badminton Asia Team Championships 2020, have earned a place in men’s doubles, while Ashwini-Shikha and Jakkampudi Meghana-Poorvisha S. Ram are among the 32 pairs in the women’s section. Totally unexpected “I am really happy,” Ashwini told The Hindu . “It was totally unexpected. It’s the first time on such a big stage and is the biggest event for us.” “We have no expectations. We just want to give our best. For us this is a great opportunity in our journey towards qualifying for the 2024 Olympics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-youngsters-make-the-main-draw-at-all-england/article34048585.ece
12 March 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Haryana men and Kerala women reign||Haryana men and Kerala women won the 69th National volleyball championships at the KIIT University here on Thursday. Both the finals were won in straight sets with Haryana beating Assam and women’s defending champion Kerala prevailing over Railways. Kerala men defeated Railways 36-38, 25-18, 23-25, 25-21, 15-12 in a two-hour thriller for the bronze.  The results:   Final: Men: Haryana bt Assam 25-23, 25-18, 25-19.   Women’: Kerala bt Railways 25-20, 27-25, 25-13.   On Wedneday (semifinals): Men: Haryana bt Railways 3-1, Assam bt Kerala 3-2; Women: Kerala bt Himachal Pradesh 3-0; Railways bt West Bengal 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryana-men-kerala-women-triumph/article34048595.ece
12 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Chennai City drubs Indian Arrows||Chennai City FC came up with an aggressive display to outplay Indian Arrows 5-0 in a Group B (relegation leg) match of the I-League at the Kalyani Stadium on Thursday. Vineeth Kumar scored twice while S. Rajesh, Jockson Dhas and Mohamed Iqbal found the target once each to secure the big win for Chennai City. It has 12 points from as many matches and keeps its relegation fears at bay. Earlier, Lalliansanga’s goal in the 46th minute saw Aizawl FC down NEROCA FC by a solitary goal at the Kishore Bharati Stadium. Aizawl FC has 18 points from 11 matches and became the first team from the group to secure immunity from relegation.  The results (relegation leg): NEROCA 0 lost to Aizawl 1 (Lalliansaga 46).   Indian Arrows 0 lost to Chennai City 5 (S. Rajesh 36, Vineeth Kumar 49, 90+5, Jockson Dhas 59, Mohamed Iqbal 86).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-city-drubs-indian-arrows/article34048643.ece
12 March 2021||Los Angeles,||Dallas Mavericks posts fourth consecutive win||Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis dominated as Dallas Mavericks kicked off the second half of the NBA season by rallying to beat San Antonio Spurs 115-104 on Wednesday. 33rd triple-double The usual suspects stood out for Dallas as Slovenia’s Doncic posted his 33rd triple double of his career, and Porzingis, of Latvia, tallied 28 points and 14 rebounds in the Lone Star State showdown in Dallas, Texas. Doncic’s eighth triple-double of the season consisted of 22 points, 12 rebounds and 12 assists as the Mavs picked up where they left off before the All-Star break by winning their fourth straight game and 11th of the past 14. Former Toronto Raptor DeMar DeRozan scored a game-high 30 points and dished out 11 assists for the Spurs. The Spurs missed 11 consecutive shots in the final eight minutes before DeRozan sank a meaningless jumper with just under a minute left. Grizzlies cruise Also, Lithuania’s Jonas Valanciunas scored a season-high 29 points and equalled a season-best 20 rebounds to power the Memphis Grizzlies to a 127-112 win over the Washington Wizards in Memphis. Valanciunas shot 12-of-21 from the floor en route to his 21st double double of the season for the Grizzlies, who had a half dozen players score in double figures. Ja Morant finished with 21 points and 10 assists, and rookie Desmond Bane added a career-high 20 points in the win as Memphis has now won three of their last four games. Bradley Beal, who represented Washington in Sunday’s All-Star Game, made just six of 22 shots from the field but still finished with 21 points. The Wizards have now lost for the third time in four games after charging into the break by winning eight of 11. Veteran Russell Westbrook, in his third team in the past two years, had 20 points and 10 assists for his 13th straight double double.  The scores: Dallas Mavericks 115 bt San Antonio Spurs 104; Memphis Grizzlies 127 bt Washington Wizards 112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dallas-mavericks-posts-fourth-consecutive-win/article34048848.ece
12 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||‘The right preparation for World Cup’||England T20I captain Eoin Morgan says the five-match series will stand his team in good stead for the ICC T20 World Cup to be held in India later this year. “We’re playing against one of the best sides in the world. The perfect scenario would be to learn a huge amount from this series, and then have the time to improve before the World Cup begins. Points to ponder “Yes, we are the number one-ranked T20 team in the world, but one of the areas we have to improve is playing away from home. Playing against spin, bowling in the PowerPlay, bowling at the death — these are aspects we need to significantly improve to become genuine contenders,” Morgan said at a media interaction here on Thursday. Morgan expects big things from southpaw Dawid Malan, the top-ranked T20I batsman in the world. “Dawid has been so exceptional. It is scary to think that he can continue to do this and more. It’s an exciting time for him. “He has been picked by Punjab Kings in the IPL, so he will continue his experience of playing in India. This will benefit us in the World Cup,” Morgan said. The pitch On what he expects from the pitch, Morgan said, “It was another hot day today, with the pitch under covers. We had a glimpse; the pitch looked good. “It depends on what the groundsmen choose to do between today and the match."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-right-preparation-for-world-cup/article34048593.ece
12 March 2021||Tokyo,||Olympics: To ban foreign fans or not?||Several IOC members on Thursday reminded Tokyo Olympic organisers about the potential negative consequences of banning overseas fans from attending the postponed Games. Tokyo organisers say a final decision about fans from abroad will be made before the torch relay starts on March 25. The Olympics open on July 23. Many unsourced reports in Japan, citing unnamed officials, say the decision has already been made to keep fans from abroad out of the country. “We must find ways to deal with people who have booked and paid for their airplane tickets, Games tickets and accommodation and who now may not be able to travel to Tokyo,” IOC member Spyros Capralos said. He spoke in a virtual session of the full Olympic membership after a presentation by Tokyo organising committee president Seiko Hashimoto and CEO Toshiro Muto. “And not to forget,” Capralos added. “Many of these people are parents or relatives of the athletes.” Gunilla Lindberg, an IOC member from Sweden, echoed her Greek colleague. “We will understand any decision you are taking,” she said. “But the consequences of that decision might be extremely difficult for a lot of people in the world. Maybe you can take that decision as late as possible.” That seems unlikely. Muto said it was better if the decision was announced early so that fans have time to get refunds. He tried to guarantee full ticket refunds would be paid. Ticket resellers However, that decision rests with the Authorized Ticket Resellers, who deal with sales outside Japan and are appointed by national Olympic committees. No foreign fans will hurt Tokyo’s budget. Organisers expected income of $800 million from ticket sales. Any shortfall will have to be made up by Japanese government entities. Organisers have said about 7.8 million tickets were originally available for Tokyo with about 70% set aside for local buyers. They said about 4.45 million had been sold in Japan. Tokyo is officially spending $15.4 billion to prepare the Olympics, but several government audits have suggested it’s at least $25 billion. All but $6.7 billion is public money. “The situation is challenging in Japan and in other countries with regard to the spread of the infection,” Muto said. “Whether we can accept overseas spectators will require an extremely careful and vigilant decision.” IOC President Thomas Bach announced that the Chinese Olympic committee has offered to make vaccine doses available “to participants” in the Tokyo Games and the Beijing Winter Games, which open on Feb. 4, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-to-ban-foreign-fans-or-not/article34048838.ece
12 March 2021||Marseille,||Purav & Weissborn lose||Purav Raja and Tristan-Samuel Weissborn of Austria lost to Nathaniel Lammons and Jackson Withrow 6-4, 7-6(1) in the first round of the ATP 250 tennis tournament here. In the WTA event in Mexico, Ankita Raina and Paula Kania-Choudun fought before being beaten 7-6(7), 6-2 by Eugenie Bouchard and Coco Vandeweghe in the first round. In the Biella Challenger in Italy, Sriram Balaji and Switzerland’s Luca Margaroli entered the second round.  The results: ATP 250, Marseille, France: First round: Nathaniel Lammons & Jackson Withrow (USA) bt Tristan-Samuel Weissborn (Aut) & Purav Raja 6-4, 7-6(1).   WTA 250, Guadalajara, Mexico: First round: Eugenie Bouchard (Can) & Coco Vandeweghe (USA) bt Paula Kania-Choudun (Pol) & Ankita Raina 7-6(7), 6-2.   €44,820 Challenger, Biella, Italy: First round: Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji bt Andrea Arnaboldi & Luca Vanni (Ita) 6-3, 6-4.   $52,080 Challenger, St. Petersburg, Russia: Quarterfinals: Dmitry Popko (Kaz) & Alexey Vatutin (Rus) bt Skander Mansouri (Tun) & Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 1-6, [10-8] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/purav-weissborn-lose/article34049174.ece
12 March 2021||NORTH SOUND (Antigua),||West Indies wins big||Sri Lanka slumped after opener Danushka Gunathilaka was given out for obstructing the field and lost the first ODI by eight wickets here on Wednesday. Gunathilaka made 55 and put on 105 in an opening stand with captain Dimuth Karunaratne. The match became ill-tempered when, in the 21st over, Gunathilaka was judged to have obstructed the field when he trod on the ball while Pollard was attempting to affect a run out.  The scores: Sri Lanka 232 in 49 overs (Danushka Gunathilaka 55, Dimuth Karunaratne 52, Ashen Bandara 50) lost to West Indies 236/2 in 47 overs (Shai Hope 110, Evin Lewis 65, Dareen Bravo 37 n.o.).   Man-of-the-match: Hope. West Indies won by eight wickets with 18 balls to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-wins-big/article34048483.ece
12 March 2021||INDORE,||Double delight for Payas||Payas Jain of Delhi bagged a double, winning the youth and junior boys’ titles in the UTT-82nd National table tennis championships here on Thursday.  The results: Boys: Youth: Final: Payas Jain (Del) bt Jeet Chandra (Har) 11-5, 10-12, 18-20, 11-9, 11-7, 10-12, 11-3. Semifinals: Jeet bt Raegan Albuquerque (Mah) 7-11, 11-13, 7-11, 11-9, 15-13, 11-9, 11-9; Payas bt Anukram Jain (RSPB) 11-5, 7-11, 11-7, 11-9, 11-8.   Juniors: Final: Payas Jain (Del) bt Deepit Rajesh Patil (Mah) 11-5, 11-3, 9-11, 11-7, 11-5. Semifinals: Payas bt Varun Shankar Balusuri (Tel) 8-11, 9-11, 12-10, 11-5, 11-5, 11-8, Deepit bt Yashansh Malik (Del) 8-11, 11-8, 11-5, 11-9, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-delight-for-payas/article34048485.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Living harmoniously||In Hindu weddings, one of the mantras recited by the bridegroom compares him to the sky and the bride to the earth. After a copious shower, the earth looks fresh and attractive. Nothing else can make it look so fresh. In the same way, the affection of a good husband endows the wife with strength, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. During the Sesha homa, the bridegroom applies ghee on bride’s chest and on his own. This is to indicate that this is heart felt love. There is no pretence here. Their married life must be smooth, and without friction. The girl recites a mantra where she says she has seen her husband with her heart. One may wonder how anyone can see with one’s heart. The meaning to be inferred here is that she is aware of his good qualities. To merely see with the eyes is to focus only on physical appearance. Physical charm and good looks fade with time, but one’s sterling qualities are never lost. So a good marriage is one where the bride and groom like each other for their laudable traits and not because each finds the other physically attractive. Similar words are spoken by the groom. The bride then says that she knows that he believes in progress through hard work. If there should be any lacuna in his life, the children born to them will make up for this. Again a similar mantra is recited by the groom. With such strong bonds, a marriage cannot go wrong. In Yaksa Prasna, Yaksa asks Dharmaraja where one can find artha, kama and dharma. It seems as if the three cannot exist in the same place, for charity depletes wealth; kama can result in wealth and dharma being lost; obsession with wealth will chase away everything else. Dharmaraja replies that all three can be found where a husband and wife live harmoniously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/living-harmoniously/article34048582.ece
12 March 2021||DOHA,||Federer exits in quarerfinals||Roger Federer squandered a match point and was knocked out of the Qatar Open by Georgia’s Nikoloz Basilashvili on Thursday in just his second match since a 13-month injury absence. The 20-time Grand Slam winner, who underwent two knee surgeries in 2020, secured the first set but eventually wilted and lost the quarterfinal match, 3-6, 6-1, 7-5. “I’m very happy that he’s coming back and playing again. Of course to win against him it’s a dream come true. He was an idol,” said Basilashvili. On Wednesday, the 39-year-old Federer had defeated Britain’s top-ranked player Dan Evans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-exits-in-quarerfinals/article34049163.ece
12 March 2021||ABU DHABI,||Afghanistan piles it on with Shahidi double-ton||A historic unbeaten double hundred from Hashmatullah Shahidi (200 n.o., 21x4, 1x6), skipper Asghar Afghan’s 164 (14x4, 2x6) and their record 307-run stand helped Afghanistan pile up 545 for four declared, its highest Test score, against Zimbabwe in the second Test here on Thursday. Zimbabwe was 50 for no loss, still needing 346 to avoid the follow-on and the prospect of facing leg-spinner Rashid Khan, who is likely to get spin from the third day.  The scores: Afghanistan 545/4 decl. in 160.4 overs (Ibrahim Zadran 72, Hashmatullah Shahidi 200 n.o., Asghar Afghan 164, Nasir Jamal 55 n.o.) vs Zimbabwe 50/0 in 17 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afghanistan-piles-it-on-with-shahidi-double-ton/article34048484.ece
12 March 2021||Manchester,||City bounces back in style||Manchester City bounced back after its 21-game winning streak came to an end with a convincing 5-2 win over Southampton to move 14 points clear at the top of the Premier League. Luis Suarez’s penalty sent Atletico Madrid six points clear at the top of LaLiga on Wednesday as the leader survived a scare to beat a resurgent Athletic Bilbao 2-1.  The results: Premier League: Manchester City 5 (De Bruyne 15, 59, Mahrez 40, 55, Gundogan 45+3) bt Southampton 2 (Ward-Prowse 25-pen, Adams 56).   LaLiga: Atletico Madrid 2 (Llorente 45+2, Suarez 51-pen) bt Athletic Bilbao 1 (Muniain 21).   Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld 0 lost to Werder Bremen 2 (Sagent 47, Moehwald 75).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-bounces-back-in-style/article34048486.ece
12 March 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Centuries by Ishaan and Ganga||Evergreen’s Ishaan Sharma (102, 79b, 8x4, 7x6) and AOC’s Ganga Singh Rathod (114, 118b, 9x4, 2x6) batted well in the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship here on Thursday.  The scores:   A1-Div. (three-day): Group-A: Deccan Chronicle 253 & 183 lost to Union Bank of India 262 & 176/6 in 38.2 overs( Amol Shinde 38 n.o., M.A. Khader 56 n.o.).   Group-B: Gemini Friends 257 & 218/6 bt Evergreen 169 & 295 in 38.2 overs (Ishaan Sharma 102, Rahul Buddi 80, Rathan Teja 4/52).   Cambridge XI 189 & 240/8 bt Hyd. Bottling 227 & 190/9 in 40 overs (Gaurav Reddy 76, Radha Krishna 46, Mohit 3/37).   AOC 432 in 89.1 overs & 206 in 40 overs (Ganga Singh Rathod 114) bt ZindaTiliamath 340/7 & 151 in 36.5 overs (Sachin Shinde 3/24).   Combined District 324/7 & 110 in 29.2 overs (G. Pavan 60 n.o., Bharath 3/25 ) lost to Ensconse 370 & 68/2 in 7.5 overs (V. Sahasra 46 n.o.).   Group-C: Rohit XI 179 & 281 lost to Sri Chakra 352 & 109/8 in 30.2 overs.   A2-Div. (two-day): Shalimar 104 in 34.3 ovrers (Sujal Reddy 32, R. Yashwanth 5/43, K. Rithvik Swaraj 3/31) lost to Rakesh XI 105/4 in 28.1 overs (G. Dheeraj 32).   Crown 90 in 24.3 overs (Shivaraj 48, B. Pranav Reddy 6/45) lost to Ours 93/4 in 10.3 overs (Mohd Ameer 51).   CCOB 69 in 27.1 overs (D. Manish Reddy 6/ 9) lost to Team Speed 71/0 in 16.1 overs (M.A. Jayanth 53 n.o.).   Nizamabad 213 in 61.5 overs (D. Ajith 59, Abdul Nayeem 32, N. Aklilesh Goud 41, Rishith Reddy 4/54, Nithai Charan 3/32) vs Venus Cybertech 72/5 in 28 overs.   Mega City 146 in 42.1 overs (A. Bhargav 65, Jai Kiran 34, Visesh Anand 5/33, K. Koushik 3/27) lost to HBCC 148/3 in 28.4 overs (Vara Prasad 56 n.o., Mohd Nawaz 50 n.o.).   WMCC 360 in 85.3 overs (S.V. Aditya Varma 193, N. Anish Reddy 77, B. Srujan Kumar 3/57, N. Shashank Yadav 3/38) vs PKMCC 6/0 in 2 overs.   Adilabad 292 in 51.5 overs (Pranay Mathews 85, Abdul Abid Ali 58, L. Mahesh 53, Meet Srivastava 5/75, K. Akhil 3/34) vs National 51/3 in 19 overs.   Cheerful Chums 325/7 in 49 overs (Taufeeq Hussain 113, B. Mannus 53, Saketh 35, Advaith Reddy 31, Mourya 39 batting, Mudassir Ahmed 3/61) vs Elegant CC.   Karimnagar 118 in 24.4 overs (Md. Adil 32, K. Chandhu 5/43, Dinesh 4/44) bt Mani Kumar 116 in 43.1 overs (K. Chandhu 33 n.o., A. Srikanth 3/17, Praveen 4/51).   Adams XI 114 in 35.4 overs (M. Balaji 37, Imam Shareef 37, Venkat Chandra 7/28) lost to Shanti XI 118/2 in 22.3 overs (Prateek Rai Srivastav 32 n.o., Sri Chandan Muralidhar 50 n.o).   Hyd. Panthers 149 in 56.5 overs (Abhinay Kumar 36, C. Rahul Reddy 4/35) lost to Noble CC 151/5 in 25.3 overs (Ashwin Sooraj 61, Anish Nayan Gupta 51).   Abhinav Colts 280/10 in 58.2 overs (Swachit Naidu 62, Harish Reddy 65, K. Rithvik 69 n.o., B. Adiya Subramanyam 4/84) vs SK Blues 158 /6 in 43 overs ( Ibrahim Khan 56, Anil Kumar 39, n.o., M. Varun Tej 3/32, N. Sunder 3/17).   Bharat 324 in 81.3 overs (Bhargav 40, Akhilesh 43, Aditya Ram Varma 53 n.o., Satya Narayana 58, Prajwal Rao 3/86) vs Eleven Masters 15/1 in 11 overs.   VP Willowmen 373 in 77.4 overs (Aslesh Vaman 46, Aayan Md. Ahmed 45, Md. Ayub Khan 172, M. Saketh Reddy 38, Ravi Kumar 3/54, Sankeerth Dhatrak 3/78, M. Sai Prateek 3/42 ) vs Acrylic 10/2 in 7.3 overs.   Hyd. CA 360 in 86.1 overs (Aryan 39, Keerthi Pranav 86, Sahil 30, Gunavith 38, Tejveer 56, Aditya 3/68, Anuj 3/79) vs Sec’bad Gymkhana 50/1 in 12.4 overs.   Saint Sai 443/9 in 61.4 overs (Hanumu Nayak 116, Rohith Kumar 105, Shiva 3/58) bt Mayura 89 in 29.1 overs (Hanumu Nayak 6/23).   Vijayanand 211 in 76 overs (M. Chakravathi 58, N. Saketh Reddy 3/32) vs Warangal 102/5 in 30.5 overs (A. Ganesh 30 batting).   Azad 44 in 29.2 ovres (Manoj 3/5 ) lost to Hyd. Patriots 45/2 in 7 overs.   Super Star 163 in 54.4 overs (Vasu Dev Sahoo 74, J. Bunny 5/44, Yashveer 5/34) bt Victoria 135 in 26 overs (J. Bunny 35, Raj Kumar 38, Shaik Saheel 3/29, Akshit Ponamaneni 5/20).      Pranay Kumar (five for 13) helped Jangaon score a three-wicket win over Mahabubabad in the TCA inter-district (u-16) T20 league cricket championsihp at Manuguru.  The scores:   Warangal Urban 130/8 in 20 overs (H. Avinash 34) bt Bhupalapally 118 in 20 overs (A. Aditya 44).   Mahabubabad 127/7 in 20 overs (Sonu 43, Pranay Kumar 5/13) lost to Jangaon 128/7 iin 19.5 overs (Rohit Royal 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/centuries-by-ishaan-and-ganga/article34049244.ece
12 March 2021||KOLKATA:,||Ajay Ekka stars for CPT against CESC||Ajay Kumar Ekka’s brace enabled Calcutta Port Trust register a 3-1 win over CESC Club in a Calcutta Hockey League premier division match at the East Bengal ground here on Thursday. Bishalakshi thrashed Entally Club 4-0 in a placement round match at the Hockey Bengal ground.  The results: Premier division: Calcutta Port Trust 3 (Ajay Kumar Ekka 2, Salman Lakra) bt CESC Club 1 (Gurtez Singh).   Placement round: Bishalakshi 4 (Saif Khan, Aritra Guha, Akash Mondal, Deepak) bt Entally Club 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajay-ekka-stars-for-cpt-against-cesc/article34048945.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 07:28 IST,||Sudoku — March 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-12-2021/article34049604.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Jogipet Srikanth meets Agent Athreya||Jathi Ratnalu was a project not many had heard of, outside the film industry circles, a few months ago. Produced by Swapna Dutt and Nag Ashwin and directed by first-timer Anudeep KV, the madcap comedy starring Naveen Polishetty, Priyadarshi and Rahul Ramakrishna has caught wide attention thanks to the hilarious teaser, trailer, and of course, whirlwind promotions across the cities of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. We caught up with Naveen Polishetty to know more about Jogipet Srikanth, the character he plays in the film. Edited excerpts: How would you describe Jogipet Srikanth? He is the kind of guy Agent Sai Srinivasa Athreya (Naveen’s 2019 Telugu film) would have blocked on Facebook and never be friends with. Agent and Naveen are polar opposites to each other. Agent is intelligent while Srikanth is innocent but extremely dumb. He thinks he is a ‘ turrum ’ (hero) but has no idea that he is gullible. He has no aim in life and is laidback.  What if Srikanth walks into Agent Athreya’s office, now that he has been blocked on social media?  He would go into Athreya’s office and try out his hat, coat and look at the case files. But it might take him a few hours to deduce, hypothetically speaking, the gender of a victim. He will end up annoying Sandhya (Athreya’s assistant), who then will have new-found respect for Agent and maybe fall in love with him. So we can have a romantic sequel to ASSA . What does Srikanth do at the ladies emporium?  His dad set up a small business in his name, called Srikanth Ladies Emporium. Srikanth is popular with women folk because he can match bangles well and also take care of sari falls and pico work. Anyone who wants to match bangles with their clothes for a special occasion takes Srikanth’s help. A typical day in Srikanth’s life? It would most likely begin after sunset. He usually goes to Secunderabad Clock Tower to gossip with his friends (Shekhar and Ravi), then have chicken and beer and drive down to the Manjeera dam, return home pretty late and get yelled at by his parents. If Srikanth is dumb and annoying, how does Chitti (Faria Abdullah in the film) love him?  She realises that he is childlike and innocent. He has the small town charm, and is actually lovable. What could happen if Srikanth crosses path with Naveen Polishetty?  I would probably block him on social media too. I need a detox from the Jogipet Srikanth mode after the film releases, so that no one thinks I am like him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/jogipet-srikanth-meets-agent-athreya/article34048799.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In a happy space||Characters are written for her. Her gravitas, on and off the screen, remains unmatched. Her looks, style and social media posts are celebrated as much as her performances. Manju Warrier, the ‘lady superstar’ of Malayalam cinema, is certainly on a roll. She is guarded but affable as always during a brief chat over phone. We begin the conversation with her new release The Priest , a horror-thriller directed by debutant Jofin T Chacko. The film has created quite a buzz, as it brings together Manju and Mammootty for the first time. “It was a dream-come-true moment. But it was not at all easy. Our first scene together was the climax sequence. Shooting the peak point of the narrative as our first scene was difficult. I had to get into the mood of the character. At the same time, I was extremely nervous and cautious about the fact that I was doing it with Mammookka [Mammootty]. I could hear my heart beat and kept asking myself ‘what if’ I made a mistake and had to go for a retake!” she laughs. Now that theatres in Kerala have got permission to resume operations, she hopes for more people to turn up. “It is the need of the hour for the industry as well,” she says. The actor is equally excited about Chathurmukham , which also has horror elements in it. “We call it a techno-horror thriller. Technology is an integral part of present-day life. However, we tend to forget the hidden dangers in it. I shot it before The Priest and so it was my first tryst with the horror genre. However, one cannot compare it with how horror has been treated in The Priest ,” she says. Directed by Ranjeet Kamala Sankar and Salil V, Chathurmukham has Sunny Wayne in a significant role. Another project close to her heart is her own production, Lalitham Sundaram , directed by her brother and actor, Madhu Warrier. “The shoot was stalled due to the pandemic and resumed in December. Thankfully I had a trustworthy team to manage the production and I often forgot that I was the producer. The project has people who are family to me, such as Biju chettan [Biju Menon] and Sukumar [cinematographer P Sukumar] who made it an enjoyable experience,” she says. An “out-and-out family entertainer”, it is her first film with Biju after she made a comeback in the industry with How Old Are You? in 2014. Prior to that, they had worked in films such as Pranayavarnangal, Krishnagudiyil Oru Pranayakalathu, Pathram and Kannezhuthi Pottum Thottu in Manju’s first innings in cinema. “It has been over 20 years now. But we didn’t feel the gap at all. The way we used to greet each other on set remained the same and we just picked up from where we had left off.” What’s coming? Earlier, she had co-produced Sanal Kumar Sasidharan’s A’hr ( Kayattam ), which premièred at Busan International Film Festival last year. “We are now looking at an OTT release or television première of the movie,” she says. Among her other forthcoming projects are Priyadarsan’s Marakkar: Arabikkadalinte Simham and Santosh Sivan’s Jack N’ Jill . She is acting with Jayasurya for the first time in Prajesh Sen’s Meri Awaz Suno , a remake of the Bengali movie, Konttho, and has “a cameo” in Nivin Pauly’s Padavettu . Her 50th film will be 9 mm , co-starring Dileesh Pothan, Sunny Wayne and Dhyan Sreenivasan. Meanwhile there are confirmed reports that she will make her debut in Bollywood opposite R Madhavan in Ameriki Pandit . Looking back at the year that went by, Manju says that her mother’s achievements have been her happiest moments. In fact, she was on her way to her mother’s [Girija Madhavan] Kathakali arangettam (debut performance) at a temple in Thrissur, when we reached her for this interview, “She keeps surprising me. She and her friend found a Kathakali guru two years ago. During the lockdown, amma also went back to writing. She is 65 and I am proud of what she is doing,” says the actor. So, how happy is she about her second innings? “I am always happy, irrespective of the number of innings or number of projects. Or the success or failure of the projects.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-a-happy-space/article34048792.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Nod to nostalgia||A selection of watercolours by Pune-based artist K Hiremath will be on display this month, at the Vasantha Art Gallery in Bengaluru. Titled Heritage Reflections, these works of art showcasing heritage sites in India and Nepal, capture sunlight, shadows and bright blue skies. Hiremath who was born in Nipani, a small village in Belgaum, North Karnataka, showed an aptitude for art even as a toddler. “My father was an art teacher and I used to draw on the walls using bits of chalk I would find in his pockets.” However, as he became more adept in capturing images, his father stopped instructing him in technique. “My father was a talented artist but it did not serve him well as a profession and he did not want me to experience the same disappointments,” he says. “Soon, I was entering competitions and securing the top spots, but in keeping with my family’s wishes that I become an engineer, I began studying with that goal in mind. However, after class XII, I knew I would not be able to turn my back on art.” Eventually, his family gave in to his reasoning and Hiremath enrolled in the Abhinav Kala Mahavidyalaya in Pune, for his art education. “I liked the artistic style of Maharashtra and so decided to move there for my higher studies.” “Though my family was disappointed, they did not dissuade me. However, they did not encourage me either. I had a passion for art and it was my drive to develop as an artist that kept me going,” he says. His hard work finally paid off and his first brush with fame came in 2016 when one of his submissions to the International Watercolor Society contest was displayed in Taiwan. Since then, there has been no looking back. Hiremath ranks as one of the top 50 watercolour artists in the world today. “Sadly, my father is no more, but my mother is immensely proud of my success and is overjoyed when local dailies in our hometown carry news of my achievements,” he says with a quiet happiness. Hiremath now 39, also captures urban landscapes, portraits and abstracts using other media such as acrylic, poster and opaque colours, but his first preference is for watercolours. “Watercolours are perhaps the most fuss-free and easiest of media to use, especially on location,” says Hiremath, who is part of an artist group that meets up every Sunday in Pune. “The location is planned in advance and once there, we all capture whatever is in front of us. I use a pencil to sketch my initial observations as a thumbnail on a small notepad before moving on to the canvas,” says the artist, who takes about two hours to finish a painting, depending on its size. “Over the years, you learn to observe, to pay attention to detail and then later sketch from memory if something inspires you. One’s signature style evolves over time — it is not taught, it is not learnt.”  Heritage Reflections’will go on display at Vasantha Art Gallery at the Grand Mercure in Bengaluru from March 13 to April 20. Follow Hiremath on Facebook and Instagram @kudalayyahiremath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nod-to-nostalgia/article34048797.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons in the air||Hanuman wakes up from a deep sleep and is hungry.  Hanuman: Mom! Mom! Where are you? I am very hungry! Hanuman looks around, but his mother is nowhere to be seen. The kitchen has only empty pots and vessels. Outside, he sees an orange tree with a single fruit hanging from a branch. Hanuman immediately climbs the tree to get the orange but, to his surprise, it seems to have mysteriously moved and hidden itself amid the clouds. Without a second thought, Hanuman jumps towards the fruit. He finds himself beginning to fly. Just then, he hears many voices.  Mysterious voices: Your dad has told us that you are very naughty and keep getting into trouble. So, he asked us to keep an eye on you.  Hanuman: Who are you? Why can’t I see you? Are you ghosts? Wait ... I didn’t know my father had the power to issue orders to ghosts!  Mysterious voices: Ha ha! No, we are not ghosts! And we are not talking about your father Kesari. We are referring to Lord Vaayu, the wind god, your celestial father. Your mother Anjana and your father Kesari prayed to Vaayu and then you were born.  Hanuman: Yes, yes! I know that. But who are you, invisible people? And how do you know me?  Mysterious voices: We are the army of Lord Vaayu. We know everything about you; you study in Class I at the gurukul .  Hanuman: That’s not fair! I know nothing about you. Tell me more about yourselves...  Mysterious voices: For starters, Lord Vaayu calls us the Vaayu Sena and people on Earth refer to us by several names like air, wind, storm, etc. People who have knowledge of science call us air molecules.  Hanuman: Oh! I have learnt about you. You are the third type of matter after solid and liquid. Am I right? And you are also the weakest!  Air molecules: Ha ha! Yes and no. Yes, we are a type of matter and, no, we are not the weakest. That depends on the perspective.  Hanuman: Really? Tell me more. Hidden strengths  Air molecules: We have three basic properties. You already identified the first.  Hanuman: I did? When?  Air molecules: When you asked why you couldn’t see us. You can only feel us.  Hanuman: Oh yes. Even though I cannot see you, I can feel you holding me up as I fly. Interesting! What is your next property?  Air molecules: You have a shape: face, hands, legs and even a tail. But we don’t have a fixed shape. We can take any shape we want.  Hanuman: How is that possible? Suddenly, a balloon appears in Hanuman’s hand.  Air molecules: Blow up the balloon and tell me what shape it is.  Hanuman (after blowing up the balloon): Round… sphere…  Air molecules: See! We do have a shape! Basically, we don’t have a definite shape, but we take the shape of the container we are in.  Hanuman: Amazing! So, what’s the third property?  Air molecules: Dear Hanuman, may we ask how much do you weigh?  Hanuman: I am so heavy that none of my friends can lift me. Even my father Kesari struggles to carry me. Hey... wait a minute! If I am so heavy, how come I am flying now? How can you tiny, invisible, shapeless creatures lift me up?  Air molecules: Ha ha! That is because, contrary to what you think, we are not weak and weightless. In fact, we do have mass.  Hanuman: I am confused...  Air molecules: Let us call our friends to explain it to you better. Suddenly, two birds appear: one with an inflated balloon and another with a deflated one. They tie the balloons to either side of a weighing scale. The first balloon pulls the scale down proving that it is heavier than the second one.  Air molecules: If you are still not convinced, look at this big aeroplane. It’s definitely heavy. But it is able to fly because its powerful engines push us out at such great speed that we gain the power to lift the aeroplane up into the sky.  Hanuman: That is incredible!  Air molecules: Now, tell us, do you still think we are weak?  Hanuman: You have changed my perspective. It sure looks like you are the strongest and I am glad to have friends like you looking out for me. Now, since you are so strong, I need your help to get that orange hiding behind the clouds.  Air molecules (laughing): To reach that orange, we will need to travel a long distance.  Hanuman: I don’t care how far we have to go. I need to get to those clouds...  Air molecules: We are in the troposphere right now. You need to travel at least two to three kilometres to reach those dark, low-level rain clouds named Nimbostratus.  Hanuman: Don’t give me all those complicated names. I am very hungry. Please just help me reach those clouds…. The air molecules watch with amusement as Hanuman naively flies towards the sun, unaware of the trouble he is going to land himself in...  To be continued...   The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   If I am so heavy, how come I am flying now? How can you tiny, invisible, shapeless creatures lift me up?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lessons-in-the-air/article34049562.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Acorn thief||A big flock of woodpeckers was soaring in the sky. Nutty, a fledgling, loved the flock. After all, his papa, mummy, uncles, aunts and cousins were part of it and they always stayed together. One day, while flying, they spotted a grove of oak trees and decided to take a closer look. Not only were the tall oak trees gorgeous, but there were also beautiful wild flowers and a waterfall nearby. Looking at his flock’s happy faces, papa announced, “Let’s make this our new home. It is so pretty here.” The whole flock chirped in agreement. However, Nutty was worried. “There are no holes here,” he shrieked anxiously. Another fledgling added, “Where will we store our acorns?” Teaching the fledglings “We will teach you how to make the holes and store the nuts. It’s hard work but doing things together makes it enjoyable,” papa assured them. Nutty exclaimed, “I’ll make the biggest one!” Mummy said, “We don’t need to make big ones. You have to learn to make the holes just the right size to fit the acorn.” One of the uncles explained, “And remember not to make them lower on the trunk, as the other animals might take our nuts.” Soon, the elders got busy drilling small holes in the trunks. Happily, the fledglings, under papa’s guidance, also began learning to make holes. “Since it’s fall, some of us should start harvesting green acorns. If we delay, we might not have enough for winter,” said one uncle. The flock agreed. In a few weeks, their hard work paid off and their granary was almost ready. One day, after soaring in the sky, the flock returned to the grove of the oak trees. Nutty went straight to check on the first acorn that he had stored. All gone However, the hole was empty. Nutty couldn’t believe his eyes. He screeched, “My acorn is not there!” “Mine is also missing!” shouted his cousin. Mummy calmed them down, “They might have fallen down.” Instantly, they flew down and looked all around the tree but could not find their acorns. Unfortunately, the next day too, some of the acorns went missing. “For sure, there is a thief!” announced one of the uncles. Vexed with the situation, Nutty’s papa said, “There has to be a way to find out who who is stealing from our granary. Let’s have a meeting right now.” Everyone got together and started thinking about ways to catch the thief. Mummy recommended, “Let’s distribute the work, as we can neither afford to skip collecting the nuts, nor skip guarding our granary.” Uncle approved. The next day, everyone went about carrying on with their respective duties. Till noon, they found nothing unusual apart from the rustling of the leaves and the wind passing through the forest. Suddenly, they saw some movement among the dry heap of leaves and became alert. They saw a tiny squirrel, who looked around carefully and then climbed into the granary. Just as she was about to pick up an acorn, the guard shouted, “You thief, you should be ashamed of yourself. Go away at once. If you are seen anywhere around our granary, you’ll have to face the consequences.” Making amends Taken aback, the squirrel scurried away. She hated being called a thief but realised that if one picks up something that belongs to another without permission, it was stealing. The next day, she returned to the oak grove and told the flock, “I am sorry. I have come to replace your nuts. I promise never to steal again. Please don’t call me a thief.” The woodpeckers were surprised by the squirrel’s the change of heart. Nutty said pleasantly, “That’s sweet of you.” The others said, “We forgive you.”  Nutty went straight to check on the first acorn that he had stored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/acorn-thief/article34049555.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Teens in trouble||B e strong, Swara.   You must move on now. Don’t look back.  The almost-nine-year-old Swara’s heart breaks as she loses her favourite person ever, Pitter Paati. Swara pursues clues to find her, but stumbles upon a crime instead. Expectedly, no one believes her. Will Swara and her annoying friends from the detective squad find the Ruth of the Matter in time? Told with humour and sparkle, this compassionate story is about finding light in the darkest times of our lives. It packs in an intriguing mystery and even a good belly laugh. Rahul Kapoor is heading into seventh grade in a small town in Indiana, the U.S. His favourite person in the whole world, his grandfather, gives him some well-meaning advice: Find one thing you’re really good at and become the BEST at it. While he’s not quite sure what that special thing is, he is convinced that, once he finds it, bullies like Brent Mason will stop torturing him. And he won’t be worried about staring too long at his classmate Justin Emery. With his best friend, Chelsea, by his side, Rahul is ready to crush this challenge… But what if he discovers he isn’t the best at anything? Saira is thrilled about getting her own phone. But most of the messages that arrive on it are for somebody called Akaash. As the messages get stranger, Saira’s irritation gives way to curiosity. Who is Akaash? How has he disappeared so entirely that even his friends and family don’t know where he is? Is he connected with the horrors that the police have unearthed in a fancy Mumbai building? Saira and her friends decide to play detective. But the light-hearted adventure soon turns dark. Someone is watching their every move. Someone has killed once and is willing to kill again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/teens-in-trouble/article34049568.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Making screen history||With my travelling severely curtailed, I tried the time machine. I turned a few knobs and wham! I was in March 1931 at a studio in Grand Road, Bombay, that overlooked the railway tracks. “What’s happening?” I asked a mouse that suddenly appeared by my side. He tittered, “This is a film shooting. These rooms are not soundproofed; so these guys have to wait till the trains stop running.” I looked at him quizzically. “It’s 1930s, my friend. There were only silent movies. See how they are placing those large microphones inside the actors’ costumes, behind the props and every other place possible.” “Must be uncomfortable right?” “You bet. Oh! Look at that. They have musicians hiding behind the trees!” This was fascinating. I hopped across until I found a man gazing out of the window. I introduced myself and asked him to give me the lowdown. Getting briefed “Hello,” he said. “I’m Ardeshir Irani, the producer of this film. I was inspired after watching Show Boat , last year. I knew it was the next greatest thing in films. I decided it would be in Hindustani, which is a mixture of Urdu and Hindi. For my story, I had Alam Ara , about warring queens, palace intrigues and, of course, romance too.” For his heroine, he had found a young actor named Zubeida, and the male lead was Master Vithal, a Marathi stunt star. The villain was Prithiviraj Kapoor. “If the villain is not good, the movie can fail, you know,” he said. “We are almost done here. This is the fourth month of shooting. It takes just a month to shoot a silent movie.” My time machine was beeping and my time had run out. Intrigued by what I had seen, I read up about Alam Ara . The film was a sensation. The Majestic Cinema in Bombay was mobbed and the police had to be called in. Tickets were sold on the black market for four to five rupees. But here is the sad part: No copy of this film exists. There are just a few stills to remember this pioneering film. Fun five  Alam Ara was India’s first talkie. The shooting was done mostly between 1.00 a.m. and 4.00 a.m. Released on March 14, 1931, at Majestic Cinema in Bombay, its tagline read: All living. Breathing. 100 per cent talking. The song ‘De De Khuda Ke Naam Par’ was sung by Wazir Muhammad Khan, a neighbourhood watchman. Irani hired him because of his coarse voice. The film had six other songs. It introduced the concept of music and playback singing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/making-screen-history/article34049574.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Brick by brick The meeting||Neel took several steps back; then, when no one noticed that he had moved away, he turned and quickly climbed up the slope away from the adults busy at work. From the top of the hillock, he could see the half-broken houses, with their roofs caved in and collapsed walls. He could also see furniture strewn about. He watched the people who were working tirelessly, trying to rebuild Arramandal to what it had been before the earthquake. Pitching in What they were doing didn’t seem to be something he could do too. “Building houses? Or rebuilding houses?” he thought. “I’m only a kid. How am I supposed to do this?” “I agree with you,” said a voice right next to him and Neel jumped. A boy around his own age stood behind, his eyes on the activity below as well. “I didn’t realise I’d said it aloud,” said Neel. The boy grinned. “Well, if you hadn’t said it aloud, I would have had to read your mind because I, Mohit-the-Mind-Reader, feel the same way! I don’t know what I’m doing here either!” When Neel had arrived with his grandmother the day before, he had noticed Mohit trailing behind the man — obviously his father — who was leading this project to rebuild all the houses. Mohit had looked serious then, carrying a small notebook in his hands and taking down instructions. “You looked like you fit right in yesterday! Following the boss around and writing down everything!” Mohit’s grin became wider. He pulled out a small notebook from his pocket and opened it. Nothing was written, but there were many sketches: of broken walls and chairs and tables and cupboards. “You’re a good artist!” Neel exclaimed, admiring the sketches over Mohit’s shoulder. Mohit shrugged. Then he winked at Neel and said, “Now you’ll see magic!” He shut the notebook with a snap, then threw it up in the air and opened it again, flipping through the pages rapidly. This time, Neel saw sketches of super heroes, with every detail of their costumes perfect as far as he could make out in those quick glimpses he was given. “That’s amazing!” he cried. “How – what…?” “What’s my super power?” said Mohit. “I’m the master of illusion! A magician!” Neel grabbed the notebook from Mohit’s hand, turned it around and opened it. “Just as I suspected!” he said. “You’re a faker! You pretend to be conscientious when you’re with the boss man and you do something entirely different the rest of the time!” Mohit didn’t look upset at being found out. “There’s a reason for that,” he shrugged.  To be continued||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/brick-by-brick-the-meeting/article34049530.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s that saying?||Across  1. Exactly! You’ve hit the ____ on the head! (4) 3. Feeling like a ____ out of water? (4) 5. Your ____ eyes don’t miss a thing! (5) 6. Don’t get mad, get ____ (4) 7. No one sees the _____ in the room (8) 12. Bad ____ travels fast (4) 13. It’s always greener on the other side (5) 15. No use following that clue, it’s a wild goose ____ (5) 17. Let’s find out by ____ and error (5) 19. I’ve got the ____ of this game now! (4) 20. Who is the ____ half? Husband or wife? (6)  Down  1. The number of lives a cat has (4) 2. Always look before you do this (4) 3. Are you scared? Did you get cold ____? (4) 4. I need help, can you give me a ____? (4) 8. There’s no such thing as a free ____ (5) 9. It makes waste (5) 10. They are as different as ____ and day (5) 11. ____ zero: First person to be diagnosed with a disease (7) 14. The lining on every cloud (6) 15. A very good investment, a ____ cow (4) 16. It’s a trivial matter, don’t make a ____ and dance about it (4) 18. Don’t ___ me the wrong way (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/whats-that-saying/article34049535.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why does plastic melt when it is exposed to heat? First, plastics are made from different materials: cellulose, crude oil, natural gas among others. So there are different kinds of plastics, each of which has its own properties and structures. Like everything else, plastic also has a melting point (which means that it changes from solid to liquid at a specific temperature). This point depends on the kind of plastic. Heat tends to loosen the particles that make up the particles. When that happens, the plastic starts to melt. Also remember, the chemicals that are used to make plastic can then move into whatever is stored in the plastic container and may cause health-related problems. Why do snakes have scales? Think of how a snake moves! It wriggles along the ground, whether it is smooth mud or among rocks or in the undergrowth of the forests. Arboreal snakes move along branches of trees. Imagine what would happen if they didn’t have scales! Their skin would be torn and bleeding. Not only do scales protect the snakes from being hurt as they slither along, but also from the sun’s ultraviolet rays and from losing body moisture. In some cases, the scales hide the colour of the skin, which lies below them, and help the snakes camouflage themselves and catch their prey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article34049524.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34049520.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34049550.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The right angle||What do artistes do when the live audience that provides them with energy and sustenance is taken away? How do they communicate? This past year has been all about this. Denied a stage, many dancers took to social media, with some uploading excerpts from previous productions, some posting videos of themselves dancing at home or on their terraces, some posting practice sessions. When Chennai’s December season went virtual last year, dancers got a chance to experiment at recreating the sabha experience while performing in empty auditoriums. It was a first attempt and it brought dance recitals back, but one feels that it will take time for the experience to be improved and perfected. And among dancers too, there is a growing awareness of the potential of the digital space and its phenomenal reach. They are beginning to realise that this new medium calls for some serious creative thought. Priyadarsini Govind says she was happy when dance was included in the 2020 Season’s scheduling by the sabhas. But she adds that online festivals will work only if curated well. “We cannot replicate a live performance where we draw energy from the audience and show them with our eyes where to look. We have to work with the camera person so that the camera can show what the dancer wants the audience to see. It’s a new skill to learn. In my opinion, nothing can replace anything.” According to the dancer, an in-person performance is a study of contrasts, which may not work in the digital space. Priyadarsini gives the example of a dark background that on camera looks like a dancer is suspended in mid-air. Costume colours and eye make-up need to be reworked. As she says, “Online, everyone is a front-bencher.” Priyadarsini points out that repertoires too may have to change. “I would like to create new compositions for the camera. I am inspired by Dr. Padma Subrahmanyam’s choreography to Tchaikovsky’s music created so many years ago. I feel that artistes like Shobana who understand both mediums can do wonders.” Many possibilities In the absence of live recitals in the near future, dancers will have to learn how to control the final product much better. The standard two-three camera recording will have to change in order to better mimic the dynamic eyes of the rasika. Some dancers are already testing the possibilities. Vaibhav Arekar recorded an existing dance-theatre choreography ‘Venugan’, using three cameras, including a moving one. “I hired an auditorium in Pune,” he says, “and presented the same choreography twice over, shooting from different angles each time. We used regular stage lights to capture the feel of a live performance. It was a 10-hour shoot for 75 minutes of content.” Sushant Jadhav, who has prior experience with films, was the artistic director. Vaibhav says it is crucial to educate the team. The camera persons attended three rehearsals. While retaining the original choreography, Vaibhav says he was mindful of the camera while shooting and so he would consciously face it. It was, however, an expensive exercise. Vaibhav considers it a keepsake for posterity and is sending it to some festivals around the world. “When will I go to Australia next? The festivals help my work reach people I may never meet.” The next new genre is that of dance films, a genre that will grow over time, expects Vaibhav. “We have to record properly. I tried doing it at home, but it didn’t work. It needs funds.” He hopes that entertainment companies like Netflix will get into it. Rama Vaidyanathan has also been experimenting with the camera. “I have three static cameras and one on a gimble that moves with me to replicate the moving eyes of the audience. I choose angles in which a movement is captured at its optimum. For ‘thadinginathom’, I choose a side angle where the arm in front, back and the araimandi view is optimum.” Rama makes an interesting point when she says that because of the level of scrutiny one faces online — a recording may be wound back and watched again and again — the piece should be crisper and combed for the smallest of details. “I feel the level of discernment shown by the audience has gone up. I see it in the feedback I get.” Bharatanatyam, says Rama, is not designed for the camera, and has to be choreographed differently. The dancers need to factor in the loss of spontaneity and the absence of vibrations from a live audience while recording. On the upside, subtle gestures like the twitch of an eyebrow may be easier to convey since it can all be captured on camera. “I took three hours to record and 30 hours to edit a 90-minute margam,” she says. “I believe in recording non-stop. This is a totally new skill that I have learnt on the job.” Whole new skill Not all artistes are, however, open to online performances. Rukmini Vijayakumar says she cannot perform without audience vibes. She is conscious of her placements, the lines and diagonals in choreography, which are lost in digital recordings. There is, however, some of her content online. ‘Yes, I started making small pieces — Mallari, Pushpanjali… I choreographed it differently. It’s a whole new skill. Where to take the eye of the audience… we have to guide the camera person. Unless we control, it becomes a dead medium.” For the December 2020 season, Shijith Nambiar and Parvathy presented a beautiful mood piece, ‘Saagara Sayana’, a journey of a river, its origin and meandering until it merges into the ocean, the Ultimate Truth. Yet, Shijith is vehemently against the online medium. He thinks one cannot convey spiritual concepts without the live energy of audiences. He is also wary about too casual an attitude from viewers. “We don’t compromise on the dance, but we don’t know how it is received. This is not something to see while cooking, jogging or driving a car.” The sheer push of economics may overcome these reservations. Bharatanatyam has adapted over the centuries and survived — from temple to courts to proscenium. And this may be just another step in its evolutionary journey. The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.  In the absence of live recitals in the near future, dancers will have to learn how to control the final product much better||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-right-angle/article34049130.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Strings and songs||Listening to the four-month long online Swara Samrat festival (SSF) that concluded recently allowed one to note certain trends in Hindustani music that are increasingly gaining strength. The tradition of not repeating a raga previously performed at a festival is being ignored nowadays. At SSF, some ragas were repeated up to even three times. There were 16 instrumental concerts (Hindustani), yet most of the instrumentalists chose not to highlight their instruments’ specific ‘baaj,’ preferring to follow the ‘gayaki ang’ with no ‘tantra baaj’. In format too, they played only aalap, no ‘jor’ and ‘jhala’, followed by vilambit gats rather than moving on to a fast-paced madhya laya composition. The listening experience is definitely compromised. But despite being recorded in near empty auditoriums, some of the performances were deeply satisfying. For instance, sitar player Pt. Subhendra Rao’s exposition of raag Charukauns created by his guru Pt. Ravi Shankar was a wonderful presentation. With his ability to present coherent, easily distinguishable form of even an unknown raag, Shubhendra, who had just recovered from Covid, played with maturity and impeccable ‘taalim’. Sadly, this is missing these days. Many musicians jump from one musical thought to another without sequence or closure. His next raag, Tilak Shyam (again composed by Pt. Ravi Shankar), was rich in lyrical beauty. Ustad Akram Khan on the tabla enhanced the music. Unhurried presentation RukminiVijayakumar from Bengaluru presented a taut, graceful Bharatanatyam performance, which was perhaps enhanced by her novel costume. Sanjeev Shankar with his team from Banaras, including Shubh Maharaj on the tabla, impressed with his shehnai recital. Sadly, the instrument is being forsaken for the easy-to-play flute. Sanjeev was able to convey the leisurely mood of Banaras through his unhurried recital of raag Maru Bihag. Sarod player Ranajit Sengupta’s Abhogi, Kaunsi Kanhra and Mishra Pahadi revealed his innovative musical thoughts, which were well executed by Pt. Parimal Chakraborty on the tabla. Sandip Chatterjee on the santoor played raag Jog with more passion. Subhojyoti Guha on the tabla matched him at every step. Carnatic violinists Mysore Nagaraj and Manjunath’s concert was sublime. Waseem Ahmed Khan’s second raag Yemini Nat delighted. Pt. Ulhas Kashalkar sang his only concert during the year-long pandemic, and he was clearly in his element. His Sampoorna Malkauns had a dignity and grandeur uniquely his own. The Sohini that followed was lively, ending in a poignant Bhairavi. The recital by Dr. Rajam, accompanied on the violin by her daughter Sangeeta (incidentally, three generations of the family performed at SSF), was, as always, a class apart. Platform for youngsters As usual, promising youngsters were given a platform. One should look out for vocalist Anubhav Khamaru from Kolkata, sarangi player Momin Khan from Jaipur, and Pune-based vocalist Kedar Kelkar. Alick Sengupta impressed with his mature rendering of raag Kamod and Tilak Kamod. His pitch perfect khulli aawaaz was a delight. Some unusual jugalbandis included Shahjahanpur gharana’s Sugato Nag on sitar with Prattyush Bannerji on sarod, Maihar gharana’s Pratik Shrivastav on sarod and Ayan Sengupta on sitar, and Deepak Khirsagar playing the guitar in the North Indian idiom with Abhay Nayampally in the Carnatic style. However, the digital festival obviously did not have the same impact as a live concert. The long gaps left one without a sense of continuity. Organiser and sarod artiste Indrayudh Majumder, who explained how difficult it is to retain the attention span of the audience for four to five days, spoke of the new challenges — organising 36 recordings in five cities with five different teams, while not being physically present himself. One of the main benefits of the festival was the opportunity to savour the concerts for a year, unlike the usual online availability for a few hours. Another huge advantage for musicians is, of course, the wide audience reach (Apparently the average concert viewership was 6,500, with the numbers increasing every day.) Said Majumder, “While we hope to revert to the live experience next year, the online platform will always remain a parallel medium.”  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music and musicians.   There were 16 instrumental concerts (Hindustani), yet most of the instrumentalists chose not to highlight their instruments’ specific ‘baaj,’ but preferred to follow the ‘gayaki ang,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/strings-and-songs/article34049162.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mutiny of musical cliches||Successful background music in films comes to the aid of visuals without us acknowledging its presence as such. It accentuates the beauty of locations, sensualises on-screen romance, demonises villainy. Stereotypes of any kind are also often formed in the background, subliminally, often without us realising it. What’s the background sound that comes to mind in the following scenes? Two flowers symbolically meeting to show the union of lovers. A leading lady’s exaggerated blush. The camera panning across lush green mountains. I can immediately hear a sitar flurry in the first two scenes while the third would be the flute in any major pentatonic (a pentatonic is a five note scale) raag . No flute in Garhwal Too many film cameras have panned across mountains with flute music in the background in Hindi cinema. What prompted this coupling in the first place? Is the pentatonic bansuri an inherent quality of a mountain? A random draw from Garhwali/ Uttarakhandi pop song videos from the 90s and noughties is likely to throw up the combination of flute and hill. It is probably true then that the longstanding musical soul of a mountain is the transverse bamboo flute. But before we freeze this essentialism, it would help to look into some myths from Garhwal. Musicologist Andrew Alter writes in Mountainous Sound Spaces (2014) that despite the abundant use of flute in Garhwali pop songs, he has rarely seen it being played in the hills. Other researchers in the area cite a similar experience. What’s more, the few folktales in which the flute makes an appearance link it to acharis— fairies and sprites. The flute playing of one Jitu Bagadwal from a Garhwali folk story attracts mountain sprites that by and by devour him. Some scholars have observed that the cautionary nature of such tales resulted in parents discouraging their children from playing the flute in the hills. These days, mountains don’t get the mandatory major pentatonic flute salute in films. That is because film stereotypes have evolved and become more nuanced. In the film days of old, a mountain was a mountain—mostly a mere backdrop for song and dance. There was something trans-Himalayan about this simplification; you could be in Kashmir, Himachal or Sikkim. All would serve as generic backdrops for Bollywood formulas and often have their valleys filled with flute music. Now, when films situate songs in Kashmir, you can hear the rabab play in the background. The composition Tum from Laila Majnu (2018) for a fine example. The instrument feels closer to home with its plucks resonating in the Valley since it is traditionally played in the region. Like other instruments employed in the service of cinema, the rabab too has had a peculiar journey. My first memory of it is when it lent weight to the diasporic henna-haired pathan in Yaari Hai Iman… from Zanjeer (1973). We would hear more from the rabab later, when Khuda Gawah (1993), the Bollywood saga set in Afghanistan released. The irresistible popularity of the film has since prompted many local rabab players to include its songs in their repertoire. Post 9/11, one could find the rabab supplementing the minor scale (stereotypically associated with a certain darkness) background scores of various war films, with visuals of what were purportedly the hardy mountains of Iraq and Afghanistan. It’s all film music’s doing — the chronology of fatal friendships to larger-than-life Afghans to the rabab’s staccato coupled with Kalashnikovs in action. I go over some of these scenes to research this article and end up giving up what I’m hearing to what I’m seeing. Even when I want to listen, I end up internalising the sound, again unacknowledged. Such is the power of the visual. Did this happen every time Mehmood came on screen accompanied by the mridangam, nagaswaram and veena in Padosan (1968)? The music was used as an auditory cue to highlight his theatrical ‘South Indianness’. Such attempts may not have been outrightly punitive like the fourth movement of Beethoven’s Ninth in A Clockwork Orange (1971), but they did colour impressionable palettes; interpreting the Carnatic sound, for instance, as comical for me for many years to come. Now is a good time to bring background sounds up front and confront the spells cast by lingering musical clichés. One remedy could be pulling off an exorcism—a pahadi jaagar (musical all-nighter) where a jugalbandi of the flute, rabab, nagaswaram, dotara et al improvise and break out of the visual boxes they have been stuffed into, unleashing their infinite potential.  The writer is a journalist, music learner and teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/mutiny-of-musical-cliches/article34049107.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A teaching method of their own||Every student who trained under the twin brothers, B.V. Raman and B.V. Lakshmanan, cannot forget their gentle voices and ever-smiling faces along with the encouraging words, “With practice you can sing” ( paada paada varum ), that boosted the confidence of young learners. Our beloved gurus had many disciples and their teaching method was very unique. We still remember the day when we first attended Raman Sir’s class. We were in our teens and were straightaway taught the pallavis of one varnam and three other kritis. Sir then said, “This is all for the day”. Since this kind of approach to teaching music was unheard of, we were worried and tense. Looking at the expressions on our faces, he understood what was going through our minds. He assured us that we will soon get accustomed to this method. He took away our notebooks saying that he would write the lyrics himself (both the brothers had beautiful handwriting) and give it to us in the next class. While leaving the class, we tried to recollect the songs he had taught, at least a few lines. We felt nervous without the notebook in our hands and wondered how we would practise at home. The next class, sir had written down the songs sans notation, but did not give the notebook to us to take a look at the lyrics. With his encouragement and support, we learnt for 15 years without any notes, notations and recordings. Even today, every disciple of the brothers will be able to recall whatever they were taught without referring to any notebook. Formal training In 1938, the brothers at the age of 17, began their formal music training under S. Srinivasa Rao. They also learnt from Veena Krishnamachariar and Kulitalai Krishnaswami Rao. Their lessons in Kathakali padas were under Venkatakrishna Bhagavatar, the elder brother of Palghat Rama Bhagavatar. It so happened that once Tiger Varadachari had a chance to listen to the brothers sing, and suggested that they join the Sangeeta Bhooshanam course in the Music College at Annamalai University in Chidambaram, of which he was the principal. With support from Tiger Varadachari, who allowed the brothers to stay with him apart from offering them scholarship, the brothers completed the course in 1943. It was also the same year when Varadachari relinquished his post to join Kalakshetra in Chennai. While in college, the brothers had the privilege to learn from Tiger Varadachari. They came to Chennai after completing their Sangeeta Bhooshanam course to work with Varadachari at Kalakshetra. From 1943 to 1945, the brothers played an important role in assisting Rukmini Devi in many of her productions.  Unique approach The brothers were unique in whatever they did. For instance, they began learning music only at the age of 17 and performing at the age of 35. They would make every performance stand out — a full fledged concert of Muthuswami Dikshitar’s rare compositions, a concert of just Thiruppugazh songs, a concert featuring post-Trinity compositions, or a Vinayaka Chaturthi concert with all songs, including the mangalam , in praise of Vinayaka. Even their All India Radio concerts were theme based, like the one with all Gowla ragas or the one that featured rare compositions of Yogi Suddhananda Bharathi. They set to tune all the 4,000 verses of the Divya Prabandham, around 27 kritis of Anayampatti Adi Seshaiyyar, and some Tarangams of Narayana Tirtha. They have composed varnams and thillanas. Sathya Sai Baba learnt music from the brothers, which he openly acknowledged in many forums. The brothers stayed in Puttaparthi for about four years, during which period B.V. Raman composed as many as 37 songs on Sathya Sai Baba, which includes the famous aarti song, ‘Om Jai Jagadeesha Hare’. For 40 years they conducted the aradhana of Sadashiva Brahmendral at Manamadurai with sincerity and commitment. They believed in simple living while their music was a reflection of their devotion to the art and their spirituality. As much as their music, it was the personal qualities of the brothers that endeared them to the public as well as to their peers. They were generous in their appreciation of their accompanists, contemporaries and younger artistes. At a special event organised for his centenary at Chennai’s Ragasudha Hall, the vidwans Anayampatti Ganesan and N. V. Subramanian, who were closely associated with the brothers, performed a tribute concert.  The writers are well-known Carnatic vocalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-teaching-method-of-their-own/article34049147.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Many moods of melody||A significant cultural event of Delhi, SaMaPa Sangeet Sammelan once again saw an interesting mix of talented young artistes and well-known names. It commenced with the mangal dhwani of shehnai played by Bhaskar Nath, an upcoming musician from a family of shehnai artistes from Meerut. He trained under his grandfather Pt. Om Prakash, uncle Pt. Jagannath, and father Pt. Vishwanath, a vocalist of Kirana Gharana, before coming under the tutelage of the legendary Pt. Jasraj. His presentation of raga Madhuvanti was evidently a blend of the nuances of various styles, which was amply proven in the aalap, jod and gat in Teentaal. He was ably assisted by Athar Hussain Khan on the tabla. Impressive renditions Next came a robust and impressive rendition of raag Chandrakauns by Pt. Bholanath Mishra. Having imbibed the musicality from his mother Chandravati Devi, father Pt. Rakhal Mishra, elder brother Pt. Dinanath Mishra, Pt. A.T. Kanan and Pt. Rajan and Sajan Mishra has given him a stronghold on various styles like khayal, tappa, thumri, dadra, etc. He presented the bada khayal, ‘Tohi To Kartaar Surat Vidhata’ in Jhaptaal and ‘Ab Mori Payal Baje’ in dhrutlaya Teentaal. He was accompanied by Ajay Mishra on the harmonium and Abhishek Mishra on the tanpura. This year, the sammelan included three duet recitals. The second day witnessed two such presentations, commencing with a power-packed tabla recital of Ustad Akhtar Hasan and his son and disciple Zakir Akhtar Hussain. The father-son duo of Farrukhabad gharana presented Teentaal accompanied by Sabir Hussain on the sarangi and Fardeen Hasan on the harmonium. The second duet of the evening featured Kedia Bandhu, the well-known duo from Jharkhand and torchbearers of the Senia Maihar Gharana. Pt. Mormukut Kedia on the sitar with his brother Pt. Manoj Kedia on the sarod presented a lively rendition of raag Sindhu Bhairavi. Having learnt under greats like Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, Vidushi Annapurna Devi, Pt. Shambhu Dayal Kedia, Acharya Raja Ram Shukla, S.D. David, and Pt. Sunil Mukherjee, their performance showcased technical expertise, taiyari , mutual understanding and presentation of the nuances of the Maihar gharana. They were accompanied by Ravishankar Singh on the tabla. Reviving dhrupad Keeping with its aim of reviving dhrupad, the sammelan featured a senior dhrupad singer Pt. Vinod Dwivedi along with his son Ayush Dwivedi. Having learnt from a number of stalwarts like Pt. Kashi Nath Bedas, Shobhan Sarkar, Pt. Vidur Mallick and Pt. Abhay Narayan Mallick, Pt. Dwivedi has established himself as a guru and composer. The traditional aalapchari in Chaar Khand, the division of four, and bandishes of Pt. Dwivedi in 12-beat Chautaal, ‘Adi Shakti Mahadevi Mata Durge Bhawani’ and 10 beats Sooltaal, ‘Tuhe Mero Sab Mat Pita Tuhe’, in raag Bhopali was fascinating, supported by Mukesh Dwivedi’s proficient pakhawaj accompaniment. The sitar recital of Ustad Saeed Zafar Khan of Dilli Gharana, representing the tenth generation of musicians in his family, marked a fine blend of gayaki and tantrakari ang, layakari and raagdari in vilambit and drut gats in Teentaal in his chosen raag Bihagda. Having learnt from his father Ustad Zafar Ahmed Khan, he has gathered into his playing melodiousness, tonality and rhythmic variety. He was ably accompanied by his brother Rashid Zafar on the tabla. The last evening began with a melodious, meditative and enchanting flute recital by Pt. Rajendra Prasanna. Having learnt under his grandfather Pt. Gauri Shankar, father Pt. Raghunath Prasanna, uncles Pt. Bholanath Prasanna and Pt. Vishnu Prasanna, Pt. Mahadev Prasad Mishra, Ustad Hafeez Ahmed Khan and Ustad Sarfaraz Hussain Khan, his music has the shades of different styles and gharanas. He portrayed raag Bageshree, traversing different octaves in vilambit Ektaal and dhrutlaya Teentaal and concluded his recital with a Banarasi dhun. Abhishek Mishra, an upcoming tabla player from Banaras, accompanied him. The festival concluded with a Kathak performance, ‘Darkness and Light’, by young dancer Shivani Varma, a disciple of Pt. Birju Maharaj and Guru Shovana Narayan, and mentored by Sharmistha Mukherjee. Her training came through in her presentation. SaMaPa (Sopori Academy of Music and Performing Arts) is a premier cultural organisation under the guidance of santoor maestro Pandit Bhajan Sopori and son and disciple Abhay Rustum Sopori. It has been conducting musical events that offer a platform to artistes of different age groups. The duo belong to a 300-year-old musical lineage that represents the Shaivite-Sufi parampara of Kashmir.  The writer is a music critic   and musicologist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/many-moods-of-melody/article34049154.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The journey of a tune||I revisited the film Disco Dancer, the reason being neither political nor zoological! One is besotted with Bappi Lahiri’s incredible soundtrack that is once again back in public memory, courtesy an apparel company’s commercial where Deepika Padukone swoons to Usha Uthup’s ‘Koi Yahan Aaha Nache Nache,’ in what can be truly described as gay abandon. Faruq Kaiser’s lyrical hook ‘Auva Auva’ is yet to be decoded, but the tune lives on to tell us many stories that a song carries. It tells us that originality is getting scarce and the AI generation draws from groovy notes of the past and packages them as nostalgia. In the mid 80s, Lahiri faced charges of plagiarism because the song sounded similar to The Buggles’ number ‘Video Killed The Radio Star’ — even the hook words were copied. Same song, changed mood What has changed though is the social stigma attached to such songs. In the film, the song was picturised on Kalpana Iyer, who emerged as a seductress/vamp in the 80s, following the pattern set by the likes of Aruna Irani and Bindu. They represented or inhabited spaces that were considered forbidden by society. It was sung by Uthup, who never got to sing for the heroine because her voice lacked saccharine. Today, it is presented as a liberating anthem, picturised on a leading actress. As a result, the same song evokes a different feeling. Yash Chopra’s Kabhi Kabhie (1976) is defined by Sahir Ludhianvi’s song ‘Kabhi Kabhi Mere Dil Main Khayal Aata Hai’ — a nazm that was published in his first collection Talkhiyan (Bitterness). A toned-down version of the original nazm, it still captures beautifully the emotions of a poet’s unrequited love. But few remember that Khayyam first composed and recorded it for an unreleased Chetan Anand film in 1950. Author Akshay Manwani, in his book on Sahir, says Chetan Anand was making Kafir with Dev Anand and Priya Rajwansh, and Khayyam recorded the song with Geeta Dutt and Sudha Malhotra. The film about a Hindu doctor falling in love with a Muslim girl at the time of Partition could not be completed and it is said that Sahir took an oral consent from Chetan Anand to use it elsewhere. More than 25 years later, the song completed its journey. Ghazal lovers swear by Mehdi Hasan’s ‘Rafta Rafta Woh Meri Hasti Ka Saman Ho Gaye’ (slowly and gradually she became a part of my personality), but they don’t know that a version of Tasleem Fazli’s ghazal was composed by Basant Prakash and tweaked by lyricist Qamar Jalalabadi in the little-known Hum Kahan Ja Rahe Hain (1966). Sung by Mahendra Kapoor and Asha Bhosle, the slow-paced romantic number goes ‘Rafta Rafta Woh Hamare Dil Ke Armaan Ho Gaye’. Mehdi Sahab’s ghazal was picturised in a Pakistani film Zeenat in the 70s, where the hero sings the ghazal to his wife on their first night. Years later, composer Anu Malik came out with his own copy as ‘Dheere Dheere Aap Mere Dil Ke Mehmaan Ho Gaye’ in Ashutosh Gowarikar’s Baazi (1995) with the help of Majrooh Sultanpuri. Sung by Udit Narayan and Sadhna Sargam, the Bollywood pop was a far cry from the original ghazal, but became a chartbuster because the catchy tune is timeless and the visual appeal of the poetry provides scope for the director to establish a romantic relationship... pehle jaan, phir jaanejaan, phir jaanejaana ho gaye . No English translation can describe the growing intimacy with the beloved in such lyrical terms. Written forBobby In 1988, when Govinda was on top of his game, he did a film called Dariya-Dil. It is still known for its lilting number, ‘Woh Kehte Hain Hum Se Abhi Umar Nahin Hai Pyar Ki, Nadan Hain Woh Kya Jaane, Kab Kali Khili Bahar Ki’. Composed by Rajesh Roshan, the soulful song sung by Nitin Mukesh seemed out of place in the 1980s. Even its picturisation and the placement in the narrative was jarring. Later, it was revealed that the song was actually written by Vithalbhai Patel and not Indeevar as credited. The story goes that poet Vithalbhai Patel was requested by Raj Kapoor to write songs for his teenage romance Bobby . He came up with gems like ‘Jhooth Bole Kauwa Kathe’, ‘Na Mangu Sona Chandi’ and ‘Woh Kehte Hain Hum Se’. For some reason, the last one could not be used in the film but some 15 years later, Rajesh Roshan used it in Dariya Dil . When Patel objected, the producers repented, and he got his due credit. However, another interesting facet pointed out recently by film historian Bobby Sing in his blog is that the tune was composed by Raj Kapoor himself. It becomes clear from an audio clip — put in the public domain by Patel’s son — where Kapoor, known to provide creative inputs to his musical team, can be heard explaining the thought behind the song. He explains how parents don’t give credence to teenage romance, and then starts singing the lines of Patel in exactly the same way as it was composed 15 years later. Bobby’s score was composed by Laxmikant Pyarelal and Rajesh Roshan was the assistant at that time. Listening to Kapoor’s voice gives you goosebumps. One wonders how the public would have reacted in 1973 had it been picturised on Raja and Bobby with Mukesh singing for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-journey-of-a-tune/article34049104.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||When all roads lead to Chidambaram||I have often spoken of dance as a prayer with my entire being. In my teens, I heard the legendary dancer T. Balasaraswati say to her daughter Lakshmi, “Dance is the link between you and your maker.... unakkum avanukkum ulla thodarbu .” It is in Chidambaram that I had my most intense and real experience of the link that Balamma spoke of — this prayer with my entire being. My deep connection to Chidambaram and the Thillai Nataraja temple goes back to my childhood and the annual pilgrimages that my extended joint family would make to Chidambaram during Margazhi Tiruvaadirai and Shivaratri. These were high points in my life, for ever since I can remember. Even before I began studying dance at the age of six, the Nataraja temple held a special fascination and magic for me. In that quieter and more mellow era when the great temples of the South were not as packed with pilgrims and tourists as they are today, I would wander around the vast temple complex and pillared halls with my mother, entranced by the sculptures, particularly the karanas, sometimes laboriously trying to twist my body into those poses and falling over, to be chided by my mother. A profound scholar and fine raconteur, passionate about history, the arts and literature, she was the perfect temple guide. Stories from the Periya Puranam would come alive in her narration. My imagination was quickened and enriched by her vivid narratives of the myths and legends surrounding the temple — of sages Patanjali and Vyaghrapada in the forests of Thillai and the Ananda Tandava of Shiva, of the serpent coiled around Lord Shiva’s neck, and the vanquished tiger, elephant and demon. These stories were etched in my heart and mind and, mingled with impressions of light and shade in vast halls, of dance captured in stone and above all, the golden dancing god, they lingered as iridescent images that to this day inspire and colour my understanding of dance and my feelings about Chidambaram. I little dreamt then that some 20 years later I would myself dance in that hallowed space. The greatest boon Forty years ago when the Natyanjali Festival was first convened thanks to enlightened thinkers and organisers, there was exhilaration among the dance community. To be permitted to perform within the Chidambaram temple precinct after nearly half a century was momentous. In fact, that first year, the stage was erected against the backdrop of the Thousand Pillared Hall. I was one of the dancers invited to participate. Even in its infancy, the Natyanjali Festival drew a huge crowd from the town and surrounding villages. But for me, the greatest boon was when I was told that the next morning I could dance in front of the Nataraja sannidhi . The space allocated for the dance was the Chitrakoota mandapam directly facing the sanctum sanctorum, with Lord Govindaraja Vishnu to the left. The song I had chosen was Gopalakrishna Bharathi’s ‘Enneramum undhan sannidhiyil’, which I had learnt from my music guru T. Muktha. In Nandanar’s plea to Lord Nataraja, “Lord, let me remain in your sanctum always,” is crystallised a world of longing — the existential hunger of the devotee for the divine. When I began the song, the curtains across the sanctum were drawn, as the deity was being adorned for worship. Suddenly the tirai was flung open and Lord Nataraja was revealed in his golden effulgence, lit by the glow of the camphor deeparadhanai . The priests began their chants; the bells began to ring; hands were raised in worship. Om Namah Shivaya... the chants reverberated around me. At some point, everything seemed to dissolve — the ardour of the devotees, pealing of bells, chanting of mantras, lyrics, notes, dance movements — all merged into an experience I cannot describe. I only know that for some brief moments I ceased to be aware of myself and my surroundings. And when I came to myself again, my cheeks were wet with tears. The bells had fallen silent; the curtains of the shrine were again closed. The strange thing was that I had obviously continued dancing right through this experience without missing a beat. Only, I hadn’t been aware of it. Those epiphanic, transforming moments powerfully reaffirmed for me the fact that our dance is not merely a vehicle for self-expression, but also undoubtedly an instrument for knowing the self, accessing the divine. The iconography of Nataraja reminds us that the sacred also lies in a celebration of the body and that the Supreme can be accessed in terms of joy or Ananda. In our puja alcove there is a panchaloka Nataraja, originally commissioned by my aunt from a master stapati, which graced the stage of the Museum Theatre on the day of my arangetram. Every day, as I stand before him I am suffused with wonder. What tremendous minds, what incandescent vision could have envisaged such matchless perfection and beauty — a beauty that mere words cannot capture, unless perhaps it is in the verses of mystics like Appar or Gnyanasambandar. The dance of Lord Shiva as Nrittamurti has inspired artists and astronomers, writers and philosophers, poets and scientists alike. For it is an exquisite symbol of the rhythms and music of the universe. For me, Nataraja embodies the essence of beauty and truth. And dance, at its finest, is a quest for this inner beauty and truth. For a dancer, all roads, physical and metaphysical, lead to Chidambaram. The writer is a well-known Bharatanatyam dancer.  Those epiphanic, transforming moments powerfully reaffirmed for me the fact that our dance is not merely a vehicle for self-expression, but also undoubtedly an instrument for knowing the self, accessing the divine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/when-all-roads-lead-to-chidambaram/article34049125.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Seamless blend of genres||Young and upcoming violinist Apoorva Krishna, known for her fusion music, has released an eight-track album, ‘Intuition,’ which includes her recent composition ‘Merging Parallels,’ a Carnatic thillana that integrates Western harmony into melody and is introduced by Grammy winner guitarist John McLaughlin. “The album showcases how pure music can speak of exclusivity and inclusivity while simultaneously playing together to generate harmonious music,” says the violinist. Other singles by Apoorva, which make up the album are Ragamaya, Transcend, Blossom, Timeless, Inner Voice (Waltz and Indian Classical), Valencia (Flamenco, Rock and Indian Classical), and Tinky Winky (Jazz fusion and Indian Classical). Stint at Berklee Trained in Carnatic music by Anuradha Sridhar, violin maestro Lalgudi Jayaraman’s niece, for over 15 years, Apoorva Krishna was the first Indian to win the prestigious Young Artist Grant by Tarisio Trust, London, in 2017. Her Masters and Fellowship at Berklee College of Music exposed her to various genres of world music. Apoorva’s stint at Berklee gave her the opportunity to interact with global artistes with a variety of musical ideas, learn from and collaborate with them, thus making her versatile and creative. In 2019, she rolled out her project ‘Sanyog’ with concerts in Mumbai, Kochi, Bengaluru, etc. The same year she performed the Shakti fusion masterpiece ‘Lotus Feet’ along with legends Ustad Zakir Hussain and John McLaughlin. Apoorva collaborated with singer Shankar Mahadevan for her original composition ‘Ragamaya’ and with Grammy nominee William Cepeda for ‘Transcend,’ a Latin Jazz and Indian Classical fusion. Her single ‘Blossom’, incorporating jazz and Indian classical ideas, was released in 2020. Her foray into various genres of world music has come together in ‘Intuition’, released a few days ago.  The Chennai-based author writes on music and musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/seamless-blend-of-genres/article34049150.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||All-women show||National Gallery of Modern Art is celebrating the works of women artists with an exhibition titled ‘Yatra Naryasthu’. The title is drawn from a Sanskrit shloka which says that where women are worshipped, gods rejoice. The exhibition showcases around 50 women artists drawn from across genres of painting, printmaking, textiles, sculpture, photography and ceramics. Prints by Indo-American artist Zarina Hashmi, Anupam Sud and Soghra Khurasani are on display. From the world of ceramics come Leena Batra, Saraswati and Manisha Bhattacharyya. Also present are textile artists such as Mona Pali from Kolkata. Works of sculptors like Meera Mukherjee, Latika Katt, Mrinalini Mukherjee, Sarbari Roy Chowdhury and Uma Siddhanta are also represented in a virtual show titled The Soul Speaker dedicated to women. The largest section is of paintings, represented by eminent artists such as Arpita Singh, Chameli Ramachandran, Amrita Sher-Gil, Anjolie Ela Menon, Arpana Caur, Arpita Singh, Anita Tanwar, Anju Dodiya, B. Prabha, Jaya Appaswamy, Jayasri Burman, Arpita Reddy, Rekha Rodwittiya and many more. The show is on till March 29 at NGMA, Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/all-women-show/article34049132.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Centenary celebrations||B.V. Raman and B.V. Lakshmanan’s students have come together to celebrate their gurus’ centenary virtually. A Facebook page titled ‘Sangeetha Bhushanam Sarvashri B.V. Raman & B.V. Lakshmanan Centenary’ has been created for the event and disciples have been paying tributes by presenting kritis. There is also an ongoing project to record tributes shared by some eminent vidwans and post them on the page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/centenary-celebrations/article34049134.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Songs sung by women||Women in matrilineal Kerala have always enjoyed a certain high social status. And the arts reflect this in some ways. While the dance-theatre of Nangiarkoothu and the group dance of Thiruvathirakkali are the exclusive preserve of women, Brahmani Pattu is a genre of songs sung only by the women of the Nambissan community. Brahmani Pattu is rendered mainly in temples and Namboodiri illams . Elaborate preparations precede a performance. Coconuts, betel leaves, arecanut and traditional lamps are arranged in a square formed by dried rice in front of a peedhom (pedestal). A ‘val-kannadi’, a symbol of Bhagavathy, adorned with a fan-like pleated cloth forming a halo, is placed on it. A tray containing select offerings is placed on an avanappalaka (traditional seat for rituals) that is kept in front of the pedestal. This offertory is called the mada . The peedhom and the mada reflect the agro-social relevance of the ritual in the past. The Brahmani songs begin once prayers are offered to Ganapathy and Bhagavathy. In some temples, an interesting event takes place along with the singing — a couple of women pound a mixture of rice, jaggery, coconut, milk etc. that is kept in a large mortar and pestle ( ural olakka) . This representsthe celebration by Devi’s bhutas after her victory over Darika. The performance extends sometimes to a whole day and the songs, employing not more than four swaras, are very similar to Vedic chanting in their simple musical structure. But the lyrical beauty of the compositions, mainly those of the renowned 16th century poet Mazhamangalam Narayanan Namboodiri, the modulation and diction make the performance captivating. The percussion accompaniment is given by striking a kinnam (brass vessel) with knife. Perhaps the practice was a harbinger to the evolution of the chengala (gong) that was to be employed in Kathakali later. But when staged in temples, percussion ensembles like the Panchavadyam accompany the music. The art form is mainly confined to central Kerala, but the lack of patronage and non-availability of songs have pushed it to the verge of extinction. In 2003, Sree Pushpaka Seva Sangham took the initiative to collect nearly 60 songs and have them published under the title Brahmani Pattukal . The efforts of octogenarian artiste Padmini Brahmani Amma of Irinjalakuda are worth mentioning. To revive the art form, she organised competitions for young girls. In 2010, Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi honoured her with the Gurupooja Puraskaram.   The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/songs-sung-by-women/article34049140.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Musical bond||Uttar Dakshin is a series of jugalbandi concerts organised by V. Narhari, founder of Vivid Arts and Enetertainment. On March 13 (6.30 p.m.) Carnatic vocalist Sudha Ragunathan and slide guitar exponent Debashish Bhattacharya will perform both solo and jugalbandi. The co-artistes are Patri Satish Kumar on the mridangam, Embar Kannan on the violin, and Rafiuddin Sabri on the tabla. The ticketed concert will be streamed from Delhi Tamil Sangam and can be viewed atwww.showline.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/musical-bond/article34049143.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Thumri festival||Shrutinandan, founded by renowned Hindustani vocalist Ajoy Chakrabarty, is hosting its annual Thumri festival, Ras Bhav Rang - Thumri Ke Sang, which will be streamed live on March 14 at 6.30 p.m. Suranjana Bose, Shantanu Bhattacharya, Sanjukta Biswas and Atri Kotal will perform. For passes, log on to sn.musicconcert@gmail.com or concerts.ajoychakrabarty. com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thumri-festival/article34049145.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Annual violin festival||Naada Inbam is presenting the annual Marungapuri Gopalakrishna Iyer violin festival from March 12 to 15, at 6.15 p.m. The four-day event will be held at Ragasudha Hall, Mylapore. The concerts will also be streamed on Parivadini Music YouTube Channel. Beginning with Vittal Ramamurthy’s violin concert today, the festival will go on to feature violin concerts by V.V. Ravi (March 13); B.U. Ganesh Prasad (March 14); and R.K. Shriramkumar (March 15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/annual-violin-festival/article34049156.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Evening with a legend||Madhuradhwani will host an interactive lecdem series, ‘Down Memory Lane with Legend Prof. T.V. Gopalakrishnan,’ on March 13, 6.15 p.m., at Arkay Convention Centre, Mylapore. The veteran musician will talk about his training under Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, his practice sessions, his concert experiences, both as a vocalist and as an accompanist, and his role as a guru. The interactive session will also be streamed live on Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/evening-with-a-legend/article34049136.ece
12 March 2021||March 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Work in progress to restore village temples||Shree Maathur Sasthas Paripalana Trust, in association with HR&CE Department and the people of Mathur village, has undertaken the task of resurrecting a centuries-old Shiva temple near Thirukadaiyur in Mayiladuthurai district. The consecration of the temple, subject to the approval of the HR&CE Department, will be performed on March 24. Contributions are solicited for the purpose. For details call 96000 79972 or 98410 52606. At Mambakkam  Efforts areon to restore the ancient Sri Adhi Kesava Perumal Temple at Mambakkam village along the Thirukazhukundram-Maduranthakam road. The temple will be ready for consecration in January 2022, after the construction of the rajagopuram and other pending works are completed. For contributions and other details call 98840 96463.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/work-in-progress-to-restore-village-temples/article34049137.ece
12 March 2021||Guwahati,||‘In Assam, imported leaders running show’||Former Assam Assembly Deputy Speaker Dilip Paul, who ended his 37-year-old association with the BJP after being denied a ticket from the Silchar constituency, said while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has waged a war against illegal syndicates in West Bengal, kingpins of such collectives had been running the show in Assam. The two-time MLA said he had tremendous respect for Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, but “it is painful to see his hapless status” in the party because of “imported leaders” who had their “hands dipped in corruption”. Much of his ire was directed at Assam Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. A majority of the candidates fielded by the BJP are said to be his loyalists. Among them is Dipayan Chakraborty, who has replaced Mr. Paul.  ‘Many syndicates’ “The Prime Minister has called for uprooting the syndicates in West Bengal. He probably does not know that the BJP in Assam is being run or has preferred to field people involved running coal, betelnut, stone and cattle syndicates. Some are even into drugs and arms smuggling,” Mr. Paul said after resigning from the BJP on March 10. He also blamed the BJP for ignoring long-time loyalists like Kabindra Purkayastha, who moulded the party in Assam, to create space for “outsiders”. Mr. Paul has decided to contest the Silchar seat as an independent, as has the firebrand Shiladitya Dev who was denied a ticket from the Hojai Assembly seat. Both were associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in the past. “I have been politically murdered for aggressively pursuing the Hindutva agenda assigned by the party,” Mr. Dev said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-assam-imported-leaders-running-show/article34048815.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Uproar in Assembly over remarks on riots||The first report of the Committee on Welfare of Minorities, instituted to review compensation paid to the victims of last year’s north-east Delhi riots, was presented amid a bitter debate between the ruling AAP and Opposition BJP in the Delhi Assembly here on Thursday. Cases such as those of a riot victim who lost a hand completely and two fingers of the other being granted Rs. 20,000 — the amount sanctioned for a minor injury — and that of a shopkeeper who lost sight in one eye after being assaulted by a mob being wrongly categorised as a case of major injury instead of permanent incapacitation were brought to the committee. These were among 218 cases which sought reassessment, the committee observed in its report which, however, was hampered by the COVID-19 lockdown. As a result, in Mustafabad, local legislator Haji Yunus had to make physical visits for the reassessment of each case, the report stated. Form new teams The panel has recommended creation of new teams comprising officials from the Divisional Commissioner office, the Delhi Waqf Board and the MLAs of affected constituencies to conduct physical surveys of such cases. It has also recommended that the process of filing compensation forms should be resumed for those who could not file claims last year. The Delhi government, had so far distributed Rs. 27.19 crore as compensation to riot victims under various categories, said AAP Okhla MLA and chairperson of the committee Amanatullah Khan. The riots in February 2020, Mr. Khan alleged, were orchestrated by the “Opposition BJP and its members, including Ragini Tiwari, Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma.” The reference to the BJP, which triggered pandemonium in the House was, however, later expunged at the insistence of Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. “The allegations levelled against the party and its leaders are completely baseless,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “I have videos as proof. No action has been taken against them [political leaders] so far,” Mr. Khan alleged. He also questioned the Delhi police’s investigation, accusing the force of being excessive in dealing with the alleged perpetrators of violence. Blame police “As many as 750 FIRs were registered, but the Delhi police refused to share them with us. Their reluctance to share information seriously hampered the functioning of the committee. We came across five FIRs where the content was the same and only the names of the accused were different,” Mr. Khan stated. “On whose directions did the police book people sitting on a protest against the CAA & NRC under UAPA and didn’t invoke the same law against perpetrators of violence and political leaders who instigated the riots,” he asked. Delay due to lockdown The pendency of the applications, the committee stated, was mainly due to imposition of lockdown soon after the riots and incomplete verification of the damages as the additional Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDM) deployed in the district were relieved back to their original place of posting. “When the whole world was applauding the role of India, its scientists, and its leadership not only in its fight against COVID-19 but also for developing vaccines, the Delhi government was playing petty politics by not allowing the BJP-sponsored resolution for congratulating scientists and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for successfully leading India in its battle against the virus,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uproar-in-assembly-over-remarks-on-riots/article34048825.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jail staffers vaccinated, but 650 inmates await their shot||Even as the vaccination of around 2,000 jail staffers is to be completed, authorities are trying to figure out how to get the 650 inmates of Delhi Prisons, comprising Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails, vaccinated. A senior Tihar jail official said there are around 350 inmates above 60 years of age and around 300 above 45 years with co-morbidities. They had sent the list of inmates to the Delhi government for further process. But a decision is pending. “We have shared the list of inmates to be vaccinated but it has been delayed in the absence of registration process. We are exploring the process to get them registered as the inmates can’t be taken out for vaccination and can’t access mobile phone to register themselves on the vaccination portal. We held a meeting with senior officers and it will be done at the earliest,” said the official. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said that at present there is only a single COVID-19 case among the inmates. They are strictly following social distancing and other guidelines. “All the jail staffers and security personnel are getting vaccinated and the target has been almost achieved,” said Mr Goel. After the completion of process formalities, the vaccination of inmates will begin, he added. “A total of 1,184 prisoners were given emergency parole during the pandemic and their parole ended on March 6. As per the instructions, all of them have to report back. Except 200 inmates, rests of them have returned. They are contacting them and asking them to report back at the earliest,” said the Mr. Goel. Virus tally A total of 293 prisons staffers have contracted the infection till date, and all of them have recovered. Also, 120 inmates have tested positive for the virus so far and all have recovered except the two who died and one who is under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jail-staffers-vaccinated-but-650-inmates-await-their-shot/article34048830.ece
12 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Pollution level improves in Rourkela, action plan revised||Residents of industrial town of Rourkela, where activities were advised to be restricted on account of deterioration in air quality on Wednesday, heaved a sigh relief following minor improvement in Air Quality Index (AQI) on Thursday. The Odisha State Pollution Control Board (OSPCB) had observed the AQI going above 500 points due to high concentration of particulate matter (PM10) on March 8. “The AQI of March 10 was 342, which means air quality has improved. We have revised the emergency action plan. Now, we have told civil administration that there is no need to shut down educational institutes and stop construction and railway loading activities,” said P. K. Mohapatra, regional officer of OSPCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pollution-level-improves-in-rourkela-action-plan-revised/article34048813.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||AAP, BJP spar over free pilgrimage to Ayodhya||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday attacked the BJP and the Congress for allegedly opposing the Delhi government’s decision for free pilgrimage to Ram Temple in Ayodhya once it’s completed. CM’s announcement “BJP’s opposition to the Kejriwal government’s announcement of free travel to Ram Janmabhoomi for the senior citizens of Delhi is beyond comprehension. We used to think that at least some people in the BJP will praise the pilgrimage scheme, but the party has become upset with this announcement,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. He said that the Congress spokesperson was describing the pilgrimage scheme as “unrealistic dreams”, while many people from his area and Assembly constituency have taken part in pilgrimage. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the Delhi government’s decision to send elderly citizens of Delhi for a pilgrimage to Ayodhya, free of cost. I used to believe that the BJP had some people who are genuine devotees of Lord Rama and would, by that logic, welcome the step proposed by the CM today. I was however proven wrong,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. “The BJP has opposed this move. My question is to Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta: why the opposition? Have you not taken your parents on pilgrimage? If not, please tell us or tell Arvind Kejriwal. The government of Delhi will take them, they are like our parents,” he added. Oppn. criticism Reacting to it, Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana asked how many pilgrimages or places of religious significance, the Delhi government was actually able to deliver to citizens since the scheme was launched. “Bharadwaj doesn’t even know the names of the places that Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta has taken his own parents to for pilgrimage. Since the Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh elections are round the corner, these people have suddenly remembered Lord Ram,” Mr. Khurana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-bjp-spar-over-free-pilgrimage-to-ayodhya/article34048827.ece
12 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. notifies land use change for BJP office||The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Wednesday notified the change in land use for a plot on Deen Dayal Upadhaya Marg for the proposed office of the Delhi BJP unit, paving the way for the project to start. When asked for comment on the possible date of its construction, a senior Delhi BJP leader said it is likely to come into use by 2021-end. While the Centre had allotted the land to the Delhi BJP for its office earlier, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) had on November 3, 2015, started the process for changing the land use of the 809 square metres plot from “residential nursery school” to “public and semi-public facilities” in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021. According to party sources, while the built-up area of the new office would be slightly more than its current office on Pandit Pant Marg, the new one would, however, be slightly smaller in overall area compared to its current State headquarters. The DDA had called for suggestions and objections for a period of 30 days and one such submission was received, according to the Ministry’s notification on Wednesday. “Whereas, one objection/suggestion received with regard to the proposed modification have been considered by the Board of Enquiry and Hearing, set up by the Delhi Development Authority and also approved at the meeting of the Delhi Development Authority. Whereas, the Central Government have after carefully considering all aspects of the matter, decided to modify the Master Plan for Delhi-2021/ Zonal Development Plan of Zone-D. 4. [sic],” the notification read. The DDA had approved the change on February 10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-notifies-land-use-change-for-bjp-office/article34048820.ece
12 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab study links rise in farm incomes to FPO||A study at the Ludhiana-based Punjab Agricultural University to track the impact of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO) on the income and employment of farmers in Punjab during 2019-20, has revealed that incomes increased after farmers joined the FPOs and the impact was greater among small, marginal and semi-medium farmers. The study, titled “Economic Impact of Farmer Producer Organisations on Punjab Peasantry”, asserts that overall, while permanent labour employment has marginally increased, the income of farmers has increased by 15.71% due to a shift in cropping patterns and proper use of farm inputs.  67 organisations FPOs consist of member farmers and are run by them with support from organisations-agencies. In Punjab, there are 67 FPOs. “Multiple linear regression analysis reveals that farm size, family size and membership of FPOs significantly influenced the income level of farmers. These FPOs have been improving the income level of the member farmers,” said Renuka Rani, a researcher with the Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU, who conducted the study. “The change in the net annual income of the FPO members after and before joining the FPO was analysed. Overall increase in income of a sample of 100 FPO members was 15.71%, mainly due to a shift in the cropping pattern and awareness about farm inputs used by farmers such as seeds and fertilizers, insecticide, pesticide, insect and pest attack, timely use of inputs and subsidised farm implements,” Ms. Rani said.  Monthly meetings “Before [joining] FPOs, the farmers used excessive fertilizers. But due to monthly meetings and awareness created by FPOs, the farm input costs decreased, which led to an increase in the income of the farmers. The analysis found that the highest increase was seen in case of marginal farmers as they started practising allied activities along with farming,” she added. In Punjab, out of the total of 10.53 lakh land holdings, about 34% are held by small and marginal farmers. Farmers in general and small farmers in particular, have been facing several problems in production and marketing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-study-links-rise-in-farm-incomes-to-fpo/article34048814.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||L-G reviews ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ plans||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday reviewed the preparedness of programmes and events to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Independence as ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ here. Mr. Baijal advised the Chief Secretary to expeditiously constitute the State-level committee to plan and oversee the smooth implementation of events. According to Raj Niwas, the L-G stressed upon higlighting the contributions of unsung heroes, associated with Delhi, in the freedom movement and to spread awareness about the various locations in the city associated with the movement. He advised participation of eminent citizens from all walks of life, identification of themes and locations and preparation of calendar of events for the coming 75 weeks and instructed to ensure strict compliance of COVID-19 norms while organising the events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-reviews-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-plans/article34048822.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||75th I-Day: Delhi govt. to kick-start activities today||The Delhi government will begin year-long activities to celebrate 75 years of Independence with an event at Central Park in Connaught Place here on Friday. Though all Delhiites are invited, entry to the event will be limited to maintain COVID-19 guidelines, the Delhi government said. “Heartiest congratulations to all on the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. Let’s create an India which is inspired by the dreams of our freedom fighters and martyrs, and an India inspired by the principles of Ram Rajya,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. The Delhi Tourism Department will organise the event marking year-long activities that will continue as part of celebrations. Streets will come alive with performances hosted in collaboration with the Art and Culture Department, the government said. The year will witness multiple events, highlighting the city’s role in the freedom movement and its journey in the last 75 years.  Let’s create an India which is inspired by the dreams of our freedom fighters and martyrs, and is inspired by the principles of Ram Rajya   Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/75th-i-day-delhi-govt-to-kick-start-activities-today/article34048823.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||AQI dips to ‘poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida deteriorated to “poor” category on Thursday from “moderate” level, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. “The AQI is likely to stay in the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category for the next two days,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The agency said that thunderstorms with gusty windsare likely at isolated places on Thursday and Friday and an increase in wind speed and ventilation is expected on Friday. The AQI of Delhi was 242 on Thursday, up from 175 on Wednesday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 268 and 260.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aqi-dips-to-poor-category/article34048828.ece
12 March 2021||NOIDA (U.P.),||Road accident in Agra leaves nine dead||Nine people died in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra district on Thursday morning after an SUV collided with a tractor-trolley, police said. Three others injured in the crash are hospitalised, Agra Senior Superintendent of Police Babloo Kumar said. The incident took place on the Agra-Kanpur highway ubder the Etmadaula police station area around 5 a.m., he said. “The speeding SUV crossed over to the other side of the road where it hit the tractor-trolley. There were 12 people who got injured and were taken to a hospital, where nine of them succumbed to the injuries,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/road-accident-in-agra-leaves-nine-dead/article34048816.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP brief||The Delhi BJP on Thursday protested against the alleged humiliation of women in Haryana by the Congress. A demonstration was held at the Congress headquarters here by Delhi BJP leaders vice-president Ashok Goel Devraha in objection to former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda sitting on a tractor being pulled by women legislators on Women's Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-brief/article34048817.ece
12 March 2021||New Delhi,||Covid brief||A total of 29,441 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Thursday, said a Delhi government spokesperson. Also, 409 new cases were reported, the highest single-day rise in nearly two months, while the positivity rate rose to 0.59%. Meanwhile, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said that he has tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-brief/article34048819.ece
