13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quad leaders for ‘open, free’ Indo-Pacific||Members of the Quadrilateral framework, or Quad, will become “closer than ever before”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, in his address to the first-ever leadership summit of the grouping. Addressing the virtual summit, Mr. Modi, President Joe Biden of the United States, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison highlighted cooperation among the member countries to beat the COVID-19 pandemic, with joint partnership on vaccines and emphasised the need for an “open” and “free” Indo-Pacific region. “We are united by our democratic values and our commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. Our agenda, covering areas like vaccines, climate change and emerging technologies, make the Quad a force for global good. We will work together, closer than ever before on advancing our shared values and promoting a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific,” said Mr. Modi, who described the Quadrilateral framework as an “important pillar of stability in the region”. The member countries agreed to ensure “equitable” access to vaccines. A joint statement, titled ‘The Spirit of the Quad’, said: “We will join forces to expand safe, affordable, and effective vaccine production and equitable access to speed economic recovery and benefit global health.” Mr. Biden emphasised that the Indo-Pacific region should be governed in accordance with human rights. “And we’re renewing our commitment to ensure that our region is governed by international law, committed to upholding universal values and free from coercion. We’ve got a big agenda ahead of us,” Mr. Biden said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quad-leaders-for-open-free-indo-pacific/article34057284.ece
13 March 2021||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Mumbai’s coastline set for a sea change||Over 55 slums on Mumbai’s coastline are set to undergo redevelopment under the joint venture of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA), in one of the biggest redevelopment drives in the city. Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad on Friday said that the government is set to introduce the housing policy in the coming two months of which this will be a part. “No slum-dweller will be displaced from their original location. Half of the area will be reserved for houses for them, and the other half will be used for sale at market rates,” he said. Govt.’s share Of the new houses to be constructed, the government agency will have its share. “Having a house near the sea shore is every Mumbaikar’s dream. Our attempt will be to make available such houses at affordable rates,” he said. Mr. Awhad cited the example of Badhwar Park slum in south Mumbai which covers 32 acres. “This much of land is under slums. If it goes under redevelopment, half will be used to settle existing slum-dwellers and other half will be open for the market,” he said. “MHADA has run out of money. As a minister, it is my responsibility to ensure MHADA becomes financially strong and the government gets revenue at a time when finances are hit due to the pandemic. Once the policy is finalised, I am sure, many investors will come forward,” he said, adding that MHADA will soon undertake recruitment for 562 positions, of whom 150 will be engineers. Along with this, the minister is also set to relax norms for selling houses by owners under SRA. “Earlier, the owner was not allowed to sell the flats for 10 years since possession. We have decided to bring this down to five years from the time their slums are demolished for redevelopment,” he said. “People who live in these slums work for those living in towers. Mumbai owes a debt to these people. We have to take care of them,” he said. Earlier, the minister announced that the redevelopment of BDD chawls in Mumbai would be inaugurated in a month’s time in Worli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbais-coastline-set-for-a-sea-change/article34057808.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||ECI issues poll notification||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday issued the notification for the Assembly elections scheduled for April 6 in the State. The notification for the byelection for the Malappuram Lok Sabha seat, to be held the same date, was also issued. The filing of nominations commenced in the State with the notification. Seven nominations, that of four women and three men, were filed on the first day. Two nominations each were filed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur districts and one each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts. The last date for filing the nominations is March 19. The scrutiny of nominations will be held on March 20. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is March 22. The polling hours, extended by one hour given the COVID-19 scenario, will be from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. In nine north Kerala Assembly constituencies, polling will start at 7 a.m. and close at 6 p.m. The constituencies are Mananthavady, Sulthan Bathery and Kalpetta in Wayanad district; Ernad, Nilambur and Wandoor in Malappuram district; and Kongad, Mannarkkad and Malampuzha in Palakkad district. The votes will be counted on May 2. Procedures related to the election will be completed by May 4. Kerala has 140 Assembly constituencies and the term of the existing Assembly ends on June 1. Malappuram bypoll The bypoll for the Malappuram Lok Sabha seat was necessitated by the resignation of Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty. The schedule for the Assembly polls applies for the bypoll as well. The number of polling booths in the State has increased from 21,498 in 2016 to 40,771 in view of the decision to limit the number of voters per booth to 1,000. In all, 2,67,31,509 voters figure on the final voters' list published by the commission on January 20. The integrated list, incorporating additions, is not yet out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/election-commission-issues-poll-notification/article34057699.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||As cases rise, govt. revises COVID-19 guidelines||With the State recording a spike in new cases, the Health Department has revised testing targets in districts where the test positivity rate (TPR) is high. Besides, the maximum number of people permitted to attend gatherings in closed spaces has been restricted to 200. A circular to this effect was issued on Friday. The revised guidelines have been issued following recommendations of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) that met on Thursday to discuss measures to prevent a second wave in the State. The Hindu had reported on Thursday that the TAC had recommended revision of testing targets in districts where prevalence is high. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) told The Hindu on Friday that although these guidelines existed earlier, they had been relaxed in the last few months when cases were on the decline. “However, now as the cases are on an upward trend again we have reissued the old guidelines with some modifications for stricter enforcement. The government will soon bring these guidelines under the Karnataka State Disaster Management Act,” he said. According to Friday’s circular, the daily testing target has been fixed at 40,000 in Bengaluru Urban, 5,000 in Mysuru, 3,500 in Tumakuru, 3,000 each in Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada, 2,000 each in Vijayapura and Udupi and 1,000 in Kodagu. While RT-PCR tests in these districts should be increased, other districts should continue with the daily testing targets as fixed previously. Asserting that contact tracing should be given priority, particularly in Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kalaburgi and Udupi, the circular has said that for every positive case at least 20 secondary contacts should be traced apart from all primary contacts. Besides, officials have again been directed ensure stringent enforcement of COVID-19 protocols and surveillance measures at the borders (Kerala and Maharashtra). While directing officials to scale up vaccination and ensure that the vulnerable get the shot at the earliest, the health department has restricted the number of attendees in social, political and religious gatherings to 500 in open spaces and 200 in closed spaces. For birthday parties/ other celebrations, funerals/ death ceremonies, the maximum number of attendees has been restricted to 100 in open spaces and 50 in closed spaces. People should follow compulsorily the prescribed 3-feet social distancing norm and wear masks, the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-cases-rise-govt-revises-covid-19-guidelines/article34057319.ece
13 March 2021||Patna,||RLSP leaders ‘expel’ party chief, join RJD||Ahead of Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) president Upendra Kushwaha’s likely move to the ruling JD(U) on March14 or 15, as many as 35 of his party leaders, including State president (in-charge), on Friday joined the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). These leaders declared it was a merger with the RJD. Mr. Kushwaha had convened a meeting of party leaders in Patna on March13 to discuss his move to switch parties. However, RLSP State party president (in-charge) Virendra Kushwaha said, “We’ve have expelled our leader Upendra Kushwaha from the party and merged RLSP with RJD today.” The RLSP leaders took membership of the RJD in presence of party leader and Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, State RJD president Jagdanand Singh and party leader Prem Kumar Mani at party headquarters in Patna. The list of RLSP leaders includes Nirmal Kushwaha, Jitendra Kushwaha, Madhu Manjari Mehta, Vijay Mahto, Sajjan Kashyap, Diwakar Kushwaha, Amit Kumar, Chandan Bihari, Krishna Kumar Mahto. “RLSP leaders have merged into the RJD. Earlier, Upendra Kushwaha used to say that whoever has friends like Nitish Kumar doesn’t need an enemy but, now Mr Kushwaha has started liking Mr Kumar who, earlier, had used a derogatory term for him,” Mr. Tejashwi Yadav said after the event. He added that Mr Kushwaha had set-off many protests against Bihar government’s deplorable educational condition “but now when question papers are being leaked and teachers appointment are not being done by the government, Mr Kushwaha chooses to look other way”. The leaders’ move seems to pre-empt Mr Kushwaha’s move to merge the party with the JD(U). Recently, State JD(U) chief Basistha Narayan Singh had said, “Mr. Kushwaha has already come to the JD(U) and now only formalities are to be done of RLSP’s merger with us”. The RLSP chief’s move is a homecoming of sorts as Mr. Kushwaha had been a close ally of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in 2005 but later parted ways and went on to become a Union minister in the NDA’s first term. He then quit the alliance and joined the RJD-Congress mahagathbandhan. However, the RLSP failed to win a single seat in the October-November 2020 Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rlsp-leaders-expel-party-chief-join-rjd/article34057750.ece
13 March 2021||GUNTUR,||Confer Bharat Ratna on Pingali: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to confer Bharat Ratna (posthumously) on Pingali Venkaiah in recognition of his efforts in designing the national flag. In a letter to Mr. Modi, the Chief Minister said, “The country has lost several decades without recognising the untiring efforts of Pingali Venkaiah, who gifted it the first design and specimen of the national flag and the flag that fills the hearts of millions of Indians with the spirit of freedom. It is in this light, I request your kind self to confer Bharat Ratna (posthumously) on Pingali Venkaiah and fulfil the aspirations of the people of Andhra Pradesh.” The government had conferred Bharat Ratna posthumously on personalities such as Bhupendra Kumar Hazarika and Nanaji Deshmukh. The Chief Minister also reminded Mr. Modi that during the National Committee meeting held on March 8, 2021, ‘Har Ghar Jhanda’ had been selected as one of the key themes during the Independence Day celebrations in 2021. Drawing the Prime Minister’s attention to the architect of the national flag, who later came to be known as ‘Jhanda Venkaiah’, the Chief Minister said that Pingali Venkaiah was born on August 2, 1876, at Bhatlapenumarru village, near Machilipatnam. Deeply influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideology, Pingali Venkaiah had decided to dedicate his life to the service of the nation and take part in the freedom movement. He later undertook a scientific study of various flags across the world and published a book titled, ‘A National Flag for India’, in which he had presented 30 designs with explanation of each one of them, the Chief Minister said. On March 31, 1921, Venkaiah had gifted his designs to Mahatma Gandhi. On July 22, 1947, the Constituent Assembly had adopted the flag, he said. The flag was identified with the spirit of free and independent India, with the colours indicating strength and courage (saffron), fertility and growth (green) and peace and tranquillity (white), he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/confer-bharat-ratna-on-pingali-cm/article34057194.ece
13 March 2021||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,||NIA files charge sheet against terror financier in Vizag Navy espionage racket||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Visakhapatnam-based espionage racket, filed a supplementary charge sheet against garments trader, Yakub Imran Giteli alias Giteli Imran, in the NIA Special Court in Vijayawada on Friday. A native of Godhra, Panchmahal, in Gujarat, Yakub Imran was reportedly in contact with Pakistani ISI agents and mediated with the Navy personnel, who were allegedly involved in the case, according to the charge sheet filed by the agency. It was alleged that the accused used to frequently visit Pakistan on the pretext of cloth business. He allegedly transferred money into the accounts of the Navy personnel for leaking highly sensitive and strategic information. In November, 2019, the Counter Intelligence Police of Intelligence Department busted the Visakhapatnam-based espionage racket, in which a few young sailors of Indian Navy were allegedly involved. With the espionage case having links to Mumbai naval base, Karwar naval base and the Visakhapatnam navy, the NIA took over the case. The agency filed a charge sheet against 14 persons, including a few sailors and civilians. During investigating, it was revealed that Yakub Imran, an active ISI operative, was in contact with Pakistani agents and raised funds for terrorist groups and their activities. Dolphin’s Nose The operation ‘Dolphin’s Nose’, carried out by Counter Intelligence Department, Vijayawada; Navy Intelligence Department and the Central Intelligence Agencies, tracked the movements of seven sailors of the Navy for many days and they were arrested in 2019. Seven sailors, three civilians and few others were arrested in the case. A few women allegedly lured the sailors on social media groups and introduced them online to a self-claimed businessman, who was a Pakistani handler. Honey trap The sailors, all recruited in 2017, were honey-trapped in September 2018. They allegedly used to reveal the locations they moved, vital submarines, names of the top-level officers and other sensitive information. They were paid through a hawala operator, a high-level source said. Police earlier arrested one Jabbar in the case, along with the sailors and investigation is under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-filed-in-espionage-case/article34057207.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bureaucrats cannot be State Election Commissioners: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday held that independent persons and not bureaucrats should be appointed State Election Commissioners. A Bench, led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman, in a judgment, said giving government employees the additional charge of State Election Commissioners is a “mockery of the Constitution”. The top court directed that the States should appoint independent persons as Election Commissioners all along the length and breadth of the country. ‘Give up post’ It said government employees holding the post of State Election Commissioners as additional charge should give up the post. The Supreme Court said its direction should be followed strictly. The independence of Election Commissions cannot be compromised at any cost, the Bench said, adding that it was “disturbing” to see government employees manning State Election Commissions as an add-on job. The judgment criticised the Goa government for giving its Law Secretary the additional charge of State Election Commissioner. “Under the constitutional mandate, it is the duty of the State to not interfere with the functioning of the State Election Commission,” the Bench said. The judgment came on an appeal against an order of the Bombay High Court which had set aside the election notification issued by the Goa State Election Commission in the municipalities of Margao, Mapusa, Mormugao, Sanguem and Quepem. The Supreme Court ordered the Goa State Election Commission to issue a notification for panchayat polls within 10 days and complete the election process by April 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bureaucrats-cannot-be-state-election-commissioners-sc/article34057282.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI summons Abhishek’s relatives||The CBI has summoned the co-brother of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his father for recording their statements on March 15 in connection with alleged illegal mining of coal in West Bengal, according to an agency official. “Ankush Arora, husband of Mr. Banerjee’s sister-in-law Menka Gambhir, and his father Pawan Arora have been summoned to join the probe,” said the official. Mr. Banerjee is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In the same case, the agency had quizzed Mr. Banerjee’s wife Rujira and Ms. Gambhir and recorded their witness statements. The CBI registered the case in November last, alleging illegal mining and theft of coal from the Kunustoria and Majora collieries of the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) by a criminal syndicate run by one Anup Majhi. Earlier, the ECL had instituted an inquiry, during which evidence indicating large-scale illegal mining and theft of coal was found. The role of certain ECL officials responsible for security in the two collieries, besides unknown Central Industrial Security Force and railway personnel, also came to light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-summons-abhisheks-relatives/article34057751.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||DMK retains many ex-Ministers, MLAs||The DMK on Friday retained most former Ministers and MLAs in its list of 173 candidates for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. It fielded president M.K. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi from the Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni seat. The DMK’s candidates will take on AIADMK candidates in 129 constituencies and BJP nominees in 14 candidates. In all, 187 candidates, including 14 of its allies, will contest on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. ‘List of victors’ As many as 13 sitting MLAs were denied renomination. Initially the party did not want to field Mr. Udhayanidhi, but it changed its decision subsequently, sources said. Mr. Stalin will seek re-election from Kolathur in Chennai while A. Vetri Azhagan, the grandson of the party’s late general secretary K. Anbazhagan, has been nominated from Villivakkam. Mr. Stalin, who released the list after paying homage at the mausoleum of his father and DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi on the Marina, described it as a list of “victors”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-retains-many-ex-ministers-mlas/article34057505.ece
13 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Information Commission penalises five officials for negligence||The Rajasthan State Information Commission has adopted a tough stance against government officials showing negligence in providing information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The Commission has imposed fines on five officials of different departments and passed adverse remarks about their conduct. The Commission has ordered that the fine amount will be recovered from the salaries of the officials. Two officials of the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department were fined Rs. 15,000 each, one official was penalised Rs. 10,000, and two officials of the Local Self Government Department were told to pay Rs. 5,000 each.  The weekly review of work by Chief Information Commissioner D.B. Gupta and penalisation orders have made an impact, ensuring compliance with the RTI Act. The Commission has laid emphasis on display of information by the departments and local bodies on their own. No response to notices State Information Commissioner Lakshman Singh slapped a fine of Rs. 15,000 on the then Village Development Officer of Sata panchayat in Barmer district for not providing information to an applicant in 2018.  The official did not respond to the Commission’s notices issued five times. The Commissioner also imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000 on the then Village Secretary of Koorna in Pali district for not providing information since 2018 and overlooking its notices. The Commission directed for providing information of 100 pages free of cost to the applicant. A similar order imposing a fine of Rs. 10,000 was passed against the Village Secretary of Bhakhri in Jodhpur district. Similarly, State Information Commissioner Narayan Bareth imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on the Secretary of Urban Improvement Trust, Kota. The then Executive Engineer of Asind municipality in Bhilwara district was also penalised Rs. 5,000 in two separate matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-information-commission-penalises-five-officials-for-negligence/article34057508.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||DMK retains many ex-Ministers, MLAs||The DMK on Friday retained most former Ministers and MLAs in its list of 173 candidates for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. It has fielded president M.K. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi in Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni. The DMK candidates will take on the AIADMK candidates in 129 constituencies and the BJP nominees in 14 candidates. In all, 187 candidates, including 14 of the allies, will contest on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. ‘List of victors’ As many as 13 sitting MLAs were denied renomination. Initially the party did not want to field Mr. Udhayanidhi, but it changed its decision subsequently, sources said. Mr. Stalin will seek re-election from Kolathur in Chennai, while A. Vetri Azhagan, the grandson of the party’s late general secretary K. Anbazhagan, has been put up in Villivakkam. Mr. Stalin, who released the list after paying homage at the mausoleum of his father and DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi on the Marina, described it as a list of “victors”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-retains-many-ex-ministers-mlas/article34057828.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Eight students in city hostel test positive||With eight students from a government-run medical and engineering hostel at Vidyapeeta testing positive for COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has declared it as a cluster. This comes close on the heels of five members of a family testing positive in Thanisandra. Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad said the first positive case was reported on March 8. Following this, the student was counselled and shifted to Victoria Hospital the same day. The BBMP officials then identified 158 primary contacts, who were tested on March 9 and 10. Of them, seven tested positive on March 12. All seven students have now been shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital in Jayanagar. Mr. Prasad said that the students, who tested negative, have been instructed to follow COVID-19 protocols and to get tested immediately if they develop any symptoms. The civic body will conduct a mandatory repeat test on students on the seventh day from the day of the first test. COVID Care Centres The BBMP is also considering reopening COVID Care Centres as a precautionary measure should the number of positive cases continue to rise. Mr. Prasad, on Friday, directed officials to start preparing the centres as not all citizens will have the facilities for home isolation. He also suggested roping in private CCC facilities, if necessary. Giridhara R. Babu, co-chairperson of BBMP COVID-19 Task Force, suggested appointing a third party for monitoring those under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-students-in-city-hostel-test-positive/article34057320.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ambani bomb scare linked to IM man||Acting on inputs from intelligence agencies, Tihar Jail authorities have recovered a smartphone from the cell where an Indian Mujahideen member, Tehseen Akhtar, is being kept. The device was found during a search operation conducted inside the high-security ward late evening on Thursday, said a senior police officer on Friday. The phone was possibly used to operate the Telegram channel run by a group identifying itself as ‘Jaish-ul-Hind’ that has claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and for the blast outside the Israeli embassy in New Delhi. “It is suspected that this phone has been used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/threats,” said Pramod Singh Kushwah, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell). The officer said that the jail authorities have handed over the phone to Delhi Police and it would be sent to a forensic lab for examination. A senior police officer confirmed that the device was recovered from the high-security ward no. 8, which houses Akhtar, arrested in 2014 and accused of being involved in a series of blasts including those in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan in 2014 ahead of a Narendra Modi rally. They will now seek a production warrant against Akhtar to unearth more details in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ambani-bomb-scare-linked-to-im-man/article34057503.ece
13 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Elders, persons with comorbidities in DK district urged to get vaccinated||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Friday urged senior citizens, who constitute about 10% of the district’s population, and persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to get COVID-19 vaccination. Speaking to reporters here, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that over 80% of the 741 people who have died of COVID-19 in the district were aged above 45 and had comorbidities. As such, it is always advisable for people in these two categories to undergo vaccination, he said, adding that no adverse effects have been reported in the State. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy said vaccination was being provided free of cost at 66 primary health centres (100 per day), 10 urban health centres (100), four taluk hospitals (200), six community health centres (150), and at the Government Wenlock Hospital (300). Besides, vaccination is also available at eight medical college hospitals (up to 500 a day) and Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka-empanelled hospitals on payment of Rs. 250. There is no rush at all these centres and people can either register beforehand or walk in directly to get inoculated, Dr. Bairy said. To a question, Dr. Rajendra and Dr. Bairy said the vaccine would be effective up to six months from the date of getting the second dose. As many as 7,346 persons aged above 60 and 913 persons aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities had got vaccine till Thursday. As many as 33,887 healthcare workers and 20,374 frontline workers have got the first dose of vaccine. Dr. Rajendra said those who got the first dose could get the second dose anywhere in the country on production of the vaccine certificate/reference number.  Awareness campaign  The administration has planned a massive campaign to create awareness about vaccination involving religious heads and leaders, asking them to get vaccinated so as to encourage others to follow the suit. ASHAs as well as booth-level officers will be roped in to encourage targeted persons to get vaccinated. As inoculation has to be done under supervision, residents of old-age/destitute homes could be ferried to the nearest vaccination site through school buses to be administered the vaccine, Dr. Rajendra said. The DC said testing would be doubled from the present 2,000 in view of the increasing cases in the neighbouring States. The district administration, which had released lab technicians and data entry operators, plans to hire them again to speed up testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elders-persons-with-comorbidities-in-dk-district-urged-to-get-vaccinated/article34057785.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ambani bomb scare linked to IM man||Acting on inputs from intelligence agencies, Tihar Jail authorities have recovered a smartphone from the cell where an Indian Mujahideen member, Tehseen Akhtar, is being kept. The device was found during a search operation conducted inside the high-security ward late evening on Thursday, said a senior police officer on Friday. The phone was possibly used to operate the Telegram channel run by a group identifying itself as ‘Jaish-ul-Hind’ that has claimed the responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and for the blast outside the Israeli embassy in New Delhi. “It is suspected that this phone has been used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/threats,” said Pramod Singh Kushwah, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell). The officer said that the jail authorities have handed over the phone to Delhi Police and it would be sent to a forensic lab for examination. A senior police officer confirmed that the device was recovered from the high-security ward no. 8, which houses Akhtar, arrested in 2014 and accused of being involved in a series of blasts including those in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan in 2014 ahead of a Narendra Modi rally. They will now seek a production warrant against Akhtar to unearth more details in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ambani-bomb-scare-linked-to-im-man/article34057829.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teach BJP a lesson, farm unions tell Bengal voters||Farm union leaders under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) kicked off election campaigning in West Bengal on Friday with a mahapanchayat in Kolkata. They appealed to the State’s farmers to “teach a lesson” to the BJP by voting against it. “We are not asking you to support any particular party. We are only appealing to the people of Bengal to vote against the BJP. Vote for any other party,” said veteran Punjab farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, speaking at a press conference in Kolkata before the mahapanchayat. He alleged that the BJP-led Central government’s policy would only benefit corporates, not farmers. “We have been on Delhi’s borders for 105 days and protested against the three [farm reform] laws in Punjab before that. Now we are coming to you,” said the veteran Punjab leader. Apart from Friday’s mahapanchayat, further gatherings will be held over the weekend in Mayo Road, Nandigram, Singur and Asansol. “We are not here to directly intervene in the elections. We are only saying, please teach the BJP a lesson,” said Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav. The SKM issued an open letter to farmers in all four poll-bound States as well as the Union Territory of Puducherry asking them to teach the BJP “not to pit itself against farmers of India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teach-bjp-a-lesson-farm-unions-tell-bengal-voters/article34057509.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases rising in GHMC limits||COVID-19 positive cases in the GHMC area are increasing steadily over the past one week although the daily count of the infectious virus cases in the State continues to be below 200. A total of 181 new positive cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 8 pm on Thursday. One more COVID death was reported on Thursday taking the total deaths to 1,650 till date. With 163 COVID patients declared recovered on Thursday taking the total recoveries to 2,97,195 out of the 3,00,717 positive cases reported in the State so far. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health, the case fatality rate and recovery rate continues to be around 0.54% and 98.82%, respectively, against 1.4% and 96.8%, respectively, at the national level. Active cases The active cases in the State as on Thursday were 1,872 including 733 in home and institutional isolation and 1,139 undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals. Going by the daily count of COVID positive cases being reported from the GHMC limits, the count is rising steadily as they reached 44 on Thursday from twenty-eight cases reported on March 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-rising-in-ghmc-limits/article34057637.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Campaign ends for Council elections||The canvassing for elections to graduates constituencies of Legislative Council representing two clusters of districts, Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahbubnagar and Khammam - Warangal - Nalgonda, came to an end on Friday amid fierce charges and counter charges by contesting parties and independents. As many as 93 candidates are in the fray for Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahbubnagar and 71 in Khammam - Warangal - Nalgonda which has resulted in printing of jumbo size ballot papers. The number of voters in both constituencies also far exceeded their average strength in Assembly constituencies, making it a prestigious fight. The election with graduate voters will be held in 43 Assembly constituencies of Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahbubnagar and 33 in Khammam - Warangal - Nalgonda. The BJP and TRS had gone all out to retain their seats in the two seats respectively by focussing mainly on issues confronting the educated youth and intelligentsia. The TRS fielded former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani Devi who is herself an educationist. The party kicked off a furore in political circles by claiming that the government had created 1.32 lakh jobs in its seven-year rule. This led to challenges by rival parties, so much so the BJP candidate N. Ramchander Rao invited TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao for a debate on Osmania University campus which never took place. As the rival parties cried foul about the figures, Mr. Rao recalled how the Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the bluff promising creation of two crore jobs every year. The TRS also cornered the BJP on withdrawal of Information Technology Investment Region from Hyderabad and the privatisation plans of PSUs, including Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The spiralling petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices were also highlighted by the party in the campaign. The contest in both constituencies assumed significance due to the presence of a large number of independents. Apart from TRS and BJP, the Congress, Left and Prof Kodandaram led Telangana Jana Samiti parties are also contesting. The TRS carried out an intensive campaign appointing an in-charge for every 100 voters. All its Ministers and MLAs carried out whirlwind tours in their assigned segments as they held meetings with voters in function halls. Mr. Rama Rao and another Minsiter T. Harish Rao regularly monitored the work of in-charges by teleconferences. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao held a meeting with employees unions to address their grievances. A leak that the government will give a 29% fitment in the pay scales of employees was a comforting news to them. However, a Minister V. Srinivas Goud rubbed the voters on the wrong side saying “God will not forgive you if you don’t vote for TRS”. The TRS leaders immediately got down to trouble shooting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaign-ends-for-legislative-council-polls/article34057639.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Novavax reports 96.4% efficacy on original virus||Novavax, a U.S.-based biotechnology company developing a recombinant vaccine for COVID-19, announced a final efficacy of 96.4% against mild, moderate and severe disease caused by the original SARS-CoV-2 strain in a pivotal Phase-3 trial in the U.K. In January, the company reported that its vaccine had proved to have 89% efficacy in preventing infection in some trial volunteers in the U.K. The Serum Institute of India has an agreement with Novavax to manufacture a substantial volume of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/novavax-reports-964-efficacy-on-original-virus/article34057273.ece
13 March 2021||KAKINADA,||Former TDP MLA arrested in his brother-in-law death case||Former Telugu Desam Party MLA Nallamilli Ramakrishna Reddy was arrested by the Ramachandrapuram divisional police here on Friday in connection with the suspicious death of his brother-in-law Sattiraju Reddy in January. Reddy had represented Anaparthy Assembly constituency in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. Ramachandrapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police P. Balachandra Reddy said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy was arrested based on the forensic report that certified “poison” as the reason for Mr. Sattiraju’s death. The wife of the deceased, Ramadevi, had lodged a police complaint alleging that her husband’s death was “suspicious”. A case had been registered against Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy and two elderly persons on the charges of “abetment to suicide,” and Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy had been sent to judicial custody. The elderly persons, prime accused in the case, were given station bail on Friday. The probe is on, Mr. Balachandra Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-tdp-mla-held-for-death-of-brother-in-law/article34057199.ece
13 March 2021||mumbai,||HC frowns on delay in Dabholkar, Pansare case||The Bombay High Court on Friday pointed out that rationalists Narendra Dabholkar Govind Pansare were shot dead in 2013 and 2015 respectively and asked the investigating agencies how many more years it would take for them to complete the probe. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by the members of the Pansare and Dabholkar families. The Central Bureau of Investigation’s special investigation team is investigating the Dabholkar murder, and the State Crime Investigation Department (CID) is probing the Pansare murder. The Bench said, “In sensitive cases like these, citizens deserve to know when the investigation will be over.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-frowns-on-delay-in-dabholkar-pansare-case/article34057810.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China to continue LAC talks||India and China will hold another round of talks between military commanders “as soon as possible” to continue the disengagement process in friction areas along the Line of Actual Control. This was agreed to on Friday as officials from both sides virtually held the 21st meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). The talks led by senior Foreign Ministry officials, along with the parallel military-level talks between Corps Commanders, have been the two key channels for both sides to take forward disengagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-to-continue-lac-talks/article34057504.ece
13 March 2021||Special Correspondent Pune,||MPSC reverses stand, exam on March 21||A day after protests over the State government’s decision to postpone the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams due to rising COVID-19 cases, the commission on Friday announced March 21 as the new date. An MPSC circular clarified that the exam centres and hall tickets issued for the March 14 exam would be valid for the new date. It further said that the Maharashtra State Engineering Services pre-examination and the Maharashtra Subordinate Services’ non-gazetted Group-B combined recruitment exam, slated for March 27 and April 11, would proceed as scheduled. On Thursday, angry protests and sit-ins staged by aspirants were witnessed across the State, especially in Pune and other cities prompting Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to hastily assure students that the commission would announce the fresh dates. The protests were compounded by the fact that the exams had been postponed at least four times in the past year. While anxious students welcomed the fact that the Chief Minister had kept his promise, several expressed concern over the arrangements in districts like Nagpur which is under a lockdown. Others also said that the new schedule clashed with that of the Airport Authority of India (AAI) exam, also slated for the same day, leaving aspirants with a choice to attempt only one of the exams, they said. Nevertheless, the new exam schedule has come as a relief to harried students, most of whom hail from the State’s rural hinterland and are in dire financial straits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mpsc-reverses-stand-exam-on-march-21/article34057809.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China to continue LAC talks||India and China will hold another round of talks between military commanders “as soon as possible” to continue the disengagement process in friction areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was agreed to on Friday as officials from both sides virtually held the 21st meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs. The talks led by senior Foreign Ministry officials, along with the parallel military-level talks between Corps Commanders, have been the two key channels for both sides to take forward disengagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-to-continue-lac-talks/article34057830.ece
13 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Daily cap at Sabarimala raised to 10,000||Taking note of a sharp dip in pilgrim footfall, the authorities have revised upwards the daily limit in the number of pilgrims to Sabarimala to 10,000. High Court directive According to Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) president N. Vasu, the plan to raise the daily limit is in line with the latest order by the High Court of Kerala. “The court has permitted us to raise the cap to 10,000 while continuing with the virtual queue system as part of a crowd-control measure. At the same time, only those with valid COVID-19 certificates will be permitted entry to the temple,” the TDB president said. Earlier, the authorities had noticed a severe underutilisation of the permitted number of 5,000 pilgrims a day. “Though the whole queue slots are booked within hours of the site being opened, only about half of those with booking are turning up at the temple. This raises suspicion of an organised attempt to sabotage the Sabarimala pilgrimage,” Mr. Vasu said. The other day, Sabarimala Special Commissioner M. Manoj too had submitted a report in this regard to the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-cap-at-sabarimala-raised-to-10000/article34057682.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Retail inflation at three-month high of 5.03%||Retail inflation quickened to a three-month high of 5.03% in February, from 4.06% in January, spurred by higher food and fuel prices. Food price inflation rose to 3.87% last month, from 1.96% in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retail-inflation-at-three-month-high-of-503/article34057274.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HVN bungalow gets a shot at restoration||The HVN bungalow, built in 1915 by H.V. Nanjundaiah, the founder-president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat, has been taken up for restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hvn-bungalow-gets-a-shot-at-restoration/article34057323.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Comment by DVS reignites talk about leadership issue||Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda seems to have reignited the leadership change debate, with his wish that Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan should “lose the deputy tag soon”. “He will soon be busy with work that will give him little free time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/comment-by-dvs-reignites-talk-about-leadership-issue/article34057324.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC lays down norms for seizure of gadgets||The High Court laid down detailed guidelines to be followed by the police while handling gadgets and email accounts in search and seizure operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-lays-down-norms-for-seizure-of-gadgets/article34057321.ece
13 March 2021||Patna,||35 RLSP leaders join RJD, call it ‘merger’||As many as 35 Rashtriya Lok Samata Party leaders, including the State president (in-charge), on Friday joined the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal and declared it a ‘merger’. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha is likely to join the ruling JD(U) on March 14 or 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/35-rlsp-leaders-join-rjd-call-it-merger/article34057507.ece
13 March 2021||Kolkata,||BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari files nomination||BJP candidate for the Nandigram Assembly seat Suvendu Adhikari on Friday filed his nomination papers at the office of the sub-divisional officer Haldia. Other nominees ,including Haldia MLA Tapasi Mondal, also filed their papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-suvendu-adhikari-files-nomination/article34057753.ece
13 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Konkani academy award winners announced||Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy announced its honorary award and book award for 2020 for three persons and three books each on Friday. It has chosen Aruna Subrao Ubhayakar of Kumta (literature), Puttur Panduranga Nayak (arts), and Lakshmi Krishna Siddi of Yellapura (folklore) for itshonorary award, which carriesa purse of Rs. 50,000, a memento, a citation, and a shawl. The date of the award ceremony is not finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/konkani-academy-award-winners-announced/article34057786.ece
13 March 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra records nearly 16,000 new cases||Maharashtra reported a new high of 15, 817 COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing its active case tally to 1,10,485. The toll rose to 52,723, with 56 deaths. Pune recorded a single-day high of over 3,100 cases, while Mumbai city reported 1,647 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-nearly-16000-new-cases/article34057811.ece
13 March 2021||Patna,||35 RLSP leaders join RJD, call it ‘merger’||Ahead of Rashtriya Lok Samata Party chief Upendra Kushwaha’s likely move to the ruling JD(U) on March 14 or 15, as many as 35 of his party leaders, including the State president (in-charge), on Friday joined the Rashtriya Janata Dal, and declared a merger with the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/35-rlsp-leaders-join-rjd-call-it-merger/article34057831.ece
13 March 2021||Hubballi,||Two arrested for killing boy in Haveri||In an incident that shows the adverse impact of crime serials on TV, two brothers, including a minor, hatched a conspiracy to kidnap a 11-year-old boy for ransom but ended up killing him in Haveri district. The deceased has been identified as Tejasgouda Jagadish Mallikeri, son of Jagadish Mallikeri, a resident of Ashwini Nagar The police have arrested one person and his 17-year-old brother on the charges of killing the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-arrested-for-killing-boy-in-haveri/article34057611.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Kamal Haasan to contest from Coimbatore South||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan announced on Friday that he will contest the Assembly election from the Coimbatore South seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kamal-haasan-to-contest-from-coimbatore-south/article34057391.ece
13 March 2021||Chennai,||T.N. adds 670 COVID-19 cases to its tally||Tamil Nadu logged 670 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing the caseload to just above 8.58 lakh, while four more fatalities took the toll to 12,539, the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-adds-670-covid-19-cases-to-its-tally/article34057392.ece
13 March 2021||KOCHI,||LDF leaders likely to face trial||The Kerala High Court has upheld a trial court order rejecting the plea for withdrawal of prosecution against a group of MLAs for disrupting the Assembly proceedings on March 13, 2015, the day the State Budget was presented. The Left Democratic Front legislators, who were in the Opposition then, had objected to the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani presenting the Budget, citing the corruption charges faced by him. As tension escalated, some legislators climbed on the dais of the Speaker and damaged his chair, computer, mike and emergency lamp, causing a loss of Rs. 2.2 lakh to the exchequer. A case was booked against the MLAs by the United Democratic Front (UDF) government under the Prevention of Destruction of Public Property Act and the Indian Penal Code. Later, an application for the withdrawal of prosecution was filed before the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Thiruvananthapuram, which was rejected. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and some legislators filed criminal revision petitions before the High Court against the order of the CJM. Upholding the decision of the CJM, Justice V.G. Arun Kumar said the trial court rejected the petition for valid and sustainable reasons. Though the prerogative to request withdrawal of prosecution was vested with the public prosecutor, such “discretion should be exercised free of extraneous considerations or influences and should be based on cogent and convincing reasons,” the court said. ‘Prestige of House’ The court refused to accept the contention of the Additional Advocate General that the withdrawal of prosecution will advance the interest of public justice by ensuring that the prestige of the Assembly is not lowered in the eyes of the citizens. “It is for the elected representatives to uphold the prestige of the House and to face the consequences for the violations, if any are committed,” the court noted. Legislative privilege On the question of legislative privilege for the members of the Assembly, the court held that such privileges and immunities are provided to ensure smooth functioning of the House by guaranteeing absolute freedom to the members to speak and to participate in deliberations. In the present case, the allegation was that the functioning of the Assembly was disrupted by the members by trespassing on the Speaker’s dais and committing mischief, the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ldf-mlas-may-have-to-face-trial/article34057197.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||India and China to continue LAC talks||India and China will hold another round of talks between military commanders “as soon as possible” to continue the disengagement process in friction areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was agreed to on Friday as officials from both sides virtually held the 21st meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). The talks led by senior Foreign Ministry officials, along with the parallel military-level talks between Corps Commanders, have been the two key channels for both sides to take forward disengagement, with Friday’s meeting of a mechanism that has in the past convened only twice a year, the seventh held since the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley last year. The two sides reviewed the situation along the LAC and “had in-depth discussions on the remaining issues”, a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said, adding that both “agreed that the completion of the disengagement in North and South Bank of the Pangong lake provided a good basis for the two sides to work towards early resolution of these remaining issues.” A 11th round of talks between Corps Commanders would be held “as soon as possible to further ease the situation on the ground and jointly safeguard the hard-won peace and stability in the border areas”, it said. At the 10th round on February 20, both commanders noted “the disengagement in the Pangong lake area was a significant step forward and it provided a good basis for the resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC”. Since the meeting, there has been no official word so far on the progress of disengagement in the Gogra-Hot Springs area and in Demchok. Long-running tensions There are also long-running tensions involving the blocking of patrols in the Depsang plains, which Indian officials have said pre-dated the current crisis. The MEA said both sides agreed to “continue their dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest”, which “would enable two sides to look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” Both also agreed that “in the interim, two sides should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident.” A statement from China’s Foreign Ministry said both sides “agreed to maintain close communication and dialogue through both the diplomatic and military channels” and to hold the 11th round of the commanders meeting “at an early date so that two sides could work towards complete disengagement from the remaining friction areas”. “The two sides spoke highly of the results of the disengagement between the front line troops of the two countries in region around Pangong Tso lake area and they had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on promoting the settlement of other issues in border area,” the statement said, adding that “the two countries agreed to keep the China-India border situation under control and avoid any repeat of border clashes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-china-to-continue-lac-talks/article34057213.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra tops tally of daily fatalities||India has reported 117 new COVID-19 deaths in the 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Friday, with six States accounting for 82.91% of them. Maharashtra reported the highest number of casualties (57), while Punjab followed with 18 deaths and Kerala 13, a release issued by the Health Ministry said on Friday. Along with the highest casualties, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of daily new COVID-19 cases at 14,317 (61.48% of the daily new cases). It is followed by Kerala with 2,133 cases while Punjab reported 1,305. “Some States in the country have been reporting a very high number of daily new COVID cases with Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu cumulatively accounting for 85.6% of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours. India has reported 23,285 new cases in the last 24 hours,” the Ministry said. It added that more than 1.09 crore (1,09,53,303) people have recovered so far and in the 24 hours alone, 15,157 patients have recovered and been discharged. India’s total active caseload has reached 1,97,237 and five States cumulatively account for 82.96% of the total active cases in the country. Two States — Maharashtra and Kerala — account for 71.69% of India’s total active cases. Central teams sent The Health Ministry has said that it is actively engaging with all State and UT governments, especially those showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases. “We are regularly reviewing the status of COVID containment and public health measures with the States/UTs. Recently, the Centre rushed high level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in COVID-19 control and containment measures in view of the recent spike in cases in these States,” said the Ministry. The Centre had earlier also deputed high-level teams to Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in COVID-19 cases. “The reports of Central Teams are shared with the States for further follow up action. The follow up and compliance on part of States is monitored by the Health Ministry,” said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-tops-tally-of-daily-fatalities/article34057227.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||DMK retains most of former Ministers, MLAs||The DMK on Friday retained most former Ministers and MLAs in its list of 173 candidates for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. It has fielded president M.K. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi in Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni. The DMK candidates will take on the AIADMK candidates in 129 constituencies and the BJP nominees in 14 candidates. In all, 187 candidates, including 14 of the allies, will contest on the DMK’s ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. As many as 13 sitting MLAs were denied renomination. Initially the party did not want to field Mr. Udhayanidhi, but it changed its decision subsequently, sources said. Mr. Stalin will seek re-election from Kolathur in Chennai, while A. Vetri Azhagan, the grandson of the party’s late general secretary K. Anbazhagan, has been put up in Villivakkam. Mr. Stalin, who released the list after paying homage at the mausoleum of his father and DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi on the Marina, described it as a list of “victors”. He said the DMK-led alliance was not a political alliance; nor was it created for elections. “It is an alliance of principle,” he said. He said the AIADMK government had destroyed the State in the last 10 years and Tamil Nadu would see a new dawn. “We enter the fray with a new confidence and faith,” he said. While the party fielded little-known T. Sampath Kumar to take on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Edappadi in Salem district, it nominated local heavyweight Thanga Tamilselvan in Bodinayakkanur, from where Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam is seeking re-election. Mr. Tamilselvan, a former AIADMK legislator, switched over to the DMK after losing in the last Lok Sabha election as an AMMK nominee in Theni. Likewise, Karur will see a clash between Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar and his predecessor in the Ministry Senthil Balaji. Mr. Balaji, too, was in the AIADMK and the AMMK but moved in time to the DMK to successfully contest in the Aravakurichi by-election in 2019. There are 12 women, nine doctors, 32 advocates, three Muslims and five Christians in the list. N. Ezhilan, son of M. Naganathan, former Vice-Chairman of the State Planning Commission, is the candidate for Thousand Lights. Former Minister U. Mathivanan could not get nomination since Kilvelur, from where he was elected last time, has gone to the CPI(M). T.P.M. Mohideen Khan and S. N. M Ubayadullah are the two other former Ministers who were not accommodated. Suba Thangavelan, another former Minister, did not opt for nomination, party sources said. Prominent name Another prominent name out of the list was the veteran from the Kongu region and former Minister, Pongalur N. Palanisamy. Mr. Palanisamy told The Hindu that he chose not to contest because he wanted to give youngsters a chance and he had contested enough elections since 1971. In Salem, the DMK would contest from 10 out of the 11 constituencies. A.K. Tharun, a doctor and son-in-law of late leader Veerapandi S. Arumugham, has been fielded in Veerapandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dmk-retains-many-ex-ministers-mlas/article34057326.ece
13 March 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata discharged from hospital||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was on Friday discharged from SSKM Hospital where she was admitted on Wednesday after suffering a leg injury in Nandigram. Ms. Banerjee came out of the Woodburn ward on a wheelchair and was taken to her Kalighat residence. A six-member medical board that has been treating her said they had suggested that she should be under observation for the next 48 hours. “We discharged her because of her repeated requests…With certain restrictions, she will be able to move,” a member of the board told journalists. “The medical board met today and examined her condition. She is responding well to treatment and the improvement has been quite satisfactory. The injury was examined, and the haematoma size has considerably diminished. The ankle injury also showed signs of improvement,” the doctor said. Doctors said new plaster slabs were put on her and members of the medical board had explained to her the precautions and restrictions. A number of visitors, including social activists Medha Patkar and Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court T.B. Radhakrishnan met the Chief Minister at the hospital. On Thursday, Ms. Banerjee said “she will be back in her field in two to three days”. The Trinamool Congress had to cancel the release of its manifesto on March 11 and reschedule it on March 14. The Chief Minister is likely to join the poll campaign from March 15. The first phase of polls is scheduled on March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-discharged-from-hospital/article34057215.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Stop influx from Myanmar: Centre||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to the Chief Secretaries of Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh to “take appropriate action as per law to check illegal influx from Myanmar into India.” The directive comes weeks after the military coup and subsequent crackdown in the neighbouring country led to several persons crossing over into India. The Ministry said the State governments had no powers to grant “refugee status to any foreigner” and India is not a signatory to the United Nations Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol. More than a dozen people including policemen and women from Myanmar have fled to Mizoram fearing a military crackdown. The Tatmadaw, or Myanmar military, had taken over the country after a coup on February 1. India and Myanmar share 1,643-km border and people on either side have familial ties. Large-scale flow In a letter dated March 10 to the four States and Assam Rifles, the Ministry said, “As you are aware, there is a probability of large-scale illegal influx into Indian territory through IMB (India-Myanmar border) due to current internal situation in Myanmar. In this regard, the MHA has already issued an advisory Dated 25.02.2021 to Chief Secretaries of Mizoram, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh and also to Border Guarding Force(BGF) along IMB (Assam Rifles) to stay, alert and take appropriate action to prevent a possible influx into Indian territory.” The letter stated that it has been reported that “illegal influx from Myanmar has started.” It recalled the guidelines addressed to all States on August 8, 2017 “wherein instructions were issued to sensitize all law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking prompt steps in identifying the-illegal migrants and initiate the deportation processes expeditiously and without delay.” It also mentioned another set of guidelines to States sent on February 28, 2018 “advising them to sensitize the law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking appropriate prompt steps for identifying illegal migrants, their restrictions to specific locations as per provisions of law, capturing their biographic and biometric particulars, cancellation of fake Indian documents and legal proceedings including initiation of deportation proceedings as per provisions of law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-illegal-influx-from-myanmar/article34057237.ece
13 March 2021||Madurai,||Diminishing demand for ‘duplicates’ of Tamil Nadu political leaders||B. Ramachandran, a 52-year-old resident of Madurai, has more similarities with former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu M.G. Ramachandran than just his name. This stage artiste, who has been dressing up like the AIADMK founder since 1987, has taken part in hundreds of political campaigns, rallies and victory functions enthralling the crowds. He even follows a strict diet and exercise routine to ensure that he always looks like the former Chief Minister. But with a younger, more tech-savvy electorate today, the rewards of being a spitting image are dwindling. “Lookalike artistes like me dress up as eminent political leaders and take part in election campaigns. The political parties use us to canvass voters. But no political party has taken measures to improve our livelihoods, which are at stake,” he says. The lookalikes of political leaders, who usually perform at temple festivals, stage shows and political rallies, say that offers have drastically reduced over the past five years. Many of them who are solely dependent on performing as lookalikes for their livelihoods are in dire straits. Restrictive order J.N. Jamaludeen, a lookalike of former Chief Minister and DMK leader M. Karunanidhi, says artistes had regular bookings during temple festivals and political rallies until 2005. “The public used to treat us like real political leaders. However, business has been dull since 2005,” he says. The artistes say they are often denied permission to perform at temple festivals following a court order denying permission for “obscene or vulgar” dance and song events ( aadal-paadal ) during temple festivals. “It is unfair to deny permission to all the artistes. There is no vulgarity or obscenity in the performances of lookalike artistes. In fact, it it was primarily in Madurai that lookalike artistes were nurtured in the past,” says K.S. Basha Seth, secretary of Then Mavatta Medai Nadana Nattiya Kalaignargal Sangam, a group of stage artistes. The pandemic also affected the artistes. They had no source of income during the lockdown, says A. Hema, a lookalike of former Chief Minister and AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa. “Even though polling dates have been announced, we have not received any offers yet,” she says. Due to unstable incomes, many artistes have taken up other jobs to support their families, says M. Bhuvana, who leads the women’s wing of the Artists’ Association. For instance, B. Yakub, who dresses up like actor and politician Kamal Hassan, sells tender coconut to support his four children. M. Musthafa, a member of the Artistes’ Association, says there are around two lakh stage artistes across the State, who constitute a significant share of the vote bank. “Political parties make use of us before the elections. So, the party that comes to power must also take steps to revive the livelihoods of the artistes,” he says. “Although the vocation has not been highly remunerative, we continue performing because of the passion for the art form,” says Sevvaalai, an artiste.  Parties use us to canvass voters. But no political party has taken measures to improve our livelihood B. Ramachandran Artiste and lookalike of MGR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diminishing-demand-for-duplicates-of-tamil-nadu-political-leaders/article34057166.ece
13 March 2021||Kochi,||Bring down benzene emission at fuel outlets, says panel||A joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to study air pollution in the State has recommended the installation of vapour recovery system at fuelling stations and retrofitting of diesel vehicles with particulate filters to improve air quality. The report submitted before the Southern Bench of the tribunal pointed out that petrol refuelling stations were a major source of benzene emissions, volatile organic compounds, and particulate matter 2.5 concentration. “Therefore, installation of vapour recovery system is an important step in improving air quality. This is to be implemented in coordination with the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization [PESO] shortly,” it said. The joint committee comprises officials of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Central and State Pollution Control Boards, and the CSIR-National Environment Engineering Research Institute, Chennai. The committee was directed to assess the ambient air quality levels in the State, especially in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kochi, Alappuzha, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Kasaragod, and Kannur. The committee recommended stringent action against industrial units that do not comply with emission standards. The Pollution Control Board had already issued circulars suggesting retrofitting of emission control devices of generators and replacing diesel generators by gas-based generators. Other recommendations include promoting battery-operated vehicles, ban on old diesel vehicles in a phased manner, greening of open areas, and creation of green buffers along traffic corridors. The short-term measures recommended include strict action against visibly polluting vehicles (to be initiated by the Motor Vehicles Department), introduction of wet / mechanised vacuum sweeping of roads, controlling dust pollution at construction sites, and ensuring transport of construction materials in covered vehicles. The tribunal has asked the committee to assess the air quality in the post-pandemic phase to study the scenario when activities are expected to peak. The committee has said that the study could be held in June, anticipating that educational institutions may reopen, and public transport will return to normal.  A report points out that petrol refuelling stations are a major source of benzene emissions and volatile organic compounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bring-down-benzene-emission-at-fuel-outlets-says-panel/article34057204.ece
13 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Modi flags off padyatra to commemorate salt march||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday flagged off the foot march to re-enact the historic Mahatma Gandhi-led Salt March, while launching the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, the government’s initiative to mark 75 years of India’s Independence. The padyatra is being undertaken by 81 persons on April 5. The march from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Dandi in Navsari district, a distance of 386 km, will take them 25 days. It will mark the 91st anniversary of the historic march against the tax on salt imposed by the British in India. Prime Minister Modi said the 75th anniversary celebrations would continue till August 15, 2023. He reiterated the five themes of the celebrations, Freedom Struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75 and Resolves at 75, as the guiding force for moving forward, keeping dreams and duties as the inspiration. At the flagging off ceremony, Mr. Modi said salt was in fact a symbol. Salt was never valued on the basis of mere cost. For Indians, salt represented honesty, trust, loyalty, labour, equality and self reliance. At that time, salt was a symbol of India’s self-reliance. Along with the values of India, the British had also hurt this self-reliance. People of India then had to depend on salt coming from England. He said Gandhiji understood this chronic pain of the country, understood the pulse of the people and turned that into a movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-flags-off-padyatra-to-commemorate-salt-march/article34057232.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maths, physics no longer must for engineering admissions||Prospective engineering students will not have to mandatorily study maths and physics in Class 12, according to new norms released by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for 2021-22. Council Chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe defended the changes on Friday, saying they are in line with the multi-disciplinary approach of the new National Education Policy. According to the AICTE’s approval process handbook for 2021-22, students only need to score 45% in any three subjects from a list of 14 in order to qualify. The diverse list includes physics, mathematics, chemistry, computer science, electronics, information technology, biology, informatics practices, biotechnology, agriculture, technical vocational subject, engineering graphics, business studies and entrepreneurship. “The universities will offer suitable bridge courses such as mathematics, physics, engineering drawing, etc for the students coming from diverse backgrounds to achieve [the] desired learning outcome of the programme,” said the handbook. “The new NEP is all about breaking silos and promoting multi-disciplinarity. We are creating flexibility. We must also recognise the wide range of engineering programmes. We have some 240-odd specialisations and not all of them have the same requirements,” Dr. Sahasrabudhe told The Hindu . Dr. Sahasrabudhe agreed that physics, chemistry and maths would remain the bedrock of most engineering courses, but argued that students could still take bridge courses in the first year of a B.E. programme. “They may bring expertise from other areas which could also be valuable,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maths-physics-no-longer-must-for-engineering-admissions/article34057266.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Kendra Sahitya Akademi award for Moily||Congress leader and writer M. Veerappa Moily has bagged the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award-2020 for Kannada, for his epic poem Sri Bahubali Ahimsadigvijayam on the life of Bahubali and the history of Shravanabelagola in the State. Meanwhile, K.S. Mahadevaswamy, a teacher by profession, writing under his pen name Swamy Ponnachi, has been awarded the Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar-2020 for his debut short story collection Dhoopada Makkalu and H.S. Byakod has been awarded the Bal Sahitya Puraskar-2020 for his novel Nanoo Ambedkar . The awards were announced on Friday evening. Mr. Moily, a former Chief Minister of Karnataka, is a well-known writer in Kannada. His five-part epic poem Ramayana Mahanveshanam was awarded Saraswati Samman in 2015. Sri Bahubali Ahimsadigvijayam was about “ahimsa and renunciation in today’s violent times”, Dr. Moily said. History of Shravanabelagola “The seer at Shravanabelagola said he wished Gomateshwara also receives ‘kavyabhisheka’ on the occasion of Mahamastakabhisheka, prompting me to write this poem. Apart from the story on Bahubali, the poem also narrates the history of Shravanabelagola -- how the statue of Gomateshwara was built and Chandragupta Maurya came and spent his last days atop the hill,” he said, expressing happiness that the poem had bagged the award. The epic poem was released in 2018 on the occasion of Mahamastakabhisheka for Gomateshwara at Shravanabelagola. Mr. Mahadevaswamy also expressed happiness on getting the award. “The story Dhoopada Makkalu has garnered much praise from many. But I had never expected to be awarded the Yuva Puraskar. I am happy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kendra-sahitya-akademi-award-for-veerappa-moily/article34057329.ece
13 March 2021||Kozhikode,||CPI(M) bid to douse Kuttiyadi protests||After its supporters raised a banner of revolt, the CPI(M) has begun grass-roots-level campaign in Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode district to assuage the feelings of local leaders over the decision to hand over the Assembly constituency to the Kerala Congress (M) under a seat-sharing pact in the Left Democratic Front. District-level leaders held different rounds of meetings at the local committees of the party attached to the Kunnumal and Vadakara area committees on Friday. CPI(M) district secretary P. Mohanan and central committee member Elamaram Kareem participated in the meetings at Kunnumal and Vadakara respectively. No disciplinary action The meetings decided not to take disciplinary action against those members of the party or affiliated organisations who had organised the protests in Kuttiyadi town on Wednesday. Hundreds of party workers, including women, had taken part in the protests. Rally on Sunday The district committee plans to hold a rally at Kuttiyadi on Sunday to explain the position of the party in handing over its traditional seat to its nascent partner. Meanwhile, CPI(M) central committee member M.V. Govindan termed the protests at Kuttiyadi a “wrong approach”. The Kuttiyadi seat offered to the KC(M) was only a compromise as part of the expansion of the Left coalition, he said, adding that the decision endorsed by the CPI(M) leadership would not be reviewed. He stressed that the CPI(M) was not a party to withdraw a candidate after seeing a protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-bid-to-douse-kuttiyadi-protests/article34057700.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Explain action on rally organisers: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to clarify if the penal provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020 applied to organisers of the Panchamashali rally held in Bengaluru city on February 21 and if any officer had been authorised to compound offences allegedly committed under the Act. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, passed the order after noticing inconsistency in taking action against the organisers of the rally for violating COVID-19 norms of wearing mask and maintaining social distancing during the rally. The Bench noticed that the jurisdictional police had issued a notice asking the president of the Akhila Bharatha Lingayat Panchamashali Mahasabha to pay Rs. 10,000 as fine for violating COVID-19 norms despite specific condition imposed for maintaining the norms in the permission given for the rally. However, the Bench pointed out that a person on behalf of the president of the mahasabha had paid Rs. 10,000 to the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike. Referring to provisions of the Act, the Bench noted that provisions contemplated prosecution of those who violated the norms; and the offences could be compounded either before or after institution of prosecution by such officer authorised by the government, on payment of such amount as may be notified by the government. Following these observations, the Bench wanted to know from the government if any officer had been appointed for compounding the offence, as in the case of Panchamashali rally the Station House Officer of Sadashivanagar police station had issued notice to the president of the mahasabha and a person representing the president paid fine to the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explain-action-on-rally-organisers-hc/article34057192.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Three journalists quizzed in CD case||Hours after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed to probe the “CD scandal” connected to former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, sleuths moved swiftly and questioned four persons, including three journalists from three Kannada news channels. No arrests have been made yet, as there has been no FIR registered yet, sources said. Activist Dinesh Kallahalli had lodged a complaint with Cubbon Park police, submitting a video allegedly showing intimate moments of Mr. Jarkiholi with a woman whom he had promised a job. But he claimed he did not know the identity of the woman, and also refused to disclose the source of the video. Investigations led the police to Naresh Gowda, hailing from Sira and residing in the city, as a possible source of the video to Dinesh Kallahalli. He is being questioned. Meanwhile, cops have also questioned three journalists, who are suspected to have had the possession of the video before it became public and allegedly had a role in it being uploaded on social media. They are being questioned based on their call records and certain financial transactions, sources said. Senior police officials expressed confidence that the interrogation of these people, and another two individuals for whom search is on, will give them leads to the identity and whereabouts of the woman in the video. Earlier in the day, Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant announced a six-member SIT led by Soumendu Mukherjee. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime), M. N. Anucheth, DCP (Central), Ravi Kumar, DCP (Crime), Dharmendra Kumar, ACP, CCB and Murali, Inspector Cubbon Park Police will be its other members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-journalists-quizzed-in-cd-case/article34057258.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Congress final list for Kerala tomorrow||The Congress will contest the Assembly elections in Kerala in 91 constituencies. It may announce the list of candidates on Sunday. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said in New Delhi on Friday that the All India Congress Committee had finalised the names of 81 candidates. The list had the imprimatur of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Undecided on 10 seats The party was yet to clinch the names of the contestants in 10 seats. He denied indecision caused the delay. No sitting MP from the State would contest. Mr. Ramachandran did not commit whether former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy or Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala would compete from the high-profile Nemom constituency in Thiruvananthapuram. He said a strong candidate would take on the CPI(M) and BJP at Nemom. No one person would contest in two seats. Seat-sharing with allies The United Democratic Front has completed sharing of seats with allies. The Indian Union Muslim League would compete in 27 seats, the P. J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress in 10, Revolutionary Socialist Party in five, Nationalist Congress Kerala in two, including Pala, and the Communist Marxist Party in one from Nemmara. The UDF would support Revolutionary Marxist Party if K.K. Rema competed from Vadakara. The Congress has requested Forward Bloc leader G. Devarajan to oppose Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam. In Kerala, squabbling over Assembly seats appeared to mark a low ebb for the Congress. It seemed to belie the picture of unity presented by the KPCC leadership in New Delhi. Long-standing tensions between party factions in local units of the Congress threatened to break out into the open in Idukki, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Thrissur. Protests break out In Idukki, Congress workers threatened to quit the party if it denied former District Congress Committee president Roy. K. Paulose a seat. Similar protests occurred for A. V. Gopinath in Palakkad, Sony Sebastian in Kannur, former Excise Minister K. Babu in Thripunithura, INTUC leader K. P. Haridas in Ernakulam and Varkala Kahar in Thiruvananthapuram districts. Some workers opposed the “candidature” of KPCC office-bearer Mathew Kuzhalnadan in Chalakudy. Vijayan Thomas chose the day to join the BJP. Congress leaders attempted to play down the friction over seat-sharing in the party. They said opportunities for reconciliation with dissents would surface as the election campaign unfolded. Mr. Chennithala and Mr. Chandy would spearhead the settlement discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congresss-kerala-final-list-on-sunday/article34057202.ece
13 March 2021||Belagavi,||Kannada activists go on the rampage||Kannada activists went on a rampage in Belagavi on Friday pulling down boards of shops that were in Marathi. This was in response to Shiv Sena and members of some Marathi groups blackening Kannada boards at Kolhapur in Maharashtra on Thursday. Groups of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) members, led by Deepak Gudenatti and others, targeted shops on Kakati Road and Khade Bazaar in the old city. While some tried to blacken Marathi boards, others pulled them down. The activists allegedly tried to attack Prakash Shirolkar, Shiv Sena district unit president. They stopped his car near Bogarves and removed the licence plate. The police rushed to the spot and dispersed them. Mr. Shirolkar complained that the group was trying to attack him. The KRV activists got into a argument with Shiv Sena members in front of the latter’s office at Ramling Khind Galli in the old city following the alleged attempt to attack Mr. Shirolkar. A team of the city police has been posted outside the Shiv Sena office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kannada-activists-go-on-the-rampage/article34057260.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool submits memo to EC on Mamata incident||A six-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress on Friday submitted a memorandum to the Election Commission of India (ECI) on the alleged attack on party president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The memorandum quoted comments made by BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the run-up to the Wednesday incident in Nandigram. Calling it a “deep-rooted conspiracy”, it alleged that the “attack” was “premeditated”. Amid this development, BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav said in a tweet that the party had, in a meeting with ECI officials on Friday also requested the release of “raw footage” of the incident where Ms. Banerjee sustained injuries. “BJP has requested the EC to release raw footage of Ms. Mamata Banerjee’s ‘accident’ to dispel rumours being spread by the Trinamool Congress leaders. The BJP also seeks action against TMC leaders for spreading misinformation in violation of the model code,” he said. The party urged the ECI to set up a panel to probe the incident. It also sought the despatch of a special observer to Nandigram as it was a “sensitive constituency”. The Trinamool Congress demanded an “immediate, thorough and unbiased investigation” into the incident. To underline their claim that the alleged attack was pre-planned, the party, in the memorandum submitted to the ECI, listed eight instances. On March 8, the party said, BJP State president Dilip Ghosh put up a caricature of Ms. Banerjee, depicting she would be hit at Nandigram. The removal of the Director General of Police was part of this conspiracy, it claimed. On March 9, without consulting the State government, it said, the DGP was removed by the ECI. The memorandum quoted a conversation between BJP MP Saumitra Khan and Minister of State Babul Supriyo on Twitter to support their theory. On the very day of the incident, it said, the BJP complained against the police personnel responsible for Ms. Banerjee’s security. By 6.30 p.m. that day, it claimed, the Superintendent of Police and the local police were “suspiciously absent” when the “attack” took place. The memorandum cited a speech of Mr. Modi as evidence. At the ‘Brigade Cholo Rally’ on March 7, 2021, he said, “ lekin jab scooty ne Nandigram mein girna taye kiya hai toh hum kya kare [if the scooter has decided to fall in Nandigram what can we do?]”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-submits-memo-to-ec-on-mamata-incident/article34057218.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Local medical boards may be of help to rape survivors: CJI||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a plea to constitute district medical boards with expert gynaecologists and even paediatricians to help rape survivors. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde was hearing the case of a 14-year-old rape survivor seeking an abortion. However, following a report from a medical board, to which the top court had referred her, she withdrew her plea for termination of pregnancy. But advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for the girl, said this case highlighted the need for setting up medical boards in every district so that rape survivors could benefit from early medical intervention and not be forced to go through more trauma. Mr. Biju said he had seen, first-hand, the pain and suffering of the victim and her parents. The Chief Justice said a rape survivor should receive timely aid and advice to exercise her rights and options. “There should be some mechanism for that. It will be helpful if there is a local board... We will issue notice,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-govt-to-respond-on-plea-for-district-medical-boards/article34057223.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Centre’s reply sought on plea against Places of Worship Act||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a plea challenging a special law enacted in 1991 by the Congress government, which freezes the status of places of worship as it was on August 15, 1947. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued notice to the Union Ministries of Home, Law and Culture on a plea filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay against various provisions of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991. Mr. Upadhyay said the “arbitrary, irrational and retrospective” cut-off date bars Hindus, Jains, Buddhists, and Sikhs from approaching courts to “re-claim” their places of worship which were “invaded” and “encroached” upon by “fundamentalist barbaric invaders”. “The Act declared that the character of places of worship-pilgrimage shall be maintained as it was on August 15, 1947 and no suit or proceeding shall lie in court in respect of disputes against encroachment done by fundamentalist barbaric invaders and law breakers and such proceeding shall stand abated,” the petition said. The petition said Sections of the Act that dealt with the bar on legal claims were against the principles of secularism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-reply-sought-on-plea-against-places-of-worship-act/article34057268.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||ISRO’s NSIL to invest Rs. 10,000 crore in 5 years||New Space India Ltd. (NSIL) — ISRO’s commercial arm — will invest Rs. 2,000 crore every year for the next five years to expand its operations, which also involves hiring an additional 300 people. “We expect an investment of approximately Rs. 2,000 crore per year starting next year or the year after, that is the kind investment we are seeking to do. We also see a requirement for 300 new people in five years from now,” said NSIL’s Chairman and Managing Director G. Narayanan in a media conference here on Friday. NSIL, a Central Public Sector Enterprise, aims to fund its five-year expansion activities through a combination of debt and equity. Ramping up revenue D. Radhakrishnan, NSIL’s technical and strategy director, said the company with a paid-up capital of Rs. 10 crore had a revenue of Rs. 300 crore in the first year, 2019-20, and Rs. 400 crore in the second, 2020-21. Though the company is still in its infancy, Mr. Radhakrishnan said it would ramp up its revenues in the coming years. Capital intensive assets The firm is planning to operate and own capital intensive space assets like launch vehicles and satellites in an endeavour to provide complete commercial services. This is expected to help free up top-notch research teams from everyday routine activities and empower them to concentrate on cutting-edge research, as per the company. The company’s operating model of space-based services would also transition from supply-driven model to demand-driven model, it said. Negotiations on Meanwhile, NSIL started negotiations with users on communication satellite capacities and to finalise requirements for new satellites, mostly communication satellites. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the company was in advanced negotiations with players to own two new communication satellites. “The first satellite is a communication satellite in the domain of DTH and the second is for broadband,” he added. NSIL has also initiated steps to manufacture polar satellite launch vehicles in collaboration with the industry. Since its inception, NSIL extended launch services to 45 customer satellites through four PSLV missions. It launched its first commercial mission, Amazonia – 1, an orbiting Brazilian satellite from Sriharikota, a fortnight ago. The launch marked the first dedicated mission of NSIL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isros-nsil-to-invest-rs-10000-crore-in-5-years/article34057330.ece
13 March 2021||Mysuru,||Tourism to be promoted in a big way in Mysuru: Yogeshwar||Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar said here on Friday that tourism would be promoted in a big way in Mysuru to help establish it as a brand and promote the city as a destination for all seasons. Talks are underway with stakeholders to conduct cultural programmes throughout the year at the palace besides opening up new circuits and promoting other destinations in the vicinity. The government was also keen to modernise the Brindavan Gardens and take forward the theme park concept on the lines of Disneyland proposed by the previous government. Similarly, the ropeway project to Chamundi Hills would also be revived. The Minister, participating in an interactive meeting organised by the Mysuru District Journalists Association, said there is a general perception of disappointment with regard to Mysuru in recent years and the city has more to offer than the existing sites including the palace, zoo etc. However, its potential was yet to be fully tapped and hence he was holding a series of meetings with stakeholders including representatives of travel and hospitality industry besides those in the cultural field. Ambience The objective is to create an ambience so that the tourists stay back in the city for a few days to savour an experience and not rush through the places of interest and return the same day In this context Mr. Yogeshwar said cultural programmes throughout the year at the palace will be a step in the right direction and the details will be finalised soon. No timeline He did not give any timeframe as to when the concept will be ready for implementation but expressed confidence that it would be implemented at the earliest. An exhibition centre with activities throughout the year is also being planned so as to add variety to the tourists’ experience. With regard to modernisation of Brindavan Gardens the Minister said he has seen the PowerPoint presentation made by the architects and it “seemed good’’. Asked to elaborate as to what modernisation of Brindavan Garden entailed, the Minister said it was difficult to describe “but I was assured that it would be of international standards.’ He said the State government will not spend any money on the project and it will be undertaken fully by the private entities.  ‘Aware of objections’  Mr. Yogeshwar said he was aware of the objections to the Chamundi HIlls ropewy project on environmental grounds. “The ropeway will not lead to any environmental problem as only a cable will be drawn and a few poles will be erected.. We are already in discussion with a few agencies who have implemented a similar project in north India.’ Mr. Yogeshwar said tourism was a neglected portfolio in the past but no longer so and he was conceiving plans to give a major impetus to the sector. When pointed out that none of what the Minister had announced for Mysuru was new, Mr. Yogeshwar said things were moving for once and the results will be perceptible in due course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tourism-to-be-promoted-in-a-big-way-in-mysuru-yogeshwar/article34057765.ece
13 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Not a storm in a teacup in Assam gardens||The Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association (ATTSA) has called for a complete shutdown of tea estates across the poll-bound State on March 22 over the issue of plantation workers’ daily wages. At an emergency executive meeting of the association in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh on Thursday, the body also resolved to launch a State-wide awareness campaign against the BJP-led government for “deliberately exploiting” plantation workers by using “wage as a tool” for extracting votes from them. ‘Fooling workers’ “The BJP-led government has failed to fix the minimum wages of tea garden workers since 2018. They had announced an interim wage hike of Rs. 30 ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha poll and another interim amount of Rs. 50 before the 2021 Assembly poll, which was stayed by the Gauhati High Court because the planters were not consulted,” said ATTSA president Dhiraj Gowala. “It is clear that the interim hikes are meant only to attract votes for the party. We condemn this disgusting practice. We will now launch a campaign across the plantations explaining how the BJP and the AGP [Asom Gana Parishad] are using the wage issue to fool the workers,” he added. The shutdown assumes significance as the first phase of polling begins on March 27. This phase will cover 47 seats, mostly in the tea-growing areas of eastern Assam. The loosely termed ‘tea tribes’ and ‘ex-tea tribes’, broadly referred to as Adivasi, constitute about 20% of Assam’s total population of 3.3 crore. Although the State government has been transferring cash benefits to 7.5 lakh workers, there are an estimated 10 lakh workers. The Adivasis, who were brought by the British colonists from central India almost 200 years ago for plantation work and logging, can influence the outcome in 40-45 of the 126 Assembly seats in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-a-storm-in-a-teacup-in-assam-gardens/article34057172.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||PIL challenging law that makes fitment of FASTag mandatory dismissed||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday dismissed a PIL petition, which had questioned the legality of making fitment of FASTag mandatory for certain category of vehicles under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. The High Court held that the Union government was duly authorised under the MC Act and the MC Rules to prescribe a conditions for registration of the vehicles and while exercising such rules the government has made fitment of FASTag as a precondition for registration of the vehicle. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while rejecting the petition filed by Geetha Misra, a city-based advocate. On the petitioner’s contention that FASTag would breach the right to privacy guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the Bench said that no material has been placed before the court that mere fitment of FASTag would violate the right to privacy. The Rules under the MV Act only made fitment of FASTag mandatory for vehicles sold since December 1, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pil-challenging-law-that-makes-fitment-of-fastag-mandatory-dismissed/article34057327.ece
13 March 2021||Mumbai,||HC frowns on delay in rationalists’ murder case||The Bombay High Court on Friday pointed out that rationalists Narendra Dabholkar Govind Pansare were shot dead in 2013 and 2015 respectively and asked the investigating agencies how many more years it would take for the probe to be completed. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by the members of the Pansare and Dabholkar families. The Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) special investigation team is investigating the Dabholkar murder, and the State Crime Investigation Department (CID) is probing the Pansare murder. Advocate Abhay Nevgi appearing for the families told the court that journalist Gauri Lankesh was murdered in Karnataka in 2017 and the court there has already framed charges against the accused. Sensitive nature To this the bench said, “In sensitive cases like these, citizens of the country deserve to know when the investigation will be over, and the trial will begin. The incidents happened in 2013 and 2015. We are now in 2021. How long will it go on like this?” Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh representing the CBI told the court that the agency has done whatever was possible. However the murder weapon has not been retrieved, he stated. Adjourning the matter to March 30, the bench directed counsels for CBI and CID to take clear and concrete instructions on how much more time the investigation will take.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-frowns-on-delay-in-rationalists-murder-case/article34057224.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Novavax reports 96.4% efficacy on original virus||It is likely to conduct a bridging study (that determines the vaccine’s safety and immunogenicity in Indians). Novavax in January also reported results of a trial in South Africa, testing the vaccine in two groups of healthy individuals as well as a small group of 245 individuals who were HIV positive and medically stable. Overall, the efficacy was 48.6% — a result, the company says, was due to the pre-dominance of the variant ‘South African’ strain, B.1.351/501Y.V2. In just the HIV group alone, the efficacy was 55%. Across both trials, NVX-CoV2373 demonstrated 100% protection against severe disease, including all hospitalisation and death. 15,000 participants “We are very encouraged by the data showing that NVX-CoV2373 not only provided complete protection against the most severe forms of disease, but also dramatically reduced mild and moderate disease across both trials. Importantly, both studies confirmed efficacy against the variant strains,” Stanley C. Erck, president and chief executive officer, Novavax, said in a statement. In the U.K. trial, the study enrolled more than 15,000 participants between 18 and 84 years of age, including 27% over the age of 65. The primary endpoint of the U.K. Phase 3 clinical trial was based on the first occurrence of PCR-confirmed symptomatic (mild, moderate or severe) COVID-19 with onset at least 7 days after the second study vaccination in serologically negative (to SARS-CoV-2) adult participants at baseline. Placebo group Efficacy was 96.4% (95% CI: 73.8, 99.5) against the original virus strain and 86.3% (95% CI: 71.3, 93.5) against the B.1.1.7/501Y.V1 variant, or the so called UK variant. Five severe cases were observed in the study, and all occurred in the placebo group. Four of the five severe cases were attributed to the B.1.1.7/501Y.V1 variant. An analysis of trial results by the company in January had suggested that prior infection with the original COVID-19 strain might not completely protect against subsequent infection by the variant predominantly circulating in South Africa. However, the complete analysis of the South Africa trial indicates that there could be a late protective effect of prior exposure with the original COVID-19 strain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/novavax-reports-964-efficacy-on-original-virus/article34057187.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR for speeding up Yadadri temple works||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday discussed with officials finishing touches to be given to reconstruction work at Yadadri temple in view of its reopening shortly. Asking them to speed up the final works before the deadline, he discussed with them precautions to be taken and the action plan for giving a sacred ornamental look to the temple. He held a meeting with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, temple architect Anand Sai, architect Madhusudhan and other officials for a feedback on the progress of work in the aftermath of his recent visit to the temple when he left several directions on completion of the project, a release said. With regard to giving an aesthetic look to the site of queue of devotees, he said the 350 ft-long pathway should be adorned with brass designs. The officials presented to him four models of `kalash’ (metal pots) to be placed all along the pathway, of which he selected one of them. He wanted a compound wall on the northern side of the temple to be demolished for the construction of pathway. It should be completed by April 15. He also wanted brass designs for lamp posts, their pedestals and the compound wall. Enquiring about a Shiva temple within the precincts, he wanted brass tridents to be erected on the compound walls. After demolition of the compound wall, the area should be cordoned off with grills and railings for a better view of the temple from outside. The temple should appear an iconic structure viewed from 360 degrees. The trident should be erected all along the Shiva temple like the Sudershan chakra at Brahmotsavam. The temple elevation should be embossed with chariot. He wanted illumination of either side of compound wall to be constructed around Vishnu Pushkarini hills. An 80 ft lamp post should be constructed at the centre of the lawn. He appreciated the construction of `addala mandapam’ (mirror hall) and said post-reconstruction the temple will stand out for its exclusive attributes among all temples of the world. The entire temple complex to be build with black stone will be unique. Lakhs of devotees will visit the temple after its reopening, he said. He was given a demonstration of lighting at the temple complex and surrounding areas in night hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-for-speeding-up-yadadri-temple-works/article34057677.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Quad leaders for ‘open and free’ Indo-Pacific||Mr. Morrison laid out the agenda of the Quad in the near future. “We join together as leaders of nations to welcome what I think will be a new dawn in the Indo-Pacific through our gathering,” he said. Prime Minister Suga acknowledged the new dynamism that the Quad had received because of the meeting of the top leaders. “With the four countries working together, I wish to firmly advance our cooperation to realise, a free and open Indo Pacific, and to make a tangible contribution to the peace, stability, and prosperity of the region, including overcoming COVID-19,” he said. The Quad had been taken to the “apex level”, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said during a special briefing on the leaders’ summit. “We are all committed to free and open, inclusive, secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific. Today’s summit adopted a positive vision to address contemporary issues with vaccine cooperation. Leaders agreed to strengthen, peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific region,” said Mr. Shringla, who described the focus on the vaccines as the “most pressing”. He said the U.S., Japan and Australia would finance the vaccine initiative that India welcomed. “We look forward to participating in the initiative whole-heartedly. During the discussion there was wholesome appreciation of the Vaccine Maitri initiative,” Mr. Shringla said. The vaccine expert working group, a critical and emerging technology working group, and a climate working group for technology, capacity building and climate finance were cleared during the summit. The Foreign Secretary also said the Quad leaders had agreed to meet in person in the coming months. “The Quad does not stand against anything, it stands for something,” Mr. Shringla said, explaining that the Quad was a value-based grouping that was trying to deal with the need for vaccines, climate change and other such issues. He informed that the issue of military takeover in Myanmar came up for during the discussion among the leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-leaders-for-open-and-free-indo-pacific/article34057209.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Top G-23 leaders out of star campaigner list||Prominent leaders of the group of 23 dissenting leaders (G-23) do not figure in the Congress’s list of 30 star campaigners for West Bengal polls that was released on Friday. The 30-star campaigners submitted by the party to the EC did not include top leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The top names in the list include party chief Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former party chief Rahul Gandhi, and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Mallikarjun Kharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-g-23-leaders-out-of-star-campaigner-list/article34057210.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rollout of labour codes likely after elections||The implementation of the four new labour codes, replacing 29 Central labour laws, is likely to take place after the ongoing State Assembly elections, according officials in the Labour and Employment Ministry. An official said the rules framed under the four codes — on wages; occupational safety, health and working conditions; industrial relations; and social security — were “ready” to be rolled out “soon”. However, the implementation of the codes was “likely after the elections”. The Assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala are scheduled for Aril and May, with results being declared on May 2. The rules framed under the codes, which were passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020, had been finalised, another official said. Role of States With labour being a subject in the concurrent list, States would also be framing their own rules, the official said, adding that it would be after the Central rules are notified. Asked if the codes would be rolled out post the elections, Labour and Employment Ministry Secretary Apurva Chandra said he had “no comments”. Mr. Chandra had earlier said the Ministry would be ready with the rules before April 1. Now, he said the Ministry was “ready” for the implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rollout-of-labour-codes-likely-after-elections/article34057221.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||NEET for UG medical courses on August 1||The NEET examination for admission to undergraduate medical courses will be held on August 1, 2021. It will be conducted on a single day, in an offline pen-and-paper mode, the National Testing Agency announced on Friday. NEET (UG) or National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate) is used for admission to MBBS and BDS courses as well as programmes for alternative or traditional medicine and nursing. It is usually held in May, after Class 12 board examinations, in order to facilitate admissions by August. However, due to disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, board examinations have been delayed this year and will only be completed in June, delaying the medical entrance examination as well. In 2020, NEET was held in September, and repeated in October to cater to those who missed the exam due to COVID-19. Single date Some students had urged that multiple attempts be permitted in 2021, similar to engineering entrance examination JEE. However, the NEET examination will revert to a single date in 2021. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has indicated that although there will be no reduction in syllabus for NEET, there may be a larger level of internal choice to account for the fact that several school examination boards have reduced their syllabi due to the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-to-be-held-on-august-1/article34057235.ece
13 March 2021||NEW dELHI,||Over 2.8 crore vaccine doses administered so far||The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 2.8 crore on Friday. A total of 2,80,05,817 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 8 p.m. on Friday. They include 72,84,406 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 41,76,446 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 72,15,815 frontline workers (FLWs) (first dose), 9,28,751 FLWs (second dose), 71,69,695 people more than 60 years old and 12,30,704 people aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-28-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far/article34057269.ece
13 March 2021||KALABURAGI,||Part of Hampi fort collapses||A part of the fort around Kamala Mahal at the World Heritage Site of Hampi, which was built with heavy stone blocks by the Vijayanagara rulers, collapsed. The incident came to light when security personnel reported for duty on Friday morning. No other damage The collapse has incurred no damages to other heritage monuments that were away from the fort structure in the area. P. Kalimuttu, Deputy Superintendent of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), visited the spot and took stock of the damage. “The fort wall has collapsed on its own. There is no damage to other monuments at the World Heritage Site. We have reported the incident to the ASI head office. Measures will be taken to rebuild the structure,” Mr. Kalimuttu told media representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/part-of-hampi-fort-collapses/article34057332.ece
13 March 2021||Patna,||RLSP leaders ‘expel’ party chief, join RJD||Ahead of Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) president Upendra Kushwaha’s likely move to the ruling JD(U) on March14 or 15, as many as 35 of his party leaders, including State president (in-charge), on Friday joined the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). These leaders declared it was a merger with the RJD. Mr. Kushwaha had convened a meeting of party leaders in Patna on March13 to discuss his move to switch parties. However, RLSP State party president (in-charge) Virendra Kushwaha said, “We’ve have expelled our leader Upendra Kushwaha from the party and merged RLSP with RJD today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rlsp-leaders-expel-party-chief-join-rjd/article34057815.ece
13 March 2021||new delhi,||Teach lesson to BJP, say farm unions||Farm union leaders under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha kicked off election campaigning in West Bengal on Friday with a mahapanchayat in Kolkata. They appealed to the State’s farmers to “teach a lesson” to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teach-lesson-to-bjp-say-farm-unions/article34057757.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Serious lapse on part of jail authorities’||A senior police officer involved in the investigation into the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case said the unearthing of a smartphone from the high-security ward of Tihar indicates a serious security lapse on the part of jail authorities. “The cell remains under round-the-clock CCTV surveillance and is guarded by armed police personnel. And there is no power socket inside the cells. This was definitely done by some insider who was providing logistical support to the inmates,” claimed a Tihar Jail official. Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said the government has ordered a probe. “We have written to the DG asking how the phone was found.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serious-lapse-on-part-of-jail-authorities/article34057512.ece
13 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,||25 years on, IUML fields a woman||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) announced its candidates for the April 6 Assembly elections after long-drawn deliberations held at party State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s residence at Panakkad, near here, on Friday afternoon. The party will contest in 27 constituencies this time. In the 2016 elections, the IUML had contested 24 seats and won 18 of them. The party also announced its candidates for the Rajya Sabha election and the Malappuram Lok Sabha byelection to be held on April 6. While M.P. Abdussamad Samadani will contest the Lok Sabha byelection, incumbent P.V. Abdul Wahab will be sent to the Rajya Sabha once again. Mr. Shihab Thangal announced the list of candidates at a crowded, noisy press briefing. Exception for three Although the IUML had decided not to field three-time winners, an exemption was given to general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed, and Deputy Leader of the Opposition M.K. Muneer. Mr. Kunhalikutty will contest from Vengara, Mr. Majeed from Tirurangadi, and Mr. Muneer from Koduvally. When three key leaders of the Muslim Youth League (MYL) were considered, the party made a historic decision by giving a chance to a woman after 25 years. Vanitha League leader Noorbina Rasheed is the IUML candidate in Kozhikode South. MYL’s State general secretary P.K. Firos will contest from Tanur, vice president Najeeb Kanthapuram from Perinthalmanna, and State secretary A.K.M. Ashraf from Manjeswaram. “The party has considered the youth with a clear future orientation,” said MYL State president Syed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal. When N.A. Nellikkunnu and K.M. Shaji will seek another term from Kasaragod and Azheekode respectively, Pottankandi Abdulla and Parakkal Abdulla will be fielded in Koothuparamba and Kuttiyadi respectively. Dinesh Perumanna will contest for the IUML in Kunnamangalam as its Independent candidate. C.P. Cheriya Mohammed is the candidate in Tiruvambady. P. Ubaidullah, P. Abdul Hameed, T.V. Ibrahim, P.K. Basheer, K.K. Abid Husain Thangal, and N. Shamsuddeen will seek yet another term from Malappuram, Vallikkunnu, Kondotty, Ernad, Kottakkal and Mannarkkad respectively. U.A. Latheef is the candidate in Manjeri. Manjalamkuzhi Ali has been shifted to Mankada from Perinthalmanna. Kurukkoli Moideen will contest from Tirur. K.N.A. Khader has been given the responsibility to wrest back Guruvayur. U.C. Raman is the party’s candidate in Kongad. V.K. Ebrahim Kunju’s son V.E. Gafoor will contest from Kalamassery. Off the list The incumbents who failed to make it into this time’s list are M.C. Kamaruddin (Manjeswaram), M. Ummer (Manjeri), T.A. Ahamed Kabeer (Mankada), P.K. Abdu Rabb (Tirurangadi), C. Mammutty (Tirur), and V.K. Ebrahim Kunju (Kalamassery). Prologuing the announcement of the candidates, IUML working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer said the party gave due consideration for all sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-years-on-iuml-fields-a-woman/article34057205.ece
13 March 2021||Mumbai,||Videocon’s Venugopal Dhoot gets bail||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Friday granted bail to Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot (70) on a cash bond of Rs. 5 lakh in the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. On January 30, the PMLA court had summoned all the accused, including former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar, and Mr. Dhoot to be present in court. However, advocate Sandeep Laddha, representing Mr. Dhoot, told the court that summons were not served to him but he appeared suo moto in the case. The bail application appealed to the PMLA court to consider his age and deteriorating health. It said, “From June 6, 2018, Mr. Dhoot was no longer the chairman or managing director of Videocon Industries Limited/Videocon Group and the entire control of company, documents and record are in custody of Resolution Professionals appointed under the provisions of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 after the orders from National Company Law Tribunal.” ‘No criminality’ Mr. Laddha argued that Mr. Dhoot and the Videocon Group were victims of the circumstances and no criminality could be attributed to them. He added that several other accused were granted bail. He relied upon the order passed by the same judge granting bail to Ms. Kochhar on February 12. The Enforcement Directorate has relied on a FIR registered by the CBI in 2019. The case pertains to causing a loss to ICICI Bank by sanctioning loans to Videocon Group in contravention of the rules of ICICI Bank during the relevant period. These loans have turned non-performing assets and resulted in wrongful loss to ICICI Bank and wrongful gain to the borrowers and accused, the FIR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/videocons-venugopal-dhoot-gets-bail/article34057211.ece
13 March 2021||Kolkata,||BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari files nomination||BJP candidate for the Nandigram Assembly seat Suvendu Adhikari on Friday filed his nomination papers at the office of the Sub-Divisional Officer, Haldia. Other nominees of the party, including Haldia MLA Tapasi Mondal, also filed their nomination papers at the same venue. Mr. Adhikari is facing Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the constituency. Before submitting his nomination, he visited a couple of temples and addressed a meeting. “Nandigram is not just an Assembly seat. It is the symbol of the fight against forcible land acquisition and played a crucial role in the change of 2011,” he said. He pointed out that 41 people had lost their lives in the violence during 2007-08. The biggest issue the State people were facing was economic crisis. The number of unemployed youth in the State had increased to two crore, he stated. Mr. Adhikari was accompanied by Union Ministers Dharmendra Prashant and Smriti Irani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-suvendu-adhikari-files-nomination/article34057216.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lawyers not consulted on hybrid model’||The Supreme Court on Friday referred to a reported surge in COVID-19 cases in States like Maharashtra even as Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president Vikas Singh highlighted the plight of the legal profession severely hit by the pandemic. Justice S.K. Kaul, heading a Bench, reminded Mr. Singh that the entire world, not just lawyers, had suffered due to the pandemic. “Lawyers are not special,” Justice Kaul said. Mr. Singh, who has long campaigned for a full return to physical hearings in the court, said the standard operating procedure for hybrid hearing of cases was prepared without consulting lawyers. The court was hearing a writ petition filed by the SCBA against the SOP notified by the court registry for hybrid hearings from March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawyers-not-consulted-on-hybrid-model/article34057222.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||NIA recovers Rs. 91 lakh from field in Jammu||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday recovered Rs. 91 lakh from an agricultural field in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba district. The cash, concealed in a pit, was recovered at the instance of an accused, Romesh Kumar. He was arrested earlier this month in a narco-terrorism case, an NIA official said. The NIA said it recovered “proceeds of narcotics” in the early hours of Friday. “Investigation revealed that arrested accused Romesh Kumar had received the cash proceeds of drugs from narco-smugglers based in Kashmir valley for self as well as for further channelization to different terrorist entities,” the NIA said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-recovers-rs-91-lakh-from-field-in-jammu/article34057225.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scania denies reports on gift to Minister||Swedish bus maker Scania has denied local media reports that Union Minister Nitin Gadkari was gifted a luxury bus by its India arm in exchange for contracts. “Scania India has not gifted any bus to Minister Gadkari. There is nothing in our investigation showing that the Transport Minister personally has been involved in Scania’s sales of the bus you are referring to,” Hans-Åke Danielsson, Scania’s Press Manager and Senior Advisor, wrote in response to an e-mail query. “As SVT claims, Scania India sold the bus to one of its private dealers, which in its turn rented it (or sold) to a bus transport company,” the Press Manager wrote. On Thursday, Mr. Gadkari’s office rejected Swedish TV channel SVT’ s report as “malicious, fabricated and baseless”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scania-denies-reports-on-gift-to-minister/article34057228.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Census data may decide food subsidy||Once the new census data is available, the Centre may consider revising the number of people who get subsidised foodgrains under the National Food Security Act, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Friday. He insisted there is no proposal under consideration as yet, but said the Food Ministry was having conversations on a NITI Aayog paper on the issue, which recommended a reduction in the NFSA coverage. The NFSA provides for five kg of foodgrains per month to be provided to two-thirds of the country at the subsidised rate of Rs. 2 per kg of wheat and Rs. 3 per kg of rice through the public distribution system (PDS). The current NFSA coverage of 81 crore people was determined on the basis of the 2011 census, and has not been revised since the law was passed in 2013. At a press conference, Mr. Pandey was asked whether the government plans to revise the coverage in 2021, after the next census. “It is hard to tell. When the number was fixed in 2011, some criteria were used. The NFSA covered 67% of the country’s population, including 75% of the rural population and 50% of the urban population. It was not done arbitrarily,” he pointed out. “When a revision is to be done, there is an exercise behind it, there is data analysis. Census data is also not available now. When all the tools are available with the government, of course, this can be revisited. Right now, there is no such proposal in front of us,” he added. “This is a law passed by Parliament. Government of that time and Parliament of that time will have to take a call.” Government think tank NITI Aayog has recently circulated a discussion paper proposing a reduction in the NFSA coverage, to 60% of the rural population and 40% of the urban population, in a bid to curb the food subsidy budget. Mr. Pandey refused to discuss the paper, directing queries to NITI Aayog, but said that he was having “conversations” on the issue. On Friday, Mr. Pandey launched the ‘Mera Ration’ mobile app to help ration card holders.   When all the tools are available with the government, of course, this can be revisited. Right now, there is no such proposal Sudhanshu Pandey Food Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/census-data-may-decide-food-subsidy/article34057233.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ambani bomb scare linked to Tihar inmate||Acting on inputs from intelligence agencies, authorities conducted a raid inside Tihar Jail’s high security ward late on Thursday evening and recovered a smartphone from the cell where an Indian Mujahideen terrorist is lodged. A senior police officer said on Friday that the phone is suspected to have been used for operating a Telegram channel Jaish-ul-Hind that has claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and for the blast outside Israel embassy in New Delhi. Pramod Singh Kushwah, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) said further investigation and forensic analysis is on. The jail authorities have handed over the mobile phone to Delhi police. The senior police officer confirmed that the phone was recovered from high security ward no. 8 where the terrorist Tehseen Akhtar is lodged. Akhtar was arrested in 2014 for his alleged involvement in a series of blasts, including the one in Patna targeting Narendra Modi’s rally in 2014. Police will seek production warrant for Akhtar to get more details. Investigators have found no trace of funding or links with other terror groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ambani-bomb-scare-linked-to-tihar-inmate/article34057238.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||BoM to enhance focus on TS, A.P.||Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) intends to sharpen focus on Telangana and Andhra Pradesh by adding more branches, carving a new zone and creating awareness on the unique features of some of its products, especially gold and MSME loans, in the wake of a significant increase in business from the 2 States. Total business of the Hyderabad Zone, which covers the two States, has crossed Rs. 11,000 crore as against Rs. 6,500 crore last financial year, MD and CEO A.S. Rajeev said in an interaction here recently. Besides adding more branches to strengthen the network, the bank plans to have a separate zonal office for Andhra Pradesh by the next financial year. The location of the new office has not yet been decided, he added. Zonal Manager, Hyderabad, Divesh Dinkar said till December, the total business from the two States was Rs. 11,000 crore. The number of branches has gone up from 44 in April beginning to 54 at present, with 31 of them in Telangana and rest in AP. It will touch 60 by this month-end as part of a strategy to have a presence in all districts of the Telugu States. On key growth drivers for BoM in the two States, he said the bank has been proactive in catering to the needs of various customers. It offered gold loan at a rate of interest of 7.35%, which is lowest among all public sector and private sector banks. Regarding MSMEs, the bank has launched a product under which loans up to Rs. 10 crore is sanctioned to such enterprises based on their GST returns. The process is simple and the MSMEs can assess their eligibility, he said, adding since the product is for those who remit taxes promptly, it recognised compliance. Home loans, from urban centres such as Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam, and SHG loans, from a few clusters, including Nellore, Mahabubnagar and Adilabad, were other growth drivers. Mr. Rajeev said all the southern States were doing well for the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bom-to-enhance-focus-on-ts-ap/article34057642.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Justice Indu Malhotra’s tenure ends||Justice Indu Malhotra, the first woman judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court Bench directly from the Bar, completed her last working day, virtually hearing cases alongside Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde on Friday. Justice Malhotra, in an emotional address, said she was “leaving the court with a great sense of fulfilment”. With Chief Justice Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna looking on, Justice Malhotra said she was grateful for the opportunity which enabled her to contribute to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. Chief Justice Bobde said he had not seen a finer judge than Justice Malhotra. At a function organised later in the day by the Supreme Court Bar Association, Justice Malhotra said, “A judge derives great satisfaction when a long-drawn litigation is brought to a close or justice is done to those who are voiceless.” Judges appreciated the fact that the institution was “far greater than the individuals who compose the Bench”, she noted. Justice Malhotra was on the Constitution Bench that unanimously decriminalised homosexuality between adults. She is known for her lone dissenting opinion in the Sabarimala judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-indu-malhotras-tenure-ends/article34057230.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former KPCC official joins BJP||Vijayan Thomas, former general secretary of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), joined the BJP in New Delhi on Friday. He blamed the unresolved question of national leadership and the factionalism within the Congress’s Kerala unit for his departure from that party. He met BJP president J.P. Nadda and Union Minister Amit Shah before joining the party. “You know what is happening in the Congress. At the national level, they don’t even have a regional party’s presence. Senior leaders have formed the G23, so who is left to take decisions? Even in States, things are adrift. I’m just the start of the exodus from the Congress... There are many others who are aggrieved,” he said. He denied that his leaving the Congress had anything to do with not getting a seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leader-from-kerala-joins-bjp/article34057208.ece
13 March 2021||KOCHI,||Court seeks explanation from Land Board||The Kerala High Court has sought an explanation from the Secretary of the Kerala State Land Board and the Kozhikode Collector regarding the non-implementation of the Kerala Land Board’s decision to book a case against P.V. Anwar, MLA, for holding land in excess of the ceiling specified under the Kerala Land Reforms Act, 1963. The State Land Board had directed the chairman of the Taluk Land Board, Thamarassery, and deputy collector, Kozhikode, to register a land ceiling case against Mr. Anwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-seeks-explanation-from-land-board/article34057766.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress launches ‘give jobs, not CAA’ campaign||The youth wing of the Assam Congress on Friday launched the party’s third poll campaign in a row. The slogan of the campaign is “CAA nohoy, sakori laage (Give jobs, not CAA)”. “With this campaign, we intend to create awareness in each and every booth against the polarised, amended Citizenship Act and about jobs,” Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma said. Some of the party’s promises include job guarantee, a law to stop implementation of the CAA and NRC, and raising the daily wage of tea plantation workers to Rs. 365 within 30 days of coming to power, and free electricity up to 200 units per household.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-launches-give-jobs-not-caa-campaign/article34057164.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||e-invoicing made compulsory||e-invoicing has been made compulsory from April 1 for the business-to-business dealings of traders whose annual sales turnover is above Rs. 50 crore. According to the Commissioner, State Goods and Service Tax Department, e-invoicing has been made compulsory from October 1, 2020 for traders having annual sales turnover of Rs. 500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/e-invoicing-made-compulsory/article34057701.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Geetha Shivarajkumar to join Congress soon||Geetha Shivarajkumar, wife of Kannada actor Shivarajkumar and daughter of former Chief Minister the late S. Bangarappa, is set to join the Congress soon. Madhu Bangarappa, who quit the JD(S) to join the Congress, said his sister Ms. Geetha too would join the party. Ms. Geetha contested the Lok Sabha election on JD(S) ticket in 2014 from the Shivamogga constituency, but she lost to the BJP. Speaking to mediapersons after a meeting with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Friday, Mr. Madhu said he would officially join the party at a function later. But, he had already started working as a Congress worker since Thursday, he said. Mr. Madhu congratulated Mr. Shivakumar who completed one year in office as KPCC president. The State Congress president said he grew under the shadow of S. Bangarappa in the late 1980s and that the former Chief Minister encouraged youth leaders in the Congress. Mr. Shivakumar said the party high command had informed him about Mr. Madhu’s willingness to join the party. He would meet senior leaders M. Mallikarjun Kharge, M. Veerappa Moily, and Kagodu Thimmappa in the coming days. The KPCC chief said many people had been looking forward to a political change both at the Central and State levels owing to high inflation. Asked if other leaders were joining the Congress, he said: “Anyone who believes in the party’s ideology can join. Many people from different districts will join in the coming days.” On whether he had targeted the JD(S), Mr. Shivakumar said: “I am not interested in targeting anyone. We have to consolidate the party to come to power”. A couple of days ago, Ashok Managuli, son of former JD(S) MLA the late C. Managuli. joined the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/geetha-shivarajkumar-to-join-congress-soon/article34057257.ece
13 March 2021||KOCHI,||ED forced me to name CM, says accused||Sandeep Nair, one of the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, has written to the Ernakulam District Sessions Judge complaining that an official of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had forced him to name the Chief Minister, State Ministers and the son of a prominent person in the gold smuggling case. In his letter, which was forwarded to the court through the Superintendent of the Central Jail, Sandeep submitted that ED official P. Radhakrishnan, the investigation officer in the prevention of money laundering case, offered not to oppose his bail application if he named the Chief Minister, State Ministers and the son of a prominent person in the case. Set of names He submitted that the ED official approached him with a set of names, which included some prominent persons, and wanted him to name them all in the case. The official, submitted Sandeep in his three-page letter to the court, while offering not to oppose his bail application, also made an offer to arrange a good lawyer for him in the case if he gave a statement that the prominent persons had invested money for gold smuggling. The accused, who submitted that he was in custody for over eight months, said he feared for his life if not released on bail. Speaker fails to turn up Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan did not turn up before the Customs in connection with the case of smuggling of foreign currency. The Speaker had informed the Customs that he cannot appear before the agency on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-forced-me-to-name-cm-says-accused/article34057198.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Marked by uneven urban development||Commercial establishments slowly taking up more space in some areas of the Madhavaram constituency indicate signs of rapid urbanisation. But the largest constituency in Tiruvallur district still presents a stark contrast between urban and rural development. With over 4.5 lakh voters, the constituency not only consists of Madhavaram, which has been merged with the Greater Chennai Corporation, but also many local bodies that fall under the panchayat unions of Puzhal, Sholavaram and Villivakkam. Madhavaram now has more facilities, such as a satellite inter-city bus terminus, a horticulture park and more banks and supermarkets. The locality, once known for mango groves and thick green cover, is slowly yielding to urbanisation. Work to improve the Red Hills lake as a recreational space and the recent development of the phase II stretch of the Chennai Metro, connecting Madhavaram and CMBT, has brought cheer among residents. Level of infrastructure However, the level of infrastructure development beyond Madhavaram continues to lag, noted residents. With an amalgamation of urban middle class, migrant workers and rural population, who are engaged in various occupations, the constituency represents a slice of Tiruvallur district. For a constituency dotted with large and small waterbodies, including Retteri, and rich groundwater potential, many panchayats are still grappling with inadequate water supply. Ground water in pockets of the constituency, such as Alamathi, Mathur and Manjambakkam, are drawn for commercial purposes by packaging drinking water units and private lorries. This has led to a drop in water quality, said V. Kamalanathan, resident of Vinayagapuram. Madhavaram is home to lakes in Red Hills and Cholavaram that feed Chennai’s water needs. But residents in village panchayats in Puzhal and Cholavaram largely manage with ground water for want of a piped water network. Voters demand that large waterbodies such as those in Milk Colony, Vadaperumbakkam and Padianallur be desilted and improved as recreational spaces. Traffic congestion continues to be a major issue in the constituency, which is considered a gateway for trucks from Andhra Pradesh. Motorists have to vie for space with heavy vehicles on the stretch of GNT Road at Madhavaram junction and Red Hills junction of Tiruvallur Koot Road. M. Jayapalan, vice-president, Red Hills Paddy and Rice Wholesale Merchants’ Association, said a dedicated parking space for trucks bringing rice from Andhra Pradesh and a flyover near the Red Hills junction would reduce congestion. “We need a market for paddy wholesalers, like in Koyambedu. The number of rice mills have dipped. But Red Hills is still the city’s rice bowl and paddy cultivation continues in pockets of Cholavaram and Alamathi,” he said. With 36 units and 5,000 employees, the Madhavaram leather industrial estate without any basic amenities is also crying for attention for years now. Some of the other key demands include an underground drainage network in areas including Padinallur and Naravarikuppam, and more government hospitals and upgradation of school infrastructure. DMK stronghold Long-time residents noted that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam alliance traditionally has a stronghold in the constituency going by past records. Though people of different communities are spread over the constituency, those belonging to two communities — Vanniyars and Dalits — are dominant and play a crucial role in choosing the winners, said V. Anandan, CPI(M)’s Madhavaram district committee member. In the two elections since the constituency was formed, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the DMK have won once each. This time too, the past winners — former Milk and Dairy Development Minister V. Moorthy (AIADMK) and sitting DMK MLA S. Sudharsanam — who are known faces in the constituency are competing in the election. D. Dakshinamoorthy, former Madhavaram councillor, who contested on an AIADMK ticket last time, is also in the fray on behalf of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, while the MNM has fielded Ramesh Kondalasami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marked-by-uneven-urban-development/article34057414.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Haemodialysis performed on 725 COVID-19 patients at RGGGH||The nephrology team of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has performed haemodialysis for 725 COVID-19 patients, according to dean E. Theranirajan. So far, 1,520 kidney transplants have been performed at the RGGGH. As part of World Kidney Day, the hospital honoured the recipient and donor of the 1,500th kidney transplant. A beneficiary of maintenance haemodialysis programme, who has been on dialysis for four years, and another patient with chronic kidney disease, who has been under treatment for over 30 years at the RGGGH, were also honoured, according to a press release. There are 80 haemodialysis machines, and about 2,700 dialysis treatment sessions are performed every month. About 35 patients are on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. About 200 acute peritoneal dialysis sessions are being done every month. Dr. Theranirajan emphasised on the need to spread awareness on kidney diseases among the public, particularly on hypertension and diabetes, the two most common causes for chronic kidney diseases. N. Gopalakrishnan, director, Institute of Nephrology, and R. Padmaraj, professor of nephrology, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/haemodialysis-performed-on-725-covid-19-patients-at-rgggh/article34057407.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why have you not suspended ex-Special DGP, HC asks govt.||Observing that a person facing sexual harassment charges must be suspended first before proceeding with an inquiry, the Madras High Court on Friday wondered why a Special Director General of Police (now on compulsory wait) accused of having made sexual advances towards a woman Superintendent of Police had not been suspended yet in order to inspire confidence in the criminal investigation as well as an internal inquiry initiated against him. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh raised the query during the hearing of a suo motu writ petition taken up by him to monitor the investigation in a criminal case booked against the ex-Special DGP as well as a Superintendent of Police, who reportedly waylaid the victim when she was on her way to lodge a complaint and forced her to talk to the prime suspect over phone, as well as an inquiry being conducted by the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) into the charge of sexual harassment. “Wouldn’t you have immediately resorted to suspension if a similar charge had been levelled against an inspector of police or sub- inspector? What is the hesitation in suspending this person? Is he so great that you will not suspend him? Suspension is what you should have done first. The SP who waylaid the victim was only an arrow, the Special DGP was the bow from which he was shot. You have suspended the arrow but not the bow. What type of confidence are you inspiring?” the judge asked. Making it clear that he was not questioning the police for not having arrested the Special DGP as well as the SP so far since arrest was completely the prerogative of the investigating officer concerned and courts could not force the police to arrest the suspects in any criminal case, the judge said suspension was squarely a different matter altogether since one could not expect a fair probe when even bare minimum action had not been taken against the prime suspect. State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan sought time till March 16 to get instructions on steps taken to suspend the police officer. He also assured the court that a status report would be filed on that day listing out the action taken so far in the criminal case. In the meantime, senior counsel Mohan Parasaran, representing the Special DGP, informed the court that his client had been kept on compulsory wait and he was not involved in any official work. Pat for media When another counsel requested the judge to vacate the restraint imposed on the media from reporting the names of the accused, the judge rejected the plea. Commending the media for having shown restraint pursuant to an interim order passed by him on March 1, he said there should not be a parallel media trial when the court had taken upon itself the responsibility of monitoring the probe in a sensitive issue that involves the morale of the entire police force and especially the women officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-have-you-not-suspended-ex-special-dgp-hc-asks-govt/article34057433.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Practical exams for Class XII will be held from April 16 to 23||Practical examinations for Class XII students will be held in the respective schools from April 16 to 23. The Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE) has issued detailed instructions to schools on the conduct of the exams. The heads of schools will download the empty mark sheets for practicals from April 8 to 24 fromwww.dge.tn.gov.in The onus of appointing chief invigilators and external and internal examiners, besides assistants as required, rests with the schools. However, the fee for the external examiners could be collected from the respective Chief Educational Officers, the DGE said. Candidates may be allowed to bring an external calculator without digital diary. The DGE issued instructions and prescribed the format for the conduct and award of marks for the practical exams. After the results are collated, they must be uploaded to the DGE website from April 20 to 28, and the hard copy of the marksheet must be mailed to the DGE on May 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/practical-exams-for-class-xii-will-be-held-from-april-16-to-23/article34057418.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||U.S. award nomination for Gowsalya Shankar||The U.S. Consulate honoured Tamil Nadu-based anti-caste activist and human rights defender Gowsalya Shankar with a nomination for the International Woman of Courage (IWOC) Award in the city on Thursday. The IWOC Award Certificate of Nomination was handed over to her by U.S. Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin at an event ‘Courageous Women Inspire a Better World’ held in the city on Thursday. Ms. Gowsalya was U.S. Mission India’s nominee for the 2021 U.S. Secretary of State’s IWOC Award, which honours women who have demonstrated exceptional courage, strength, and leadership in acting to improve the lives of others. Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson, The Hindu , and V. Suresh, National General Secretary of the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, also spoke on the theme of courageous women. In her late husband’s honour, Ms. Gowsalya launched the Shankar Social Justice Trust in March 2017 to fight atrocities against caste-based violence. The trust provides psychological, legal and moral support to victims and builds awareness against social discrimination and injustice. She said that Women’s History Month was not just another occasion to celebrate. “This is the time for women to take a pledge to fight for their rights,” she said. U.S. Consul General Judith Ravin said: “The United States of America is committed to gender equality, social inclusion, and advancing the status of women and girls globally as a foreign policy priority. Global prosperity, security and stability cannot be achieved without the full participation of women and girls in the economic, social and political spheres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gowsalya-shankar-presented-with-iwoc-2021-award/article34057417.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A crusader for bladder cancer support||Nilakanta S. Siva is now a household name in some circles. The 77-year-old retired nuclear scientist from the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre has been educating people on cancer through his writings. He has also counselled hundreds of families through their toughest times. He has brought out around 20 publications, including three editions of the book, No One Fights Alone . The latest edition, launched virtually on Thursday, is a collection of writings by doctors, patients, care-givers, and family members who watched their loved ones slip away. During the COVID-19 lockdown, Mr. Siva, aided by social media, arranged for the supply and distribution of urostomy bags for patients in the Thanjavur region. Mr. Siva is a bladder cancer survivor, whose bladder had to be removed. During his battle with cancer, his surgeon sent newly diagnosed patients to him and his wife Rajalakshmi “for a chat”. The couple have so far counselled over 200 families. “We have counselled them to get through their war with cancer,” he says. He has created a group of bladder cancer survivors and the families of three victims. “We relate readily to the problems of the families of people who have bladder cancer, and believe we speak with a great degree of credibility on cancer of the bladder. Hence, we restrict our activities to our area of competence,” he adds. The royalties from book sales are used to fund the “quarterly review tests, including scan, chest X-ray and blood work, for a few bladder cancer warriors,” he says. Requests for help from those with cancers of other organs are sent to a known NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-crusader-for-bladder-cancer-support/article34057438.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for theft in Gopalapuram||Personnel from the Royapettah police station on Friday arrested a domestic maid and her relative for stealing 65 sovereigns of gold jewellery from an advocate’s house in Gopalapuram. Complainant D. Lokesh noticed 65 sovereigns of gold jewellery had gone missing from his house in Gopalapuram. After investigating, the police arrested Nandhini, 29, who was in Thanjavur along with her uncle Kaliyaperumal, 50, of Chintadripet. She said she committed the crime at the instigation of her uncle and then quit the job. The stolen items were recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-theft-in-gopalapuram/article34057411.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre hurl stones at party candidate’s car||A section of DMK cadre, supporters of former councillor K. Dhanasekaran, hurled stones at the car of party candidate A.M.V. Prabhakar Raja in Virugambakkam constituency when the latter went to seek blessings of the former at his residence in K.K. Nagar. Mr. Prabhakar Raja is a youth wing organiser and son of Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangam Peramaippu leader Vikarama Raja. He was chosen and announced as party candidate by party president M.K. Stalin around noon. At 1.30 p.m., he went to meet Mr. Dhanasekaran. When his car reached the area, Mr. Dhanasekaran’s supporters hurled stones at it. Mr. Prabhakar Raja was forced to return. Later, Mr. Dhanasekaran went to the party headquarters along with his supporters. He said the party’s decision to field Mr. Prabhakar Raja was not acceptable to him and his supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cadre-hurl-stones-at-party-candidates-car/article34057415.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In phase II, riders can sit in the Metro train driver’s cabin||Ever wondered what it would be like to travel in the driver’s cabin of a Metro Rail train while looking at the landscape of the city? According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL), as phase II will have driver-less trains, commuters can be accommodated in the driver’s cabin too. “So far, passengers have never seen the underground tunnels and the track from the driver’s cabin and how the train gets into the elevated stretch. Since the train will run at a massive height in some areas and over the flyovers also, it will be quite a sight. Many passengers will love to travel sitting in the cabin and hence we are considering this option,” an official said. Important equipment like control and emergency systems inside the cabin will be covered with a lock. There will also be an attender in case the train stops midway due to glitches, officials said. “Passengers will get to travel on these trains first on the stretch between Poonamallee and Power House as this will get ready first for operations in another four years,” an official said. The phase II trains will have three coaches initially and then six, a change from the existing phase I project where there are four coaches in each train. The construction work for tunnels, viaducts and stations for the phase II project will start this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-phase-ii-riders-can-sit-in-the-metro-train-drivers-cabin/article34057420.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘All recent cases tracked to marriages, funerals’||All recent COVID-19 cases were tracked to marriages and non-COVID-19 funeral gatherings where crowds did not follow Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), including wearing of masks. This was compounded by persons approaching private doctors or self-testing and opting for home isolation without maintaining safety norms of having separate rooms and individual toilets, which led to spread within families and neighbouring apartments, said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. In a communication to district officials, he said persons flouting home quarantine, which resulted in family members getting infected and local clusters, may be admitted to institutions such as hospitals or COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC). Prescribing home isolation by private doctors could be avoided for some time, if needed, he said. The COVID-19 norms apply to political, cultural and other activities. At the time of granting permission, the authorities should insist on an undertaking that norms such as wearing of masks would be followed. Marriages and function halls, including hotels where functions were organised, should be held accountable. “Unlike March last year, now clinical protocol is standardised and health facilities have been upgraded and oxygen capacity has increased. Chennai still has a backup of 4,000 beds in Athipet. Other districts should have a backup for CCCs for keeping asymptomatic cases,” he said. In the last three days of inspection of markets, containment zones, marriage halls and railway stations, it was distressing to find nextto-nil mask adherence, the Health Secretary added. Considering the rise in cases in a few districts, he said that a 24-hour Collectorate control room should be made functional by deputing health officials. “Flying squads are formed using RBSK vehicles, which are already being used as fever monitoring mobile teams since COVID-19 started last year in each of the 385 blocks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-recent-cases-tracked-to-marriages-funerals/article34057439.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Owaisi questions DMK’s tie-up with Congress||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday questioned the DMK’s claim of being secular, asking why it had joined hands with the Congress that supported the “communal” Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. The Hyderabad MP said the DMK lacked political courtesy because it had revoked an invitation extended to him for an event of the party’s minority wing in January. Speaking at an event, in which the manifesto of its ally, the AMMK, was released, Mr. Owaisi said his party joined hands with the AMMK, led by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, because he treated Muslims with respect. He asked why the DMK, which had allied with the BJP in the past, was calling it “communal” now. The Shiv Sena was happy with the demolition of the Babri Masjid and the Congress had supported the party in Maharashtra, he said. “Is this your secularism? You are teaching us secularism,” he asked in remarks aimed at the DMK leadership. Releasing the AMMK manifesto, Mr. Dhinakaran said other parties were announcing impractical schemes, but the AMMK wanted to give a job to one member of every family. He urged the electorate not to fall prey to money distributed by political parties. The AMMK said it would clear the dues to sugarcane farmers from private and cooperative mills and promote organic pesticides and organic farming. An ‘Amma Gram Bank’ to encourage young entrepreneurs, subsidies to those aged below 40 for buying two-wheelers and protecting the interests of all communities availing themselves of the 69% communal reservation were among the other promises. The party also vowed to revive the bicameral legislature in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owaisi-questions-dmks-tie-up-with-congress/article34057444.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan to contest from Coimbatore South||After much deliberations, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan announced on Friday that he will contest from the Coimbatore South seat in the Assembly election. According to party sources, Coimbatore South seat was deemed ‘safe’ since the Dravidian majors had allotted the seat to their allies — the BJP and the Congress. A number of Assembly constituencies in the South Chennai and Coimbatore Lok Sabha constituencies, where the party had polled more than one lakh votes in the Lok Sabha election in 2019, were under consideration. The brainstorming over which seat he should contest from continued until Thursday night. Alandur, T. Nagar, Velachery and Mylapore were some of the constituencies under consideration from South Chennai. With the DMK and the AIADMK fielding strong candidates in Alandur, Velachery, T. Nagar and Mylapore, it was decided that Mr. Haasan should contest from Coimbatore South. Party sources also said that vice-president Dr. R. Mahendran had worked systematically in Coimbatore for the Lok Sabha poll and has since then created a strong party structure in the district. Dr. Mahendran will contest from Singanallur constituency. Former IAS officer Dr. Santhosh Babu has been fielded from the Velachery constituency and will face AIADMK and Congress candidates. Sripriya in Mylapore Actor Sripriya has been fielded in Mylapore, where she will compete against T. Velu of the DMK and incumbent R. Natraj of the AIADMK. Veteran politician Pa. Zha. Karuppiah has been fielded from T. Nagar.  The Coimbatore South seat was deemed ‘safe’ since the Dravidian majors had allotted the seat to their allies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-to-contest-from-coimbatore-south/article34057397.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai, four districts account for 67% of fresh COVID-19 cases||A total of 670 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, taking the overall tally to 8,58,272. Chennai along with Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur accounted for 67% of the fresh cases. There were 265 cases in Chennai followed by 57 in Chengalpattu, 51 in Coimbatore, 44 in Tiruvallur and 31 in Tiruppur. In Thanjavur, 23 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while Kancheepuram and Erode recorded 18 and 17 cases respectively. A total of 25 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. The number of persons who were under treatment stood at 4,483. Of this, Chennai accounted for 1,961. Another 527 persons, including 258 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. Till date, 8,41,250 persons were discharged. The State recorded four more fatalities — three in Chennai and one in Tiruvallur. Three of them were in their 80s. An 81-year-old woman from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital on March 1 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for three days. She died on March 10 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. With this, the State’s toll stood at 12,539. In the last 24 hours, 65,109 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 1,81,51,986. Vaccination in T.N. On Friday, 94,282 persons received the COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu, taking the overall coverage till date to 13,00,446. The number of senior citizens inoculated so far crossed 3 lakh. Of the 94,282 persons, majority of them - 76,528 persons - received the vaccines at government COVID-19 vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-4-districts-account-for-67-of-fresh-cases/article34057441.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Title conferred on Carnatic vocalist||Naadhabrahmam United Gyan Academi (NUGA) on Thursday conferred the title of Naadha Sevaka on Carnatic vocalist Papanasam Ashok Ramani at an event to celebrate Maha Sivarathri in the city. Madras High Court judge V. Sivagnanam, who conferred the title, also inaugurated the Naadhabrahmam All-Night Music Marathon on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, he said Thiruvasagam and Thevaram , which were Tamil works on Lord Siva, must be preserved and passed on to the coming generations. Naadhabrahmam founder N. Subramanian said since not many people had started going out for concerts, he chose to hold live online concerts on such occasions. Mridangam vidwan Tiruvarur Bhaktavatsalam, who offered felicitations, said Mr. Ramani’s repertoire was impressive and he strove hard to teach and train his students. After the felicitation, several artistes performed live, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/title-conferred-on-carnatic-vocalist/article34057421.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver stabbed for demanding extra fare||An autorickshaw driver was stabbed by a passenger in Koyambedu after asking for extra fare. The police said the victim, N. Selvaraj, a resident of Maduravoyal, drove a customer to the CMBT on Thursday. Once there, the auto driver allegedly demanded extra fare over the agreed amount. In the ensuing argument, the passenger stabbed him using a knife and fled. The police traced the suspect and arrested him. He was identified as Kishore Joseph, 35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-stabbed-for-demanding-extra-fare/article34057406.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New IOB director takes charge||S. Srimathy has taken charge as the executive director of Indian Overseas Bank. According to a press release, Ms. Srimathy, a postgraduate in commerce with a Masters in Business Administration and a certified associate of the Indian Institute of Banking & Finance, joined Canara Bank as a probationary officer in November 1986 and then became chief general manager. She was also deputed as the chief vigilance officer of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) in July 2018, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-iob-director-takes-charge/article34057408.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK releases third list||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) on Friday released its third list of candidates for 130 constituencies for the coming Assembly election. It decided to field former Tiruchi Mayor Sarubala R. Thondaman in Srirangam and shift R. Manoharan, who was originally given the seat, to Tiruchi (East). K. Kathirkamu, who was disqualified by Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal in September 2017, was renominated for Periyakulam. With the release of the third list, the party has named candidates for 195 constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-releases-third-list/article34057425.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘India owes a lot to freedom fighters’||The country owed a lot in to freedom fighters, who silently underwent suffering in the long struggle that involved enormous sacrifices and hardships, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said here on Friday. Participating as the chief guest at a function to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence, Mr. Purohit said he was happy to note that the Prime Minister of India was launching the opening ceremony of ‘ Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ at Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad in commemoration of the 91st anniversary of the historic Salt Satyagraha (Dandi March), which was led by Mahatma Gandhi. “We are the fastest-growing emerging economy of the world... India is self-reliant and is respected all over the world not only for its political and economic stability but also for its deep cultural roots and social cohesion,” the Governor said. He recalled the contributions of Subramanya Bharati, Tiruppur Kumaran, Veerapandia Kattabomman, Veera Mangai Velu Nachiyar and other freedom fighters from south India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-owes-a-lot-to-freedom-fighters/article34057434.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TMC names candidates for 6 seats||The Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) on Friday named its candidates for the six Assembly constituencies allotted to it by the AIADMK under the National Democratic Alliance in the State. On AIADMK symbol The party will be fielding P.L. Kalyani in Thiru Vi. Ka Nagar (reserved); M. Yuvaraja in Erode East; D.R. Dharmaraj in Lalgudi, the constituency ceded by the AIADMK to the TMC; N.R. Rangarajan in Pattukottai; S.D.R. Vijayaseelan in Thoothukudi; and K.V. Jude Dev in Killiyur. The party’s candidates will fight the poll on the AIADMK’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-names-candidates-for-6-seats/article34057424.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Imayam wins Sahitya Akademi Award||Tamil writer Imayam, who calls himself a writer of the Dravidian movement and captures the stark realities of the caste system and the lives of Mahadalits, won the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2020 for his novel Sellatha Panam . “I dedicate the award to the leaders of the Justice Party and the Dravidian Movement, particularly Periyar, Anna and Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi], and Ambedkar,” he told The Hindu.  He is the first writer from ‘Nadu Nadu’ — Cuddalore, Villupuram and Arcot districts — of Tamil Nadu to win the award.    Sellatha Panam is about how money is rendered useless in a family that rejects its daughter for marrying a man from outside the community: after Revathi commits self-immolation, her parents rush her to hospital with money and plead with the doctors to save her. But the doctors declare that the money has lost its value. Asked why he refused to be called a Dalit writer since he was writing about people on the fringes of society, Imayam, a schoolteacher, said it would be unfair to have such an identity while writing against the caste system and the shame associated with it. “I will become a supporter of a caste system. Can I become a good writer if I bear the humiliating identities of a caste system? Critics may call me a Dalit writer because they are casteists,” he said. Born V. Annamalai in Cuddalore district, Imayam has written six novels, six short-story collections and a novella. In 2019, his first novel Koveru Kazhuthaikal , translated into English as Burden of Beast , completed 25 years. The story revolves around the lives of Puthirai Vannar, washermen who work for the other untouchables. It also won the Iyal Lifetime Achievement Award instituted by Tamil Literary Garden, Toronto. “What moves me the most in Imayam’s works are his women. Though most of them come from the margins, they are never presented as victims. However small their role, they exercise agency, and one admires them for that. The grit with which his women face life is amazing — captured in Tamil for the first time with an everydayness that goes almost unnoticed,” theatre personality A. Mangai wrote in The Hindu in 2019. His novella Pethavan poignantly tells the story of the problems faced by a family when their daughter falls in love with a Dalit. Though it bears a close resemblance to the love affair of Divya and Ilavarasan in Dharmapuri, it was written before the tragedy occurred. In this case, the father comes to the rescue of his daughter. When the caste Hindus in the village bring pressure on Pazhani to kill his daughter Bhakkiyam by pouring pesticide in her mouth, Pazhani consumes poison after making sure that she has reached her lover. His latest work Vaazhga Vaazhga is about the loss of innocent lives at political events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imayam-wins-sahitya-akademi-award/article34057430.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||e-EPIC camps set up in Chennai||Special Correspondent   Starting Saturday, the Chennai district election office will conduct e-EPIC camps at 1,056 polling locations in the city. Electors who have not received their EPIC cards have been asked to visit the camps to get assistance in downloading the e-EPIC, which will be accepted by officials during polling. Over 80,000 first-time voters are expected to visit the camps in the 16 Assembly constituencies of Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-epic-camps-set-up-in-chennai/article34057405.ece
13 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two file nominations on the first day in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district saw two persons filing nominations on Friday, the first day of the seven-day period the Election Commission of India had given for filing nominations for the 2021 Assembly election. Pon. Karthikeyan (49) of Indu Makkal Katchi filed his papers to contest in the Sulur Assembly constituency. Sources said he had no criminal cases, had shown Rs. 2.53 lakh in moveable assets and Rs. 2.25 crore in immoveable assets. The second nomination was that of V.K. Mandhracsalam (50) in the Coimbatore North Assembly constituency. Sources said he had shown moveable assets worth around Rs. 2 lakh and immoveable assets worth around Rs. 2 crore.  Tiruppur Three candidates filed their papers for two Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district. Officials said two candidates filed their papers for Kangeyam Assembly constituency and one for Tiruppur North Assembly constituency. At the Kangeyam taluk office, R. Immanuel from Panangattu Padai Katchi and N. Sukumaran, an Independent candidate, filed their nominations. At the Tiruppur Corporation Zone-I office, V. Senthilkumar from Anna Puratchi Thalaivar Amma Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam filed his nomination papers for Tiruppur North constituency, the officials said.  Expenditure Observers The Election Commission has appointed four Expenditure Observers for Tiruppur district with one for two Assembly constituencies. Amit Pratap Singh, a 2009 batch IRS officer, was appointed for Dharapuram (Reserved) and Kangeyam constituencies and Suhashini Gotmare, a 2002 batch Indian Audit and Accounts Service officer, was appointed for Avinashi (Reserved) and Tiruppur North constituencies. Shyam Prasad Katipalli, a 2009 batch IRS officer, will be the Expenditure Observer for Tiruppur South and Palladam constituencies and 2010 batch IRS officer Basant Kumar was appointed for Udumalpet and Madathukulam constituencies. Ms. Gotmare and Mr. Kumar on Friday met Collector and District Election Officer K. Vijayakarthikeyan, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-file-nominations-on-the-first-day-in-coimbatore/article34057458.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘955 free reconstructive surgeries done in nine years’||As many as 955 reconstructive surgeries for victims of fire accidents were performed free of cost in the past nine years under the ‘Hope after Fire’ project, said S. Raja Sabapathy, chairman of Division of Plastic Surgery, Hand Surgery, Reconstructive Microsurgery and Burns at Ganga Hospital, during the launch of the third phase of the project here recently. The initiative was launched in 2012 as a joint initiative of Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis and Ganga Hospital, a release said. At the event held in Ganga Hospital recently, Dr. Sabapathy, who is also the project director of ‘Hope after Fire’, said that 574 patients had been the beneficiaries so far and the project value including assessment, surgery, physiotherapy and rehabilitation had been around Rs. 5.66 crore so far. Actor Karthi Sivakumar, who was the chief guest at the event, commended the project and expressed the hope that more patients would be benefited in future. Managing director of Milky Mist Dairy T. Sathish Kumar and Rotary Governor Elect Rajasekaran were the guests of honour at the launch event, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/955-free-reconstructive-surgeries-done-in-nine-years/article34057460.ece
13 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore South: a hotly contested seat||Coimbatore South has suddenly been elevated to a key Assembly constituency because of high-profile candidates. The constituency will see a contest among a party president, the national president of a party’s women’s wing and in all probability the working president of the State unit of another party. With Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan announcing his candidature for the Coimbatore South constituency, the Bharatiya Janata Party is most likely to field its national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan and the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee its working president Mayura S. Jayakumar, elevating the profile of the constituency as never before. While talk of the candidature of Ms. Srinivasan and Mr. Jayakumar had been doing the rounds for quite sometime, Mr. Haasan’s announcement caught everyone off guard. Incidentally, Ms. Srinivasan and Mr. Jayakumar had contested in the Coimbatore South constituency in the last Assembly election and stood third and second securing 33,113 and 42,369 votes respectively. Political observers said the reason for MNM fielding Mr. Haasan in Coimbatore South and its vice-president R. Mahendran in Singanallur was that the party had done well in the 2019 Parliamentary election in the two Assembly segments that formed part of the Coimbatore Parliamentary constituency. Though the party had polled the highest in Kavundampalayam (33,594 votes) Assembly segment, the MNM still chose Coimbatore South and Singanallur because they were more urbanised vis-à-vis Kavundampalayam. In Coimbatore South, Mr. Mahendran, who was the party’s candidate in the 2019 Parliament election, polled 23,838 votes and in Singanallur 28,634. The observers said all eyes would be on Coimbatore South for an interesting, closely fought battle, what with the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam fielding former MLA R. Doraisamy alias Challenger Dorai, who won the seat in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-south-a-hotly-contested-seat/article34057453.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Changes in operation of train services announced||The Salem Division of Southern Railway on Friday announced changes in operation of train services on March 15 and 17 due to construction works pertaining to rebuilding bridges between Coimbatore and Podanur Junctions. Diversion A release said five trains would be diverted in the Irugur – Podanur section and would bypass Coimbatore Junction on these two days. The trains are No. 03351 Dhanbad – Alappuzha special train, Train No. 02626 New Delhi – Thiruvananthapuram special train, Train No. 02677 KSR Bengaluru – Ernakulam Intercity special train, Train No.03352 Alappuzha – Dhanbad special train and Train No.02678 Ernakulam – KSR Bengaluru Intercity special train. All these trains would stop at Podanur Junction to the timings of the stoppage at Coimbatore Junction on March 15 and 17, the release said. Train No.06607 Kannur – Coimbatore special train would be stopped at Podanur Junction and would not run to Coimbatore on March 15 and 17. Similarly, Train No.06608 Coimbatore – Kannur special train would not leave from Coimbatore Junction and would instead leave from Podanur Junction at the usual time on March 15 and 17, the release said. Doubling works Due to engineering block for doubling works in Solapur Division of Central Railway, two special trains would be diverted between Karur – Thane on specified dates, the release added. Train No. 06339 Mumbai CSMT – Nagercoil special train, which is scheduled to leave Mumbai CSMT on March 13, 16, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24, 25, 27, 30 and 31 and Train No. 06340 Nagercoil – Mumbai CSMT special train, leaving Nagercoil on March 15, 16, 17, 19, 22, 23, 24, 26, 29, 30 and 31, would run via Karur, Erode, Shoranur, Mangalore, Madgaon, Ratnagiri, Panvel and Thane Junctions in the above dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-in-operation-of-train-services-announced/article34057454.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for poll duty||The Coimbatore District Police on Friday invited applications from retired Sub-Inspectors, Constables and Army officers to be involved as special officers for election bandobast duty. A release said those retired officers in optimal health condition shall submit two photocopies of their voter identity cards at the Election Cell of the Coimbatore District Police. For details, interested may contact the Election Cell at 94981 70685. Unaccounted cash seized in Tiruppur Officials from a Static Surveillance Team on Friday seized unaccounted cash worth Rs. 1.5 lakh from a car during a vehicle check near Thirumuruganpoondi within Tiruppur North Assembly constituency. The cash was handed over to the treasury, officials said. Earlier in the day, a Flying Squad team seized over 200 bags of rice transported from a rice mill on Avinashi – Tiruppur road and later handed it over after examining the evidence produced by the mill owner, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-poll-duty/article34057462.ece
13 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 4.25 lakh seized in 4 constituencies||Flying squad and static surveillance teams on Friday seized Rs. 4.25 lakh in four of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district. According to sources, teams in Sulur seized Rs. 1.80 lakh, Coimbatore South Rs. 3,550 and 240 liquor bottles, Pollachi Rs. 1.52 lakh and teams in Valparai seized Rs. 90,000. And, the district administration had also released Rs. 2.24 lakh of the Rs. 55.86 lakh it had seized thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-425-lakh-seized-in-4-constituencies/article34057468.ece
13 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Favourable conditions for Haasan: Mahendran||Coimbatore district being a place that always led change from the front, the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) party organisational strength and the party cadres’ desire led party president Kamal Haasan to choose the Coimbatore South Assembly constituency to contest the 2021 Assembly election, said the party vice-president R. Mahendran. “Though the party had identified 30 Assembly constituencies, Coimbatore South stood on top the list,” he told journalists at a press meet held at the Coimbatore airport on Friday. Corruption The MNM’s fight in this election would be to break the shackles of corruption that was witnessed by the State in the last 10 years, Mr. Mahendran said. Though Pollachi was his native and Mr. Haasan had spoken about the sexual assault case that took place in the town, they chose to contest from Singanallur and Coimbatore South Assembly constituencies for the aforementioned reasons, Mr. Mahendran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/favourable-conditions-for-haasan-mahendran/article34057456.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||468 cases registered in West Zone for poll code violation||A total of 468 cases were registered for the violation of the Model Code of Conduct in the eight districts under the West Zone of Tamil Nadu Police between February 25 and March 11. A release from the Office of the Inspector General of Police – West Zone said the police of Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts intensified vigil in the past two weeks as part of maintaining law and order ahead of the Assembly elections. The Namakkal district police registered the maximum number of violation cases in the given period with 139 cases, followed by Tiruppur district with 80 cases and Salem district with 65 cases. The officials from Flying Squads and Static Surveillance Teams seized cash of around Rs. 2.73 crore and gift items worth around Rs. 80.2 lakh in the eight districts between February 25 and March 10, the release said. Goondas Act A total of 18 accused were detained under Goondas Act in the eight districts of the West Zone from February 25 to March 10. The police cracked down on 941 history-sheeters in the eight districts, including those categorised as ‘A plus’ rowdies by the police, the release said. Illegal firearms A total of 20 persons were arrested for possession of 19 illegal firearms in the West Zone till March 10. With the Model Code of Conduct being in force, 6,107 firearms were deposited in the nearby police stations by licensed gun owners in all the eight districts as of March 10, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/468-cases-registered-in-west-zone-for-poll-code-violation/article34057469.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMDK man’s car torched||A case has been registered in connection with the alleged torching of the car of a DMDK functionary. Chinnasetu, a DMDK functionary from Kurichi, parked his car outside his residence on Thursday night and he found the car damaged due to fire on Friday morning, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-mans-car-torched/article34057600.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMDK functionary’s car torched||The Podanur police on Friday registered a case in connection with the alleged torching of the car of a DMDK functionary. The police said Chinnasetu, a DMDK functionary from Kurichi, parked his car outside his residence on Thursday night and he found the car damaged due to fire on Friday morning. Based on his complaint, the police registered a case. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-functionarys-car-torched/article34057466.ece
13 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Voters’ awareness campaign||Collector K. Rajamani on Friday launched the SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation Program) programme at a shopping mall by releasing a giant balloon and unfurling a signature board. The balloon tied to the mall terrace emphasised wearing mask and casting vote. He also launched the signature campaign by being the first to sign on the board. The district administration had released a similar balloon and placed a signature board at the Collectorate as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voters-awareness-campaign/article34057467.ece
13 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Sampath files papers from Cuddalore||Tamil Nadu Industries Minister M.C. Sampath on Friday filed his nomination papers from Cuddalore for the April 6 Assembly election. Mr. Sampath submitted the documents to Returning Officer-cum-Revenue Divisional Officer P. Jagatheeswaran around 1.20 p.m. Later, talking to mediapersons, he said the AIADMK-led alliance would win in all the 234 Assembly segments in the State because of the implementation of various welfare schemes, particularly for women and the downtrodden. Cuddalore district is disaster-prone and natural calamities have been a recurrent phenomenon in the district. But the government acted swiftly and restored everything that was damaged during the recent Nivar and Burevi cyclones, he said. Apart from Mr. Sampath, an Independent candidate submitted his papers in the Chidambaram seat, an official said. None of the candidates in the seven Assembly segments in Villupuram district filed nominations on Friday. In Kallakurichi, an Independent candidate filed his papers for the Ulundurpet segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sampath-files-papers-from-cuddalore/article34057877.ece
13 March 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||PMK cadre stage protest in Paapireddypatti||Cadre of the Paatali Makkal Katchi (PMK) on Friday staged a demonstration in Paapireddypatti here over the allotment of the constituency to All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). As part of the seat-sharing arrangement, the AIADMK retained Paapireddypatti, which it won during the 2019 Assembly bypolls. Govindasamy, the AIADMK’s outgoing Paapireddipatty MLA, was given the ticket. However, the PMK cadre staged protest blockade here over the ceding of the seat to the AIADMK. One of the party men made a foiled bid to self-immolate. On the other hand, the AIAMDK cadre in Pennagaram staged counter-protest blockade over the allocation of the constituency to the PMK. PMK leader G.K. Mani is set to contest from Penangaram, also a Vanniyar stronghold.  PMK’s support was instrumental in the wresting of the Paapireddipatty constituency for the AIADMK during the by-elections held over the vacation of the seats after the disqualification of rebel MLAs. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam’s P. Palaniappan is set to contest from the seat again this election. The PMK has been given two seats in Dharmapuri district - Dharmapuri Assembly constituency and Pennagaram Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-cadre-stage-protest-in-paapireddypatti/article34057597.ece
13 March 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||DMK bats for sitting MLAs in Dindigul||The DMK, which released the list of candidates contesting in the Assembly election, has given tickets to their sitting MLAs in the district. Senior MLA and DMK deputy general secretary I. Periasami has been again given the ticket to contest from Athur Assembly constituency. In Oddanchatram, sitting MLA R Chakrapani is the candidate. He was the party whip in 2006. The Palani Assembly constituency has been given to I. P. Senthil Kumar, son of Mr Periasami. He is the east district secretary of the DMK. Sitting MLA M. A. Andi Ambalam will be trying his luck again from the Natham Assembly constituency, while S. Gandhirajan is the candidate from Vedasandur segment. The DMK has given the Dindigul Assembly to CPI (M) and Nilakottai to another ally, the party members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-bats-for-sitting-mlas-in-dindigul/article34057572.ece
13 March 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul Srinivasan files nomination||Sitting MLA and Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan filed his nomination papers for contesting from the Dindigul Assembly constituency here on Friday. Speaking to reporters, the veteran politician said that with the fullest satisfaction of having fulfilled all the promises made in 2016, the AIADMK candidates sought the cooperation from voters in the 2021 elections as well. Though the late leader Jayalalithaa was no more, the outgoing government headed by Edappadi K. Palaniswami had lived up to the expectations of the people. The law and order maintenance, the COVID-19 management, handling the floods and cyclones by the Disaster Management Department were lauded by many other State governments and the Centre. The highlight of the AIADMK government was the horizontal reservation of 7.5 % given to the plus two students passing out from the government schools for entry into medical colleges, Mr Srinivasan said and wished the people would again give a thumping win to the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outgoing-govt-has-lived-up-to-the-expectations-of-the-people/article34057583.ece
13 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Filing of nominations for Assembly election begins in districts||On the first day of filing nominations for the Tamil Nadu Assembly election, seven candidates filed their papers in Salem district, and one each in Erode and Namakkal districts. In Salem, arrangements were made at 11 centres in the district, which has 11 Assembly constituencies, for receiving nominations from candidates. According to election officials, two nominations were filed in Mettur constituency, three in Edappadi constituency and two in Salem North constituency. Candidates from prominent parties did not file their nomination on the first day. Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order) R. Chandrashekar said that about 300 police personnel have been deployed at the centres in Salem North, Salem West, Salem South and Veerapandi constituencies for security purpose. Seventy-five personnel, including Armed Reserve and Tamil Nadu Special Police, have been deployed at each centre. police sources said In Salem rural limits, the nominations were received at Gangavalli, Attur (reserve), Yercaud (Reserve), Omalur, Mettur, Edappadi and Sankari. According to police, a total of 216 personnel have been deployed at the centres. According to police, each centre had a team comprising a DSP, an inspector, five sub-inspectors and 20 police personnel for security purpose. In Erode, an independent candidate filed his nomination on Friday. Sixty-two-year-old K.S. ‘Kovanam’ Thangavel of Kuttapalayam on Kalingarayan Road filed his papers with P. Jeyarani, Returning Officer, Modakkurichi Assembly constituency. No other candidates turned up to file their papers. Earlier in the day, police personnel were posted at the entrance of the Returning Officers’ offices to ensure that only two persons accompanied the candidates while filing the papers. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said that nominations would be received by the Returning Officers or Assistant Returning Officers of respective constituencies between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. from March 15 to 19. In Namakkal, arrangements were made at six centres -- tahsildhar offices at Rasipuram, Senthamangalam, Kumarapalayam and Paramathi-Vellur and the District Revenue Office at Namakkal and Tiruchengode -- to receive nominations for elections to six Assembly constituencies in the district. T. Ramesh, a Gandhian, filed his nominations to contest from Namakkal constituency. According to police, about 100 police personnel were deployed for security purpose at the centres. Mandeep Singh Paramar, Expenditure Observer for Kumarapalayam and Tiruchengode constituencies, interacted with the Returning Officers during his visit to the nomination filing centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filing-of-nominations-for-assembly-election-begins-in-districts/article34057607.ece
13 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for possession, sale of ganja||Four persons, including a man and his son, who were in possession of ganja for sale were arrested by the Anthiyur police here. While patrolling in Tavittupalayam on Sakthi Road, the police intercepted a car and two motorcycles and found 21 kg banned substance being transported for sale. The arrested were S. Jeyapandi (49), his son J. Sivapandi (26) of Palaniyappa Street, his brother-in-law S. Pandi (40) of Parayur, and E. Ramesh alias Govindaraj (26) of Nallampalayam in Coimbatore.  Inquiries revealed that Jeyapandi and his family members were involved in selling snacks for 20 years. He was also selling the banned substance wholesale and retail. A case under 8 (c) r/w 20 (b) (ii) (C) (involving commercial quantity) of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, was registered and all the four were arrested. The vehicles used for transporting the contraband were also seized. The accused were produced in a court and lodged in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-possession-sale-of-ganja/article34057599.ece
13 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two shops sealed, three hotels fined for non-adherence to COVID-19 norms||An automobile shop and a mobile service shop were sealed, while three hotels near the bus stand were fined Rs. 5,000 each for not adhering to COVID-19 norms here on Friday. During a surprise inspection by District Collector C. Kathiravan at the establishments in and around the bus stand premises, he did not find sanitisers and thermal scanners at the entry points. The cooks were not wearing masks. He instructed the officials to impose a fine of Rs. 5,000 each on three hotels. Later, an automobile shop and a mobile service centre on Perundurai Road were sealed for non-compliance to the norms. Officials said the seals would be removed only after three days. Earlier in the day, Mr. Kathiravan inspected the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market functioning on the V.O.C. Ground and instructed officials to fine traders who were not wearing masks. A fine of Rs. 200 was levied on five traders for not wearing masks. The Collector also inspected the Corporation’s Central Bus Terminal where a private bus conductor was fined for not wearing mask. Mr. Kathiravan told the press persons that there were chances of virus spread and hence it was necessary for the public, traders and establishments to adhere to the norms. “If the second wave of COVID-19 starts during elections, it will affect all and hence it is necessary to follow the norms by wearing masks, ensuring personal distancing and washing hands with sanitiser and soap,” he added. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, Erode Corporation Executive Engineer Vijayakumar, City Health Officer Murali Shankar and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-shops-sealed-three-hotels-fined-for-non-adherence-to-covid-19-norms/article34057598.ece
13 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco helpline numbers to register complaints||Complaints related to damaged electric poles or snapped electric wires can be taken up with the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO) officials, for which contact details have been given. A release asked people to desist from tying rope in electric posts for drying clothes and also not to tie cattle to the posts. Advertisement materials should not be placed on posts or electric boxes and also seek the help of an electricity board for cutting branches of trees near the lines. Complaints related to snapped electric wire or damaged electric posts can be taken up with officials concerned. Complaints can be lodged with Town division - Executive Engineer, Operations and Maintenance at 94458 52170; South division – Executive Engineer, Distribution at 94458 52180, and Perundurai division – Executive Engineer, Operations and Maintenance at 94458 52190, WhatsApp Helpline Number: 94458 51912. For rectification of power cuts, consumers can lodge complaints at 0424-2260066 and 0424-2240896.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-helpline-numbers-to-register-complaints/article34057603.ece
13 March 2021||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||Flooding community with a message||R. Srikanth   The Kancheepuram Collectorate has gone one step ahead to ensure 100% voter participation. It is spreading the message through token slips issued to patients visiting government hospitals, by pasting stickers on autorickshaws and also on the application forms for admitting patients to the primary health centres. In some instances, the district officials are calling the electors to reject money for vote with the message ‘No Note for Vote’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flooding-community-with-a-message/article34057568.ece
13 March 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Officials complain of abuse by Minister||Minister for Information and AIADMK candidate for Kovilpatti Assembly constituency Kadambur C. Raju allegedly verbally abused and threatened the members of a flying squad when they checked his vehicle near on Friday. Police sources said the flying squad stopped the cars of Mr. Raju and his supporters at Oothupatti intersection near Nalattinpudhur. When the officials, led by Kasirajan, checked the cars,Mr. Raju allegedly abused them verbally and threatened them. Mr. Kasirajan filed a complaint with Nalattinpudhur police. The police have issued a CSR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-complain-of-abuse-by-minister/article34057915.ece
13 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Child labour increased during pandemic’||There has been a significant increase in the proportion of working children from 28.2% to 79.6% out of the 818 children who were surveyed, mainly because of the COVID-19 pandemic and closure of schools, reveals a study conducted by Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL). CACL State Convenor R. Karuppusamy released the rapid survey titled ‘COVID-19: Reversing the Situation of Child Labour’. The study conducted in 24 districts of the State showed that child labour had rapidly increased in North, South and Eastern districts of the state. The survey was conducted by interviewing children in the age category 6 to 18 during September and November 2020. The survey showed that child labour increased to around 280% among the vulnerable communities. “Children from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes and those from lower economic background had to work to financially support their families during the pandemic,” said Mr. Karuppusamy. The survey found that children were working in bakery shops, book stalls, two wheeler service workshops, newspaper distribution, ration shops, vegetable shops and as domestic helpers. Children were involved in at least 23 different types of occupations in the service sector. Most of the older children were found to be working for more than eight hours a day. Nearly 18.6% of the children who were surveyed said that they often face physical, mental and verbal abuse from their employers. Children, depending upon their age, earned between Rs. 100 and Rs. 400 as wages per day. According to the survey, more than 94% of children have said that the economic crisis at home and family pressure had pushed them into work. Most of their parents had lost their jobs or earned very low wages during the pandemic. A small percentage of children said that they started to work in order to buy smartphones. Mr. Karuppusamy emphasised the steps that needed to be taken to ensure that the students attend the schools. The government must increase the rate of wages offered under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, especially in rural areas. This is essential to create more jobs for adults. Vulnerable families should be covered under comprehensive social protection schemes to ensure a decent living. He suggested that labour laws and regulations must be strictly enforced. Child Protection Committees should work efficiently to identify vulnerable children and support their families through social protection schemes. The school teachers must ensure that all students who were studying earlier are brought back to schools, he added. CACL zonal and district convenors also participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-labour-increased-during-pandemic/article34057781.ece
13 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DMK to contest from six out of 10 Assembly constituencies in Madurai district||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which will contest in six out of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district, has announced that two out of the three sitting MLAs of the party would again contest from their respective constituencies. The two sitting MLAs — P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan and P. Moorthy — would again contest for Madurai Central and Madurai East constituencies respectively. However, P. Saravanan of DMK who won the by-election of Tirupparankundram constituency, was not given a constituency to contest in the upcoming elections. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) will contest from Tirupparankundram, for which the candidate has not yet been announced. In Tirumangalam constituency, the DMK has fielded M. Manimaran to contest against AIADMK Minister R.B. Udhayakumar. DMK candidate C. Chinnammal, a former councillor, will contest in Madurai West constituency against AIADMK Minister Sellur K. Raju. G. Thalapathi, who was the MLA of Sedapatti constituency in 1996, will contest from Madurai North. The DMK has announced that A. Venkatesan will contest from Sholavandan constituency. M. Boominathan of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will contest from Madurai South constituency. The Indian National Congress, an ally of the DMK, has not yet announced a candidate to contest from Melur constituency. P.V. Kathiravan, a former MLA from All India Forward Bloc, will contest from Usilampatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-contest-from-six-out-of-10-assembly-constituencies-in-madurai-district/article34057782.ece
13 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Hassan moves High Court to quash FIRs against him||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday seeking to quash the First Information Reports registered against him by the Thoothukudi police and the Aravakurichi police in Karur district in two separate cases. In his separate petitions, Kamal Hassan sought the quash of the FIR registered against him by Thoothukudi police in connection with the anti-Sterlite protest. He sought the quash of the FIR registered against him by Aravakurichi police in connection with remarks he made about Nathuram Godse, Mahatma Gandhi's assassin, in Karur district. During the course of the hearing, the State informed the High Court that the probe in the Thoothukudi case was transferred to the CB-CID. Taking cognisance of the submission, Justice R. Hemalatha granted time to the petitioner to amend the petition and add the CB-CID as respondent. The case was adjourned. With regard to the petition pertaining to the Aravakurichi case, the State submitted that the police had filed the charge sheet in the case. Taking note of the submission, the judge dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-hassan-moves-high-court-to-quash-firs-against-him/article34057783.ece
13 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Buyer-seller meet from March 17||Madurai District Tiny and Small-Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) would be conducting the sixth edition of its buyer-seller meet from March 17 to 19, said MADITSSIA president B. Muruganantham and chairman of Vendor Development Trade Fair P.J. Bansidhar while addressing mediapersons here on Friday. The recent growth in automobile and light engineering industries has resulted in establishment of new units in Coimbatore and Chennai. Micro and small industries, especially from southern districts, are heading towards Chennai to meet these large establishments. Hence, MADITSSIA has organised this buyer-seller meet to connect small units with the large establishments. The meet is organised jointly by MADITSSIA and Union Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. The event is supported by Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Tamil Nadu, Small Industries Development Corporation, Entrepreneurship Development Institute, Chennai, and Small Industries Development Bank of India. Key industries from aerospace,defence, automobile and auto components, industrial equipment and machinery, rubber, textile, hydraulics, infrastructure development, tourism, chemicals and petrochemicals, shipping and cold storage would participate in the meet. Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant, Baba Atomic Research Centre, Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited, and TVS Sri Chakra Tyres will also participate. The inaugural event of the exhibition will be held at 11.30 a.m. at MADITSSIA Hall on March 17. J. Daniel Chellappa, eminent nuclear scientist, will inaugurate the exhibition and deliver the address. S. Anburajan, president, Tamil Nadu Small Scale Industries Association, will deliver the special address. R Gouthaman, assistant general manager, Madurai Region, Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited, will also participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buyer-seller-meet-from-march-17/article34057584.ece
13 March 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Boat from Kanniyakumari detained near Lakshadweep||The Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force have detained a boat from Kanniyakumari district for allegedly being used in poaching banned sea cucumber near an uninhibited island. When the Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force Watchers of Thinnakkara anti-poaching camp were on night patrol around Perumalpar uninhibited islands they caught red-handed the poachers when they were catching sea cucumbers in two mechanized boats. The officials seized 486 giant sized sea cucumbers, worth about Rs. 5.45 crore and the boats besides arresting seven poachers. The boats with the culprits were brought to Agatti Range Office headquarters for interrogation and Wildlife Offence Report (First Information Report) was registered against them under Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The poachers – Julius Nayagam of Kanniyakumari, Jeganath Das of South Delhi, Paran Das of West Bengal, Sajan of Thiruvananthapuram and Abdul Jaffar, Mohammed Hafeelu and Saqlain Mushtaq, all from Agatti in Lakshadweep – were produced before Judicial Magistrate of Amini Island and remanded in judicial custody. The inquiry also revealed that one of the two boats belongs to M. Rubin of Vilaagam Thoothur while the second vessel is owned by Abdul Jaffar from Agatti Islands. Chief Wildlife Warden Damodhar, who lauded the efforts of the team, led by Range Forest Officer Abdul Raheem, ordered further inquiry to unearth the people behind the poaching, the mode of transportation of sea cucumber, international trading etc., a statement from the Department of Environment and Forest from Union Territory of Lakshadweep Administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boat-detained/article34057571.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Respond to R.S. Bharathi’s appeal: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Tamil Nadu police to respond to an appeal by DMK parliamentarian R.S. Bharathi to quash a criminal case against him for making derogatory remarks against the Scheduled Caste community. The Madras High Court had refused to quash the case on February 22. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao issued notice to Assistant Commissioner of Police of Crime Branch and the complainant Kalyana Sundaram, an Athi Tamilar Makkal Katchi leader. They have to submit their responses in a fortnight. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the bench sought the responses on the plea within two weeks. “The ingredients of Section 3 (1) (u) of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 are not fulfilled. For an offence to be made out under Section 3 (1) (u) of the Act, the speaker is required to promote or attempt to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes,” the petition, filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, said. It said the petitioner had “merely stated the historical fact that the Dravidian Progressive Movement, with which he is involved since 1960s, improved and uplifted the lives of members of SC, ST and downtrodden communities in Tamil Nadu”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/respond-to-bharathis-plea-sc-tells-tn-police/article34057423.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nomination process begins for poll||The window for filing nominations for the upcoming election for the Puducherry Assembly opened on Friday with a formal notification for the poll on April 6. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar issued a gazette notification in this regard. However, no candidates filed their nominations on the first day. The last date for filing nominations is March 19, scrutiny of nominations will take place on March 20, and the deadline for withdrawal of candidature expires on March 22. There is a month-long gap between the single-phase polling to all 30 constituencies in the Union Territory and the counting of votes that is scheduled on May 2. According to the notification, the entire election process will have to be completed by May 4. According to the last count, there were 10,02,414 electors in the Union Territory. However, continuous updation of the electoral rolls is in progress, and it will continue till 10 days before the last date for filing nominations. The Election Commission of India “fixes the hours from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. as the hours during which the poll shall, if necessary, be taken,” the notification said. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, several measures are in place for the conduct of the election, such as more polling booths, hand gloves for voters to sign on the register and pressing the EVM button, and three queues for men, women and senior citizens and persons with disabilities. The elector strength has been restricted to 1,000 voters per booth. Accordingly, 607 new booths have been set up, taking the total from 952 to 1,559. The number of persons accompanying a candidate for filing nominations has been reduced to two from five, and vehicles to two from three. The number of volunteers for a candidate undertaking door-to-door campaign has been restricted to five. On the law and order front, additional forces of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) are expected to be deployed shortly to strengthen the existing security. The Elections Department has identified 154 vulnerable hamlets, 233 vulnerable booths and 16 critical booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nomination-process-begins-for-poll/article34057873.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G kicks off festival to mark 75 years of Independence||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan kick-started a year-long festival,Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav,at Gandhi Thidal here on Friday to celebrate 75 years of Indian Independence. A series of activities will be conducted over the next 75 weeks, continuing till August 15 next year, to mark 75 years of Independence. The Lt. Governor flagged off a boat rally with 75 boats. From her personal Twitter handle, Ms. Soundarajan posted: “Morning sunrise, the sea, 75 boats, patriotic songs in the air — initiatives towards remembering our freedom struggle. Excited to flag off this unique rally.” She also inaugurated a cycle rally with 75 students and initiated a drive to plant 75,000 plants by planting a sapling on the Promenade Beach here. The L-G later participated in the commemoration of the 91st anniversary of the Dandi March. A special event was held with students and NSS volunteers featuring an exposition of classical ragas and patriotic songs. After honouring veteran freedom fighters, Ms. Soundarajan told mediapersons that Puducherry was the land of freedom fighters and social reformers like Subramania Bharathi, Sri Aurobindo and Bharathidasan. She later left for the Telangana Raj Bhavan to join the celebrations there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-kicks-off-festival-to-mark-75-years-of-independence/article34057875.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||The contrasting fortunes of two Dravidian majors in Puducherry||The recent political churn in Puducherry, while altering the positions of the Congress and the All India N.R. Congress, has also led to contrasting fortunes for the two Dravidian parties — the AIADMK and the DMK. While the AIADMK has been left with fewer seats in the wake of the BJP playing an assertive role in the NDA, which also comprises the AINRC, the DMK has driven a hard bargain with the Congress to garner a higher share of seats. The Congress will now contest in 15 seats, six less than 2016, while the DMK will field 13 candidates and the VCK and CPI one each. The AIADMK, despite its considerable presence in the political landscape of the Union Territory, has been relegated to a junior partner in the NDA. While the AINRC will contest in 16 seats, the BJP Puducherry in-charge Nirmal Kumar Surana has indicated that the AIADMK might be given only four constituencies while the national party would keep 10 seats. “We have expressed our displeasure to our top leadership in Chennai. We have no choice but to abide by whatever the high command decides,” an AIADMK MLA told The Hindu.    Even if the AIADMK gets seven seats, it would be the first time in decades when it would field candidates in single digits. In2001, it won three out 18 seats in alliance with the PMK. Five years later, it won an equal number of seats while fighting in 18 constituencies in the company of the Puducherry Munnetra Congress. In 2011, the AIADMK won five of the 12 seats in alliance with the AINRC. During the last Assembly poll, the Dravidian party went alone in all 30 seats, winning four and garnering 13.4% of the votes polled. “We have been pushed to be a junior partner and a party [BJP] which lost deposit in 17 of the 18 seats it contested last time has been catapulted to being a senior partner,” another AIADMK member said. In contrast, the DMK had been driving a hard bargain with its senior partner, the Congress, in the Secular Progressive Alliance, following the turmoil in the national party after the recent desertions of its top leaders. Despite the DMK having had a very low strike rate in the 2016 Assembly election, now it is a significant player in the alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-contrasting-fortunes-of-two-dravidian-majors-in-puducherry/article34057868.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||30 fresh cases found in Puducherry||Puducherry recorded 30 fresh cases and 20 recoveries on Friday. Of the new cases, which were detected from 1,202 tests, 12 each were from Puducherry and Karaikal, and the remaining were under home isolation in Mahe. The number of active cases stood at 186 — 87 in hospitals and 99 under home isolation. The test positivity rate was 2.49%, the case fatality rate 1.68% and the recovery rate 97.86%. The case tally went up to 39,984 and recoveries rose to 39,128. The toll remained at 670 as no deaths have been reported in the Union Territory for the past few days. Of an estimated 6.44 lakh samples tested till date, 5.98 lakh have returned negative. Vaccine administered Meanwhile, 815 members of the public, 329 healthcare personnel and 219 frontline workers took the first shot of the COVID vaccine in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of persons immunised stands at 23,008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-fresh-cases-found-in-puducherry/article34057881.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former AINRC legislator joins Congress||Former All India N.R. Congress legislator Vaidyanathan on Friday joined the Congress. Mr. Vaidyanathan visited the PCC office and joined the party in the presence of former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam and PCC chief A.V. Subramanian. Mr. Vaidyanathan had won from the Lawspet constituency by contesting on an AINRC ticket in the 2011 election. After he was denied ticket by the party in the 2016 election, Mr. Vaidyanathan contested from the constituency as an Independent but failed to retain the seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-ainrc-legislator-joins-congress/article34057876.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cong., BJP workers clash near PCC office||Tension prevailed in front of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office on Friday following a tussle between the Congress and members of the women’s wing of the BJP. While the members of the women’s wing of the BJP were staging a protest against former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda for allegedly “insulting” women during an agitation against the fuel price hike in Haryana, Congress workers, who were holding a meeting at the PCC office, raised objections to the protest by the BJP near their office. The situation escalated and some Congress workers threw a flower vase and chappals (slippers) at the protesting women. The women workers of the BJP retaliated by throwing them back. The situation was brought under control after the intervention of personnel from the Grand Bazaar station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-bjp-workers-clash-near-pcc-office/article34057880.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AMMK allots four Assembly seats to SDPI||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) has allotted four Assembly constituencies in Puducherry to the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The seats are Nellithope, Ariyankuppam, Karaikal (North) and Mahe, according to a pact signed by leaders of the two parties, T.T. V. Dhinakaran and M. Thameem Kani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-allots-four-assembly-seats-to-sdpi/article34057869.ece
13 March 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to clash with DMK in four seats||Except two Assembly constituencies in Pudukottai district, the remaining four seats will witness a direct fight between the AIADMK and the DMK this time. The two parties will cross swords in Pudukottai, Viralimalai, Tirumayam and Alangudi constituencies while in Gandharvakottai (reserved) the clash is between the AIADMK and the CPI(M) and in Aranthangi seat it is between the AIADMK and the Congress. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar will contest for the second time in a row from the Viralimalai constituency which is also the case with the DMK sitting MLA S. Regupathy who will contest for the second consecutive time from Tirumayam segment. This is the second time in a row that the Aranthangi constituency is to witness a direct clash between the AIADMK and the Congress. Although the Congress was yet to officially release its list of candidates, talks are doing the rounds that the Aranthangi seat could be given to former Minister and Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar’s son T. Ramachandran. Notwithstanding opposition from a section of members of the DMK that the Aranthangi seat should not be given to the Congress a couple of days ago, the DMK high command went ahead and allocated it to the Congress this time too. The Congress candidate T. Ramachandran who put up a spirited fight in the 2016 elections from the Aranthangi seat lost by a margin of 2,291 votes to AIADMK’s E.A. Rathinasabhapathy who has not been given a ticket in the coming elections. The AIADMK and the DMK have retained the same nominees for the Viralimalai and Tirumayam Assembly seats. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar will take on M. Palaniappan of the DMK yet again from the Viralimalai seat from where the former won by a margin of 8,447 votes defeating the latter. The Tirumayam seat will again witness a clash between the sitting DMK MLA S. Regupathy and the AIADMK candidate P.K. Vairmathu- the party’s south district secretary and the chairman of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board. Mr. Vairamathu will be contesting for the third time in a row from the Tirumayam seat from where he had won in the 2011 polls. The DMK has retained the sitting MLA Siva Meyyanathan for the Alangudi seat to take on the AIADMK nominee Dharma. Thangavel who had a couple of months joined the AIADMK after quitting the Congress. A section of AIADMK cadre had vent their ire against the party's high command decision to field an ex-Congressman for the Alangudi seat The AIADMK’s nominee and former MLA Karthik Thondaiman will contest once again from the Pudukottai Assembly segment from where he lost by a margin of 2,084 votes to DMK’s Periyannan Arasu in the 2016 elections. Mr. Karthik Thondaiman will take on DMK nominee Dr. Muthuraja this time. In the 2011 elections, the DMK had wrested three seats from the AIADMK in Pudukottai district bagging Alangudi, Tirumayam and Pudukottai seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-to-clash-with-dmk-in-four-seats/article34057558.ece
13 March 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||DMK gives ticket to its Ramanathapuram district secretary||The DMK has given the ticket for Ramanathapuram Assembly constituency to its district secretary Kadarbasha Muthuramalingam. He has been associated with the party since the 1990s. He was the union chairman four times. The Paramakudi (Res) constituency has been given to S. Murugesan, 54. A businessman, manufacturing bricks, he was also a district panchayat council member. R. S. Raja Kannappan is the DMK's candidate for Mudukalathur Assembly segment. A long-time public figure, he was a powerful functionary in the AIADMK, where he had been Minister for Public Works Department, Electricity and Highways. In 2006, he joined the DMK and was elected to the Assembly from Ilayankudi. He contested in the Lok Sabha elections from Sivaganga constituency in 2009. Tiruvadanai Assembly constituency has been earmarked for Congress, an ally of the DMK. Sivaganga The DMK has named K. R. Periakaruppan to contest again from Tirupathur Assembly. The three-time MLA has been serving as the party's district secretary for almost two decades. He was a minister in M. Karunanidhi's cabinet. Manamadurai (Res) segment has been given to another former minister Tamilarasi. She was the Adi-Dravida Welfare Minister in Karunanidhi's cabinet. The Karaikudi seat has been given to the Congress and Sivaganga constituency will be contested by CPI, another ally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-gives-ticket-to-its-ramanathapuram-district-secretary/article34057573.ece
13 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||In Edappadi, it’s growth versus ryots’ sentiment||For Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, much is at stake on his home turf of Edappadi in Salem district. He is contesting from the seat for the sixth time since 1989, having lost only in 2006 to V. Kaveri of the PMK. For the first time, the constituency itself will vote for a chief ministerial candidate, whose stint at the helm will be under scrutiny even in his backyard. The constituency has undoubtedly benefited much with the Chief Minister as its representative in the Assembly. In his campaign, Mr. Palaniswami has not missed any opportunity to highlight rapid development in the region, including new flyovers, the Mettur surplus water scheme and the establishment of a livestock research institute in the district. Much as he denies, political watchers say he will have to reckon with resentment among farmers over development — land acquisition for the green corridor expressway from Salem to Chennai. Farming and weaving are the predominant occupations here. Mr. Palaniswami has projected himself as a farmer first, implying that his government will mean no harm to agriculture. The DMK, especially its president M.K. Stalin, has rejected the claim. The DMK has accused the Chief Minister of being anti-farmer. Land acquisition for the green corridor project and the AIADMK’s support to the farm laws brought by the Centre are the major issues the DMK has flagged against Mr. Palaniswami. How far the farm loan waiver will help the AIADMK is to be seen. Loan waiver “The public are questioning the government’s intention behind the waiver of the cooperative farm and gold loans since it was done only after Mr. Stalin promised similar relief,” says DMK Salem West district in-charge T.M. Selvaganapathy. Mr. Palaniswami will be hoping that schemes like the diversion of surplus water from the Mettur dam to fill 100 dry lakes in Edappadi, Omalur, Sankari and Mettur will help him win over farmers. The farmers hope the surplus water diversion scheme will improve the groundwater level in the region. However, Mr. Selvaganapathy terms the scheme as eyewash. “Only 25% of the work has been completed and the inauguration has been done to deceive the public,” he says. Lack of jobs is a grave issue, he says. “During the Makkal Grama Sabha held here, we received over 10,000 applications from graduates alone for jobs. Unemployment is a major issue,” he says. C.S. Karthik, a graduate, says though the basic needs of the constituency, such as water and roads, have been met, there is a lack of jobs for graduates as no new industry has been started in the region. The AIADMK’s hopes rest on caste and alliance too. The Gounders and the Vanniyars are the dominant communities in the district. A Gounder in his home district, Mr. Palaniswami believes his position is strong. His party is in alliance with the PMK, which has the backing of the Vanniyars. The PMK finished second, after the AIADMK, in the 2011 and 2016 elections. There are, however, other Gounder parties wielding some influence in the region, observers say. Those pitted against Mr. Palaniswami are T. Sampath Kumar of the DMK and D. Thasaparaj of the Makkal Needhi Maiam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-edappadi-its-growth-versus-ryots-sentiment/article34057396.ece
13 March 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||End dynastic politics, Palaniswami tells voters in Vazhapadi||On a day the DMK fielded Udhayanidhi Stalin, son of party president M.K. Stalin, in the Assembly election, AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami urged the voters to put an end to the party’s dynastic politics. Mr. Palaniswami campaigned at Vazhapadi for party candidate K. Chithra, who will be contesting from Yercaud. “It is Stalin after Karunanidhi and after Stalin, today Udhayanidhi Stalin’s name has been announced,” he said. Mr. Stalin had earlier said he would not bring his heirs into politics but today he had forgotten it, the AIADMK leader charged. At Attur, Mr. Palaniswami claimed the DMK had offered ticket to 20 heirs of its leaders during this election. Listing the various schemes implemented by the government, he alleged that lies were Mr. Stalin’s “capital”. He reiterated that alliances and principles were different. The AIADMK government always protected the minorities, he said, adding that alliances were formed for victory. The DMK had also allied with the BJP in the past. Mr. Palaniswami claimed this election was a fight between “dharma” and “adharma”. AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Friday expressed the confidence that the party would sweep the April 6 Assembly poll. After filing nomination papers for the Bodinayakkanur Assembly constituency, he told reporters that from 2011, the electorate had given him the opportunity to represent them in the Assembly with a resounding victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/end-dynastic-politics-palaniswami-tells-voters-in-vazhapadi/article34057442.ece
13 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Put an end to dynasty politics: CM||Accusing the DMK of promoting dynasty politics, Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami called upon the people to put an end to it. Campaigning at Vazhapadi for the party’s Yercaud Assembly constituency nominee K. Chithra, Mr. Palaniswami said, “It is Stalin after Karunanidhi and after Stalin it will be Udhayanidhi Stalin whose name has been announced (He is DMK candidate in this election.)” Asking why the DMK did not make someone else as its leader after Karunanidhi, Mr. Palaniswami accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of bringing his heir into politics after saying two years ago that he would never do so. Addressing the public at Attur, Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK had offered tickets to 20 heirs of their leaders during this election. Listing the various schemes implemented by the government, Mr. Palaniswami said that lies were Mr. Stalin’s capital. Minority welfare Mr. Palaniswami said the AIADMK and the BJP were different because coalition and ideology were also different. He asserted that it was the AIADMK government that had always protected the minorities and that coalitions were formed only for victory in elections.  Alliance with BJP In this context, he referred to the DMK’s alliance with the BJP in the 1999 Parliamentary elections and wanted to know how it was wrong only when the AIDMK had an alliance with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-an-end-to-dynasty-politics-says-cm/article34057455.ece
13 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘NTK will help farmers’||Farmers are the only producers who are unable to determine the price of their produce and the situation will change if Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) comes to power, said party leader Seeman. At Thadagapatti here, Mr.Seeman said his party would improve the education system in government schools and it would be made compulsory for all government officials and teachers to enrol their children in government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-will-help-farmers/article34057596.ece
13 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem sees 13 new COVID-19 cases||Thirteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Friday. According to health officials, six cases were indigenous and seven patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Erode, Namakkal and one from Gujarat. Namakkal reported three new cases, of which two had returned from Salem and Karur. Erode district reported 17 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,939. While 12 persons were discharged, 93 are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-sees-13-new-covid-19-cases/article34057601.ece
13 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||She dips her hand in boiling ghee to make ‘appams’||An elderly devotee, Muthammal, made appams in boiling ghee with bare hands and distributed it among other devotees at the Bathrakaliamman Temple here on the occasion of Sivarathiri celebrations on Friday. The 86-year-old woman did not use the ladle but dipped her right hand into the pan of boiling ghee over a traditional firewood-fuelled oven. Hundreds of devotees who had thronged the temple to offer prayers were awe-struck seeing the woman making appams, made out rice flour mixed with jaggery. She blessed the devotees by offering the appams as prasadam. The woman has been performing this deed for the last four decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/she-dips-her-hand-in-boiling-ghee-to-make-appams/article34057575.ece
13 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||DMK renominates 7 out of 8 MLAs||The DMK has renominated seven out of eight MLAs in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts for the Assembly elections. In Tiruvarur district, T.R.B.Rajaa will be seeking the mandate to represent the Mannargudi constituency for the third consecutive term and Poondi K.Kalaivanan for a full-term of five years as MLA from Tiruvarur. At Nannilam, the DMK Kudavasal union secretary, S.Jothiraman has been fielded against the Food Minister R.Kamaraj of AIADMK. While Govi.Chezhian, MLA representing Thiruvidaimaruthur (reserve) constituency has been given the ticket to contest from the same constituency, M.Ramachandran, MLA, will contest again from Orathanadu. Sitting MLAs G.Anbalagan, Durai Chandrasekaran and T.K.G.Neelamegam have been renominated from Kumbakonam, Thiruvaiyaru and Thanjavur respectively. The DMK has also decided to throw its hat in the ring at Peravurani and Pattukottai constituencies. While N.Ashok Kumar who had lost the race in the 2016 would try his luck again at Peravurani, former MLA K.Annadurai has been fielded at Pattukottai.  Nagapattinam In the three constituencies in the composite Nagapattinam district where it would have a direct fight with the AIADMK, the DMK has fielded old and familiar faces in Vedaranyam and Sirkazhi and a first-time contestant in Poompuhar. The DMK has allotted the three other constituencies to its allies VCK (Nagapattinam), CPM (Kilvelur) and Congress (Mayiladuthurai). In Vedaranyam, S.K. Vedarathinam of DMK will take on sitting MLA and Minister O.S. Manian, and in Sirkazhi, the DMK candidate M. Paneerselvam is pitted against the AIADMK sitting MLA P.V. Bharathi. In Poompuhar, the DMK candidate has fielded a local functionary Nivedha Murugan against the sitting AIADMK MLA and current candidate S. Pavunraj. S.K. Vedarathinam, a three-time MLA as a DMK partyman and who had switched over to BJP for the 2016 elections, rejoined the DMK last July. Before joining BJP, he had been with the DMK for nearly 35 years and won as its candidate in 1996, 2001 and 2005 elections. He walked out of the party in 2011 and contested as an Indepndent candidate after the constituency was allotted to PMK. Mr. Vedarathnam joined BJP in 2016 elections and lost to Mr. Manian by a margin of nearly 30,000 votes, ending up in the third spot. In the 2016 election, Mr. Manian secured 60,836 votes, as against 37,838 by P.V. Rajendiran of Indian National Congress, and 37,086 by Mr. Vetharathinam. As an Independent in 2011, Mr. Vedarthinam ended as the runner up with 42,871 votes, losing to N.V. Kamaraj of AIADMK who secured 53,799 votes. This time, however, going by the combined strength of the principal party and allies in Vedaranyam constituency, the DMK has the support base of Congress and the Communist parties. In Sirkazhi, M. Paneerselvam of DMK was the winner in 1989, 1996 and 2006 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-renominates-7-out-of-8-mlas/article34057556.ece
13 March 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||We will sweep the polls, says Panneerselvam||AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Friday expressed confidence that his party will sweep the April 6 Assembly poll. After filing nomination papers for Bodinayakkanur Assembly constituency where he will take on DMK’s Thanga Tamilselvan, he told reporters that from 2011, the electorate had given him the opportunity to represent them in the Assembly with a resounding victory. The AIADMK and its allies would register a win in all the 234 segments and dedicate the victory to Jayalalithaa. The people would give the party a hands-down win, Mr. Panneerselvam added. The AIADMK had fulfilled its electoral promises made in 2016, the Deputy Chief Minister said. Be it in handling a flood situation or a cyclone, the State administration, under the leadership of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, had done its best during the last four years, he said. Tamil Nadu stood on top in containing the COVID-19 pandemic and had also saved people from the clutches of death. Above all, the people of Tamil Nadu were in safe hands and there were no issues with regard to the maintenance of law and order, he said. In the coming years, the new government would focus more on growth and development, he said. Accompanied by his MP son O.P. Raveendranath and other functionaries, Mr. Panneerselvam filed his papers and took the mandatory pledge in front of the Returning Officer. The AIADMK cadre, who had assembled outside the Returning Officer’s office, hailed him as the heir of the AIADMK and their late leader Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-sweep-the-election-says-panneerselvam/article34057580.ece
13 March 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Thanga Tamilselvan gets Bodinayakkanur||Thanga Tamilselvan is the DMK candidate for Bodinayakkanur Assembly constituency. A familiar face in Theni district, he had joined the DMK recently, prior to which he was a member in the AIADMK and with the AMMK. A post-graduate, he has a strong support base among the general public which he had cultivated from the AIADMK days. He resigned his MLA post from Andipatti Assembly in the AIADMK after Ms. Jayalalithaa wished to contest from there. The late leader Ms. Jayalalithaa had then nominated Mr Thanga Tamilselvan as Rajya Sabha member. He was MLA from Andipatti thrice (2001, 2011 and 2016). In 2020, he was made the propaganda secretary of the DMK. He will take on the AIADMK’s O. Panneerselvam. In Cumbum Assembly Constituency, the DMK has pitted veteran politician Cumbum N Ramakrishnan. A member with the DMK since 1972, Mr. Ramakrishnan was elected to the Legislative Assembly in 1989, 2006, 2009 and 2011 respectively. A well known figure in the constituency, he has been associated for long with various service organisations and has conducted numerous medical and health camps. Periakulam (Res) constituency has been given to the sitting MLA K. S. Saravanakumar. A businessman, he is a BE and MBA graduate. He contested in the by-poll held in 2019. In less than two years, he had been interacting with the public and getting grievances redressed. Andipatti ticket was again given to sitting MLA A Maharajan. A long time member in the DMK, he was associated with the union as its chairperson. He will be contesting against his own brother A. Logirajan, who was defeated in the by-poll held in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanga-tamilselvan-gets-bodinayakkanur/article34057576.ece
13 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Students send 1 lakh postcards urging relatives to vote||As a novel and an effective initiative, the district administration has encouraged students to send 1 lakh postcards to their parents and relatives appealing to them to cast their votes without fail in the Assembly election scheduled to be held on April 6 so as to achieve the dream of cent per cent polling. Even as the district administration is carrying out voter awareness programmes to encourage the electorate to come to the polling station on April 6 to cast the vote in this keenly contested Assembly election, students from Class 9 to 12 from various government and private schools have been involved in this noble mission. The students were given postcards to write an appeal to their parents, grandparents and the relatives requesting them to exercise their franchise without fail to ensure vibrant democracy. As the district of Thoothukudi houses over 14 lakh voters in six Assembly segments – Kovilpatti, Ottapidaaram (Reserved), Vilaathikulam, Thoothukudi, Srivaikundam and Tiruchendur – it was decided to reach directly to at least 5 lakh voters – over one-third of the electorate - through these postcards, all sent by the enthusiastic children. “The students have written soulful letters asking their parents, grandparents and the relatives to fulfil their democratic right without getting lured by cash, gifts and allurement of any sort. We believe that this emotional appeal from their children as part of SVEEP (systematic voters education on electoral participation) will make them vote without any fear or favour,” said District Collector and Electoral Officer K. Senthil Raj. Since 1 lakh postcards were not readily available in the district as only a few people use it as medium of communication, Dr. Senthil Raj, who contacted the senior officials of Department of Posts, has sourced the postcards from the neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-send-1-lakh-postcards-urging-relatives-to-vote/article34057778.ece
13 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Students undertake relay march||Students took part in a commemorative march and a cycle rally to begin Amrit Ka Mahotsav, a celebration of the country’s 75th year of Independence. It was on March 12, 1930, that Gandhiji began the Dandi March from Sabarmati Ashram and at the same time 100 freedom fighters took a march to Vedaranyam from Tiruchi as part of the Salt Satyagraha. The relay march was taken to commemorate the event on Friday. The Salt Satyagraha Memorial near the Central Bus Stand here was decorated with posters and photographs of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Subash Chandra Bose and several other leaders as students of music from the city sang renditions of various patriotic songs. Collector S. Sivarasu, Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan, and Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian paid floral tributes to the memorial. The relay march began from the memorial, with students from various colleges in the city and athletes attached to the Sports Development Authority, Tamil Nadu taking part. They walked to the Gandhi tower in Gandhi Market, from where a cycle rally was undertaken. They travelled through N.S.B Road, Cauvery bridge, Kondayampettai, Thiruvalarsolai to Kallanai. In Thanjavur, the relay rally was taken over by the students of Adaikalamatha College, Thanjavur, at Kallanai from a group of students who arrived from Tiruchi district and they pedalled their way through the Grand Anicut-Poompuhar Road up to Kovilur where the students of Abi and Abi College, Vayaloor near Thanjavur took over the rally to reach Thirukattupalli. Later, the students of AVVM Pushpam College, Poondi took over the rally from Thirukattupalli to Thiruvaiyaru from the Abi and Abi College students. The second leg of the Salt Sathyagraha March would commence on Saturday from Thiruvaiyaru to Thanjavur from where the march would pass through Ayyampettai, Papanasam, Nallur, Darasuram, Kumbakonam and Valaigaiman to enter the Tiruvarur district. The relay rally would end on March 14, when the students reach the Salt March Memorial in Vedaranyam. Several events have been planned to commemorate India@75, over the next 75 weeks, up to August 15, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-undertake-relay-march/article34057566.ece
13 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region to witness some keen tussle||The central region is all set to witness some keen tussle between the AIADMK and the DMK as the latter has fielded a mix of old war horses and new faces as its candidates for the Assembly constituencies here. The most keenly watched electoral battle would unfold in Karur constituency where the DMK has fielded former Minister V.Senthil Balaji, who switched over to the DMK after going with T.T.Dhinakaran’s AMMK following the demise of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Mr.Balaji, who represents the Aravakurichi Assembly constituency, has moved to Karur to take on Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar of the AIADMK making it a contest of heavyweights in the region. DMK’s principal secretary and former Minister, K.N.Nehru, will enter the fray in Tiruchi West constituency for the fifth time in a row. After having won from here in 2006 after switching over from Lalgudi, Mr. Nehru lost two subsequent elections in 2011, including the by-election held after the demise of N. Mariam Pitchai of the AIADMK that year. In 2016, he won by a comfortable margin of 28, 415 votes. This time around, he is pitted against a relatively new face from the AIADMK, V.Padmanaban. Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, a close associate of party president M.K. Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi, and party south district secretary Mahesh Poyyamozhi will contest from Tiruverumbur for the second consecutive time. N.Thyagarajan, the party’s north district secretary, has bagged the party ticket to contest from Musiri. Another sitting MLA S.Stalin Kumar has been fielded again from Thuraiyur (Reserved) constituency, while C.Kathiravan, an engineer, has been fielded in Manachanallur. In Srirangam, the party has renominated S.Palaniyandi who lost the contest to S.Valarmathi, Minister for Backward Classes Welfare, in 2016. Inigo Irudayaraj, founder president of Christhuva Nallena Iyakkam, will take on Tourism Minister Vellamandi N.Natarajan from Tiruchi East on DMK symbol. In Viralimalai, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar will lock horns again with M. Palaniappan and the constituency could see a repeat of a close contest as in 2016 while in Vedaranyam Textiles Minister O.S.Manian will be pitted against S.K.Vetharathinam, who finished third in 2016 elections contesting on a BJP ticket. At Aravakurichi in Karur district, the party has fielded Monjanur R.Elango, son of former MLA Monjanur P.Ramasamy, who was a close associate of MDMK leader Vaiko before switching over to the DMK. Another new face, K.Sivagamasundari, an advocate from Kulithalai, has been fielded by the party at the adjacent Krishnarayapuram constituency in the district. The party has brought back former MLA R.Manickam to contest in Kulithalai. Mr.Manickam had won in 2006 from the constituency. The party has fielded former MLA S. S. Sivasankar for the Kunnam assembly constituency in Perambalur district. Mr. Sivasankar who is the party's district of Ariyalur district has been given Kunnam seat this time as Ariyalur constituency has been allocated to the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. K.S.K. Kannan is the nominee for Jayamkondam, while M. Prabhakaran is the candidate for the Perambalur (reserved) seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-to-witness-some-keen-tussle/article34057561.ece
13 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to form FPO for banana-based products in Thottiyam||The NABARD is coordinating with the ICAR - National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) for promotion of Farmer Producer Organisations in the region. With NRCB as knowledge partner, the NABARD, which had identified Thottiyam block for promotion of FPO during 2020-21, has reached out to progressive banana farmers with the idea of enabling them to produce fibre and other value-added products, sources said. Earlier this year, former Director of Indian Space Research Organization Mylswamy Annadurai visited the NRCB in his current capacity as vice president of Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology (TNSCST), Government of Tamil Nadu, and signed an agreement to develop pilot scale machinery for extracting more than three tonnes of banana fibre every day and utilize the sap, central stem and scutcher for producing a variety of products. Stem-based juices and biscuits, could be produced on a large scale production in view of their nutraceutical potential, he said, pointing out that the collaborative venture will hugely benefit the banana farmers in multiple ways. Banana sap could be used as an organic liquid nutrient for enhancing the yield of fruits and vegetables and further reducing the carbon footprint. Banana fibre could be used in textiles and scutcher waste generated after extracting the fiber could be used as acoustic and aircraft panels and self-healing composites. The NABARD, sources said, will accelerate pace of formation of FPO in the wake of the Central government launching Formation and Promotion of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPO) Scheme 2021, to enable farmers to collectively tackle their challenges such as accessing agricultural inputs and marketing of produce. Under the scheme, the formation and development of FPOs will be actively encouraged and supported by the Central and State Governments and their agencies, using financial resources from various Centrally-sponsored and State-funded schemes in the agriculture sector agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-form-fpo-for-banana-based-products-in-thottiyam/article34057564.ece
13 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Multiple JEE sessions evoke mixed response||The decision of the Ministry of Education to conduct Joint Entrance Examination (Main) in multiple sessions this year, starting from February, has evoked mixed reactions from school heads. Within days of announcement of results by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for the first session of JEE Main conducted from February 23 to 26, students are required to get ready for the second session scheduled from March 15 to 18. According to the principal of a Tiruchi-based CBSE school, the performance of students may not be to optimal levels in the second session as they are preoccupied with preparation for practical examinations. Though less in number, students have registered impressive scores in the first session. The first score of 99.94 is the highest so far in Tiruchi district, R.V.S. Muralidhar, Founder and Director, Seekers Educational Services, said. Ganesh Rajagopalan, Senior Principal, Thamarai International School, Thanjavur, feels the impressive performance by students assumes significance as the teachers and students had to overcome the challenges associated with the pandemic lockdown. “Forty students on Thanjavur and Kumbakonam campuses have secured 90 percentile and above, and the top score is 99.88. Going by last year’s criteria, more than half of these students stand a chance of securing admission in top-ranked NITs.” In all likelihood, the performance of students will be better still in the third session from April 27 to 30, as there will be sufficient time to prepare, school heads say. The fourth session has been scheduled from May 24 to 28. The online classes conducted by schools so far, though an appreciable effort, have not been effective enough for students to come out with their best performance, Mr. Muralidhar pointed out. The rationale behind the multiple attempts is to give opportunities to candidates to improve their scores if they fail to give their best in the first attempt without wasting their whole academic year. In first attempt, the students will get a first-hand experience of sitting for an examination and will learn their mistakes and improve the next time. This will reduce the chances of dropping a year, according to NTA. The student’s best of the 2021 NTA scores will be considered during preparation of merit list/ranking for admission to undergraduate programmes in NITs, IIITs and other Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs) in the next academic year (2021-2022).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multiple-jee-sessions-evoke-mixed-response/article34057553.ece
13 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi institutions show the way to engage overseas alumni groups||Quite a few higher educational institutions in Tiruchi have been able to demonstrate the utility of overseas alumni groups in mentoring students, offering them internships, and mobilising financial support for scholarships to poor students. The Global Alumni Meet 2020 of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, for instance, resulted in members from various countries pledging to the tune of a few crores of rupees for further progression of their alma mater. “Our alumni chapters in United Arab Emirates, United States and Singapore have been playing an active role in student engagement”" Nisha Radhakrishnan, Associate Dean - Alumni Affairs, NIT-T, said. The overseas alumni chapters of Jamal Mohammed College have been actively supporting the institution over the last two decades. The college has overseas chapters in Jeddah, UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Singapore, Malaysia, USA, Brunei and Qatar, besides the USA. Likewise, the Holy Cross College has established international alumnae chapters in Dubai, Singapore and Malaysia. St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, will launch its alumni chapters in Singapore and Middle East during the course of the Josephites Global Virtual Reunion - 2021. So far, 450 overseas students have registered for the virtual reunion,” S. Albert Rabara, secretary of St. Joseph’s College Alumni Association, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-institutions-show-the-way-to-engage-overseas-alumni-groups/article34057569.ece
13 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Manoharan, Sarubala nominated||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam has fielded former Government Chief Whip R.Manoharan for the Tiruchi East Assembly constituency and former Mayor Sarubala R.Tondaiman for the Srirangam constituency. In the previous election, Mr. Manoharan contesting on a AIADMK ticket lost to K.N. Nehru in Tiruchi West. Mr. Manoharan, who had represented Tiruchi East earlier, was initially re-nominated for the constituency in 2016 but was shifted to Tiruchi West apparently after the party wanted an experienced candidate to take on Mr. Nehru. Ms.Sarubala had served as Mayor for two terms between 2001 and 2009 when she resigned to unsuccessfully contest the Lok Sabha election on a Congress ticket from Tiruchi. She contested again in 2014, also on the Congress ticket, but lost again. She was unsuccessful again as the AMMK candidate in 2019 Lok Sabha election. Meanwhile, the Tamil Maanila Congress, which has been alloted two seats in the central region in the AIADMK alliance, has nominated D.R.Dharmaraj as its candidate for the Lalgudi constituency and former MLA N.R.Rangarajan for the Pattukottai constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manoharan-sarubala-nominated/article34057562.ece
13 March 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||DMK relies more on veterans and gives only two seats to new faces||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam m(DMK), which released on Friday its list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly polls, has apparently reposed its faith in veterans instead of testing its electoral fortunes by fielding débutantes. Of the 22 Assembly segments in four districts, the DMK has fielded its candidates in 13 constituencies including two ‘new faces’ while veterans have been given the opportunity again in all other segments. As expected, the DMK has once again fielded M. Appavu, 3-time MLA – 1996, 2001 and 2006 from the coastal constituency of Radhapuram. Though he lost the 2016 Assembly polls to AIADMK’s I.S. Inbadurai by a wafer thin margin of just 49 votes, his legal fight in the Madras High Court led to recounting of votes. However, the Supreme Court, which had earlier advised the Courts across the country to complete trials in election petitions within six months, has restrained the Madras High Court from declaring the recounting results over the past one year. “The DMK will comfortably emerge victorious this time in Radhapuram segment,” Mr. Appavu said. Former Speaker R. Avudaiyappan, who was decimated by AIADMK’s Esakki Subbiah in 2011 by a massive margin of 24,609 votes in Ambasamudram constituency, is facing again the same opponent. Esakki Subbiah is quite popular and has done a lot of election-oriented groundwork in this segment over the past one year. Former Minister and sitting MLA of Palayamkottai T.P.M. Mohideen Khan, who has been elected to the Assembly four times successively from 2001, has been denied ticket this time as the DMK has picked party’s Tirunelveli city district secretary Abdul Wahab for the job. Sitting MLA A.L.S. Lakshmanan, son of former Mayor A.L. Subramanian, has been fielded in Tirunelveli constituency where he takes on BJP’s Nainar Nagenthran again. In neighbouring Tenkasi district, former minister and sitting MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna has been nominated in Alangulam constituency while DMK’s Tenkasi south district secretary Sivapadmanathan, who was very active in the party-related works, was leading in the race for this ticket. The Sankarankovil (Reserved) segment has gone to E. Raja of Melagaram near Tenkasi, an advocate. In Thoothukudi, DMK’s heavyweight and sitting MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan, known in the party circle as ‘good organiser’ of party’s mega events, has got the opportunity again to test his electoral fortunes in Tiruchendur segment. Interestingly, former MLA of Vilaathikulam, Markandeyan, who defected to the DMK from the AIADMK recently, has been given ticket to contest in the segment again while sitting MLA of Ottapidaaram (Reserved) constituency Shanmugaiah has been fielded again. In Thoothukudi, sitting MLA and former minister Geetha Jeevan has been re-nominated. In Kanniyakumari district, sitting MLAs Austin of Kanniyakumari, Suresh Rajan of Nagercoil and Mano Thangaraj of Padmanabhapuram have been fielded again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-relies-more-on-veterans-and-gives-only-two-seats-to-new-faces/article34057911.ece
13 March 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Nainar Nagenthran files nomination for Tirunelveli Assembly segment||Even before the party high command released the list of candidates to be fielded in 20 Assembly segments in Tamil Nadu, BJP state vice-president Nainar Nagenthran filed his nomination for Tirunelveli Assembly segment on Friday. Accompanied by his youngest son Vijay, Mr. Nagenthran filed his nomination papers to Sivakrishnamurthy, Sub-Collector, Tirunelveli, shortly after noon. When asked about his filing of nomination even before the list of candidates was released by his party, Mr. Nagenthran, said he had filed the papers as today was an auspicious day (new moon day). He exuded confidence over winning the wholehearted support of the AIADMK, which was hopeful of fielding its candidate in Tirunelveli constituency. Interestingly, none of the AIADMK office-bearers here accompanied Mr. Nagenthran while he filed the nomination. When he entered electoral battle in 2001, he was elected to the Assembly from Tirunelveli constituency and went on to find a place in the Cabinet led by Jayalalithaa to serve in the transport, electricity and industries portfolios. However, he lost the election in the same constituency to DMK’s N. Maalairaja in 2006 and got elected again in 2011. He tasted defeat in 2016 as he lost the battle of ballots to DMK’s A.L.S. Lakshmanan by a narrow margin. On joining the BJP, he was fielded in Ramanathapuram Lok Sabha segment where he lost the election to Navas Kani. Interestingly, Mr. Nagenthran has to face Mr. Lakshmanan again this time too in Tirunelveli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nainar-nagenthran-files-nomination-for-tirunelveli-assembly-segment/article34057913.ece
13 March 2021||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||‘Denied ticket because of Veeramani’||Tamil Nadu Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel, who was denied AIADMK ticket for the Assembly election, on Friday blamed her Cabinet colleague and local party strongman K.C. Veeramani for being sidelined. Breaking down in front of mediapersons, Ms. Kafeel, a legislator from Vaniyambadi, said she accepted the party’s decision. “But I read some allegations in a newapaper that the reason for this was because I influenced the minorities to vote for DMK candidate D. Kathir Anand and made him win the Vellore parliamentary election. I suspect this was told by [Commercial Taxes Minister] Mr. Veeramani,” she said. She added that it was wrong to spread misinformation. “In many constituencies, the AIADMK candidates did not win, does this mean all of them worked for the DMK?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/denied-ticket-because-of-veeramani/article34057878.ece
13 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||People not wearing masks to be fined||The Nilgiris district administration has once again reiterated that local residents and tourists who do not wear masks in public places will be punished with strict fines. In a release, the district administration said the Nilgiris was seeing an increase in the number of visitors over the last few months. As the number of COVID-19 cases continued to increase in surrounding districts and neighboring Kerala and Karnataka, Collector J. Innocent Divya said those failing to wear masks in crowded or public areas would face steep fines. The Collector said teams comprising 20 officials from the municipality as well as town and village panchayats had been formed to ensure that residents and tourists followed the established COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-not-wearing-masks-to-be-fined/article34057464.ece
13 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK pitted against each other in 12 seats in north Tamil Nadu||Candidates of the ruling AIADMK and the opposition DMK will be pitted against each other in 12 of the 21 Assembly constituencies in Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupathur and Tiruvannamalai districts in north Tamil Nadu. The two parties will be contesting each other in Jolarpet, Ambur, Vellore, Anaicut, Gudiyatham, Katpadi, Ranipet, Chengam, Kalasappakam, Polur, Arni and Cheyyar. In the remaining 10 seats, the AIADMK and the DMK will face candidates of the allies in rival camps. The 10 seats are Kilpennathur, Tiruvannamalai, Gingee, Vandavasi, Arcot, Sholinghur, Arakkonam, K.V. Kuppam, Tirupathur and Vaniyambadi. Among poll veterans in the fray are nine-time MLA and DMK general secretary Duraimurugan, who will be contesting from Katpadi, and septuagenarian R. Gandhi, also from the DMK, who will be contesting from Ranipet. The DMK has also fielded former Minister E.V. Velu in Tiruvannamalai yet again. He is a well-known face in the district. Meanwhile, sitting DMK MLAs, including A.P. Nandakumar, P. Karthikeyan, J.L. Eswarapan, and M.P. Giri will be contesting from Anaicut, Vellore, Arcot and Chengam Assembly constituencies respectively. The AIADMK has fielded two of its Ministers — K.C. Veeramani, Minister for Commercial Taxes, and Sevoor S. Ramachandran, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister — from the Jolarpet and Arni constituencies respectively. Another familiar name is Agri S.S. Krishnamurthy, AIADMK’s agricultural wing secretary, who will be contesting from Polur. While the AIADMK’s ally BJP will be contesting from Tiruvannamalai against the DMK’s E.V. Velu, Sholinghur will see a battle between the AIADMK’s ally PMK and the Congress candidate. In Arakkonam, a reserved constituency, the fight will be between the AIADMK and the VCK. In Gudiyatham, another reserved constituency, two women candidates, AIADMK’s G. Fareeda and V. Amulu from the DMK, are in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-pitted-against-each-other-in-12-seats-in-north-tamil-nadu/article34057871.ece
13 March 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami is lying: Duraimurgan||DMK general secretary and Katpadi candidate Duraimurugan on Friday said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was lying by stating that the DMK was making false promises. He was addressing the media after garlanding the Anna Statue near Chitoor Bus Stop in Katpadi. “I have a lot of plans for my constituency and it will be done in five years. I will construct a multi-specialty hospital on a par with the Christian Medical College in Vellore and an industrial estate which will give employment to the people here,” he said. Answering a question on what he feels about facing an election without DMK leader M. Karunanidhi, he said that though he was absent, there were many who had been trained like him, including DMK president M.K. Stalin and himself. “We will propel the DMK to victory,” he said. On Friday evening, the veteran leader travelled by train and got down at Katpadi station. He was picked up from the station by his son and MP Kathir Anand and they garlanded the Anna Statue. “This is the 11th time he is contesting. It is a sentiment for him to travel by train till Katpadi every time he is given the seat and garland the Anna Statue,” said Mr. Kathir Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-is-lying-says-duraimurgan/article34057426.ece
13 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 16 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,112, with 16 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,671 persons have been discharged from hospitals after treatment, the number of active cases in the district stands at 90. The death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, six cases were reported on Friday, taking the tally to 16,270. In Tirupathur district, three new cases took the total to 7,657. In Tiruvannamalai district, five new cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-16-fresh-cases/article34057882.ece
13 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Former Sivakasi MLA joins AMMK||A day after ruling party MLAM.S.R. Rajavarman joined the AMMK, a former AIADMK MLA, J. Balagangadaran, and another Virudhunagar district MGR Mandram functionary, Gokulam M. Thangaraj, have joined the AMMK. Like Mr. Rajavarman, who was denied a party ticket from the Sattur Assembly seat for his re-election, Mr. Thangaraj, who had been promised an opportunity to contest from Virudhunagar Assembly constituency, was not given a party ticket. Mr. Thangaraj claimed that he had spent huge amounts of money for distributing welfare assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic as per the advice of Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji. He is likely to be declared the AMMK party’s candidate from Virudhunagar Assembly seat that has been given to the BJP by the AIADMK. Mr. Balagangadaran, who became the AIADMK MLA from Sivakasi Assembly constituency in 1991, too joined the AMMK in the presence of party general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Thursday. “Many of the party union and town secretaries as well as the MLA, former MLA and former MP complained about the deteriorating party functioning in the district for nearly a year. No action was taken against Mr. Bhalaji. I don’t want to be in a party where my self-respect is challenged,” he said. Stating that the party’s weakness should not go in favour of the DMK, Mr. Balagangadaran said that he had joined a party with a better leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-sattur-mla-former-sivakasi-mla-joins-ammk/article34057581.ece
13 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Only one nomination received in Virudhunagar||On the first day of filing nomination, only one candidate filed his papers for Tiruchuli Assembly constituency in Virudhunagar district. P. Vellaichamy filed his papers on behalf of Ahimsa Socialist Party. None of the other six Assembly constituencies received any nomination, according to the District Returning Officer, R. Kannan. Meanwhile, the district administration has planned to reach voters through 50,000 school students to ensure 100% voter turn out. Participating in a SVEEP activity held at Kshatriya Girls’ Higher Secondary School here on Friday, Mr. Kannan said that a pledge in printed format would be sent to the parents through the students. The students should read out the pledge to their parents and make them cast their votes on April 6, the polling day. “The students should motivate not only their parents but also their relatives and neighbours,” Mr. Kannan said. Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), V. Jayakumar, Chief Educational Officer, Balathandayuthapani, District Educational Officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-one-nomination-received-in-virudhunagar/article34057589.ece
13 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK candidates begin campaign||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) candidates, including Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, commenced their election campaign on Friday. Kicking off the election propaganda from Mariamman temple at Pudupalayam in Rajapalayam, Mr. Bhalaji said that Rajapalayam was also his constituency as he had his house and farm in Rajapalayam. He recalled that he was vice-chairman of Tiruthangal municipality for 15 years and Minister for 10 years. “Since, my partymen and people from Rajapalayam wanted me to serve Rajapalayam Assembly constituency, I have decided to contest from Rajapalayam,” he said. Listing out the Chatrapatti road over bridge under construction, combined drinking water scheme and underground drainage scheme for Rajapalayam town under execution, Mr. Bhalaji claimed credit for bringing those development works for the town. He promised that he would work for the development of the constituency. Meanwhile, party candidates, R. K. Ravichandran commenced his campaign for Sattur Assembly constituency in Sattur town and Lakshmi Ganesan for Sivakasi Assembly constituency began her road show in Sivakasi town on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-candidates-begin-poll-campaign/article34057578.ece
13 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK retains four seats in Virudhunagar||After allocating three sitting AIADMK Assembly seats to its alliance partners, the DMK has retained four seats represented by its party members in Virudhunagar district. The party has also renominated its four MLAs - K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Aruppukottai), Thangam Thennarasu (Tiruchuli), A.R.R. Seenivasan (Virudhunagar) and S. Thangapandian (Rajapalayam). While Sivakasi and Srivilliputtur (Reserved) seats have been allotted to the Congress, the Sattur Assembly constituency has been given to the MDMK whose candidate ARR Raguraman will contest on the DMK’s Rising Sun symbol. With this, the DMK will lock horns with its arch rival AlADMK in Aruppukottai and Rajapalayam and fight BJP in Virudhunagar and All India Moovendar Munnetra Kazhagam in Tiruchuli. In Aruppukottai, the party heavyweight Mr. Ramachandran will take on AIADMK’s former MLA, Vaigaiselvan and Mr. Thangapandian of the DMK is now pitted against the two-time MLA from Sivakasi Assembly constituency, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, after the incumbent Minister shifted his constituency to Rajapalayam. Mr. Thennarasu will seek his third consecutive re-election from Tiruchuli. Two-time MLA from Virudhunagar Mr. Seenivasan will fight the BJP candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-retains-4-seats/article34057588.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Puducherry can become a model of BJP governance’||One of the key election strategists for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Nirmal Kumar Surana, who is in charge of Puducherry, said in an interview that the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) victory in the upcoming Assembly election is certain because there is a pro-Modi wave and strong anti-incumbency against the previous Congress government. Edited excerpts:  The BJP was not a major political player in Puducherry until three to four years ago. In terms of geographical or electoral size, it is relatively less significant for a national party like yours. What made the party leadership give so much importance to a place that only sends two MPs (one LS and one RS) to Parliament? We dont look at the geographical size of a region before plunging into election work. For us, every election is important. Whether it is a gram panchayat or [municipal] corporation election, we take our work seriously. If you recall, in the recent Hyderabad Corporation election, most of our top leaders campaigned, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah. In particular, for Puducherry, we sensed that there is tremendous scope for us to grow. Since it is a small Union Territory, we could make it another model State [Union Territory] of the BJP on governance and a project for our further growth. Your political opponents say the BJP’s ambitions stem from the Centre’s authority to appoint three party members as nominated legislators. In fact, critics say the BJP is the only party that has got three assured seats in the Puducherry Assembly. How would you respond? The anger against the previous Congress government is such that we will not be needing the support of nominated legislators to prove our strength in the Assembly. The Congress is going to be wiped out and we will be getting anywhere between 20 and 28 seats. The Congress party has alleged that the BJP used Central agencies and money-power to topple its government... It is the strategy of former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy to divert attention from his own failures. He failed to deliver on election promises and his own legislators were worried about their future in the party. They quit because they wanted their home State to get developed. In fact, till recently, their alliance partner, the DMK, was maintaining a distance from the Congress. Could the former Chief Minister explain why the DMK did not participate in the recent agitations led by the Congress? He cannot blame us for the resignations of his own people. What is your party’s vision for Puducherry? Our Prime Minister has already outlined the vision of making the Union Territory the ‘BEST’ (business hub, education hub, spiritual hub and tourism hub). Puducherry has huge potential for spiritual and entertainment tourism. Water sports and theme parks could be developed. Puducherry is almost the size of Goa. In Goa, around 30 flights land and take off daily. Imagine the number of tourists that flock to that place. Tourism will be one area that could provide thousands of unemployed youth direct employment and revive economic activity. A lot could be done in the education sector, which will also contribute to economic growth. Addressing unemployment will be our main agenda. All India N.R. Congress chief N. Rangasamy has been appointed the head of the NDA here. Naturally, he will be leading the election campaign. Does that mean that he will be the Chief Ministerial face? There is no confusion regarding the Chief Minister’s post. Mr. Rangasamy is highly respected and an experienced politician. He will be leading our alliance. But the BJP does not practise the policy of announcing the Chief Ministerial candidate of the National Democratic Alliance before the election. The Chief Minister will be decided by the legislature party. What will be the role of former Minister A. Namassivayam? Of course, he is our leader in Puducherry. He believes that Puducherry could be developed if the same parties rule at the Union Territory and at the Centre. We will certainly use his political and administrative experience. You have been considered the man behind the ‘Operation Lotus’ strategy in Puducherry. There are reports that a large number of party workers from Karnataka are camping here for the last three months. I am an ordinary worker. Since I was appointed as the in-charge for the UT in November, I have been camping here for the last four months along with 100 party workers, including ex-Mayors and corporation councillors from Karnataka. Around 30 experienced hands in election work from my State were given charge of the constituencies and they are assisted by three to five persons, depending on the size of the constituencies. We have also appointed “Page pramukhs” for certain constituencies. Their job is to be in touch with 30 to 40 voters on a regular basis, explaining [to them] the need to vote for the BJP. The workers from Karnataka, assisted by local leaders, will be the point persons for booth-level electioneering.  The Congress party is going to be wiped out and we will be getting anywhere between 20 and 28 seats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-can-become-a-model-of-bjp-governance/article34057432.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 51 cases||Coimbatore district reported 51 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 56,349. The Health Department did not report any deaths and the district’s toll remained at 685. The district saw 55,297 recoveries and 367 patients were active cases. A total of 46 patients from the district were discharged on Friday. Tiruppur district saw an increase in the number on Friday with the reporting of 31 fresh cases, which took the tally to 18,590. No deaths were reported and the toll remained at 224. As many as 18,216 patients recovered so far and 150 patients were active cases. On Friday, 13 persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, seven persons tested positive on Friday and the total number of cases stood at 8,415. The toll stood at 48 on Friday while 42 persons were undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-51-cases/article34057461.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK retains many ex-Ministers, MLAs||He said the DMK-led alliance was not a political alliance; nor was it created for elections. “It is an alliance of principle,” he said. He said the AIADMK government had destroyed the State in the last 10 years and Tamil Nadu would see a new dawn. “We enter the fray with a new confidence and faith,” he said. While the party fielded little-known T. Sampath Kumar to take on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Edappadi in Salem district, it nominated local heavyweight Thanga Tamilselvan in Bodinayakkanur, from where Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam is seeking re-election. Mr. Tamilselvan, a former AIADMK legislator, switched over to the DMK after losing in the last Lok Sabha election as an AMMK nominee in Theni. Likewise, Karur will see a clash between Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar and his predecessor in the Ministry Senthil Balaji. Mr. Balaji, too, was in the AIADMK and the AMMK but moved in time to the DMK to successfully contest in the Aravakurichi by-election in 2019. There are 12 women, nine doctors, 32 advocates, three Muslims and five Christians in the list. N. Ezhilan, son of M. Naganathan, former Vice-Chairman of the State Planning Commission, is the candidate for Thousand Lights. Former Minister U. Mathivanan could not get nomination since Kilvelur, from where he was elected last time, has gone to the CPI(M). T.P.M. Mohideen Khan and S. N. M Ubayadullah are the two other former Ministers who were not accommodated. Suba Thangavelan, another former Minister, did not opt for nomination, party sources said. Another prominent name out of the list was the veteran from the Kongu region and former Minister, Pongalur N. Palanisamy. Mr. Palanisamy told The Hindu that he chose not to contest because he wanted to give youngsters a chance and he had contested enough elections since 1971. In Salem, the DMK would contest from 10 out of the 11 constituencies. A.K. Tharun, a doctor and son-in-law of late leader Veerapandi S. Arumugham, has been fielded in Veerapandi. Former AIADMK MP R. Lakshmanan, who joined the DMK recently, will take on Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam in Villupuram. A.L.S. Lakshmanan, son of former MLA A.L. Subramanian, is the candidate against BJP leader and former AIADMK Minister Nainar Nagendran, who filed his nomination in Tirunelveli. The party also fielded former AIADMK MLA G.V. Manikandan. Three-time former MLA S. K. Vedarathinam, who rejoined the DMK last year after a stint in the BJP, has been nominated in Vedaranyam again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-retains-many-ex-ministers-mlas/article34057428.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Women achievers honoured||Women achievers at the grassroots were felicitated for their outstanding achievements and significant contribution towards women empowerment and leadership during International Women’s Day celebration held at ICAR- National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchi, on Wednesday. Leadership awards were given to women entrepreneurs Ishana, G. Viruthambal and M. Rajeshwari in recognition of their contributions towards society and agriculture. K. Maheshwari was given the award for entrepreneurship in promotion of drip irrigation, while G. Kajol, President of SAFE Transgender Association, received an award for her leadership in transgender community development. A team of COVID-19 warriors from the Department of Microbiology, K.A.P.Viswanatham Government Medical College, was also felicitated for their untiring and dedicated service during the pandemic. The celebration was on the theme ‘Women Leadership in Agriculture: Entrepreneurship, equality and empowerment’ to acknowledge the role of women in agriculture and allied sectors, a NRCB press release said. Nandhini Azad, President, Indian Co-operative Network of Women, Chennai, the chief guest, emphasised the role of cooperatives and networking in empowering rural and poor women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-achievers-honoured/article34057570.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special EPIC camps||Special camps will be held at all the polling stations in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district on March 13 and 14 to enable newly enrolled voters collect their Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC). District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said that persons who had submitted Form 9 for including their names in the electoral roll can download the e-EPCI from the National Voters Service Portal atwww.nvsp.inby feeding their unique mobile number. Special camps will also be held at the polling stations where the newly enrolled electors can collect their EPIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-epic-camps/article34057602.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||13-03-21-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  RASIKA RANJANI SABHA (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Today 6.00 P.M. Dr.R.S Jayalakshmi & Party Veena Concert. ALL ARE WELCOME. Live webcast: https://livewebcast.in/rrsabha. Website: rasikaranjani sabha.org. E.Mail: rasikaranjani sabha1929@gmail.com. PHONE: 044-24641767  MISCELLANEOUS  C.P. ART CENTRE 1 Eldams Road, Alwarpet Chennai - 600 018 ANNUAL WOMEN'S BAZAAR - Exhibition of Textiles, Crafts, Food items, Jewellery and Paintings made by women. Tomorrow last day. 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. All are welcome.  RASIKA RANJANI SABHA. (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Today 4.30 P.M. Lecture Demonstration by Sumathi Krishnan. ALL ARE WELCOME. Live webcast:https://livewebcast.in/rrsabha. Website: rasikaranjani sabha.org. E.Mail: rasikaranjani sabha1929@gmail.com. PHONE: 044-24641767||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-03-21-city-cinema/article34057409.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Coimbatore Institute of Technology: CIT Alumni Day, virtual mode, 6 p.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: VIVISTRA 2021 symposium for polytechnic students, 9.30 a.m.  KG Hospital: Mupperum Vizha, KG College of Nursing, Saravanampatti, 3 p.m.  DJ Academy for Managerial Excellence: Duologue with corporate leaders, 9.30 a.m.  Dr RV Arts and Science College: International Women’s Day celebrations, Karamadai, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34057463.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Meenakshi School of Fine Arts: Online origami workshop, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34057604.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tongue in cheek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tongue-in-cheek/article34057403.ece
13 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Modi virtually launches ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled the contribution of Kittur Rani Chennamma to the freedom movement, during the inauguration of the ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, celebrations of the 75th anniversary of Independence. Kittur in Belagavi, Shivapur in Mandya, and Vidurashwatha in Chickballapur were chosen for the all-India celebrations. He spoke of the contributions of freedom fighters and nation-builders such Kittur Rani Chennamma, Jhansi Rani Lakshmibai, Bhagat Singh, Subhas Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, and Veer Savarkar. “It is our responsibility to shape the India of their dreams,” he said. Mr. Modi inaugurated the event in an online ceremony beamed from Sabarmati Ashram. This was displayed on a big screen in Kittur, where the district administration organised a similar event. “We are proud of our democracy and the Constitution. We are happy about the contribution of our scientists who invented a COVID-19 vaccine that is being used across the world. This shows that when India becomes self-reliant, the world benefits,” Mr. Modi said. Aravind Limbavali, Forest Minister, inaugurated the ceremony in Kittur and said that the battle of Kittur that predated the first war of independence should inspire youngsters in nation building. He said that India was hailed around the world for its commitments to values of democracy, freedom, and fraternity. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath flagged off a cycle rally from Kittur to Nandagad, the place where the British executed Sangolli Rayanna, Rani Chennamma’s lieutenant. Seventy-five cyclists participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-virtually-launches-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-celebrations/article34057614.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 100-year-old HVN bungalow gets a shot at restoration||In a city where residents are ready to take to the streets when it comes to protecting what is left of Bengaluru’s famed nature and heritage, one structure with a glorious past is set to get a shot at revival. The HVN bungalow, built in 1915 by H.V. Nanjundaiah the founder-president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat, has been taken up for restoration and adaptive reuse. “The HVN bungalow measures about 50 feet in both length and breadth. It was at first the residence of H.V. Nanjundaiah, who donated his bungalow and precincts to the government to start a girls’ high school as he was keen on the education of the girl child,” explained Yashaswini Sharma of Esthetique Architects, which is undertaking the restoration work. Since then, the bungalow served as a school until the 1990s. It continued to serve as an office for school staff and the Karnataka Open University until the time restoration work commenced. Speaking about how the project came about, Papa Reddy, executive engineer, Malleswaram, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said all government and civic schools are being renovated and upgraded under the Malleswaram Assembly constituency under the guidance of Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, which is how the HVN bungalow also benefited. “It is a heritage building and we were keen on having it restored to its past glory,” he added. Malleswaram is Dr. Narayan’s constituency. The restoration began in November 2020 and was preceded by a year-and-a-half of research and interviews with the descendants of Mr. Nanjundaiah. The process involved detailed documentation, and condition assessment, including sub-structure analysis, said Ms. Sharma. “We have analysed the stone, brick and lime mortar of the building so that we may keep to the material integrity during the process of restoration. The stone sample was analysed by the Centre for Earth Sciences at IISc. and has been located to be from the Closepete belt. The brick has good compressive strength and we are using bricks of higher compressive strength for repairs. Mild cracks in masonry walls have been stitched with Cuddapah stone, and granite walls have been stitched with granite,” she added. Hidden gems They also found artistic, colourful sill bands that were hidden beneath layers of white paint, as well as art work in cornice mouldings which depict grape vines and other creepers, all of which are being restored. Samples of Victorian patterned glass panes and stained glass panes of windows and doors that were damaged will be replaced by sourcing near exact matches. The bungalow is being considered for adaptive reuse with museum and gallery spaces and interactive zones. “The galleries will showcase the history of Malleswaram, and we hope to have 3D replicas of two inscription stones of the area. There will be display panels showing the plan of Malleswaram with its landmarks. These will have QR codes that can be scanned for information,” said Ms. Sharma, adding that a small library and a Kannada lab are also among the proposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-100-year-old-hvn-bungalow-gets-a-shot-at-restoration/article34057335.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination camps sought on premises of old-age homes||Authorities running old-age homes and long-term care facilities have demanded that the government organise vaccination camps on the premises of the facilities for their residents and staff with necessary precautionary measures. This is because it is risky to take the residents, most of whom are senior citizens and those with dementia, to hospitals for vaccination as they are among those most vulnerable to infection. The authorities running these institutions have now written to Union Health Minister Harshvardhan asking him to make the vaccination available at the premises. In a letter, trustees of Nightingale Medical Trust (NMT), a not-for-profit organisation working for the cause of elderly, have said that as the virus was here to stay, it was imperative that the government should vaccinate the residents and staff at the long-term care facilities especially those caring for people with dementia. The trust running four residential care homes for senior citizens and those with dementia in Karnataka, has also written to State Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar and BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad in this regard on behalf of all such institutions. Other countries “Unfortunately, till now, no direction has been given by the Government of India to vaccinate residents and staff of care homes at their premises, while in many developed countries, vaccination programmes started with vaccinating the residents and staff of long-term care facilities,” said S. Premkumar Raja, secretary and trustee of NMT. “When we approached the State government, we were told that we had to shift the residents to designated hospitals or Primary Health Centres (PHCs) to get them vaccinated. Considering most of the residents are with dementia or other mental issues or bedridden, it is not possible for us to shift them to hospitals or PHCs to get them vaccinated. This may expose them to the virus and they can get the infection,” Mr. Raja said. “As an organisation running four residential long-term care facilities for elders with dementia and destitute elderly, we have been facing several challenges so far during the pandemic. Over 80 of our residents and staff were infected in the last few months,” he said. Managing Trustee Radha S. Murthy said it was getting difficult to manage the care facilities run by NMT safely unless the residents and the staff are vaccinated immediately. “We understand your concerns to vaccinate people with some safety precautions. But at the same time, you should have some special consideration towards those under the care of old-age homes. Presently, in our country, we have over 4,000 old-age homes/long-term care facilities with over 2,00,000 residents and 20,000 staff who are not able to get vaccinated,” she added. Worst affected Globally, long-term care facilities/old-age homes were worst affected by the pandemic and still are at high risk. It is estimated that almost a third of deaths due to COVID-19 across the world were from such care facilities. Fortunately, due to various reasons, in India, not many deaths have been reported in old-age homes or other elder care facilities, she pointed out. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told The Hindu that although this is a genuine problem, vaccination cannot be done at on he premises of the centres without specific directions from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/organise-vaccination-camps-at-old-age-homes/article34057355.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sadananda’s comment reignites talk about leadership change||Union Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda seems to have reignited the leadership change debate, with his wish that Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan should “lose the deputy tag soon”. “He will soon become busy with work that will give him little free time,” he cryptically said, while heaping praise on his work and leadership. The comment made at a Shivaratri event in Dr. Narayan’s constituency Malleswaram with the DCM on stage, on Thursday night, comes amidst a fluid political situation in the State – with defectors who brought the government to power fearing a “defamatory campaign”, even as the Opposition is pointing fingers at the BJP for the same – and days after the BJP high command swiftly affected a leadership change in Uttarakhand and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa celebrated his 78th birthday. Though Dr. Narayan sought to downplay Mr. Gowda’s comments and denied rumours of any leadership change, his trip to Delhi has fuelled speculations in the party. “There is no question of leadership change and the party high command has also said so. Mr. Gowda being a senior leader blessed me and no more than that should be read into that comment,” he said speaking to media persons in Delhi. Mr. Yediyurappa is reportedly upset over the remarks by Mr. Gowda. His camp saw in his comments assertion of Vokkaligas – both Mr. Gowda and Dr. Narayan are Vokkaligas – for a claim for alternate leadership, in case the high command were to affect leadership change. The community has recently been assertive seeking a better deal in the reservation matrix and a dedicated development corporation, following similar demands by Veerashaiva-Lingayats. Community seer Nirmalanandanatha Swamy had thanked the Chief Minister for announcing the Vokkaliga Development Corporation and earmarking Rs. 500 crore in the State Budget, on the lines of a corporation for the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sadanandas-comment-reignites-talk-about-leadership-change/article34057370.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC lays down norms for seizure of gadgets||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday laid down detailed guidelines to be followed by the police while handling smartphones, electronic equipments like laptops, computers, etc., and email accounts in the process of search and seizure operations conducted during the investigation of criminal cases. These guidelines will be in force till the State government comes out with its own guidelines for this purpose, the court said, while noticing that the police had no rules governing this area of investigation. Justice Suraj Govindaraj delivered the verdict while setting aside an order of a trial court, which had directed one Virendra Khanna, a party organiser and an accused in a drug case registered in 2018, to undergo a polygraph test and to cooperate with the police in the probe by providing biometric pass-code/passwords of his smartphones, and passwords for email accounts. Forensic examiner The court also said that the police officer should not use the electronic equipment required to be searched but such gadgets should be handled by a qualified forensic examiner, who should be part of search team. “In the unlikely event of the examiner not being available, then unplug the computer, pack the computer, and the wires in separate faraday covers after labelling them.” The investigation team has to take photographs, of places where the gadgets are kept, in such a manner that all the connections of wires including power, network, etc., are captured in such photographs, the court said. If the computer or laptop is in the power-off mode, the same should not be powered on; and if the computer is powered on and the screen is blank, the mouse could be moved, and as and when the image appears on the screen, the photograph of the screen should be taken. Mobile phones In case of mobile phones, the court said that police should prevent the device from communicating to its network and receiving any wireless communication either through wi-fi or mobile data by packing the same in a faraday bags to block signals. On the trial court’s order of directing Khanna to cooperate with police to provide password to gadgets and email, the High Court said that it is upto the accused to provide the same and he cannot be compelled. However, the police can use other methods as per the law to gain access to the materials. The court also said that the trial court could not have ordered his polygraph test without an express written consent as mere silence of the accused on polygraph test cannot be construed as consent under the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-lays-down-norms-for-seizure-of-gadgets/article34057347.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister, Health Minister get vaccinated||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar got their first dose of the vaccination at the State-run Victoria Hospital on Friday. Both of them took Covaxin, India’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. On Thursday, Covaxin was taken off the clinical trial mode and was authorised for emergency use on a par with Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield. Speaking after taking the jab, Mr. Sudhakar appealed to all senior citizens and eligible persons to register and get vaccinated at the earliest. The Minister, who is a doctor himself, got the shot under the frontline workers’ category.  The State Health Department has now started using Covaxin in more session sites across the State. Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Jawaid Akhtar told The Hindu that Covaxin has been dispatched to vaccination centres across the State that have more session sites, including Bengaluru. “We are making both vaccines available in all centres, even in the six institutions in Davangere, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chamarajnagar, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru where only Covaxin was given. We are scaling up the vaccination programme. The total number of vaccinations touched 1.12 lakh on Friday. The vaccination timings have been made flexible and can go on even till 10 p.m. in private hospitals,” he said.  Total vaccinations     Meanwhile, the total vaccinations in Karnataka touched 12,70,782 till 5.30 p.m. on Friday. This includes 2,75,301 senior citizens and 50,343 persons above 45 years with co-morbidities, who have been vaccinated since March 1. On Friday, as many as 57,885 senior citizens and 12,055 above 45 years with co-morbidities took the jab till 5.30 p.m. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers – 1,08,036 and 15,979 respectively – in these categories. So far, a total of 4,78,541 healthcare workers and 1,73,309 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 2,80,358 healthcare workers have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-health-minister-get-first-dose-of-vaccination/article34057360.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ruhaniyat goes digital this year||Ruhaniyat, the flagship music festival of Banyan Tree Events, will return to Bengaluru on March 14 in a digital avatar after last year’s break owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. This year also marks the event’s 20th edition. Ruhaniyat began as a one-day programme at the Horniman Circle Gardens in Mumbai in 2001. From the following year, it was a two-day event. Now, it takes place in eight cities across India. This year, apart from Mumbai, the other cities will have only a digital event due to the pandemic. The festival features practitioners of musical traditions like fakirs, bauls, monks, folk singers, jikir-jari singers, warkaris, shabad singers, and qawwals from India and abroad. This year’s line-up for the Bengaluru edition includes Parvathy Baul from West Bengal; Mukhtiyar Ali and group from Bikaner with Louvat Brothers from Belgium; Malla Ram, Balu Ram, and group; Keshu Ram from Rajasthan; Olena Uutai from Yakutia in Russia, and the Chisti Brothers and group. Mr. Mukhtiyar Ali, a Rajasthani folk singer, is delighted at being able to perform after a long interruption due to COVID-19. He sings poems of Kabir, and Mirabai, as well as Sufi poets such as Bulleh Shah. He has also sung in films including Finding Fanny . “Since March 2020 I have been cooped up in my house. So, to be a part of an event like Ruhaniyat is great,” he says, “But, at the same time, it’s going to be different. I love performing in front of people. And, that will be a big miss. I can’t wait to see them again.” Nandini Ramesh, one of the co-founders of Banyan Tree Events, says Bengaluru along with Mumbai and Pune, especially have a music-appreciating crowd among other venues. She recalls the last edition of Ruhaniyat held at the Jayamahal Palace Hotel in November 2019. “We always have the show at an open venue. And, it started raining in the middle of the performance. So, we had to shift to an indoor hall. That took a while. But the audience waited despite the rain. This gesture was a great motivation for artists.” Ruhaniyat, she hopes, will return as a live event next year. Tickets for the event on March 14 (6 p.m. onwards) are priced at Rs. 350 and are available on bookmyshow.com. For more information, visit ruhaniyat.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ruhaniyat-goes-digital-this-year/article34057343.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||India International Travel Mart inaugurated||As the tourism sector slowly gets on recovery mode, the Bengaluru edition of India International Travel Mart-2021 began here on Friday. The travel and tourism exhibition was inaugurated by Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Secretary, Tourism Department; Kumar Pushkar, Managing Director, Jungle Lodges and Resorts Ltd.; and Vijay Sharma, Managing Director, Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation. According to a release, the two-day event will showcase a variety of destinations from different spheres such as pilgrimages, adventures, culture and heritage, beaches, and hills. The event has over 80 participants from over 15 Indian States, including travel agents, tour operators, hotels and resorts, and State tourism boards. Sanjay Hakhu, director, Sphere TravelMedia, the organiser, said: “India will be one of the earliest destinations to recover in spite of the present prevalent business environment and is fast emerging as one of the most interesting and productive markets for the travel trade industry both for leisure and business travel.” Karnataka Tourism is the ‘host State’ at India International Travel Mart this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/india-international-travel-mart-inaugurated/article34057352.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kalyana Karnataka: Fund release and expenditure remain low||In spite of adequate allocation to the Kalyana Karnataka region, the most backward region in the State, releases and expenditure has not been up to the mark since the six districts in the region were granted special status under Article 371(J) in 2013-2014. In terms of both allocation by the State government as well as funds available through Member of Parliament Local Area Development scheme (MPLADS), the actual expenditure has been low, data compiled in the Economic Survey 2021 shows. Six backward districts - Bidar, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Ballari, and Kalaburagi - part of erstwhile Hyderabad Karnataka region constitute Kalyana Karnataka. The elected representatives from the region often raise the issue of poor allocation or spending in the region. As on January 15, 2021, funds released to Lok Sabha members under MPLADS has been Rs. 75 crore, the actual expenditure has been Rs. 28.06 crore. Similarly, funds allocation to Rajya Sabha members from the region has been Rs. 111 crore and expenditure stood at Rs. 88.58 crore. In terms of financial and physical progress from the funds released by the State between 2013-14 and 2020-21 (till November), as against a total allocation of Rs. 7,385 crore allocated for the region’s development, a total of Rs. 6,079 crore has been spent of which about Rs. 5,037 crore has been released. As against approved 29,715 works, 24,721 works has been completed. Poor utilisation In the pandemic affected 2020-21 and especially when thousands of migrants from the region returned to their villages, the utilisation has been very poor. As against Rs. 1,131 crore allocated, just about Rs. 282 crore had been released while expenditure amounting to about Rs. 553.45 crore had been reported. During the period, of 5,422 approved works, 2,970 works had been completed. Except in 2018-19, when the full allocation of Rs. 1,000 crore had been released, no other financial year saw full releases as per allocation. In 2019-20, as against the allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore, releases amounted to Rs. 1,125 crore against the expenditure of Rs. 1,245 crore. Former Minister and JD(S) legislator from Bidar South Bandeppa Kashempur slammed the current model for the Kalayana Karnataka development. “What is required is focused investment on education, health, irrigation, and infrastructure development. However, what has happened is that fund allocation is spread across all sectors resulting in development of none as all get meager funds.” While funds for buildings and roads come from other allocation, funds reserved for Kalyana Karnataka development is also spent on the same, he pointed. “There is no focus and at this rate we will not develop even after 20 years.” The Economic Survey, which has compiled the figures, pointed out that intensive efforts are required to bridge the development gap and attain equitable distribution of gains from development across regions. It also noted that focus, however, needs to be on education, health, nutrition and skill development along with development of farm and non-farm activities. Formulation and effective implementation of development programmes tailored to the needs of the region are required to meet the challenges of this region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalyana-karnataka-fund-release-and-expenditure-remain-low/article34057367.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tracing drops to average of 4.5 contacts per case||On March 1, Bengaluru Urban recorded 210 positive cases, but since then, cases have been rising steadily. On Friday, the city recorded 526 new COVID-19 cases, the maximum since the start of the month. A worried Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to step up testing and contact tracing. Currently, civic officials are tracing an average of 4.5 contacts for every positive case reported in the city. Admitting that this was low, and that it had dropped over the past 10 days, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan stated that the efforts are being made to increase contact tracing. In a virtual meeting with civic officials from all zones, civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad said a minimum of 15 contacts for every positive case reported should be traced and tested. To reduce delays in relay of information about positive cases to the ward/PHC level, there will be integration of ICMR’s portal through the index app till the UPHC level. This, Mr. Cholan said, would be in place in the next two days. This way, action can be initiated with 24 hours of identification of positive cases at the PHC level. Vaccine centres At the meeting, the need to increase vaccination centres was also discussed. Currently, there are 341 vaccination centres in the city. Mr. Cholan said the civic body had identified around 500 hospitals that had more than 30-beds, registered under Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. Of these, 210 hospital managements had agreed to be included. To ensure residents of slums and persons belonging to lower socio-economic groups are also covered in the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the PHCs (primary health centres) have been directed to identify beneficiaries through Auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) and bring them to the vaccination centres. “The ANMs should be instructed to create awareness among beneficiaries. If we don’t do this, these people will be left out,” said Mr. Cholan, adding that the BBMP should work towards achieving a target of administering 1 lakh vaccinations every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tracing-drops-to-average-of-45-contacts-per-case/article34057364.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Express Cargo Terminal at KIA inaugurated||A dedicated Express Cargo Terminal at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) inaugurated on Friday. A release from the BIAL states that the new 200,000 sq.ft. built-to-suit facility will also house leading global express courier organisations. The facility will enable the Bengaluru airport to process 150,000 tonnes annually, taking the airport’s overall annual cargo capacity to 720,000 tonnes, from the existing 570,000 tonnes. “This is a first-of-its-kind warehousing facility at an Indian airport, which has been designed and built-to-suit,” stated the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/express-cargo-terminal-at-kia-inaugurated/article34057338.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Delivery partner only temporarily suspended’||In a turn of events, the food delivery app, Zomato, on Friday, announced that it would only temporarily suspend Kamaraj, a partner on the platform who has been accused of physically assaulting a customer. It had earlier announced that it had “delisted the delivery partner from the platform”. Zomato will also bear his legal costs. Following a video by the customer, Hitesha Chandranee, accusing him of assault when she questioned him over late delivery, Zomato apologised to her and suspended Kamaraj from the platform. However, after Electronics City Police arrested and released him on bail on Thursday, Kamaraj claimed that the customer threw a pair of slippers at him when he asked to be paid for the delivery. In his statement to the police, he alleged that she said she didn’t have to pay for it and should be given the meal at no cost or it should be cancelled as the delivery had been delayed. He said that in the ensuing scuffle, even as he barged in and took back the parcel, she hurt her nose accidentally with her ring. This version also went viral and Zomato was criticised for suspending him without hearing him out. Deepinder Goyal, Founder, Zomato, posted a note on Friday in which he said Zomato is helping both their customer Hitesha Chandranee and their delivery partner Kamaraj while the investigation is pending. “As per protocol, we have temporarily suspended Kamaraj from active deliveries, but are covering his earnings in the interim while there is an active police investigation. We are also covering his legal expenses pertaining to the case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delivery-partner-only-temporarily-suspended/article34057344.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Marshals from SWM to be on COVID-19 duty||With yet another cluster identified and more people testing positive for the virus, the civic body has decided to strengthen marshals on ground to enforce COVID-19 rules. Addressing civic officials in a virtual meeting here on Friday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that for the next two months, marshals — who were until now deployed to monitor solid waste management and check littering in the city — will focus on ensuring that people are wearing masks, following social distancing protocols, and sanitising and washing their hands regularly. Public announcements on precautions will be made by autorickshaws and compactors going to wards for waste collection To ensure compliance, senior officials, accompanied by marshals, will visit cinema halls, markets, malls, and other crowded areas. “If many violators are found, close down the establishment,” he added, and instructed the Chief Marshal Col. Rajbir Singh (retd.) to levy fines on non-complying managements. From February 25, when marshals began monitoring weddings and parties, till March 8, they have levied fines amounting to Rs. 7.75 lakh for not wearing masks or social distancing. “Separate teams have been constituted and we have identified clusters with two or more weddings halls. There are some zones where no such clusters exist, while some zones have more than five such clusters,” said Mr. Singh Citing the example of one area in Yeshwantpur, he said there were at least 15 wedding halls on one road. Between February 25 to 28, fine amounting to Rs. 2.92 lakh fines were levied and 1,171 cases booked against violators in marriage halls. From March 1 to 8, 1,929 cases were booked and Rs. 4.82 lakh fine levied. From February 25 to March 8, a total of 3,057 cases were booked against those not wearing masks and Rs. 7.64 lakh in fine levied, while 43 cases were booked and penalty of Rs. 10,750 collected from those not maintaining social distance during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marshals-from-swm-to-be-on-covid-19-duty/article34057361.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drive against ticketless travel||In its drive against ticketless travel, the KSRTC conducted checks in its buses during February 2021. According to a release, the KSRTC vigilance squad checked as many as 37,230 buses, detected 2,814 pilferage cases and collected pilferage amount of Rs. 61,871. The squad penalised 3,177 passengers for travelling without ticket and collected a fine of Rs. 5,23,893.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-against-ticketless-travel/article34057366.ece
13 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Quota: Panel asks seer to present arguments||The Karnataka Backward Classes Commission has asked the seer of Kudalasangama Panchamsali Peetha Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami to present his arguments for demanding 2A reservation category in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) list for Lingayat Panchamsali. The credentials for justifying the demand for 2A category will be given on March 22 before the commission. Minister for Mines Murugesh Nirani, in a release, expressed happiness at the development and said that this showed the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government’s commitment towards the cause. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa --- in the midst of Pachamasali movement demanding 2A status -- had in February asked the chairman of Backward Classes Commission K. Jayaprakash Hegde to study and submit a report on the Panchamasali demand. A release said that commission was expected to hear objections from other communities that were already part of 2A category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quota-panel-asks-seer-to-present-arguments/article34057375.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||II PU timetable revised||The Department of Pre-University Education has issued a revised timetable for II PU exam, following requests from a section of students. The examination will be conducted between May 24 and June 16 as announced earlier but some of the dates of certain subjects have been interchanged. The department tweaked the timetable based on the request of commerce students who wanted to appear for certain competitive examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-timetable-revised/article34057378.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CBI files chargesheet against ex-official of BDA||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet in connection with the ongoing I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) investment scam investigation. P.D. Kumar, then Executive Engineer of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), along with Mohammed Mansoor Khan, CEO and MD of IMA, and four four directors of the company have been named in the chargesheet. In a press release, the CBI stated that a bribe amount of approximately Rs. 5 crore was allegedly paid in four installments, Rs. 1.5 crore, Rs. 1 crore, Rs. 1.5 crore, and Rs. 1 crore, between April-May 2019 by the IMA directors to Kumar. He was allegedly tasked with influencing Revenue Department officials to accept the closure report submitted by the competent authority & then Assistant Commissioner, Bengaluru North Sub-Division. The report was submitted in April 2019 to the Revenue Department. However, it was not accepted by the then Principal Secretary of the Revenue Department and was instead sent to the Law Department for an opinion. The report was also referred to the then Karnataka Director-General of Police for further enquiry. The release further stated that IMA then put pressure on Kumar to return the bribe as he had failed in his task. “He returned Rs. 30 lakh and also issued two cheques for Rs. 2 crore and Rs. 2.5 crore as a security till the return of the remaining bribe amount in cash. These two cheques issued by the executive engineer were recovered during investigation,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-ex-official-of-bda/article34057339.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Safety certificates: Schools offered ‘leniency’ this year||Last year, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education decided to strictly enforce fitness and fire safety rules in all schools, existing as well as new applicants. However, it appears to have changed its priorities in the backdrop of COVID-19 and after lobbying from private school managements, said sources. Last November, the department had a circular mandating that schools must obtain non-objection certificates (NoC) from the Fire and Emergency Services Department and the Building Fitness Department. However, earlier this week, the department decided to do away with these rules for existing schools for this academic year. A new committee will be established to look into the modalities of this and submit their recommendations. The move comes after private school managements lobbied that the rules be relaxed for existing schools. Many managements had submitted requests urging the department to withdraw the circular. With the reprieve, schools that need to renew their affiliation, add additional sections, or introduce new course combinations, need not submit these documents. However, managements or organisations that want to apply for permission to start new schools still have to submit these documents. While the move has been welcomed by school managements, parents have criticised the government. Santosh S., a father of a class VII student, said, “My son studies in a school that is 15-years-old and they have no fire safety measures in place. The government should have not revoked the circular as it is in the interest of students’ safety”. However, D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, defended the stance and said that many existing schools were being harassed owing to these norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safety-certificates-schools-offered-leniency-this-year/article34057340.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power supply to be affected on Monday||There will be no power supply on March 15 from 10.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. owing to conversion and cable works. According to a BESCOM release, the areas affected are: St. John MUSS, Feeder 1: 20th Main, BTM Layout 1st Stage. Sarakki MUSS, Feeder 10: J.P.Nagar 2nd, 3rd, and 5th phases, J.P.Nagar 4th Phase, Dalmia signal and surrounding areas, Dollars Layout 15th Cross 100 Feet Ring Road. Power supply will also be affected on the same day (March 15) between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. in the areas that are serviced from Feeder 4 and Feeder 13 of 22/66/11kV Sarjapur MUSS due to replacement of rabbit conductor by Coyote conductor by Azim Premji University under self execution. According to a release, the affected areas are Andenahally, Kotaganahally, Sollepura, Bikkanahally, B. Hosahally, Adigondanahally, and the surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-supply-to-be-affected-on-monday/article34057333.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Results out||RGUHS has announced the results of the first and the third year nursing courses within 24 hours after their practical examinations were completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/results-out/article34057350.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||833 new cases||Karnataka on Friday reported another spike with 833 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,58,417. Of these, 526 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. From 590 cases on Tuesday, the new cases rose to 760 on Wednesday, 783 on Thursday, and 833 on Friday. With five deaths, the toll rose to 12,386. This is apart from 19 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/833-new-cases/article34057356.ece
13 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing of food handlers||BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad met with hoteliers, caterers, and restaurateurs on Friday, and addressed their concerns on testing food handlers every 15 days. “Mobile teams will be sent to their places of work to test employees. This is important as the incubation period of the COVID-19 virus is 8-14 days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-of-food-handlers/article34057362.ece
13 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. neglecting works in Hassan, says Revanna||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has alleged that the BJP government neglected the development works of Hassan, sanctioned during the rule of the JD(S)-Congress coalition. He said at a press conference in Hassan on Friday the government took more than one-and-a-half years to allocate Rs. 175 crore for Hassan airport. “If the JD(S)-Congress government had continued for 15 days more, the tender process would have been completed by then. The BJP took a long time to allocate funds for the project, which was at the tender floating stage”, he said. “B.S.Yediyurappa, while taking oath as Chief Minister had said he would not indulge in vindictive politics. But he had been doing so. He had stalled the projects sanctioned during H.D.Kumaraswamy’s rule. Corruption is rampant in the present government. The contractors of the Water Resources Department had to pay 12 per cent of the project cost as commission to get their bills cleared. Officers had been getting prime positions after paying a heavy bribe,” he alleged.  Mr. Revanna said he and other JD(S) MLAs would stage a dharna in Vidhana Soudha on Monday protesting against stalling of projects sanctioned during by the Kumaraswamy government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-neglecting-works-in-hassan-says-revanna/article34057823.ece
13 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Villagers get ready for Udusalamma fest ritual||Residents of Hariharapura and neighbouring villages in Holenarsipur taluk are said to have been making preparations for Sidi, a ritual, which involves inserting hooks into human bodies, as part of Udusalamma festival to be held on April 3. The Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Act, 2017, that came into effect on January 4, 2020, prohibits rituals that cause physical injury and involve piercing rods into the body. The ritual, which is also known as hook-swinging, involves inserting hooks into the flesh of the backs of people chosen for the ritual. Later they are tied to a long tree trunk, mounted on a wooden pedestal. Dalits and women This practice is played out at Hariharapura as part of Udusalamma festival, held once in two years. All those selected to perform the Sidi ritual are Dalits. They have to observe a fast for a week before the festival day. Besides them, many women participate in the procession with their mouth locked by iron hooks. Tree cutting In the run-up to the festival, residents of seven neighbouring villages, who all take part in the festival, select the tree under the guidance of the temple priest and cut it in advance. According to sources in Hariharapura, people cut the tree last week and the preparations for the ritual are on. ‘Will seek report’ When this issue was brought to the notice of H.V. Manjunath, Deputy Director of Social Welfare Department, he said he would enquire about the preparations of the ritual. “I will get a report from the local office and also inform the police to take proper action to stop rituals prohibited as per the law,” he said. The Deputy Directors of the department are nodal officers to oversee the implementation of the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-get-ready-for-udusalamma-fest-ritual/article34057625.ece
13 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||89 child marriages stopped||As many as 109 child marriages were reported in Shivamogga district in the last one year. The district administration could stop 89 of them, based on prior information. This came up for discussion in a meeting chaired by Shyamala S. Kundar, member of National Women Commission, in Shivamogga on Friday. While reviewing the programmes related to women, Ms. Kundar pointed out that there was a need for strict measures to stop child marriages. “The officers have to respond to complaints of child marriages in a short span of time and stop them. Besides that, programmes to spread awareness among the public on the issue was necessary”, she said. Regarding the domestic violence cases, the commission member suggested the officers give preference to resolving the issues through mutual talks, rather than filing cases. Sakhi centre, meant for counselling women facing problems, should be strengthened so that it could perform effectively. The centre should have an independent building, she said. All government and private offices should have a system to receive complaints of harassment at the workplace. Every establishment should have a committee as per the guidelines, she said. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar, SP K.M. Shantharaju, Zilla Panchayat CEO M.L. Vaisali and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/89-child-marriages-stopped/article34057818.ece
13 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mining policy draft is ready: Nirani||Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani said on Friday that the draft of new mining policy for 2021-26 was ready and would be finalised within a month. He said the policy aimed to help small-time mine operators and boost mining operations in a systematic and rational manner. Speaking at a review meeting of various departments, including the Department of Mines and Geology, at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Dharwad, he said that the new policy would be along the lines of the Union government’s National Mineral Policy. Mr. Nirani said that a single-window clearance system would be introduced to clear applications pertaining to grant of mining/quarry leases and crusher licences in a time-bound manner. The Minister said that the new policy would also address region-specific issues and improve ease of doing business. This apart, mining adalats would be held to look into the grievances of applicants, he said. He said that the district had 136 quarries and 62 stone crushing units. “In order to ensure safety and avoid accidents while using explosives, the owners of the quarries and crushers have been asked to deposit the explosives with the police and take them when required.” Mr. Nirani said that while obtaining explosives licence was compulsory, the crusher owners had raised objections to the mandatory period of 90 days for issuance of license. In order to overcome the problem, it has been suggested to have a tie-up with existing licence-holders and continue operations. However, they would have to give an undertaking for the purpose, he said. Training Mr. Nirani said the department would hold special training programmes and workshops on the scientific way of mining for those engaged in the industry. Mines and Geology officials and other stakeholders too would be given such training, he said. The Minister also said that the government would soon set up a school of mining to impart education on mining operations. He had earlier met members of the Dharwad Crusher Owners and Stone Quarry Owners’ Association, who shared their grievances with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mining-policy-draft-is-ready-nirani/article34057619.ece
13 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Twin cities to host international film festival from May 21||For the first time, an international film festival will take place in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad for three days in May. National and international films will be screened in four film theatres each in the twin cities. A curtain-raiser for the film festival was held at Hubballi earlier this week, with multilingual film actor Suman, producer Sa.Ra. Govind and others formally launching the preparatory activities and the logo of the film festival. Mr. Suman said he was pleasantly surprised to see an international film festival being planned in Hubballi-Dharwad. He said that such film festivals would be mutually beneficial for those in the film industry from different nations and also for the venue as film activities would pick up there. N.M. Suresh, vice-president of the Film Federation of India, stressed the need for working in coordination for promoting films and film-related activities. Saying that the setting up of alternative forums for film activities would only hamper the growth of the industry, he called upon film enthusiasts and film personalities to work in coordination with Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. Giving information on the film festival, event coordinator Altaf Zahangeer said that the film festival would be held from May 21 for three days, and films would be screened at eight venues across the twin cities. He said entry would be free for students in the age group of 14 to 18 years, and the films would be screened from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. “In all, there will be five shows every day. The inaugural ceremony will take place at Hotel Naveen in Hubballi at 9 a.m., and around 300 delegates are expected to participate.” The Nava Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy is hosting the event. Its president, M.R. Mummigatti, said that Kannada, Hindi and English movies would be screened during the festival. “Such events will showcase the [Hubballi-Dharwad] region and help in promoting film activities,” he said, clarifying that the film festival was not an alternative to the film fest conducted in Bengaluru.  Entry and timings Entry will be free for students in the age group of 14 to 18, and the films will be screened from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. daily||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twin-cities-to-host-international-film-festival-from-may-21/article34057613.ece
13 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for killing boy in Haveri||In an incident that shows the adverse impact of crime serials on television, two brothers, including a minor, hatched a conspiracy to kidnap a 11-year-old boy for ransom but ended up killing him in Haveri district. The police have arrested the duo. The deceased has been identified as Tejasgouda Jagadish Mallikeri, son of Jagadish Mallikeri, a resident of Ashwini Nagar in Haveri. The Haveri police have arrested one person and his 17-year-old younger brother on charges of killing the boy. Missing complaint On March 7, Tejasgouda’s father filed a missing person’s complaint expressing fears that his son could have been kidnapped after he did not return home. Superintendent of Police, Haveri, Devaraju told presspersons on Friday that following the complaint a team was entrusted with the investigation. During investigation, the parents of the accused too had expressed suspicion over the behaviour of their wards. Subsequently, it was revealed that the brothers who used to watch crime serials, had hatched a plan to kidnap Tejasgouda and seek a ransom of Rs. 20 lakh. However, their plan went awry after they kidnapped and took him in a car. They ended up strangling him and then threw his body in Heggeri tank in Haveri. Then they brought the body to their home and hid it in a gunny bag in their backyard. Subsequently, they burnt the body amid shrubs on the premises of a nearby hostel, he said. Mr. Devaraju said that further investigation would be taken up as there were doubts about the duo attempting a kidnap earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-killing-boy-in-haveri/article34057376.ece
13 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Action plan to utilise funds under DMF||Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani on Friday said that with the Supreme Court finalising the norms to utilise the District Mineral Foundation (DMF), the government has asked the department to prepare an action plan for the same. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Friday, under DMF around Rs. 2,400 crore has been collected and out of it, Rs. 700 crore was already being utilised for various development works. “There is still Rs. 1,700 crore, which will be spent in the next two years. The department will prepare an action plan and funds will be release after approval from the government,” he said. Mr. Nirani said that the government had received mining royalty of Rs. 12,000 crore and also received Rs. 6,000 crore as interest on it, taking the total revenue to Rs. 18,000 crore “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has been requested to allocate an additional Rs. 7,000 crore to take the tally to Rs. 25,000 crore. This fund will be exclusively used for the rehabilitation and reclamation of mining-affected areas in the districts of Tumakuru, Chitradurga, and Ballari,” he said. On the soaring prices of sand, Mr. Nirani said the new sand policy would resolve various pending issues and make sand affordable for the common man. “Under the policy, new slabs will be introduced. Sand will be available for Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 a tonne for the poor and those constructing houses for less than Rs. 10 lakh. There will be different slabs for houses being built for over Rs. 10 lakh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-plan-to-utilise-funds-under-dmf/article34057620.ece
13 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Students show the way to increase farm income||A group of 66 final-year students pursuing Bachelor of Science in Agriculture at the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Kalaburagi, are showing the way to increasing farm income and cut input costs to make agriculture more remunerative. Two months ago, the students began planning to cultivate on 38 guntas of land and started experimenting on it. They are now producing an array of fruits and vegetables that have generated an income of Rs. 2 lakh in just two months. P. Vasudev Naik, a horticulture scientist at KVK Kalaburagi, and Mahantesh Jogi, assistant professor, College of Agriculture, Kalaburagi, told The Hindu on Friday told the cultivation system was based on scientific farming and the students had adapted mulching combined with a drip irrigation system to help conserve water. Dr. Naik said the objective was to test production strategies and get a decent income from a small piece of land with reduced water. “The students have cultivated nine crops, including two main crops of marigold and watermelon. They have utilised the space left between the rows of the main crops for cultivating ridge gourd, bottle gourd, bitter gourd, dolichos bean, carrot, radish, and spinach,” Dr. Naik added. Dr. Jogi said that this was truly a student farm and they made almost all the decisions. “We can get around four tonnes of marigold flowers from 6,000 marigold plants and are expecting a profit of Rs. 80,000. From the 4,000 watermelon trees, we can generate an income of anywhere between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 1.5 lakh.” Scientific methods of farming, with a combination of drip irrigation and mulching, is sure to make farming successful, both ecologically and financially, Dr. Jogi explained. The harvested flowers are sold in the local market and the staff and locals are invited to buy the vegetables. Satish Kumar, a final-year student, said that under the experiential learning programme, besides farming methods, they had also understood a sense of entrepreneurship as the students grew and sold the produce themselves. “It has taught us how to farm and use the land potential as well. We were responsible for watering and giving manure to the crops.”  The experiment has taught us how to farm and use the land potential as well. We were responsible for watering and giving manure to the crops Satish Kumar, student, KVK, Kalaburagi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-show-the-way-to-increase-farm-income/article34057622.ece
13 March 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Auto driver stabbed to death in Kalaburagi||An autorickshaw driver was stabbedto death by five youngsters when he allegedly objected to them following his sister and passing indecent remarks. The incident took place at Taj Sultanpur, on the outskirts of Kalaburagi city, on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Jagannath. A gang of five allegedly took Jaganath to an isolated place and stabbed him in the abdomen and the neck. Jagannath’s family has lodged a complaint against the five, including Nagaraj of Kottaragi village and Dattu and Nagaraj, residents of Channaveer Nagar, in Kalaburagi city. The rural police have registered a case. Efforts are being made to trace the gang accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-driver-stabbed-to-death-in-kalaburagi/article34057623.ece
13 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||3 chosen for honorary award of Konkani Sahitya Academy||Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy announced its honorary award and book award for 2020 for three persons and three books each on Friday. It has chosen Aruna Subrao Ubhayakar of Kumta (literature), Puttur Panduranga Nayak (arts), and Lakshmi Krishna Siddi of Yellapura (folklore) for its honorary award, which carries a purse of Rs. 50,000, a memento, a citation, and a shawl. The academy has selected ‘Aek Moot Paulio’, a collection of poems by Prem Moras of Mangaluru, ‘Navi Disha’, a collection of short stories by Monica D’Sa Mathias of Udupi, and ‘Sugandhu Swas’, a collection of articles by Steven Quadros Permude for the book award, which carries a purse of Rs. 25,000, a memento, a citation, and a shawl. Addressing presspersons here, academy chairman Jagadish Pai said the awards would be presented at Kumta in Uttara Kannada. The date of the awards ceremony is yet to be finalised. The winners Mr. Ubhayakar was a teacher for 33 years and founded the Konkani Parishat in Kumta in 1989. He organised the first All-Karnataka Konkani Sammelana in 1990 and started the Akhila Karnataka Konkani Parishat in Bengaluru. The academy has published his two books. He has published ‘Panchajanya’, a collection of short drama scripts and a collection of poems. Mr. Nayak, who is a musician, is a B grade artist of All India Radio. He has composed over 100 songs in Konkani, Kannada, and Tulu since 1988, and brought out their audio cassettes. He is a commentator of compositions of Purandaradasa, Kanakadasa, Shishunala Sharief and the like. Ms. Siddi is an expert in Siddi folklore forms such as Damami, Pugadi, and Sangyabala. She has acted in some films and has formed a team of Siddi folklore artists to present shows in various places. She formed the team using the money which she got for presenting the shows in various cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-chosen-for-honorary-award-of-konkani-sahitya-academy/article34057793.ece
13 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard joins beginning of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’||Karnataka unit of the Indian Coast Guard, headquartered in Mangaluru, was among the Western Region units which joined the nation on Friday in the commencement of the commemoration of the 75th anniversary celebrations of Independence. Coast Guard officers and men from ships and shore establishment joined the community interaction programme to sensitise the fishing community along with various stakeholders, including the Coastal Security Police and the Fisheries Department. Community interaction programmes were held at 24 places in the Western Region, which included three fishing villages in Karnataka — Thota Bengre and Bunder fishing villages in Mangaluru and Mudga fishing village in Karwar, a Coast Guard release said. Various aspects of safety and security at sea, demonstration of life-saving equipment, the importance and necessity of group fishing, use of distress alert transmitters, introducing unsung heroes, Independence struggle, and sacrifices made by the brave sons of the soil, and the importance of celebrating “Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav” were deliberated upon. Fishermen were also sensitised about their role as the eyes and ears of the coastal security construct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-joins-beginning-of-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav/article34057797.ece
13 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Beary sammelana in Ullal on March 27||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy will host a Beary Sahitya and Samskritika Sammelana at Ullal on March 27, said academy chairman Rahim Uchil. Addressing presspersons on Friday, he said the event would be organised at Madani PU College. Poet Ali Kunhi Pare will be the president of the sammelana. Social activist Harekala Hajabba will inaugurate it. There will be two literary sessions and two ‘kavi gosthis’. In addition, speech, cooking, and mehandi competitions will be conducted. In all, 15 achievers will be felicitated. The academy has plans for a Vishwa Beary Sammelana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-sammelana-in-ullal-on-march-27/article34057796.ece
13 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Allen Career Institute opens centre in city||Allen Career Institute, Kota, Rajasthan, launched its Mangaluru centre on Friday. It will have two campuses — one at Vikaas PU College, Mary Hill, and the other in City Point Building at Navbharat Circle. Speaking after its launch at a function, the Pro-Chancellor of Nitte Deemed-to-be University Shantharam Shetty said that talents in Mangaluru region can now take advantage of the mentoring institution. The chairman of Vikaas Group of Institutions, J. Krishna Palemar, said that a finishing school would help many talented people. C. R. Choudhary, senior vice-president, Allen Career Institute, Mahesh Yadav, academic head, South India, and Vipin Narayanan, Mangaluru centre head, were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allen-career-institute-opens-centre-in-city/article34057795.ece
13 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||46 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 35 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. With 16 patients being discharged after treatment, the active cases in the district stood at 232. Udupi registered 11 new cases, taking the active cases in the district to 98.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/46-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34057798.ece
13 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Book released||The book ‘Little Rocks and Pebbles’, by Mathew C. Ninan, Director of Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, was released recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-released/article34057802.ece
13 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Dak adalat||The quarterly Dak Adalat will be held in the office of Udupi Postal Superintendent on March 19 at 4 p.m. Complaints should be sent to the office by March 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dak-adalat/article34057803.ece
13 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||No power supply||There will be no power supply to Police Lane, Old Kent Road, Central Railway Station, University College area, B.R. Karkera Road, and Kerala Samaja Road in the city from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. The disruption is on account of maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-supply/article34057801.ece
13 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||PUC students to get book on Constitution||A book on the Indian Constitution – Samvidhana Odu – written by retired judge of Karnataka High Court H.N. Nagmohan Das will be distributed for free to all PUC students in Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha constituency. About 30,000 students will be given copies of the book, which has been published under MP and former Minister V. Srinivas Prasad’s MPLAD funds. A function has been organised at B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan in Chamarajanagar on Saturday, March 13, jointly by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education and Samanate Prakashana to launch the book distribution programme. The 96-page Kannada book seeks to educate the youths about the importance of the Constitution in their social, political and other spheres of life. Former Registrar of University of Mysore Basavaraj said the programme will ensure that the Constitution reaches all homes. “It will help take the basic knowledge of the Constitution to the general public.“ Since a long time Mr. Prasad, a veteran Dalit leader, was keen on ensuring that the aspirations of the Constitution as envisioned by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar reached the common people. The free distribution of the book aims to achieve the objective, he said. While 50 students will be handed over the books on the dais at the function symbolically, the rest of the books will be sent to all the government and aided Pre-University colleges situated in all the eight Assembly constituencies that comprise Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha segment. The eight constituencies – Hanur, Kollegal, Chamarajanagar, Gundlupet, T. Narsipur, Nanjangud, H.D. Kote and Varuna – fall in both Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts. While Minister for Primary and Secondary Education R. Suresh Kumar, who is also the Minister in charge of Chamarajanagar district, will inaugurate the programme, Mr. Nagmohan Das will speak about the book. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar will be the chief guest while former Minister and Chamarajanagar MLA C. Puttaranga Shetty will preside over the programme. All the MLAs of the eight Assembly constituencies will attend, Mr. Basavaraj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/puc-students-to-get-book-on-constitution/article34057817.ece
13 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sound and Light show to resume from Monday||The Sound and Light Programme at Mysuru palace, which had remained suspended for almost a year now due to COVID-19, is all set to resume from March 15. It will be held every evening except Sundays and government holidays. The programme, also known as Son Et Lumiere, seeks to showcase the 400-year-old history of Mysuru through lighting on the palace, narration and background sound. Apart from the history, the programme also traces the cultural heritage and contributions of the Wadiyars. According to a schedule released by the Deputy Director of Mysuru Palace, the Kannada version of the programme will be held from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. on all Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays while the English version will be held from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. on all Thursdays and Fridays. On Saturdays, two programmes will be held. While the English version will be held between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m., the Kannada version will be held between 8.15 p.m. and 9.15 p.m. The admission fee for Kannada version is Rs. 70 for an adult and Rs. 30 for a child. The entry fee for English version is Rs. 80 for an adult and Rs. 40 for a child. Illumination Meanwhile, the Mysuru palace will also be illuminated for 15 minutes at the end of the show from Monday to Saturday between 7.45 p.m. ad 8 p.m. On Saturday, the palace will be illuminated after the second Sound and Light programme also from 9 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. On Sundays and government holidays, the palace will be illuminated from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Sundays and government holidays, the statement added. The Sound and Light programme had suspended ever since the nationwide lockdown was declared in March last year. Even though the palace was reopened in June and illumination was temporarily resumed during Dasara 2020, the Sound and Light programme remained suspended. The announcement on resumption of the programme comes amid not only the frequent visits by the newly appointed Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar to the city, but also at a time when there has been a spike in COVID-19 cases particularly in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, which has also resulted in a setback to the tourism industry in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sound-and-light-show-to-resume-from-monday/article34057825.ece
13 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bharat Ratna for Cariappa, Thimayya: Rashtrapati Bhavan sends letter to PMO||Congress MLC Veena Achaiah’s letter to the President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the country‘s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna for Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa and General K.S. Thimayya has been forwarded to Prime Minister’s Office. The Rashtrapathi Bhavan has acknowledged the receipt of Ms. Achaiah’s letter dated February 6, 2021, addressed to the President regarding conferment of Bharat Ratna posthumously to both Field Marshal Cariappa and General Thimayya. On March 2, 2021, the Officer on Special Duty, President’s Secretariat, Jagannath Srinivasan wrote to Ms. Achaiah, seeking to bring to her notice that the letter she had sent to the President had been forwarded to the Prime Minister’s Office for appropriate action. The demand for Bharat Ratna to Field Marshal Cariappa and General Thimayya, both of whom hail from Kodagu district, is pending for a long time before the Centre. Even former Army Chief Bipin Rawat hand endorsed the demand for Bharat Ratna to Field Marshal Cariappa. While Cariappa was the first Indian Commander in Chief of the Indian Army, General Thimayya served as the Chief of Army Staff from 1957 to 1961. During Mr. Kovind’s visit to Madikeri last month to inaugurate the General Thimayya Memorial Museum, Ms. Achaiah submitted a memorandum recalling that General Thimayya was the only Indian to command an infantry brigade in the battle during the Second World War while Mr. Cariappa belonged to a family of farmers and is one of the only two Indian Army officers to hold the highest and five star rank of Field Marshal.  The demand for Bharat Ratna for Field Marshal Cariappa and General Thimayya, both of whom hail from Kodagu district, has been a long-pending one before the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-ratna-for-cariappa-thimayya-rashtrapati-bhavan-sends-letter-to-pmo/article34057629.ece
13 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Batting for the cause of TB awareness||A 3-day cricket tournament to create greater awareness on tuberculosis was inaugurated in the city on Friday. It is being conducted in association with the Zilla Panchayat, Department of District Health and Family Welfare, District Tuberculosis Control Centre and the workers of National TB Elimination Programme. The tournament was inaugurated by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri who said that though COVID-19 had emerged as a pandemic and was the focus of all attention in the present times, tuberculosis was more dangerous. The cricket tournament has drawn participants from 8 districts and will go a long way in creating public awareness about TB, said the Deputy Commissioner. District Health and Family Welfare officer T. Amarnath and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/batting-for-the-cause-of-tb-awareness/article34057820.ece
13 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Uniform road tax will propel tourism’||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C.P. Yogeshwar said here on Friday that the vexed issue of streamlining inter-State road tax for tourist vehicles will be resolved with the standardisation of the tax slab. He told reporters here the Centre has sent the draft proposal of the new policy to standardise and levy a uniform road tax across the country and this would be officially notified and rolled out in due course. Once there is a single tax as part of one nation one tax policy, the long pending demand of the tourist operators to reduce or standardise the road tax will be automatically resolved, the Minister said. He said he will share the draft policy with all the stakeholders and the State government too was keen to give its consent to the proposal. “The road tax levied on inter-State tourist vehicles was exorbitant as a result of which the tourists are forced to change vehicles when entering another State. This also discouraged the growth of tourism. A new uniform tax rate will eliminate this hassle and pave way for a greater tourist footfall.’ This was also one of the demands of stakeholders in the tourism sector and though pending since decades, there used to be a temporary reprieve by way of concession only during Dasara. The Minister also said that he would take up the issue of establishing a tourism development authority for Mysuru apart from a Dasara Authority all of which are pending since many years. “We have already started the preliminary work pertaining to establishing a tourism authority. Similarly, the Dasara Authority too was in the offing and would help publicise the festivities ahead to enable the tourists to plan their visit.’’ He said the government would establish a few star hotels at Hampi, Badami, Belur and Vijayapura for the benefit of the tourists. In Mysuru, there are plans afoot to revive the glory of Lalitha Mahal Palace and he was in talks with the Wadiyars to revive the Rajendra Vilas Palace atop Chamundi Hills. In response to a question on failure to protect the heritage of Mysuru or get it declared as a heritage city the Minister said he will convene a meeting of officials and stakeholders in this regard.  Preliminary work started on establishing tourism development authority for Mysuru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uniform-road-tax-will-propel-tourism/article34057822.ece
13 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Take benefits of schemes to beneficiaries’||Geetha Vivekananda, State president of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha, said on Friday that party leaders and workers should shoulder the responsibility of taking the benefits of schemes introduced by the Union and State governments to eligible beneficiaries. She was addressing a women’s conference in Yadgir. Ms. Vivekananda said that both governments had introduced many pro-people schemes for people of all categories. “If such schemes reach the deserving beneficiaries, no one will be dissatisfied. So you have the responsibility of takingthe benefits to them.” Appealing to workers of the women’s wing to participate in the party’s activities, she said, “You start working for the people, then you will automatically be recognised and will become a model for others.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-benefits-of-schemes-to-beneficiaries/article34057624.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HDK ridicules Minister’s helplessness over mafia||Questioning the use of those who cannot set right the administration to remain in power, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Friday said land mafia cannot thrive if the government takes a tough stand. His response came to Revenue Minister R. Ashok’s statement expressing helplessness to act against the land mafia. Mr. Ashok said that while he would speak against the mafia when he was in the Opposition, his hands were tied to take action now. “Today, who is this mafia that has grown big? Is it not the party’s followers? It is irresponsible to say it cannot be controlled. These words inspire the mafia. Both national parties have equal responsibility for the mafia to grow,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said on Twitter. “The Minister also said that if action is initiated against officers involved in this illegality, they are coming back to their posts again. Politicians are responsible for the arrogance of officials.” In another tweet, he asked: “If the government is serious in bringing a tough policy, what can the mafia do? You need the will. What is the point of staying in power if things cannot be set right?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-ridicules-ministers-helplessness-over-mafia/article34057374.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Elders, others urged to get COVID-19 vaccine jab||There is no rush at all these centres and people can either register beforehand or walk in directly to get inoculated, Dr. Bairy said. To a question, Dr. Rajendra and Dr. Bairy said the vaccine would be effective up to six months from the date of getting the second dose. As many as 7,346 persons aged above 60 and 913 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities had got vaccine till Thursday. As many as 33,887 healthcare workers and 20,374 frontline workers have got the first dose of vaccine. Dr. Rajendra said those who have got the first dose could get the second dose anywhere in the country on production of the vaccine certificate/reference number.  Awareness campaign The administration has planned a massive campaign to create awareness about vaccination involving religious heads and leaders, asking them to get vaccinated so as to encourage others to follow the suit. ASHAs as well as booth-level officers will be roped in to encourage targeted persons to get vaccinated. As inoculation has to be done under supervision, residents of old-age/destitute homes could be ferried to the nearest vaccination site through school buses to be administered the vaccine, Dr. Rajendra said. The DC said testing would be doubled from 2,000 in view of the increasing cases in the neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elders-others-urged-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-jab/article34057794.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gone, but not forgotten||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gone-but-not-forgotten/article34057337.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||In the report published under the headline ‘Blunder led to offer of TDR worth Rs. 13,396 crore’ (Bengaluru edition, March 11), the sum was inadvertently mentioned as Rs. 13,396 crore. It should have been Rs. 1,396 crore. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article34057345.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Packed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/packed/article34057789.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Religious gathering||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-gathering/article34057617.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘CBI probe would have been better’||The State government should have referred the CD scandal allegedly involving Ramesh Jarkiholi, former Minister, to the CBI as the SIT comprising of State police officers, will not be able to function independently, said Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, BJP leader and MLA, in Vijayapura on Friday. He demanded that the SIT go to the roots of the case and find out who was behind the making of such CDs and sharing them on social media handles. “I know that there are organised gangs in Bengaluru making such CDs to blackmail leaders. They collect crores of rupees by blackmailing leaders at various parties. They should be arrested and tried,” he told mediapersons. To a question, he said he had reason to believe that some politicians were supporting such gangs. “I am sure that there are at least two politicians who support such ventures. One is in the Congress and the other is in the BJP,” he said. Mr. Yatnal said he welcomed the statement by Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar that Congress leaders were behind the conspiracy to defame Mr. Ramesh. Mr. Somashekar was a Congress man for a long time. He knows how the party functions, Mr. Yatnal said. He accepted that he had referred to some leaders using CDs to blackmail their way into the Cabinet. “But, I did not mean such obscene CDs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-probe-would-have-been-better/article34057371.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Language row||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/language-row/article34057631.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Mangaluru Productivity Council: T.S. Sheshadri, head of training, Karnataka Bank, speaks on ‘How to face an interview’, Canara College, 5 p.m.  Sheni Gopalakrishna Charitable Trust: Harikathe Srirama Pattabhisheka by Devakitanaya Kudlu, Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple premises, 4.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34057799.ece
13 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BDJS announces second list||The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), a constituent of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has announced its second list of candidates for the Assembly polls in the State. The list was released by BDJS president Thushar Vellappally on Friday. As per the list, M.R. Ullas will contest from the Poonjar Assembly constituency, Ajitha Sabu from Vaikom, P.S. Jayarajan from Kalamassery, A.B. Jayaprakash from Paravur, Unnikrishnan from Chalakudy, and A.N. Anurag from Nemmara. Around 30 seats The BDJS has so far announced candidates for 12 constituencies. The party is expected to contest in around 30 seats this time. “The remaining candidates, including for Kuttanad and Kodungalloor, will be announced later,” Mr. Vellappally said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bdjs-announces-second-list/article34057723.ece
13 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Toastmasters club office-bearers||Sajukumar Nair has been elected president of the Alleppey Toastmasters Club. The other office-bearers are Krishna Raj Nagendra Pai (vice president, Education), Subier Shams (vice president, membership), Sohan Vyas (vice president, public relations), Rajeswari Nair (secretary), Vinu Kumar (treasurer), and Arun K. Vijayan (sergeant at arms). It is the first Toastmasters Club to be formed in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toastmasters-club-office-bearers/article34057768.ece
13 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Expenditure observer takes charge||S. Sundar Raj, Additional Commissioner, Income Tax, Bengaluru, took charge as election expenditure observer for Wayanad district at the collectorate here on Friday. Mr. Sundar Raj was received by District Collector Adeela Abdualla. The Sulthan Bathery guest house will be his camp office. Those with grievances or complaints pertaining to election expenditure can contact the official on 04936-293471.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expenditure-observer-takes-charge/article34057692.ece
13 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Excise Deputy Commissioner suspended||Wayanad Excise Deputy Commissioner T.K. Ashraf has been placed under suspension for allegedly misbehaving with a woman civil excise officer. He was suspended by K.B. Lissy, joint secretary, Excise Department, on Thursday as per a report submitted by the Excise Commissioner. The Kerala State Excise Staff Association committee expressed concern about the incident and urged the government to adopt disciplinary action against the official. Ashraf reportedly misbehaved with his subordinate when he inspected the Excise range office a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-deputy-commissioner-suspended/article34057691.ece
13 March 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Cong. is BJP’s fixed deposit: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the Congress had become the fixed deposit of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mr. Vijayan was addressing a public meeting as part of his tour of the Dharmadam constituency, from where he is again in the fray for the Assembly polls. He was responding to a statement of BJP State chief K. Surendran that the party would rule Kerala even if it got 35 seats in the polls. ‘71 seats, not 35’ “A BJP leader is announcing that his party need only 35 seats to come to power, whereas the requirement is 71 seats. That is the kind of faith they have in the Congress,” he said. “The BJP is being driven by the belief that there is a fixed deposit in the Congress here. It is no surprise that Congress men who won the election have now joined the BJP,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said even Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said that the party would not survive just because it won an election. It needed a good majority to be in power. He said secularism was in great danger in the country. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had always tried to undermine the Constitution. Earlier there was secrecy, but now it was done publicly. Those who wanted secularism would support Kerala’s stance, he said calling for an uncompromising approach against communalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-is-bjps-fixed-deposit-pinarayi/article34057726.ece
13 March 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CEC observers in Kasaragod||Ahead of the Assembly elections, three Central Election Commission (CEC) observers visited Kasaragod district to monitor expenditure of candidates. Special Expenditure Observer Pushpinder Singh Puniha, M. Satish Kumar, and Sanjoy Paul visited the district on Friday. Sanjoy Paul is the observer for Manjeswaram and Kasaragod constituencies, and Satish Kumar is the observer for Uduma, Kanhangad and Trikkarippur constituencies. Fair election Addressing election officials at the Kasaragod collectorate, Mr. Puniha said that care should be taken to ensure free and fair elections. Monitoring should be tightened in areas where money is likely to influence voters, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cec-observers-in-kasaragod/article34057689.ece
13 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Resolve Periyar pollution permanently, NGT tells govt.||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said that the government should solve pollution of the Periyar permanently, as it has been pending for eight years. “It should not be allowed to continue in the future as well,” pointed out the Bench, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, in its latest order dated March 9. The order was issued in a case related to indiscriminate pollution of the river. The tribunal asked the Chief Secretary, State Pollution Control Board (PCB), and the joint committee of experts constituted by it to come up with reports before May 17. The Bench said the joint committee had not filed its report suggesting measures to stop pollution in the Periyar. The action plan to be prepared by the government will depend on the recommendations of the committee as mentioned in a report filed by the government on February 24. It had pointed out that the committee required more time to complete analysis of samples taken from the river. The committee has requested the tribunal to give time till March 31 to submit a comprehensive report on the various reasons for the pollution of the river. The government has agreed to submit the Periyar River Action Plan by April 30. The Bench reminded that the time-line provided to inspect the river in two phases had already expired. The joint committee has been asked to file its report on remedial measures to be taken and share it with the government for preparing the action plan. The tribunal said the PCB should file a status report on the pollution levels in the Periyar. The agency must also submit its findings on discharge of untreated sewage and effluents by industrial units and local bodies before May 17. The counsel for the Central Pollution Control Board (nodal agency for carrying out the study) told the Bench that the committee report would be submitted at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resolve-periyar-pollution-permanently-ngt-tells-govt/article34057720.ece
13 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC extends its stay on regularisation till April 8||The High Court has extended its stay on the regularisation of temporary employees in various organisations and entities till April 8. When the case concerned came up before the court on Friday, the State Attorney submitted that the government regularised those who had been working for long in various organisations and the recruitment to these posts were not to be carried out by the Kerala Public Service Commission. The State Attorney sought time for filing a detailed counter-affidavit in the matter explaining the case of each organisation involved. He also sought a few weeks time for filing the counter affidavit. The respondents in the case and counsels appearing for various entities also sought time for filing the counter-pleadings. Petitioners’ plea Counsel for the petitioners pleaded for extending the stay on the regularisation process as he feared that the institutions will illegally regularise employees in violation of the Supreme Court order. Considering the prayer of the State Attorney and the respondents in the case seeking more time to file counter-pleadings, Justice Devan Ramachandran ordered that the stay order be extended. The court adjourned the matter to April 8, by which the government and other respondents should file the counter-pleadings. The High Court also extended the stay order with the instruction that no further regularisation shall be done without obtaining specific orders from the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-extends-stay-on-regularisation/article34057698.ece
13 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Over 44,000 senior citizens vaccinated in Ernakulam||A total of 44,190 senior citizens and 2,066 people over the age of 45 with co-morbidities have taken the first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine in Ernakulam since registration began on March 1. Mass vaccination drives will soon be held at the municipality and corporation levels, said a communication from the District Medical Officer. At present, there are three mass vaccination centres in the city — IMA House, YMCA Hall on Chittoor Road, and Amrita Arts and Science College — said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination in the district. Second dose Among health workers, 62,312 have taken the first shot. Of them, 30,755 have taken the second dose too. A total of 40,072 frontline workers have been inoculated with the first dose, and 99 of them have taken the second dose as well. On Friday, 100 vaccination centres were arranged — 57 at government facilities and 43 at private hospitals. Target to be raised “Around 17,000 doses were administered on Friday, though a final figure is yet to be available. The target for the district will be raised to 25,000 doses per day from next week, and the number of vaccination centres will be increased accordingly,” Dr. Sivadas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-44000-senior-citizens-vaccinated-in-ernakulam/article34057716.ece
13 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Work on Aluva pump house lags||A new pump house at Aluva that will draw water from the Periyar is expected to resolve the water woes of Ernakulam, but the completion of the project remains far from sight. The pump house, proposed nearly two years ago, is likely to increase supply to the district by 143 million litres per day (mld). The current supply hovers around 350 mld, while the projected demand was pegged at over 480 mld when proposals for the new plant were drawn up, according to Kerala Water Authority (KWA) officials. The district currently receives 100 million litres of water from the pump house at Maradu and between 250 and 280 mld is supplied from the existing pump house at Aluva. The Maradu plant receives water from the Muvattupuzha river, while the purification plant at Aluva draws water from the Periyar. The new pump house, while further burdening the Periyar river, will improve supply to Thrikkakara, Paravur, Aluva, Kalamassery, Maradu, Kochi Corporation area, and 13 surrounding panchayats. It is proposed to come up on around 3 acres some 500 metres from the existing one at Aluva. While the total project cost is around Rs. 300 crore, administrative sanction for work costing only Rs. 50 crore was obtained in 2019, since there had been a shortage of funds, said a KWA official associated with the project. As part of the first phase of the project, the KWA officers’ quarters, which stands on the proposed project site, is being razed and rebuilt near the Town Hall at Aluva, and the pipelines that pass through the site of the new plant are being rerouted. The KWA is hoping to complete the first phase of the project by June 2022, the official said. Work on the pump house and the purification plant can begin after the first phase is complete, and could take over a year and a half, said another senior KWA official. Administrative sanction for the remaining project cost is still awaited, while the proposal for it was submitted in July last year. The existing distribution network will be used to boost supply, and a sump at Kalamassery will be used for storage, the official said. Fresh pipelines will also have to be laid from the new pump house to the sump at Kalamassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-aluva-pump-house-lags/article34057718.ece
13 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||154 test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in district||A total of 154 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Friday. Two health workers have been infected, and the source of infection could not be traced in seven cases. Edappally recorded nine new cases, Kaloor seven, and Thrikkakara and Vengoor saw six each. Recoveries continue to outpace fresh cases, with 623 people testing negative on Friday. As many as 15,875 people remain in quarantine, and the active caseload stands at 4,796. Of those recovering from the infection, 4,143 are recuperating at home, 31 are at Government Medical College Hospital, 40 are at PVS Hospital, 10 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, and three are at District Hospital, Aluva. At FLTCs, 46 people are being monitored, while 84 are admitted at SLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/154-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2-in-district/article34057715.ece
13 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two drown in pond||Two youngsters drowned after they ventured into a pond near Kalamassery and bordering Choornikkara panchayat around 6 p.m. on Friday. The deceased were identified as Fardeen and Abdul Rahman, both Standard VIII students from Kunnatheri in Aluva. Both knew swimming but probably got stuck in the mud and wild growth under water. When the two did not emerge on the surface for a while, the panicked friends sought the help of locals. Abdul Rahman was the first to be fished out, followed by Fardeen around 10 minutes later. Though they were rushed to hospital, they could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-drown-in-pond/article34057697.ece
13 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi-Lakshadweep cruise service to commence from September||A regular cruise vessel service will commence in the Kochi-Lakshadweep corridor from September. The service from Mumbai will operate to Lakshadweep via Goa or Kochi, for a five-night / six-day trip. The tentative rate per couple is Rs. 75,000. Sources in the Cochin Port Trust (CPT) said that the newly-commissioned Sagarika cruise terminal was ready to receive vessels. Apart from international cruise calls, CPT will promote home-porting of vessels. This is besides regular cruise calls connecting domestic destinations. The port has considerably lessened berthing charges for cruise vessels. As for the impending service linking Lakshadweep, an official announcement is awaited. International vessels, over 50 of which called at Kochi in 2019, are expected to resume service once the ongoing vaccination drive gains momentum. There is tremendous scope for operating cruise vessels on domestic routes from Kochi, said E.M. Najeeb, president, Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry. The port stands a better chance of receiving vessels following the opening of the cruise terminal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-lakshadweep-cruise-service-to-commence-from-september/article34057696.ece
13 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||360 shared bicycles to be launched today||An inaugural ride will be held on Saturday morning from the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium, Kaloor, as part of the launch of 360 shared bicycles in the Greater Kochi area as a joint initiative of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). A total of 1,000 bicycles will be launched under the first phase of the initiative.  At present, the 35 hubs where the cycles will be berthed include 21 metro stations and prominent places such as Panampilly Nagar, M.G. Road, and Cusat. To avail the service, a user has to first download the MYBYK app available on Google Play Store and Apple App Store and register through an OTP-based verification process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/360-shared-bicycles-to-be-launched-today/article34057717.ece
13 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vote Vandi on awareness drive||Vote Vandi, a Systematic Voter’s Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) initiative for spreading voter awareness, toured many remote parts of Pathanapuram taluk on Friday. Apart from educating the public about the importance of exercising their franchise, it introduced electronic voting machine (EVM) to voters and cleared their doubts. “As part of the double campaign, another team visited the tribal colonies at Mullumala and many voters were excited to see the machine and try it,” said SVEEP nodal officer J.John Mathew. The vehicle started touring the district on Wednesday with Collector B.Abdul Nasar flagging off the first trip. Vote Vandi will visit various parts of Kollam with mottoes such as ‘my vote my right’ and ‘we will vote’. It comes with a ballot unit, control unit, and VVPAT machines arranged just like a polling station, offering the public a chance to know how to cast their vote following the COVID-19 protocol. Instead of the names of candidates and symbols, the machine uses alphabets to help the voters understand its functioning. The main objective of the vehicular campaign is to familiarise the public with the voting process and all the pandemic-related guidelines. First-time voters can take trails to get a basic understanding of the electoral process. Other objectives While touring the district, Vote Vandi will be focussing on areas that recorded a relatively low polling percentage during the last elections and encourage all eligible persons to exercise their right. It will also promote green protocol and the importance of plastic-free polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vote-vandi-on-awareness-drive/article34057769.ece
13 March 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Online dak adalat on March 24 in Kollam||The Department of Posts will conduct an online dak adalat for the Kollam postal division on March 24 from 11 a.m. Complaints should be mailed to dokollam.kl@indiapost.gov.in before March 19 with ‘DAK ADALAT QE MARCH 2021’ as the subject. Complainants will receive the user id and password for attending the adalat through SMS or mail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-dak-adalat-on-march-24-in-kollam/article34057771.ece
13 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Novels released||Minister J.Mercykutty Amma released two novels authored by Pattathanam Sunil by handing over copies to MLAs M.Mukesh and M. Naushad at a function at the Sree Narayana College for Women. Mayor Prasanna Earnest presided over the function. Rachana Books is the publishers of the novels Puthiya Prakasham and Padmavathi Kathirunnu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/novels-released/article34057770.ece
13 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CPI(M) capitalising on dissidence in UDF||It is now in the realm of electoral speculation whether a poll strategy that yielded rich dividends for the CPI(M) in the Kunnamangalam, Koduvally, Nilambur, Tanur and Thavanur Assembly seats in the Malabar region in the past is guaranteed to succeed elsewhere in the region in the upcoming Assembly elections. But the party's game plan of cashing in on the dissidence of its rivals in the United Democratic Front (UDF), especially the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), will be put to test in a few more constituencies in the region. The CPI(M) has reaped benefits of the dissidence in the UDF to breach what was otherwise strong bastions of the UDF in the region in the past Assembly elections. That strategy is now being extended to Perinthalmanna, Kondotty and Wandoor in Malappuram district. The success model was tested in the past in Thavanur, Tanur and Nilambur in Malappuram and Kunnamangalam and Koduvally in Kozhikode. The CPI(M) managed to make headway in these strongholds of the UDF by fielding dissidents in the front, especially the IUML, as Left Democratic Front-backed Independent candidates. The CPI(M) has now fielded K.P. Sulaiman Haji, an expatriate businessman who was the leader of the Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC), an IUML-affiliated organisation of non-resident Indians, in Kondotty, a pocket borough of the IUML. The Wandoor constituency is witnessing a similar experiment as P. Midhuna, who won in the local body election as IUML candidate in 2015 and became president of the Pallikkal grama panchayat in Malappuram, is the CPI(M)'s candidate there. In 2016, K.P. Anil Kumar of the Congress retained the seat by defeating the CPI(M) candidate. What is known in political circles as the 'Koduvally model' of the CPI(M) is now being replicated in the Perinthalmanna constituency. K.P. Mohammad Musthafa, former leader of the IUML, has been nominated by the CPI(M) as an Independent in the constituency which elected IUML’s Manjalamkuzhi Ali in the 2011 and 2016 elections. The tactical move, if it works, will help the CPI(M) win the seat which it lost in 2016 by a thin margin of 500-odd votes. Successful experiment The CPI(M)'s first successful experiment with disgruntled or expelled leaders of the IUML was in 2006 when it fielded former Muslim Youth League leader K.T. Jaleel and former IUML leader P.T.A. Rahim in the erstwhile Kuttippuram and Koduvally constituencies respectively. Later, Mr. Rahim was shifted to the neighbouring Kunnamangalam constituency when it became an unreserved segment. Dr. Jaleel, now Minister in the LDF Cabinet, continued his winning streak from Thavanur after Kutttippuram ceased to exist as Assembly segment. The experiment was repeated in Koduvally by fielding Karat Razak, another disgruntled IUML leader in 2016. V Abdurahiman, who left the Congress, won the Tanur seat in 2016 as LDF Independent. Dr. Jaleel, Mr. Abdurahiman, and Mr. Rahim have been again offered the Thavanur, Tanur, and Kunnamangalam constituencies respectively to contest again as LDF-backed Independents. P.V. Anwar, who came from a family of Congress followers, has also been offered the Nilambur seat where he won the 2016 election as LDF Independent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-capitalising-on-dissidence-in-udf/article34057706.ece
13 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF begins poll campaign in Kozhikode||With a clear picture of Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates in Kozhikode district emerging, the Communist Party of India(Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Communist Party of India (CPI) nominees have begun campaigning in their respective Assembly constituencies. The Left coalition has announced candidates in 12 Assembly segments in the district. The Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Indian National League (INL), which have been given the Vadakara and Kozhikode South segments respectively, have also set in motion the electioneering works. The Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M), which was offered the Kuttiyadi seat, is yet to announce its candidate. The CPI(M) is experimenting with many new faces, including local body chiefs, in the Assembly polls. The CPI(M) candidate in Kozhikode North segment, Thottathil Raveendran, who was the former Mayor, has begun his campaign in the high-profile urban constituency. It is the maiden contest of the two-time Mayor in the legislative polls. Minister for Excise and Transport T.P. Ramakrishnan, who is contesting from the Perambra segment again, began electioneering with local meetings. The former secretary of the party district unit had won the seat in 2001. Another key constituency is Beypore, from where DYFI national president and CPI(M) State committee member P.A. Mohammed Riyas has entered the fray. For him, it is his maiden battle in the Assembly polls. He had contested unsuccessfully in the 2009 Lok Sabha election. Another first-time contestant of the CPI(M) is K.M. Sachindev, SFI State secretary and former union chairman of Government Arts and Science College, Meenchanda. He is contesting from the reserved constituency of Balussery. The party has nominated Linto Joseph, president of Kooderanji grama panchayat, in the Thiruvambady Assembly segment. He had earlier held the post of district secretary of the SFI. The lone woman candidate of the CPI(M) in the district, Kanathil Jameela, who is at present the president of the Kozhikode district panchayat, is also a fresh face in the Assembly polls, from the Koyilandy segment. She is a member of the party district committee as well as State joint secretary of All India Democratic Women’s Association. As part of its experiment to woo disgruntled elements of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), the CPI(M) has once again fielded incumbent legislators P.T.A. Rahim and Karat Razak from Kunnamangalam and Koduvally segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-begins-poll-campaign-in-kozhikode/article34057684.ece
13 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rema likely to contest from Vadakara||The State secretariat of the Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) will meet here on Saturday to take a final call on the candidature of K.K. Rema, wife of slain RMP founder T.P. Chandrasekharan, in Vadakara for the Assembly polls. The party has been weighing its options on two leaders, Ms. Rema and party State secretary N. Venu, ever since the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) approached the RMP leadership to put up a common candidate to fight the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The United Democratic Front (UDF) chose to back Ms. Rema in the hope of influencing voters in neighbouring Koyilandy, Kuttiyadi, Nadapuram and Kunnamangalam constituencies. The IUML-Congress combine is planning to highlight political violence as an issue in the Kannur and Kozhikode Assembly segments. Chandrasekharan, a CPI(M) dissident, was killed by a seven-member gang at Onchiyam near Vadakara on May 4, 2012. Ms. Rema told The Hindu that she was ready to enter the electoral fray again and with the support of the UDF in Vadakara. “But the party also has to make a final decision,” she said. The UDF had worked out an electoral understanding with the RMP in the local body polls held in December. The nine-member State secretariat of the RMP was to meet last week, but the meeting had to be called off as Ms. Rema tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and was admitted to a private hospital in Kozhikode city. Ms. Rema had contested unsuccessfully in the Assembly polls in 2016, securing over 20,000 votes. She then had to face the nominees of socialist rivals — Janata Dal (S) in the LDF and the Janata Dal (United) in the UDF. The seat was won by C.K. Nanu of JD(S) by a margin of over 9,500 votes. She also had to face two other candidates with the same name. One of them even had the same initials, K.K., while the other had T.P. as initials. All the three contested as Independents as RMP was not a recognised State party. Now, the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), which has been inducted into the LDF fold, has been offered the Vadakara seat, and the party has decided to field its district president Manayath Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rema-likely-to-contest-from-vadakara/article34057686.ece
13 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Memories unspool in music world as a journey ends||The name Lou Ottens may not ring a bell to many. It should, especially if your ears are musically inclined. He revolutionised music the world over with his invention of the compact audio cassette. He died in his native Holland at the age of 94 on March 6. The news of the death of Ottens, an engineer at Philips who also contributed significantly to the development of the first CD, made many a musician and music lover press memory’s rewind button. Major role “The music cassette played a major role in my development as a musician,” Vidyasagar, composer, told The Hindu over phone. “I recall buying audio cassettes of the soundtracks of Hollywood films like Jaws from shops in Chennai. My Philips cassette player had a function to adjust the speed of the playback and by playing it at slow speed, I learnt more about music.” Vidyasagar still owns a vast collection of cassettes, though music has gone digital. “Just the other day, I received a cassette containing songs of M.S. Viswanathan, a composer I admire,” he says.   Late start When Sreekumaran Thampi started writing lyrics for Malayalam cinema in 1966, the audio cassette had not arrived in India, though it was launched in Berlin three years earlier. “It was only in the late 1970s that cassettes became popular in India, and that wasn’t surprising because those days we were a decade behind in technology,” he says. “As an engineer, I always watched with interest how science changed the entertainment industry. There is no doubt that the cassette was the biggest game changer in music,” he adds. True. Because of cassettes, music reached the common man. Before that only the rich could afford to buy records. For the rest, radio was the only option to listen to music, but it would not play the music you wanted to listen to at the time you wanted to. Companies such as HMV, Echo, Tharangini, Magnasound, T Series, Ranjini and Nisari brought out cassettes at affordable rates. For those who wanted to make their own cassettes, unrecorded cassettes from brands such as Sony and TDK were there, and the favourite songs could be recorded – illegally – from a shop nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memories-unspool-in-music-world-as-a-journey-ends/article34057725.ece
13 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||265 new positive cases||The district recorded 265 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Two of the patients had recently returned from abroad. The source of infection has not been identified in three cases while 260 persons were infected through local contact. Two of the infected are health workers. At present, there are 3,766 people under treatment. As many as 5,680 people were tested on Friday and 373 people recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/265-new-positive-cases/article34057687.ece
13 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Will try to live up to party’s expectations: Noorbina||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) candidate for the Kozhikode South Assembly constituency Noorbina Rasheed has said that she will strive to live up to the expectations the party has placed on her. Speaking to The Hindu here on Friday, Ms. Rasheed said the Vanitha League, the women’s wing of IUML, had not pressured the party to field a woman. It was a decision made by party leaders voluntarily. Kozhikode South is now represented by former Minister M.K. Muneer, who is contesting from Koduvally this time. Ms. Rasheed said she would try to continue the developmental works taken up by her predecessor. A lawyer and a former councillor of the Kozhikode Corporation, Ms. Rasheed was also a member of the Kerala State Women’s Commission from 2012 to 2017. Khamarunnisa Anwar, who lost from the constituency in 1996, was the last woman to be fielded by the IUML in the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-try-to-live-up-to-partys-expectations-noorbina/article34057721.ece
13 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Develop Grasim land, demand traders||Mavoor Merchants Association has demanded that the State government implement projects to utilise the Gwalior Rayons (Grasim) land at Mavoor. A discussion on the possibilities of developing the land, which is under Birla Group, was held at Mavoor on Friday. Participants in the discussion noted that the land had not been utilised for decades since the shutdown of Gwalior Rayons factory, and that it was a haven for miscreants. Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Subair Kolakkadan suggested that the land be used to set up an industrial park, a stadium-cum-sports village, a business park, or even an institution like BITS Pilani managed by Birla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/develop-grasim-land-demand-traders/article34057688.ece
13 March 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||IUML releases list of 25 candidates||Following is the list of 25 Indian Union Muslim League candidates for the Assembly elections. The candidates for Perambra and Punalur/Chadayamangalam will be announced later. Kasaragod Manjeswaram: A.K.M. Ashraf, Kasaragod: N.A. Nellikkunnu. Kannur Azhikode: K.M. Shaji, Koothuparamba: Pottankandi Abdulla, Kozhikode Kuttiyadi: Parakkal Abdulla, Kozhikode South: Noorbina Rasheed, Kunnamangalam: Dinesh Perumanna (Independent), Thiruvambady: C.P. Cheriya Mohammed, Koduvally: M.K. Muneer, Malappuram Malappuram: P. Ubaidullah, Kondotty: T.V. Ibrahim, Vallikkunnu: P. Abdul Hameed, Ernad: P.K. Basheer, Manjeri: U.A. Latheef, Perinthalmanna: Najeeb Kanthapuram, Mankada: Manjalamkuzhi Ali, Tanur: P.K. Firos, Tirur: Kurukkoli Moideen, Tirurangadi: K.P.A. Majeed, Kottakkal: K.K. Abid Husain Thangal, Vengara: P.K. Kunhalikutty Palakkad Mannarkkad: N. Shamsuddin, Kongad: U.C. Raman Thrissur Guruvayur: K.N.A. Khader  Ernakulam Kalamassery: V.E. Gafoor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-releases-list-of-25-candidates/article34057735.ece
13 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Now, Samastha’s dissenting voice mellows down||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has made a historic move by fielding its women’s wing leader Noorbina Rasheed in Kozhikode South. She will be the second Muslim woman to contest an Assembly election on the IUML banner in Kerala. If elected, she will be the first IUML woman legislator in the State. The party did not consider a woman for the Assembly for the past 25 years since Vanitha League leader Qamarunnisa Anwar was given a chance in Kozhikode II in 1996. Ms. Anwar was the first woman candidate in the IUML’s electoral history, though she conceded defeat to CPI(M) veteran Elamaram Kareem by 8,766 votes. Although the demand for women representation in party leadership and in the Assembly has been heard for decades, the IUML continued to be guided by androcentric principles. Progressive ideas and orientation were often countervailed by male dominance and pressures from religious groups, especially the Samastha Kerala Janiyyathul Ulama, the top-rung leadership of the vast majority Sunni Muslims in Malabar. Whenever there were talks about sending a Muslim woman or two to the Assembly, there came voices of dissent and threat from the Samastha, especially its second-rung leadership. When the top leadership maintained a diplomatic silence over the matter, junior leaders such as Abdussamad Pookkottur and Rahmatullah Qasimi Moothedam virulently attacked Muslim women contesting Assembly elections. Although Mr. Qasimi was not a leader, he was among the top influential sermonisers of the Samastha. When 50% reservation was implemented in local bodies, the IUML had no choice but to bring their women out on the hustings. The IUML leadership often pretended not to hear the dissenting voices of Sunni scholars coming from the Samastha over women’s entry into public sphere. “We have little choice,” IUML State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal once remarked during a casual chat. Although Abdussamad Pookkottur had raised objection this time too, the Samastha leadership brushed it aside describing it as “Mr. Pookkottur’s personal opinion.” The Samastha top leadership having mellowed its attitude towards women representation in the Assembly, the IUML has now found a perfect socio-religious circumstance to field a woman to the Assembly. “Let this be the beginning of a much-needed social change. It is time that we cast aside our gender bias for a better and progressive tomorrow,” said K.P. Mariyumma, a senior leader of the Vanitha League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-samasthas-dissenting-voice-mellows-down/article34057714.ece
13 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Will make Palakkad best: Sreedharan||Technocrat E. Sreedharan, virtually launching his electioneering on the BJP banner here on Friday, said that he would convert Palakkad into the best town in the State in two years, and the best in the country in five years. The BJP is yet to announce its candidates in the State. Mr. Sreedharan visited the BJP district office here and held discussions with party leaders, including district president E. Krishnadas. He also visited Vadakanthara Sree Thirupuraikkal Bhagavathi Temple here. Mr. Sreedharan exuded confidence on winning the election in Palakkad. “I am confident of winning. My age is not an issue. In fact, experience comes with age. That’s an advantage,” he told reporters here on Friday. The fact that the Palakkad municipality is ruled by the BJP with a clear majority has added to Mr. Sreedharan’s confidence. “We have efficient workers here. I studied and grew up in Palakkad. It is not a strange place for me,” he said. Sabarimala issue Referring to Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s regret over the Sabarimala issue, Mr. Sreedharan said there was no point in crying over spilt milk. But he doubted if it was genuine regret by Mr. Surendran. He said the government had wounded the sentiments of lakhs of people by forcefully allowing women to enter Sabarimala. He said his aim was development of the land, and not tumultuous issues such as Sabarimala. Needs industry “Our country needs industry. Without industry, there will be no financial progress,” he said, adding that a large number of people were surviving without an employment. He said he was entering the track of development and not politics. Mr. Sreedharan discussed with BJP leaders the chances of a victory in Palakkad. He will have to take on the incumbent United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in a triangular fight in Palakkad. The LDF has fielded C.P. Pramod in Palakkad. The UDF is yet to declare its candidate. Palakkad was alternately represented by the UDF and the LDF in the Assembly since 1957. UDF’s incumbent Shafi Parambil has been Palakkad’s MLA since 2011. He defeated BJP’s Sobha Surendran by 17,483 votes in 2016. The BJP is fielding Mr. Sreedharan in Palakkad considering its potential vote share here. In 2016, the BJP had 29.08% vote share. The BJP leadership says it has improved its vote share ever since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-make-palakkad-best-sreedharan/article34057712.ece
13 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pandalam palace refuses to be in fray||While the Sabarimala protests form the core of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s poll plank in central Travancore, a recent attempt by the party to get as much out of it was dealt a blow with the Pandalam palace, trustees of the hill shrine, rejecting an offer to contest the Assembly elections with party support. Sources said the offer was made to the Pandalam palace managing committee by BJP State president K.Surendran, when his pre-election rally, Vijay Yatra, reached Pandalam last week. While paying a visit to the palace, Mr.Surendran held discussions with P.G. Sasikumara Varma and P.N. Narayana Varma, president and secretary of the palace body, and sought their support in the elections. “During the discussions, Mr.Surendran also sought to know whether the palace committee president would be interested in contesting the election either as a BJP candidate or as an independent from any seat of his choice. The palace functionaries, however, stood indifferent to this proposal citing impropriety in mixing politics in matters relating to Lord Ayyappa — the main deity of Sabarimala,” they said. The meeting was then followed up with a couple of phone calls from the BJP leadership but the palace authority stood its ground. Active in protests The Pandalam palace had been in the forefront of a series of protests against the State government in connection with the Sabarimala women entry issue in 2018. An active participation by BJP workers in these protests helped the party expand its base in and around the region. In the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, BJP candidate K.Surendran received 51,260 votes from the Adoor Assembly segment alone, which covers Pandalam. A year later, the party went on to win the Pandalam municipality single-handedly, besides retaining power in Kulanada, an adjacent panchayat. Mr.Surendran had also reached out to the Thazhamon Madhom, the family of Sabarimala Tantri, when the rally reached Chengannur in Alappuzha and held discussions with Kandararu Rajeevaru, the Tantri (chief priest) of the hill temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandalam-palace-refuses-to-be-in-fray/article34057690.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Count of waterbirds flies upwards||A 36 per cent hike was observed in the total count of waterbirds compared to the previous year during the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) carried out in the district recently in connection with PAN Asia AWC. Birdwatchers counted 74 species of waterbirds in 11 sites. Asian Waterbird Census in the capital validates the need for wetland conservation. A total of 4,372 individual birds, including 30 migratory species, were observed. In 2020, 3,206 individual avians belonging to 52 species were noted in 10 sites. Whimbrel, Black-tailed Godwit, Lesser Black-backed Gull, Black capped Kingfisher and Peregrine Falcon were some of the species observed this year. Population decline Renjan Mathew Varghese, State Director, WWF-India (Kerala) said the 36% increase in waterbird count in Thiruvananthapuram marked a departure from the other districts where a population decline was observed. Around 40 expert birders and volunteers participated in the census jointly organised by WWF-India’s Kerala State Office, the Social Forestry Wing of Kerala Forests and the Wildlife Department under strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. Birding was done between 6.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m.  The sites covered include Kesavadasapuram paddy fields, the zoo premises and Kannammoola thodu, Akkulam lake, Veli, Punchakkari paddy fields, Vellayani lake, Kadinamkulam, Aruvikkara, Pappanamcode, Poovar and Perumkuzhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/count-of-waterbirds-flies-upwards/article34057898.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 1,780 new cases||Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 cases rose to 10,87,443 cases on Friday when 1,780 new cases were reported after testing 52,134 samples in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) on Friday was 3.41%. With 3,377 recoveries being reported on Friday, the active case pool dropped to 32,174 cases. On Friday, the addition of 14 new deaths to the official list took the State’s cumulative COVID toll to 4,369. Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode reported three deaths each, Kollam and Kasaragod two deaths each, and Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Thrissur reported one death each. Most in Kozhikode Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 265, followed by Malappuram 205, Thrissur 197, Thiruvananthapuram 165, Ernakulam 154, Kollam 153, Kannur 131, Kottayam 127, Alappuzha 97, Pathanamthitta 76, Palakkad 67, Kasaragod 66, Wayanad 41 and Idukki 36. One more person who reached Kerala from the U.K. tested positive for COVID-19. With this, 101 persons who came from abroad since mid-December have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-1780-new-cases/article34057731.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Army recruitment rally ends||A Combined Army Recruitment Rally held at the Greenfield Stadium in Karyavattom here from February 26 by the Army Recruiting Office of Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode under the aegis of HQ Recruiting Zone, Bengaluru, concluded on Friday. The call for the recruitment rally received an overwhelming response, with 91,646 candidates registering online. Of this, 55,300 candidates reported for the rally and underwent physical fitness tests and medical tests at the rally site. Written test On Friday, the rally was conducted for candidates from all seven districts of northern Kerala and was attended by 5,246 participants. Candidates who have passed fitness tests are now undergoing medical examination by a team of Army Medical Officers. Those found physically and medically fit will have to appear in a written test at Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. Candidates making it to the final merit list will be dispatched to the designated training centres of the Army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recruitment-rally-concludes/article34057774.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three special poll observers in State||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has appointed three special observers for the upcoming Assembly polls in the State. They are in addition to the general, expenditure and police observers posted at the district and constituency level, according to Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena. J. Ramakrishna Rao, a former IAS officer, has been appointed special general observer. Deepak Mishra, a former IPS officer, is the special police observer and Pushpinder Singh Puniha, a former IRS officer, is the special expenditure observer. Mr. Mishra and Mr. Singh have arrived in the State. They held discussions with Mr. Meena, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy and State Police Chief Loknath Behera. In the coming days, the special observers will visit various districts to assess the ground situation. In the first phase, they will visit Kasaragod, Kannur, Malappuram and Kozhikode. They will have meetings with the district election officers and the observers appointed in these districts and ensure that the elections are conducted in a free and fair environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-special-poll-observers-in-state/article34057704.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two SUCI candidates turn early birds||Two nominations were filed in the district on Friday after the Election Commission of India had issued the notification for the Assembly elections. Both nominations were submitted by Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) candidates. A. Saboora filed her nomination papers for contesting in the Thiruvananthapuram Assembly segment, while Shyju A. filed his papers in the Vattiyoorkavu constituency. As Saturday and Sunday are holidays, the nominations will be accepted next on Monday. The COVID-19 guidelines are observed at the offices of the returning officers. Only two persons can accompany the candidate. The candidate and the persons accompanying him/her should wear masks and gloves. The Returning Officers and other officials should also wear masks and gloves, said District Collector Navjot Khosa. The training sessions for polling officials will begin in 31 centres from March 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-suci-candidates-turn-early-birds/article34057906.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||When a constituency returned 2 members||The Kerala Assembly had double-member constituencies in the maiden elections held in 1957 after the reorganisation of States and later in 1960. Under this system, a single constituency returned two members, one from the Scheduled Caste-Scheduled Tribe category and another from the general category. In the first elections to the Assembly held from February 28 to March 11, 1957. out of the 126 seats, 11 were reserved for the Scheduled Castes and one for Scheduled Tribes. The number of constituencies was 114, of which 12 were two-member ones. The Communist Party of India emerged as the largest single party in the Assembly with 60 seats. The Ministry headed by E.M.S. Namboodiripad, leader of the undivided Communist Party of India, was sworn in on April 5, 1957. EMS was elected from the Neeleswaram two-member constituency that had an electorate of 1,28,918. EMS got 38,090 and Kallalan (Scheduled Caste), also of the Communist Party of India, got 44,754 votes. Besides Neeleswaram, Wayanad, Manjeri, Chittur, Ponnani, Wadakkanchery, Chalakudy, Devikulam, Kunnathur, Mavelikara, Thrikkadavur, Varkala, and Ulloor were the other double member constituencies. The polling throughout the State was on a single day for the first time when elections were held on February 1, 1960. There were 102 single-member and 12 double-member constituencies. Pattom A. Thanu Pillai of the PSP took over on February 22 as the coalition Chief Minister leading a council of 11 Ministers. The two-member parliamentary and Assembly constituency system, aimed at giving adequate representation to the SC/STs, was abolished in 1961. The Two Member Constituencies (Abolition) Act, 1961 paved the way for the creation of single-member constituencies. Revival of the dual-member constituency system was mooted by the Bharatiya Stree Shakti (BSS) a few years go as an alternative to end the row over providing 33% reservation for women in Parliament and Assemblies through legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-a-constituency-returned-2-members/article34057703.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID-19: 165 new cases||The district recorded 165 COVID-19 cases and 130 recoveries on Friday as the number of active cases marginally increased to 1,968. The COVID-19 death toll in Thiruvananthapuram rose to 853 on Thursday. Three recent deaths — those of two women aged 68 and 71 years and a 70-year old man — were attributed to the disease on the day. The district administration placed 1,319 people under quarantine, while 1,358 others were permitted to wind up quarantine after completing the mandated self-isolation period. Currently, 15,680 people are quarantined in home care and 42 in various institutions in the district. 135 vaccine centres District Collector Navjot Khosa has said that the vaccine will be administered in 135 health care centres, including 52 private hospitals. Vaccination will be facilitated through spot registration in three sessions from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Jimmy George indoor stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-165-new-cases/article34057899.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Water supply may be affected in some areas||Some areas in the city are likely to experience slight reduction in water supply on Saturday due to a leak on a pumping main, the Kerala Water Authority said. The following areas under the Thirumala and Karamana KWA sections are likely to experience the shortage: PTP Nagar, Maruthamkuzhy, Kanjirampara, Pangode, Vattiyurkavu, Nettayam, Moonammoodu, Manalayam, Manikanteswaram, Kachani, Vazhottukonam, Mannarakonam, CPT, Thozhuvancode, Arappura, Valiyavila, Kodunganoor, Ilippode, Kundamankadavu, Thrikkanapuram, Kunnapuzha, Poojappura, Mudavanmugal, Nedungad, Kalady, Neeramankara, Karumam, Vellayani, Maruthoorkadavu, Melamcode, Melarannur, Kaimanam, Killipalam, Pappanamcode, Nemom, Estate and Sathyan Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-may-be-affected-in-some-areas/article34057904.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Admission refund claims to be open till March 18||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) has provided time until March 18 for candidates eligible for refunds to submit their bank account details. The opportunity is meant for those students who had applied for admissions to various professional degree courses this year. According to an official release, while eligible candidates had earlier been given an opportunity to apply for the same from January 19 to 25, many among them had failed to submit their bank account details. They have been urged to furnish the requisite information through the KEAM 2020 candidate portal onwww.cee.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-refund-claims-to-be-open-till-march-18/article34057728.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Levy relief from teachers, says panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that compensation be recovered from teachers for lapses in exam valuation and the money be handed over to students. The commission directed that a teacher who was responsible for lapses in valuation of a Plus Two examination paper and a chief examiner pay Rs. 25,000 each to the student as compensation. Acting on a petition filed by a man whose daughter, a student of the Government Higher Secondary School, Thodiyoor, Kollam, secured A+ in all subjects in the Plus Two exams except in English in which she got B+ grade, the commission asked the General Education Secretary, Director of General Education, and the Higher Secondary Joint Director (Examinations) to amend the exam manual to include disciplinary action, including payment of compensation. The commission, comprising member Reni Antony, said strict action was necessary to remind teachers of the irredeemable loss caused to students by their carelessness and ensure that it was not repeated. Though the score sheet of the exam paper showed 65 marks, the student was awarded 43 marks. On revaluation, she secured 72 marks. The father’s petition said that owing to grave lapse by the teachers conducting the valuation, recognition given to students who secure A+ in all subjects was denied to his daughter, causing her a lot of agony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-directive-to-recover-compensation/article34057737.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Arrested under KAAPA||The Kazhakuttam police have arrested a history-sheeter under provisions of the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act [KAAPA] for the third time. Aneesh, alias Pasha Aneesh, 36, of Thrippadapuram in Attipra, was apprehended in connection with numerous cases of attempts to murder. Aneesh has around 20 cases pertaining to murder, murder attempt, abduction, possession of arms and theft, pending against him in Kazhakuttam and Kadinamkulam police stations, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-under-kaapa/article34057900.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corpn. to resume waste collection||The city Corporation is set to restart the periodic collection drive of non-biodegradable waste that had come to a halt after the COVID-19 outbreak. It plans to organise three drives this month to collect different types of waste. The one for plastic will be held on March 20, glass on March 25 and footwears and bags on March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-resume-waste-collection/article34057903.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways to resume unreserved coaches||Railways have decided to run Punalur-Guruvayur-Punalur Special Expresses (06327/06328) as partially reserved special with three second class chair cars and 11 general second class coaches as unreserved and the rest of the coaches as reserved from March 17. A train will be run with unreserved coaches in the State for the first time after the pandemic forced the cancellation of trains in March 2020. Mail and express fare structure will be applicable for all coaches in this train. Season tickets The booking counters at stations will be activated for issuing unreserved tickets. Season tickets will also be permitted in unreserved coaches and unreserved MEMU express trains operating from March 15. Passengers with season tickets in the route where MEMU trains and unreserved trains are introduced should revalidate their seasons tickets with effect from March 15. Guruvayur-Punalur daily express special (06328) will leave Guruvayur at 5.45 a.m. to reach Punalur at 2.35 p.m. In the return direction, Punalur-Guruvayur special (06327) will leave Punalur at 6.25 p.m. to reach Guruvayur at 2.20 a.m. the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-resume-unreserved-coaches/article34057727.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA opens control rooms in all districts||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has opened control rooms at its headquarters here and in the districts for addressing water supply-related complaints during the summer months. Complaints/grievances can be filed via the toll-free number 1916 round the clock. They can also be filed via the WhatsApp number 9495998258. The KWA is also planning to carry out an assessment of the complaints received between March 15 and May 31. From 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. At the district level, control rooms have been opened at the offices of the respective superintending engineers. They will function from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., and 24 hours in emergency situations. Thiruvananthapuram (0471 2322303), Kollam (0474 2742993), Alappuzha (0477 2237954), Pathanamthitta (0468 2222670), Kottayam (0481 2563701), Idukki (0485 2835637 ), Ernakulam (0484 2361369), Thrissur (0487 2333070), Palakkad (0491 2546632), Malappuram (9188127925), Kozhikode (0495 2370095), Wayanad (0493 6220422), Kannur (0497 2707080) and Kasaragod (04994 255544). The KWA will streamline the Blue Brigade for efficiently carrying out repairs. Special squads will be formed to monitor the efficiency of water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-opens-control-rooms-in-all-districts/article34057729.ece
13 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF, BJP lost moral right to contest: Kanam||Accusing the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of working against the interests of the State, Communist Party of India (CPI) state secretary Kanam Rajendran on Friday said that both the opposition parties have lost the moral right to seek the people’s mandate. He was speaking while inaugurating a Left Democratic Front (LDF) convention organised in Nedumangad on Friday in support of its candidate G.R. Anil in the constituency. Crediting the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government with having successfully steered the State through various adversities during the last five years, Mr. Rajendran accused its political rivals of attempting to scuttle progress at various instances. He alleged that the UDF had sided with the BJP to disrupt every development projects for petty political gains. Citing the opposition voiced by pro-Congress service organisations in taking part in the government’s ‘Salary Challenge’ to mobilise funds, the veteran CPI leader said the Opposition failed in its responsibility to work for the State’s growth, even while functioning as a corrective force. Alternative policies Mr. Rajendran opined that the LDF government managed to build an alternative to neo-liberal economic policies and insulate the State from the ill-effects of unbridled globalisation. While a course-correction was successfully undertaken in the education sector that had been plagued by the proliferation of private players, the government could also undertake a massive overhaul of the healthcare facilities in the State. Presiding over the function, incumbent Nedumangad MLA C. Divakaran said that the government stood by the people of the region to usher in all-round development. “The constituency has witnessed so much change that a separate district can be carved from Thiruvananthapuram with Nedumangad as its centre,” Mr. Divakaran said. CPI(M) state committee member Koliyakkode Krishnan Nair, CPI state council member Mangode Radhakrishnan, CPI Nedumangad constituency secretary Pattathil Shereef and former Nedumangad municipal chairman Chettachal Sahadevan also took part in the convention.  The Opposition has failed in its responsibility to work for the State’s growth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-bjp-lost-moral-right-to-contest-kanam/article34057863.ece
13 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 held for armed attack||Two youths were arrested by the Kazhakuttam police in connection with an armed attack in a house at in Chempazhanthy that left four people, including three females, injured. The police identified the accused as Kiran (26) and Sachu (28), alias Unni. They are accused of being part of a 10-member gang that had vandalised the house on March 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-held-for-armed-attack/article34057901.ece
13 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur records dip in COVID-19 cases||The district has been reporting a consistent decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases in the past one week. A total of 197 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday while 245 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 2,723 active cases in the district and 60 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 1,01,288 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 97,862 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 191 people contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 23 people are above the age of 60 and seven children are below the age of 10. In all, 1,926 people are under home care. In all, 44 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Friday. A total of 5,540 samples were collected for the test on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-records-dip-in-covid-19-cases/article34057862.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rights and wrongs of Varthamanam||Considering the times we live in, choosing a highly political content and taking a stand with the dissenters rather than the easier, convenient one with the establishment, is not something that happens often nowadays. Varthamanam , the title, has many layers to it owing to its multiple meanings in Malayalam. It can mean the present or a speech or conversation, both of which fits well for the themes the film tackles. In Varthamanam , directed by Sidhartha Siva, and written by Aryadan Shoukath, the recent storm of dissent and protest on the country's campuses becomes the focus point. Faiza (Parvathy Thiruvoth) lands up in a university in Delhi to pursue research work on the life of freedom fighter Mohammed Abdur Rahiman. On the vibrantly political campus, she comes in touch with people of diverse background and opinions who become her friends, including student leader Amal (Roshan Mathew) and her roommate Tulsa who hails from a Dalit family in Uttarakhand. Check-list of events The entire narrative plays out almost as a check-list of recent events, with the characters placed amid these situations to utter lines expected of them. The subjects the film touches upon include hunting of student leaders by branding them as anti-nationals, discrimination against dalit students in higher education, mob killings in the name of cow slaughter, the crackdown on artistic expression on campuses as well as outside and a sickening control of the freedom of even the professors, with external pressure from political thugs. Whatever the film gets correct, in making all the right noises, it squanders much in execution. Especially in the initial half, the scenes are too dialogue-laden, with some of it turning out to be long speeches on the political or social situation. But what works for the film is that it does not pull any punches regarding its politics, which is rare for films these days. It is a miracle that some of the scenes got passed by the censors, who had initially objected to the film, which is why the disappointment at the way the content has been approached is even more acute. For instance, there is Faiza’s local guardian, a character who seems to have been created as a comic relief but never manages to evoke any laughter and ends up being a total distraction. Unlike its many-layered title, Varthamanam sadly lacks any layers and is rather a plain dramatic documentation of a rather tumultuous period in Indian campuses. Even those who might agree with its politics might not savour the way it has been presented. While the issues that the film handles are all contemporary, its making is not so. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varthamanam-loses-the-plot-in-execution/article34057773.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-mode/article34057695.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||With veteran leader||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-veteran-leader/article34057777.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Creative juices flow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/creative-juices-flow/article34057733.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Feasting on elephants||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feasting-on-elephants/article34057865.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ensuring participation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lessons-in-democracy/article34057710.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||POCKET Satheesh vellinezhi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocket-satheesh-vellinezhi/article34057708.ece
13 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead, five injured in road accident||One person died on the spot and five others were injured when the vehicle in which they were travelling hit a culvert and fell into the road-side drain on National Highway No.44 on Friday. According to Pamidi rural police, the deceased was identified as Srisailam Saikrishna, 25, who was driving the vehicle. The accident took place when the driver reportedly tried to avoid hitting a dog. Rakesh, Jayaprakash, Lokesh, Naveen Kumar, and Chandra Mukesh, who were grievously injured, were shifted to the Anantapur GGH for treatment. Two of the injured are said to be in a serious condition. All of them hail from Anantapur. The friends were returning from Srisailam after darshan of Lord Siva on Sivaratri, when the accident took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dead-five-injured-in-accident/article34057288.ece
13 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infections surge to 85 in Chittoor||Chittoor district on Friday saw a spike of COVID-19 positive cases at 85, which included 58 in Tirupati Rural mandal. This is the highest figure in the tail-end district since December last. The District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah told The Hindu that all the officials on COVID-19 duties were alerted at the mandal level after 57 students and a teacher at the Veda Patasala of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams had tested positive for the virus a couple of days ago. “Chittoor district, which borders with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, has been witnessing influx of devotees to the temples of Tirumala, Kanipakam and Srikalahasti for a couple of months. At this juncture, the best way to tackle the pandemic spread is to wear masks. In spite of our concerted efforts to educate the general public about wearing masks, the response continues to be poor,” Dr. Penchalaiah said. More than 5,000 COVID-19 tests per day were being conducted in the district in view of the surge in cases and the number would go up further, the DMHO said.  TTD chief visits SVIMS The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board Chairman, Y.V. Subba Reddy, along with the Executive Officer Jawahar Reddy and Chandragiri MLA Bhaskar Reddy visited the Veda Patasala students at SVIMS at Tirupati on Friday. The students were admitted in two wards at the hospital after they tested positive for COVID-19. He said all the 57 students and a teacher were safe, and only two students showed signs of cold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infections-surge-to-85-in-chittoor/article34057859.ece
13 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP celebrates 11th Formation Day||On the YSRCP’s 11th formation day on Friday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took to Twitter to share his views of the journey. “Aiming to achieve the aspirations of the great leader, Dr. Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the YSRCP was founded with values and credibility as pillars. I thank the people who stood by me in difficult times, the leaders who walked with me, and the activists who followed me during the 10-year journey", Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy tweeted. Later in the day, celebrations were held at the party central office. ‘People first approach’ While calling the YSRCP as a people’s party, Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said that the party had ushered in a refreshing trend of “people first” in the political landscape of the State. “Our party’s ideology is shaped by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who stood out among contemporary politicians by his direct style of functioning. His life has been shaped by many setbacks, but they have only made me stronger. He has set a revolutionary trend in just 20 months of governance,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. He also asserted that the party would sweep the municipal elections in a manner similar to the panchayat polls. Stating that the party was founded on principles of equality, social justice and development, he said it would continue to strive for the welfare of all sections of society. Welfare and development were the two eyes of the government, he added. Ministers B. Satyanarayana and V. Srinivas, MP N. Suresh, MLAs Jogi Ramesh and Jaganmohan Rao, and A.P. Telugu Academy chairperson N. Lakshmi Parvathi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-celebrates-11th-formation-day/article34057612.ece
13 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. fixes ex gratia for pharma unit blast victims||The State government on Friday announced an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh each to the next of kin of the two supervisors who were killed after a 3,000-kg capacity reactor exploded at the pharma unit of Tyche Industries Limited on the outskirts of Kakinada on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Kakarla Subramanyam (31) of Tallarevu mandal and Thotakura Venkata Ramana (37). The injured persons were Kadupudi Srinivasa Rao, N. Simhadri Rao, K. Satya Saibabu, and R. Rajkumar. On Friday, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu led the talks held with the company management at the pharma unit. Mummidivaram MLA P. Sateesh, TDP senior leader Nimmakayala Chinarajappa and leaders of the Left parties were present. The family members of the victims were also present. Job offer “Of the Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia, Rs. 40 lakh will be borne by Tyche Industries Limited and Rs. 10 lakh by the government. Similarly, Rs. 4 lakh each will be given to the four injured staff members. Of it, Rs. 3 lakh will be borne by the company and Rs. 1 lakh by the government,” Mr. Kannababu told The Hindu . “The ex gratia has been finalised as per the suggestion of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Industries Minister has been briefed about the incident, and an inquiry into it will be ordered in a few days,” Mr. Kannababu said. Besides ex gratia, one member of the family of the deceased would be offered employment in the same unit, he said. “If they are not keen on the same company, the State government will provide them employment on outsourced basis,” he added. ‘Out of danger’ Meanwhile, East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that the condition of the four injured persons remained stable and all of them were out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-fixes-ex-gratia-for-pharma-unit-blast-victims/article34057850.ece
13 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One drowns, two missing as car plunges into canal||Three persons are feared to have drowned and two others survived after a car, in which they were travelling, plunged into an irrigation canal at Lolla irrigation lock, under Atreyapuram police limits in East Godavari district, in the early hours of Friday. The incident occurred while the five belonging to a family were returning to their village after taking part in Maha Sivaratri celebrations at a temple. The victims hail from Gollala Koderu village in Pala Koderu mandal of West Godavari district. The body of Ch. Sreenivasa Raju, 45, who was driving the vehicle, has been found, while Mantena Suresh Varma, 41, and Indukuri Satya Raju are missing, according to Atreyapuram police. Mudunuri Venkata Ganapathi Raju and M. Seetarama Raju managed to swim to safety. According to the police, local swimmers have been searching for the two missing persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-drowns-two-missing-as-car-plunges-into-canal/article34057289.ece
13 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||41 people test positive in East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Friday said that 41 people tested positive for coronavirus in the district. “A majority of those who tested positive have travel history to Vijayawada, Guntur, Hyderabad and Mumbai and they are in home isolation,” the Collector told the media. Referring to the report by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB, Hyderabad, Mr. Muralidhar said new COVID strain had not been found in any of the infected persons. A majority of the cases were reported in Konaseema region, while Kakinada city registered 10 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/41-people-test-positive-in-east-godavari/article34057837.ece
13 March 2021||MACHERLA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A moment to cherish for Pingali Venkaiah’s nonagenarian daughter||It was a poignant moment in the life of Ghantasala Seethamahalakshmi, the 99-year-old daughter of the architect of the national flag, Pingali Venkaiah. The woman, with tears welling up in her eyes, kissed the hands of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and blessed him as he was leaving after spending close to 30 minutes at her home at Macherla, 150 km from Guntur. “I was touched by the gesture of the Chief Minister, who came all the way to our home, and I wish he lives a hundred years,” said Ms. Seethamahalakshmi. In her interaction with the Chief Minister, Ms. Seethamahalakshmi shared the experiences of her father presenting the national flag design to Mahatma Gandhi and introducing her to the Father of the Nation. More than 20 of her family members gathered at the small house, and they included grandchildren and great grandchildren of Pingali Venkaiah. The Chief Minister was presented with a book by Ms. Seethamahalakshmi. The Chief Minister too presented her a painting of Pingali Venkaiah marching with Mahatma Gandhi. Later, the Chief Minister presented her a copy of the Government Order sanctioning Rs. 75 lakh under the aegis of Cultural Department. Event launched The Chief Minister also launched the celebrations of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahostav’ to mark 75 years of Independence with the key theme being ‘Har Ghar Jhanda’. “The Chief Minister has also invited us to take part in the celebrations marking 100 years of the national flag being handed over to Mahatma Gandhi, to be held at Bapu Museum in Vijayawada on March 31,” said G.V.N. Narasimham, son of Ms. Seethamahalakshmi. Ministers Ch. Ranganatha Raju, M. Sucharitha, and M. Srinivasa Rao, Narsaraopet MP L. Srikrishnadevarayulu, Principal Secretary to the CM Praveen Prakash, Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargava, District Collector Vivek Yadav, Chief Whip P. Ramakrishna Reddy, and MLAs K. Mahesh Reddy, V. Rajani, and Gopireddy Srinivaas Reddy were present. The life and times of Pingali Venkaiah reveal that his works remained largely unrecognised. It is hoped that the Chief Minister’s gesture will rekindle patriotic fervour and help people remember with gratitude the contributions made by the freedom fighters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-moment-to-cherish-for-pingali-venkaiahs-nonagenarian-daughter/article34057847.ece
13 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, YSRCP have made lives of people miserable: Chinta||The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre and the YSRCP government in the State are competing with each other in imposing heavy taxes on people, ‘making their lives miserable’, Congress leader P. Chinta Mohan has said. Addressing the media after undertaking touring several villages in Gudur Assembly segment of Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, he said all sections of people were suffering as the essential commodities were going out of their reach in the wake of skyrocketing prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. The BJP and YSRCP have no moral right to seek votes in the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, said Mr. Chinta Mohan while taking part in the poll campaign at Vakadu village. “The development of the State has taken a back seat under the YSRCP rule,” he alleged. What happened to the YSRCP’s poll promises of getting Special Category Status (SCS) tag for the State and grounding of a port at Dugarajapatnam, he asked. “Embroiled in court cases, the Chief Minister is unable to protect the State’s interests when the Centre remains indifferent on the question of implementing the promises made in the run-up to the bifurcation,” said the Congress Working Committee member. Instead of implementing major infrastructure projects in the State, he said, the Centre was adamant on privatising the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Dugarajapatnam port Referring to the Dugarajapatnam port project, Mr. Chinta Mohan alleged that the YSRCP and the TDP governments did not pursue with the Union government the major infrastructure project with an ‘ulterior motive to benefit a private port developer’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-ysrcp-have-made-lives-of-people-miserable-chinta/article34057839.ece
13 March 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Effort to revive indigenous crafts||At Sankalp Art Village (SAV) at Pedagadi, about 46 kilometres from Visakhapatnam, the air is filled with the periodic chirrup of birds and the click-clack of the spinning wheel. Under a thatched shelter, a pair of deft hands spin out yarns from the wheel while at another corner a woman boils myrobalan (haritaki) to prepare the natural dyes for the yarns. The hum of the wheel is interspersed with a sound of a distant chisel at work coming from within a compound wall nearby. Here, coconut shells are being transformed into cups and wooden toys being given shape. This small Andhra Pradesh-based production centre of naturally dyed handloom, wooden toys and products is slowly making its way into international markets and major cities across India. The self-sustainable unit supports seven families of artisans in its Pedagadi facility and 15 families of weavers in Palakollu where its handloom unit is based. “There is a growing preference towards sustainable living and in the past one year during the pandemic, it has been more pronounced. The demand is particularly increasing for naturally-dyed fabrics and pre-designed kids’ wear. We are catering for a US-based firm and startups and enterprises in Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” says Jameelya Akula, creative design head of Sankalp Art Village. Natural dyes At Sankalp, the yarns are coloured with dyes made with plant seeds and roots like annato seeds, manjista roots, turmeric, pomegranate and onion peels, eucalyptus bark and fenugreek seeds. A concept that began about eight years ago, the seed of the idea was sown much before that. “We came here from Rajahmundry and have been managing a nursery since 1997. With the zeal for making herbal dyed fabrics, we started to look for artisans doing the craft of weaving natural handlooms and making wooden handicrafts. Our aim was to revive the indigenous art and crafts that were on the verge of dying and create a platform for artisans to improve their designs and help them in marketing,” says A. Chalapati Rao, founder of SAV. According to Ms. Jameelya, who completed her course in product design from UPES School of Design in Dehradun, the game-changer in the sustainable products segment has been the increasing preference for schools supporting alternative learning methodologies like Montessori and Waldorf which stresses on wooden toys. “We have bagged orders from some of these prominent schools,” she says. “We have also launched our kids’ wear segment which is packaged in eco-friendly boxes and are available for orders ,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/effort-to-revive-indigenous-crafts/article34057928.ece
13 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers in Prakasam hope to make turnaround as auction begins on March 15||Having suffered heavy loses owing to the cyclonic storm Nivar last year, the tobacco growers in the drought-prone pockets of Prakasam and Nellore districts have pinned high hopes on the auction of the crop, which is all set to begin on March 15 (Monday). After the cyclone took a toll on their crops, the farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas in these districts went for replanting as the rains in several spells delayed the cultivation during rabi. With the prices of the F1 and F2 tobacco varieties crossing the Rs. 260 per kg-mark in the neighbouring Karnataka, where it is grown as a kharif crop, the farmers here are hopeful that the auctions would start on a positive note this year at six platforms in the Southern Light Soil (SLS), including D.C. Palli and Kaligiri in Nellore district and five platforms in the Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions. The auctions in the SLS region, which otherwise begins in the mid-February, have been delayed this time. “We have been incurring losses since the last three years owing to poor grade yield and the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the middle of the marketing season last year. We expect the auctions to start on an encouraging note this time, given the decrease in production,” said farmer leader and former Tobacco Board member Ch. Ranga Rao. He opined that the State government, like last year, should direct the Markfed to intervene to create buoyancy in the market. Crop size cut “Farmers should get the benefit of the cut in tobacco crop size by the crop regulator, which anticipated a reduced demand for the produce in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The crop size was cut down by 15%,” he pointed out. Former Tobacco Board member M. Bangarababu said that the board should ensure a minimum price of Rs. 206 per kg for bright-grade varieties, Rs. 150 per kg for medium-grade varieties and Rs. 120 per kg for low-grade varieties. “Such prices will help the farmers to achieve a break-even as they had to bear additional expenditure during the cultivation this year. The farmers were forced to go for replantation in view of the unseasonal rains in several spells during the cropping season,” said Mr. Bangarababu. ‘Less production’ According to an estimate made by the Tobacco Board, the production this year is expected to be about 1 million kg less than the authorised crop size of 70.3 million kg in Prakasam and Nellore districts, says SBS Regional Manager R. Srinivasulu Naidu. The production is expected to be 32.25 million kg in the SLS and 36.98 million kg in the SBS regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-growers-in-prakasam-hope-to-make-turnaround-as-auction-begins-on-march-15/article34057852.ece
13 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plantation drive held||A plantation drive was organised on the premises of the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on Friday. GGH Superintendent A. Krishnamurthy, along with senior civil surgeons A. Hemanth and R. Aravind took part in the programme. Speaking on the occasion, he said the greenery on the hospital premises was very important for quick recovery of patients and the trees would ensure a pleasant atmosphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plantation-drive-held/article34057285.ece
13 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veda Patasala told to engage doctor on campus||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday urged the authorities of the S.V. Veda Patasala to strictly adhere to the health protocols. As many as 57 students of the institution tested positive for coronavirus a few days ago. All the infected have been admitted to the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) super specialty hospital in Tirupati. Mr. Subba Reddy paid a surprise visit to the Vedic school and interacted with the faculty members and students. He urged them to strictly abide by social distancing norms, wear masks and maintaining hygiene on the premises. Emphasising the need for round-the-clock medical assistance, the TTD Chairman asked the Veda Patasala authorities to engage a doctor and the required medical staff on the campus till normalcy was restored. Additional accommodation Mr. Reddy, who inspected the kitchen, dining hall and classrooms, asked the accompanying officials to ensure that only four students were accommodated in each room and additional accommodation was facilitated if needed. “The students must maintain a social distance of two metres on the premises, even in the dining hall, as per the COVID protocols,” he said. Assurance to parents He assured the parents that none of the students on the campus had any health complications and that best healthcare facilities were being extended to those under observation at the SVIMS. The condition of all the students under observation is stable and there was no need to worry, he said. Chief Medical Officer Dr. Narmada, Health Officer Dr. R.R. Reddy, Estates Officer Vijay Saradhi and principal K.S.S. Avadhani accompanied Mr. Reddy during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-stable-says-ttd-chief/article34057200.ece
13 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati to get paediatric hospital||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Mumbai-based Udveg Infrastructure and Consultancy Private Limited (UIC) for setting up a world class state-of-art paediatric hospital in Tirupati. The cost of the project is expected to be around Rs. 300 crore and the funds for the project would be raised in the form of donations. The MoU documents was signed by TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy and UIC chief executive officer and managing director Sanjay K. Singh in the presence of TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy. Speaking to media, Mr. Subba Reddy said that the idea of setting up of world-class paediatric hospitals across the State was conceived by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the project in Tirupati was a part of it. “The proposed paediatric hospital will be a part of the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) super specialty hospital and the foundation stone for the project will be laid soon. The UIC has agreed to bear the construction cost, apart from shouldering the operational management of the hospital for a few years initially,” said Mr. Jawahar Reddy after the MoU was signed. Mr. Singh described the collaboration with the TTD as a ‘great privilege’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-to-get-paediatric-hospital-at-rs-300-crore/article34057841.ece
13 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana CJ prays at Tirumala||Chief Justice of Telangana High Court Hima Kohli on Friday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara accompanied by her family members. On her arrival at the main temple, she was received by the TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional SEO A.V. Dharma Reddy and led into the sanctum sanctorum where she paid obeisances to the presiding deity. Later, the authorities honoured her with laddu and memento of the deity, while the pundits rendered ‘Vedasirvachanams’ on the Chief Justice. Justice Kohli who arrived at the town on Thursday night also paid a visit to the Nitya Annadanam complex and Srivari Seva Sadan and expressed pleasure over the functioning of both the wings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-cj-prays-at-tirumala/article34057679.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Every citizen should participate in ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’: Governor||On the occasion of launching of celebrations in commemoration of 75th year of India’s Independence by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Friday said every citizen should participate in the celebrations and make it a success. Mr. Harichandan said ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ was launched on Friday, 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022, coinciding with the 91st anniversary of the historic Salt Satyagraha March also known as Dandi March, led by Mahatma Gandhi in 1930. All educational institutions should take part in the celebrations to mark the 75th year of Independence with active involvement of the student community by organising exhibitions, competitions, student rallies, workshops, cultural programmes on the theme of freedom struggle and Salt Satyagraha movement, he said. Freedom fighters and their family members should be felicitated as part of the year-long ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ celebrations, the Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/every-citizen-should-participate-in-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-governor/article34057293.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Giving the joy of parenthood||Increasing infertility rates are based on the lifestyle changes resulting in stress and obesity caused by lack of physical exercise, changes in eating habits and pollution accompanied by medical disorders like diabetes, said Sujatha V., clinical head and fertility specialist at Oasis Fertility, Vijayawada, that celebrated its fifth anniversary with couples who could have children after undergoing treatment at the clinic. The venue was abuzz with bubbly kids accompanied by their parents. Dr. Sujatha said in the last five years, Oasis Fertility had treated more than 5,000 couples with an almost 65 % success rate and live births of almost 90% among the couples who had conceived. She claimed that Oasis Fertility was the first to bring in technologies like PGT-A, Electronic Witnessing System, MACS and Artificial Intelligence in the State. “Our Centre has been recognised for practising evidence-based techniques,” she informed. Regretting the low awareness levels among people, she said there was a need to bust myths like success rate in IVF/ fertility treatment is very low. “People should shun social stigma that infertility is a disease and speak openly about it,” she emphasised. Chief Operating Officer, Oasis Fertility, Sudhakar Jadhav spoke about how advanced the IVF treatment had become now. “With techniques like PGT-A, ERA, IVM and AI, we are able to push the success rate to as high as 69 %.We operate 15 clinics across the country, all of them equipped with state-of-the-art technology,” he said. The Oasis Fertility also operates dedicated male fertility clinics under the brand Ändrolife, first ever male fertility clinics, he claimed. Oasis Fertility is a unit of Sadguru Healthcare Services Pvt. Ltd. offering one-stop day care clinics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/giving-the-joy-of-parenthood/article34057917.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State mulling multi-modal logistics policy: Mekapati||The State government is contemplating bringing in a policy to ease the goods transportation problem. Industries Minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy on Friday tweeted that the government was working out on multi-modal logistics policy. The objective was to make Andhra Pradesh a favourite destination in maritime activities and services. The government could provide land and other facilities at Krishnapatnam, Bhavanapadu, Ramayapatnam, Gangavaram, Machilipatnam and Visakhapatnam ports. At present, Andhra Pradesh has 170 million tonnes cargo capacity. Andhra Pradesh’s share in national exports was 4% and the government intended to increase it to 10%. The entrepreneurs and investors could come out with necessary proposals to set up their units in Andhra Pradesh. They can reach the government through APLogisticsServices@gmail.com, he said. Godowns The government had identified the scarcity of godowns and containers for transportation of goods. Steps were being taken to develop and establish logistics parks. Scarcity had arisen as the Union government had imposed restrictions on imports and exports from China. As many as 8,000 containers per annum were required across the country. At least 40,000 containers were necessary in next five years. Minimum 15 days were required to manufacture one container and the expenditure ranges between Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh depending upon quality and requirements, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-mulling-multi-modal-logistics-policy-mekapati/article34057854.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports highest single-day COVID-19 tally in two months||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 210 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past two months. Chittoor and East Godavari districts reported a huge spike in the daily infections with 85 and 41 new infections respectively. The lone death was reported from Krishna district The tally increased to 8,91,388 and the toll reached 7,180  while the death rate remains at 0.81%. The number of active cases further increased to 1,227 and Chittoor alone has 431 of them. In the past day, 140 patients recovered and the recovery rate remains at 99.06% while the recoveries increased to 8,82,981. During the same period, 44,709 samples were tested and 0.47% of them turned positive. The overall positivity rate of 1.444 crore samples tested so far was 6.17% and the tests per million ratio reached 2.70 lakh. Districts other than Chittoor and East Godavari reported not more than 20 new infections. Guntur reported 18 cases, Visakhapatnam reported 16, Krishna reported 14 and Anantapur reported 12. Among the districts which reported only single-digit new infections were Srikakulam (8), Kurnool (4), Kadapa (3), Prakasam (3), Nellore (3), West Godavari (2) and Vizianagaram (1). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,583), West Godavari (94,374), Chittoor (87,940), Guntur (75,848), Anantapur (67,841), Nellore (62,528), Prakasam (62,232), Kurnool (60,947), Visakhapatnam (60,198), Kadapa (55,446), Krishna (49,096), Srikakulam (46,287) and Vizianagaram (41,173).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-highest-single-day-covid-19-tally-in-two-months/article34057275.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Banana farmers reaping it rich||The initiatives of the Horticulture Department seem to be yielding results. The banana value chain development programme is apparently contributing to the stabilisation of the prices if the statistics available from 2018-19 are any indication. According to information, the programme is benefiting the farmers, more particularly small and marginal farmers, in the State. More than 1.30 lakh farmers are engaged in banana cultivation. Of them, more than 80% are small and marginal farmers, who hold lands less than one acre, or between 2 acres and 3 acres. The total banana production stands at 63.84 lakh tonnes in the State. “Prior to implementation of the project, the farmers from Anantapur and Kadapa districts used to sell their produce in the informal markets. They used to earn less than the fair price,” says Horticulture Commissioner Chiranjeev Choudhary. “The per kg price ranged between Rs. 6.40 and Rs. 8.50 in the domestic market during November-March 2017-18. It is between Rs. 7 and Rs. 13 during November-March 2020-21. The farmers’ income in the project area has increased exponentially, and the prices also stabilised due to commencement of exports and quality production,” Mr. Choudhary says. Due to fluctuation in prices every year, the farmers are suffering in spite of quality production, he said. To overcome the problem, the department has started value chain development at all stages to improve production, productivity and quality of fruit, duly involving experts from leading banana exporters in the country such as INI-Farms Pvt Ltd, DESAI Fruits & Vegetables Pvt. Ltd and Mahindra Agri Solutions Ltd, in Anantapur, Kadapa and Kurnool districts. Farmers are happy over the changes that have taken place in production practices such as fruit-care activities and post harvest infrastructure such as mobile pack houses and integrated pack houses. The department is also taking the responsibility for the issue of phytosanitary certificate. In addition, the department is providing skill development programme to the rural youth in harvesting, and handling and packaging to create employment opportunities in the banana clusters, he explains. The crop from A.P. is the most favourite choice in the Middle-East.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/banana-farmers-reaping-it-rich/article34057845.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools to function as usual today||Schools for which holidays were declared due to the elections to the urban local bodies will function as usual on March 13, a second Saturday. In a statement on Friday, Director of School Education Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu said less number of working days were available for the 2020-21 academic year and the decision was taken in the interest of the students for better learning outcomes. Parents consent must Mr.Chinaveerabhadrudu said, however, students should attend school only with the consent of their parents. Mr.Chinaveerabhadrudu said the Regional Joint Directors of School Education and the District Education Officers should ensure strict enforcement of the COVID-19 guidelines and the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) in all schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-to-function-as-usual-today/article34057918.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor mourns Dadi Hriday Mohini||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has expressed grief and sadness at the demise of Brahma Kumaris’ chief administrator Rajyogini Dadi Hriday Mohini. She died at a private hospital in Mumbai on Thursday. Mr. Harichandan, in release issued here on Friday, said Dadi Hriday Mohini Ji, who joined the Brahma Kumaris at the age of 8 in 1936 dedicated her life in the service of the Brahma Kumaris institution. Mr. Harichandan offered his heartfelt condolences to members of the Brahma Kumaris institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-mourns-dadi-hriday-mohini/article34057294.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No anomalies in counting of votes: SEC||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Friday said there were no instances of the overturning of the result due to power outages in any district, as was alleged with regard to the gram panchayat elections in the State. In a statement, he clarified that there were only four instances in Guntur district where results were overturned after recounting, that too where lead margin was in single digit to start with. He said the Commission had directed the Collector and the District Election Authority to further inquire into the incidents and submit a report. Their reports said that recounting was allowed and the result declared as per procedure. There were no power outages at any point during the course of counting and the subsequent recounting in case of the gram panchayats of Pidaparthipalem, Venigandla, Pedakurapadu and Pothumarru in Guntur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-anomalies-in-counting-of-votes-sec/article34057855.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Council polls: 75 critical polling booths identified||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand has said that polling will be conducted for East-West Godavari and Guntur-Krishna Teachers’ Constituencies in 227 polling stations on Sunday. Of the 227 polling stations, 75 have been identified as critical. In all, 17,467 electors will cast their votes in East-West Godavari Teachers’ Constituency, and 13,505 voters will exercise their franchise in Krishna-Guntur Teachers’ Constituency, said the CEO in a video conference. The CEO reviewed the arrangements for the Council elections with Collectors, Returning Officers, observers and AROs on Friday. Polling will be conducted from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in all polling stations, and in Left Wing Extremist (LWE)-affected stations, located in Yetapaka, Rampachodavaram, Kukunoor and Jangareddygudem divisions, polling will be conducted from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/council-polls-75-critical-polling-booths-identified/article34057856.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP-backed BJP candidate for Tirupati LS bypoll||The Bharatiya Janata Party-Jana Sena Party (JSP) alliance resolved to field a candidate from the national party in the byelection for the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant due to the death of YSR Congress MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September last. Unanimous Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Bharatiya Janata Party Andhra Pradesh affairs in- charge V. Muraleedharan and co-in charge Sunil Deodhar tweeted on Friday that a unanimous decision to have a Jana Sena-backed candidate in the elections was taken at a meeting attended by Bharatiya Janata Party State president Somu Veerraju and Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan. In his message on Twitter, Mr. Muraleedharan said his party’s victory march in Andhra Pradesh would begin from Tirupati and that it was time to put an end to the promotion of selfish interests of the YSR Congress Party and the Telugu Desam Party. To expose parties The BJP-JSP combine would expose the shady designs of the two regional satraps that undermined the beliefs of devotees, he stated, suggesting that they were allegedly involved in the attacks on Hindu temples, Mr. Muraleedharan said.. Mr. Deodhar and JSP political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar participated in the talks which brought the curtains down on the suspense as to which one of the alliance partners will put up a candidate in the Tirupati byelections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-backed-bjp-candidate-for-tirupati-ls-bypoll/article34057278.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District officials on high alert after 4 cases detected in schools||In the wake of four new COVID-19 cases being detected in a couple of schools in Gopalapatnam area of the city and some more cases in a few schools in the State, the Education Department is on high alert and taking all measures to prevent possible spread of the coronavirus in the schools in the district. District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) P. Suryanarayana said that samples have been collected from about 2,200 children from schools for testing. Out of them, only four had tested positive. “There is no need to panic, We have collected samples of those in contact with the affected children. All the students are asymptomatic,” he said. District Educational Officer B. Lingeswara Reddy said that all the school headmasters and principals have been directed to ensure physical distancing, use of masks and hand sanitisers in the school premises. Only two students are being made to sit per bench, while classes with more strength are divided into sections, he said. Random tests The DEO said that apart from it, random tests are being conducted in all the schools in the district for both the students as well as teachers as a precautionary measure. These tests would continue, he said. It may be noted that last week also, two students from ZP High School, Thummapala of Anakapalle mandal had tested positive. The officials have immediately conducted tests to all the other students of the class. All the classrooms were sanitised immediately. The affected students are now recovering well, it was learnt. After the incident and increase in number of COVID-19 cases from the district, parents are worried. Meanwhile, several private schools and colleges are said to be flouting safety norms. Some private schools are reportedly running classes with 40 students without any physical distancing. Sanitisation is not properly taken up. Many parents are fearing to send their children to schools in buses. “Public transport has become very risky these days. Buses are being run in a packed condition after school/college hours. Auto-rickshaw drivers have started to ply with about 10 students in a vehicle ignoring all norms. Most of us are dropping the children to school or college,” K, Narayana, a parent from Arilova, said.  16 new cases Meanwhile, the district reported 16 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 60,710 as on Friday morning. The number of active cases is now inching towards 100 from just 24 on March 1. As on Friday morning, the number of active cases was 98. The death toll stands at 539 as no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. As many as 60,071 persons have recovered from the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-on-high-alert-after-covid-cases-detected-in-schools/article34057916.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees take holy dip in sea||A large number of devotees took holy dip at various beaches in the district after offering prayers on Maha Sivaratri, on Friday. Rama Krishna Beach, Rushikonda, Jodugulapalem, Yarada, Appikonda and many other beaches were thronged by people of all ages. COVID-19 safety norms were totally ignored. After observing a fast on the occasion of Maha Sivaratri, the devotees took a holy dip and offered prayers in the nearest temples. The R.K Beach stretch was packed with devotees since early morning. A number of people even from areas such as Madhurawada, Simhachalam, Kancharapalem and Akkayyapalem thronged the beach. While the youth took selfies after taking the ritual bath, elderly persons were seen offering flowers and performing prayers. Parents were seen giving a bath to their little ones at the sea. A number of NGOs and a few companies had set up stalls and offered water and buttermilk sachets to the devotees. Police as well as community guards had a very tough time in controlling people and ensuring free flow of traffic. A number of fishermen were stood as lifeguards to ensure that there were no drowning deaths. Earlier, Maha Sivaratri was celebrated with religious fervour. Several events were organised as part of the festival at R.K. Beach. A large number of devotees had started to throng Beach Road after 10 p.m. on Thursday. The police had allowed entry of vehicles into Beach Road up to 8 p.m. Due to heavy crowd, the vehicles were diverted. Vehicle entry was completely restricted from Park Hotel Junction. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch Adinarayana said that over 500 police personnel were deployed at R.K Beach, Rushikonda, Jodugullapalem and Appikonda. Apart from them, about 150 additional AR personnel were also deputed. “We had used public address system to control crowd at Beach Road. At a few areas, we had to divert the traffic to ensure that there were no congestions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-take-holy-dip-in-sea/article34057894.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICAR-CMFRI goes for third cage harvest||Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (ICAR-CMFRI) has gone for the third cage harvest of Indian Pompano and Orange Spotted Grouper, here on Friday. The cages were lifted in the presence of C. Suvarna, Chief Executive of the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). Principal Scientist, Visakhapatnam Regional Centre of CMFRI, Visakhapatnam, Subhadeep Ghosh, said that both the fish varieties have good demand in the domestic market and cage fishing was the future. In Visakhapatnam, the CMFRI has installed 15 cages in RK Beach and five at Mangamaripeta. In 10 cages, pompano is farmed and in other 10 grouper is farmed, said Dr. Ghosh. While the production cost for cage farming is around Rs. 200 to Rs. 210 per kg, the sale price of Indian Pompano can go up to Rs. 350 to Rs. 450. Thus one can make an outright profit of Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 per kg in the domestic market, he said. According to the CMFRI officials, each cage can harvest to the tune to about 1.5 to 2 MT of fishes in one season. Thus per cage one can make a profit of Rs. 1.5 to Rs. 2 lakh. The Central government through the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) is encouraging cage farming and farmers have good prospect, said Dr. Ghosh. On the harvest time, he said that the fingerlings weighing around 10 gms were put in the cage around first week of May, last year, and we harvested now after 10 months. Each 10 gm fingerling has now grown to a fish weighing between 750 and 850 gms, he said. Dr. Ghosh said that many farmers and the State Fisheries Department have evinced interest in cage farming. The State Fisheries Department has received about 100 applications from Visakhapatnam alone and all across the State it is around 1,000, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/icar-cmfri-goes-for-third-cage-harvest/article34057937.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mega steel giant formed with mergers can take on China’||Before taking the final step to go ahead with the 100% strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), the Union government and the authorities concerned should give a thought for its revival, said former Joint Director of CBI V.V. Lakshminarayana. Addressing a press conference with former Chairman and Managing Director of VSP Siva Sagar Rao, he said that a letter with revival proposals will be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking about the alternatives or revival proposal, Mr. Lakshminarayana, who is also the chairman of Join for Development Foundation said, on the lines of joining weaker PSU banks with larger PSU banks and creating a mega oil company by merging ONGC and HPCL or like three major ports taking up the Dredging Corporation of India, the government could form a ‘mega steel giant’ by joining RINL (corporate entity of VSP) with NMDC, SAIL, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited and Kudremukh Iron Ore Company. This would, in fact, be a perfect solution to the idea of Atmanirbhar Bharat, he said. Each company in the mega steel giant had its own potential and together they could address the problems of one another and combine their strength to form a formidable global steel giant that could take on China in the global market. And by doing so the companies would not only retain their PSU status but also become the biggest steel conglomerate in the world, said Mr. Lakshminarayana. Simple restructuring To make the VSP self-sustainable, the Union government can restructure the balance sheet of the plant by just making a policy decision without any additional investment, he said. According to him, the VSP had initially acquired about 21,592 acres of land and now holds 19,703 acres after parting with 1,889 acres to Gangavaram Port. Of the 19,703 acres, the plant, including township and offices, stood on 10,370 acres and 6,503 acres was earmarked for a green belt. The remaining 2,830 acres was reserved for future expansion. “In our second proposal we have asked the Union government to transfer 16,873 acres, which is in the name of the President of India, to RINL. This would enhance the asset value of the plant and it can approach banks and financial institutions for bailout packages,” he said. The 16,873 acres have a market value of only Rs. 56 crore, but once transferred to RINL, their value will go up to Rs. 60,000 crore to Rs. 1 lakh crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mega-steel-giant-formed-with-mergers-can-take-on-china/article34057861.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two drown, one missing in separate incidents||Two persons reportedly drowned and another person went missing in separate incidents at Rushikonda and Yarada beaches in Visakhapatnam on Friday. The deceased were identified as S. Ganesh (22), an electrician, and P. Jagadeesh (17), both residents of Lakshmi Nagar, Gopalapatnam area. The Arilova police said that the two persons along with 20 other members of their families visited the Rushikonda beach (in front of Gayatri College) at around 3 p.m. While Ganesh was reportedly pulled into waters by high tide, Jagadish who had gone to rescue him, was also swept away. “Immediately both were traced. While Jagadeesh died on the spot, Ganesh died while undergoing treatment at the GITAM hospital,” the police said. A case was registered. In another incident, B. Sreenu (20) of Peda Gantyada, who came to take the dip in sea at Yarada beach, went missing. The police fear that he might have drowned. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-drown-one-missing-in-separate-incidents/article34057935.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket tournament for dentists||Sunrise Dentists Cricket League is organising a T20 cricket tournament for dental doctors from the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana from March 14. The tournament will be held at the cricket ground of Gitam deemed to be university. The matches will be held on eight Sundays starting from March 14 and about 80 dentists will be participating. The tournament will be inaugurated by MLC PVSN Raju in the presence of Dr. Satish Gorantla, State president, Indian Dental Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricket-tournament-for-dentists/article34057939.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Country has made rapid strides after Independence: Collector||Following instructions from the Union government, the district administration organised a programme to mark the 75 years of India’s Independence ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ at ZP Conference Hall here on Friday. District Collector V. Vinay Chand attended the event as the chief guest and paid floral tributes to the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi. Mr. Vinay Chand said that since Independence, the country witnessed development in many fields. “We need to achieve a lot more in the fields of education, health, agriculture, industries, science, social and a few others. People need to be provided with all basic amenities,” he said. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner S. Nagalakshmi stressed on the need to teach students on freedom struggle. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy said that the government will organise a series of events for 75 weeks to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of India’s Independence. Officials from Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone also celebrated the occasion. A number of programmes were held, including a walkathon, which was flagged off by Development Commissioner, VSEZ, A. Rama Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/country-has-made-rapid-strides-after-independence-collector/article34057932.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 hurt as car overturns in bid to escape from robbers||Two persons were injured when the car in which they were travelling overturned on Darakonda ghat road between Sileru and Chintapalle, late on Thursday night in the Visakhapatnam Agency area. The incident reportedly happened when the duo tried to escape from a group of unidentified miscreants who allegedly attempted to rob them at gun point. According to sources, the two youth from Darakonda were returning from Narsipatnam when the incident occurred. After crossing the Daralamma temple, unidentified persons chased them on two motorcycles. The miscreants allegedly carried sticks and country-made guns (tapanchas) and tried to stop their vehicle. Since the area witnessed a couple of armed robberies in the past few months, the duo tried to escape from them without stopping the car. In that attempt they stepped on the gas to gain speed and reportedly lost control over the vehicle and it overturned. Sileru sub-inspector Ranjith said they had not received any complaint regarding the incident till Friday evening. “But as per our informants, the vehicle overturned on the ghat road and we are trying to ascertain the facts. We will start investigation after receiving a formal complaint,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-hurt-as-car-overturns-in-bid-to-escape-from-robbers/article34057929.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prepare DPRs for food processing units’||Project Officer, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), S. Venkateswar, has directed the officials to prepare detailed project reports (DPR) for setting up of food processing units in the agency area. He held a review meet with the ITDA officials and representatives from various NGOs on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-dprs-for-food-processing-units/article34057930.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fall off bike, die||Two persons died when they reportedly fell from their two-wheeler in an under-construction road near SOS Junction under the Bheemili police station limits in the early hours of Friday. The deceased were identified as Ram Babu (35) and Nookaraju (30), both residents of Kamma Veedhi in Vizianagaram. According to the police, the incident occurred when the duo were going to Visakhapatnam from Vizianagaram to attend Maha Sivaratri and take a holy dip at a beach. Police said that double-road works were going on at many areas on the Bheemili -Vizag beach road. The duo reportedly failed to notice the ‘Take diversion’ board at one stretch and entered the road which was still under construction. Both were not wearing helmets and suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-fall-off-bike-die/article34057290.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sivaji extends support to protesting VSP employees||Extending his support to members of Visakha Steel Plant Parirakshana Porata Samithi, actor Sivaji criticised members of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for coming up with the proposal of privatising the VSP. Mr. Sivaji visited the protesters at their camp here on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sivaji alleged that BJP was playing with the future those dependent on the VSP. He said that future generations would not forgive the BJP if the VSP is privatised. He said that K.A. Paul, who filed a petition in the High Court on the issue, is far better than many other politicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sivaji-extends-support-to-protesting-vsp-employees/article34057933.ece
13 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Safety Day observed||The employees of RINL, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, observed the 50th National Safety Day here on Friday.  Chairman and Managing Director of VSP P.K. Rath, Director of Factories D.C.S. Varma and General Manager (Safety) S. Sanyal spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-safety-day-observed/article34057938.ece
13 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Establish internal committees to prevent workplace harassment: SP||Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari on Friday asked government and private organisations to establish internal complaint receiving committees to prevent workplace harassment and other problems being faced by women. She attended as a chief guest for National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development’s programme on women empowerment and challenges. Speaking on the occasion, she said that women had been facing many difficulties while achieving self-reliance and financial independence. Ms. Rajakumari felt that the women would be able to perform in a better way when they were free from problems and gender inequality in workplace. NABARD Assistant General Manager P. Harish said that the many women of rural and tribal areas were leading a happy life with the training programmes being conducted by the bank for self-help groups. He said that many Farmers-Producers Organisations were set up to improve skills and marketing techniques of the SHG members. District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramanakumari urged the women to balance both family life and economic activity since mother’s care was very important for children to become good citizens. The Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) Project Director K. Suganakara Rao assured to organise exclusive exhibition for SGHs to sell their products in Vizianagaram. ARTS Director N. Sanyasi Rao urged the women to attend training programmes regularly to improve their skills and economic resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/establish-internal-committees-to-prevent-workplace-harassment-sp/article34057884.ece
13 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Videograph counting of votes: TDP leader||Telugu Desam Party Vizianagaram Parliamentary wing president Kimidi Nagarjuna on Friday urged Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal to ensure video recording of the entire process of counting of votes polled during the municipal elections. The counting is scheduled to be done on March 14. Mr. Nagarjuna, along with TDP leaders including Suvvada Ravisekhar and Pativada Tamminaidu, met the Collector and urged him to ensure transparency in the counting process. “Many malpractice were taken place during the counting of votes polled during the panchayat elections. It should not be repeated at any cost,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/videograph-counting-of-votes-tdp-leader/article34057840.ece
13 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People have reposed faith in Jagan’||Sringavarapukota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao on Friday said that the welfare scheme irtroduced by the YSRCP government such were inspring many States to adopt them. He garlanded statues of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Kothavalasa and S.Kota , marking the party’s 11th foundation day. “People of the State have reposed faith in Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration and it is evident from the win the candidates backed by the YSRCP have registered in the recently held panchayat elections. The party will win more than 90% of seats in municipal elections too,” he told the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-have-reposed-faith-in-jagan/article34057286.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nonsensical laugh riot||When the teaser and trailer go viral and keep viewers in splits, there’s always the possibility of the film not meeting expectations. Thankfully, Jathi Ratnalu delivers to a large extent and the irreverent fun can help beat the pandemic fatigue. Of late, a few Telugu films have been going on a hyperlocal mode and capturing the ethos of different regions of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Director Anudeep shows us the laidback life of three hopeless youngsters in Jogipet, Sangareddy district. A kid watches them arguing and gossiping on his way to school in the morning; when he heads home after school, the trio is still there doing the same thing! Srikanth (Naveen Polishetty) is embarrassed to be called ‘ladies emporium Srikanth’, the store which his dad (Tanikella Bharani) established in his name, and wants a white collar job so that he can be Cyberabad Srikanth. When he challenges his dad that he will land a cushy, respectable job and leaves for Hyderabad is a canary yellow Maruti 800, his childhood buddies tag along. Sekhar (Priyadarshi) has a karmic connection with the pressure cooker whistle and nothing gives him more joy than rice that’s perfectly cooked. And Ravi (Rahul Ramakrishna) is mostly inebriated and unlucky in love. The trio’s adventures begin the moment the car, mounted with bedding and a huge straw basket (wonder what’s in it) heads to Hyderabad. Nothing goes as per plan and soon, Anudeep sets the stage for irreverent characters to keep popping up. He wants us to take absolutely nothing in the story seriously. The Jogipet boys find shelter in a plush apartment. No, the story isn’t about the NRI house owner discovering them. Srikant falls in love with his neighbour Chitti (newcomer Faria Abdullah), but this story isn’t limited to a Jogipet guy speaking broken English falling in love with a girl from a well-to-do family. It’s a joy ride till the trio gets entangled in a crime involving politician Chanakya (Murali Sharma). The fun wears out in the latter half and the one liners get repetitive. However, Jathi Ratnalu redeems itself in the final courtroom portions and Naveen, who is the backbone of the film, makes every little expression and dialogue count. His brilliance leaves the judge (Brahmanandam) baffled and us, in splits. Naveen’s is a sparkling portrayal and giving him good company are Priyadarshi and Rahul, dependable as always. Rahul’s phone conversations and his refrain of threatening to leave his friends by playing the victim card are hilarious. Faria has a good screen presence and holds her own among the three madcaps. There could have been more to Priyadarshi’s characterisation than his fixation with the rice cooker. The film could have been shorter and meandered less in the post-interval portions. Despite that, the film packs in a lot of fun. Radhan’s music and the cameos of Brahmanandam and Vennela Kishore add flavour to the Hong Kong noodles. Why Hong Kong noodles? The film has the answer to that.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Jathi Ratnalu  Cast: Naveen Polishetty, Faria Abdullah, Priyadarshi, Rahul Ramakrishna  Direction: Anudeep K V  Music: Radhan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nonsensical-laugh-riot/article34057298.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Routine film on farming||Karthik (Sharwanand) is the son of a farmer, Kesavulu (Rao Ramesh), and works for an IT company. He repays his father’s debt to Sai Kumar who is a land shark in the village. He is well aware that most of the villagers have mortgaged their lands and migrated to the city where they become daily wage labourers. Karthik quits his job and moves to his village and much against his father’s wishes, begins tilling the soil. He introduces to the fellow villagers, the concept of joint farming and inspires the rest who left their homes to return. The conflict arises when Sai Kumar, who cannot digest the dry Rayalseema land turn green and people clear their debts, creates differences among the villagers on revenue that comes from joint produce. The director makes the plot interesting by using the right emotional connect and dialogues by Sai Madhav Burra. But somewhere down the line, it reminds you of Bheeshma and Maharshi . Using technology to connect, communicate and turning dry land into a green patch is obviously interesting but not new. This time last year, we read about farmers directly sending fruits and vegetables to homes. This film taps into that situation when Karthik arranges for live streaming of farming and everyone becomes aware of it.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Sreekaram   Cast: Sharwanand, Priyanka Arul Mohan Direction: Kishore Reddy  Music: Mickey J Meyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/routine-film-on-farming/article34057299.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deities’ day out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deities-day-out/article34057843.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Feeling the heat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/feeling-the-heat/article34057296.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A sea of the devout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-sea-of-the-devout/article34057317.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR questions BJP’s sincerity on employee’s welfare||TRS Working President K.T. Rama Rao questioned the sincerity of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in demanding 43% fitment to Telangana employees while the Central government gave just 16% for its employees, and termed them experts in spreading 'misinformation'. This was in 2016 and before the introduction of GST and demonstration and when the economic situation in the country was much stable. Telangana's employees understand who stands for them and who helped them most, he said. Speaking at a programme organised by the Telangana Vikas Samithi here on Friday, he rejected the BJP terming Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) anti-employee. "We gave 43% PRC apart from initiating welfare programmes for employees and all sections of people," he said. Support to VSP The Municipal Minister defended his support to the Vizag Steel Plant (VSP) and asked whether Andhra Pradesh was not part of India for the Bharatiya Janata Party. "I will question as a right to object to the selling spree of the Central government," he said adding if it was VSP today the next could be institutions in Telangana. Ridiculing the comments of Bharatiya Janata Party MLC, Ramchander Rao on the appointment of Vice Chancellors, he said Telangana Rashtra Samithi believed in appointing scholars as VCs and not their own like the BJP does. He reminded how the appointment of Vice Chancellor of the University of Hyderabad created disturbance on the campus. He reeled out the developmental and welfare activities of the government for various sections including students, lawyers, journalists and others. In the last 6 years government has spent about Rs. 12,800 crore on fee reimbursement. Apart from these overseas scholarships were being provided to students on the names of Ambedkar, Jyotiba Phule, and Vivekanand where each student is granted a scholarship of Rs. 20 Lakh. No other government is providing such scholarships to the students, he said. All this was done without any support from the Central government, he said and explained how no new institutes were given to Telangana despite the assurances in the AP Reorganisation Act. Why doesn't Ramchander Rao ask about the Kajipet Railway coach factory, ITIR, Tribal University, Bayyaram Steel Factory, petrol and gas prices, he questioned and said Bharatiya Janata Party abuses Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, disrespecting the constitutional position he holds and his age. He also charged the BJP with trying to derive political mileage by instigating communal differences. Every time there are elections, riots take place in Bhainsa, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-questions-bjps-sincerity-on-employees-welfare/article34057668.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Gandhi’s influence huge on Telangana agitation’||Stating that India showcased to the world that peace was the most powerful weapon to fight for rights, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao inaugurated the ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, the 75th Independence Day celebrations, at Public Gardens on Friday. The Chief Minister said that the ‘Father of the Nation’ was an apostle of peace and inspired not just the country but people around the world taking on the mighty British just through non-violence. “It is our responsibility to tell the younger generation about the sacrifices made by our freedom fighters and how Mahatma Gandhi led the nation to achieve Independence,” he said. Drawing parallel with the Telangana agitation, Mr. Rao said he too, was inspired by Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violence while chalking out the programmes during the Telangana agitation, which also was peaceful. Freedom fighters then had doubts over the peace approach of Gandhiji but the grit and determination showed by him while adopting peace as a strategy against the powerful British had given confidence to all, the CM observed. Stating that world leaders, who led similar agitations for their rights like Martin Luther King too, were inspired by Gandhi’s methods, he said it was an honour for Indians that he continues to inspire people across the world. “The new generation must be apprised of the hardships that generation went through to give us freedom and ensure those qualities are imbibed now,” he said. The Chief Minister also recalled the historic Dandi march started by Mahatma Gandhi on March 12, 1930, against the imposition of tax on salt and said just 79 people marched along with Gandhiji for 384 km for 24 days to register their protest, but that sent shock-waves across the British empire. “We are starting these celebrations on the same day and will continue for 75 weeks with a series of events involving all sections of people,” he said. Mr. Rao had already sanctioned Rs. 25 crore for the celebrations. Meanwhile, PIB’s field publicity office organised a photo exhibition at N.G. College in Nalgonda featuring 60 archived photographs to tell the story of freedom struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhis-impact-on-telangana-agitation-huge/article34057648.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Glory of Quli Qutb Shah tomb uncovered||In a site-transforming discovery, large panels of coloured glazed tile-work have been uncovered on the tomb of Sultan Muhammad Qutb Shah at the foothills of the Golconda Fort. “This tile-work changes the significance of the site. Historically, we know Muhammad Quli Qutb Shah’s dome had coloured tile-work but we could not find evidence. This find changes everything,” says, Ratish Nanda, CEO of Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which is carrying out the conservation effort on the sprawling necropolis in collaboration with Department of Archaeology and Museums, Telangana. The tile-work on the shafts and cornices was uncovered after about 40-mm layer of lime mortar was peeled away and has not been seen for decades. The colour of the tiles uncovered are shades of blue, green, white, yellow and red that usually form the haft-rang in medieval architecture. “There was evidence of tile-work on the dome and horizontal bands. The discovery of chevron-patterned tiles on the shaft of the minaret made us search in other places leading to more tiles being discovered under the masonry,” says Prashant Banerjee of AKTC. The patterns include interlocking rosette that uses a blend of stucco and glazed tiles.  New light While the medieval funerary complex is covered with stunning lime-mortar stucco work on many tombs, masjids and domes the tiles will show the necropolis in a new light. The only other historical site in Hyderabad that has glazed tiles is the western wall of Badshahi Ashoorkhana completed in 1611. The tomb of Sultan Muhammad Qutb Shah rises to a height of 43 metres (about 14 storeys high) posing a challenge to workers with gusts of wind blowing through day and night. The Qutb Shahis ruled Golconda-Hyderabad between 1518 till 1687. The funerary complex at the base of the Golconda Fort is the burial ground for all the rulers except the last Abul Hasan who is buried in Khuldabad near Aurangabad. The rulers built their final resting places during their lifetime. Sixth ruler of the dynasty, Sultan Muhammad Qutb Shah ruled for a short duration and died in 1625. “The site appears to be built by giants and finished by jewellers,” says Mr. Nanda, who estimates that restoring the tile-cladding on the whole monument may take up to two years. The conservation effort on Sultan Muhammad’s tomb is backed by IndiGo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/glory-of-quli-qutb-shah-tomb-uncovered/article34057656.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP ready to go to EC for PRC: Bandi||The BJP is ready to go to the Election Commission (EC) seeking implementation of the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) if the government is serious rather than give selective leaks to the media, said TS president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday. "If the government is really serious about implementation of PRC, why don't they approach the EC instead of resorting to delaying tactics? We have not not made any complaint about any election code violation despite Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao meeting the union leaders. The government should also explain how it intends to implement when salaries and pensions are not being paid on time," he said, at a press conference. The BJP leader questioned the ‘celebrations’ among the union leaders based on the purported promise of 29% fitment when they had vowed not to accept anything less than up to 45%. "What is the guarantee Mr. Rao will not do a volte face after the elections as he has done many times earlier?" he asked. "Why should educated voters support TRS when Mr. Rao himself does not bother to seek their support?" he wanted to know and observed that last minute “gimmicks or antics” of giving appointment to the union leaders after making them wait for years and making promises anew would not work. A vote to the BJP in the Legislative Council elections would force the government’s hand in implementing the PRC, pay pending stipends to the unemployed youth, fill scores of vacancies in government departments,etc., as his party has been keeping these issues in the public domain through various protest programmes, he claimed. "I humbly appeal to the educated graduate voters to teach a lesson to the TRS and the Chief Minister once again by supporting our MLC candidates otherwise this arrogant administration will continue to take every section for a ride," charged Mr. Sanjay Kumar. The government should also first explain why it has not opened the Azam Jahi Mills or the Nizam Sugar Factory in TS after Mr. Rao had made an assurance on the floor of the Legislative Assembly before lending support to the ongoing agitation against privatisation of the Vizag Steel Plant, he said. "We were ready for an open debate on TS development but it has not been accepted," said the BJP chief and exuded the confidence of the party candidates for MLC seats - N. Ramchander Rao and G. Premender Reddy would win handsomely as various surveys have been indicating overwhelming support from the graduate voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-ready-to-go-to-ec-for-prc-bandi/article34057662.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BITS-Pilani Hyderabad develops cheap kit to detect Hepatitis C virus||COVID-19 is not the only virus haunting human beings. Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) is no less dangerous as it causes liver cirrhosis and cancers. “Find the Missing Millions” is the theme of the World Hepatitis Alliance (WHA) to show that millions are unaware of the asymptomatic conditions, and how critical it is to find those undiagnosed and linking them to clinical care. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has set an ambitious target of eradicating HCV by 2030, which means extensive screening is imperative to completely eradicate the virus. Researchers at BITS Pilani, Hyderabad campus, have announced development of a gold nano particle-based diagnostic kit, which is cheaper and quicker for early-stage detection of HCV infection. The diagnosis of the viral infection is usually done using serological tests to detect the viral antigens using immuno-based assays like ELISA and the molecular tests using reverse transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction or RT-qPCR. Serological tests are effective only when there exists sufficient production of antibodies against the viral antigen and are typically detected at a later stage of active infection, said lead researchers Prof. Ramakrishnan Ganesan of the Chemistry Department and Prof. Jayati Ray Dutta of Biological Sciences Department. Early stage of confirmatory detection of viral infection can be done through RT-qPCR (considered the gold standard) but it requires sophisticated infrastructure and trained personnel besides taking time and considerable cost. High accuracy The diagnostic kit developed by BITS Pilani, Hyderabad, researchers is affordable, matches the high accuracy close to that of RT-qPCR and can be done in one hour flat as against 4-6 hours, they claim, along with their team Almas M. Shamaila, Aniket Balapure and Mahammad Nanne Khaja. The kit also has a lower detection limit of 100 IU/mL, the threshold value for discontinuing the anti-retroviral therapy. Their work has been jointly undertaken with a city based firm, Bioviz Technologies Pvt. Ltd, and can be easily adopted in the rural health sector and be used for mass screening due to the lower cost. “Our kit can help in early-stage detection to diagnose more population for an early detection of asymptomatic cases and treatment through the anti-retroviral drugs,” testified the researchers in a press release. The work of the researchers has been published in the journal ‘Analyst’ (Royal Society of Chemistry, United Kingdom) Naked-eye colorimetric detection of HCV RNA mediated by a 5’ UTR-targeted antisense oligonucleotide and plasmonic gold nanoparticles - Analyst (RSC Publishing).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bits-pilani-hyderabad-develops-cheap-kit-to-detect-hepatitis-c-virus/article34057644.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor lists out success stories of Independent India||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday listed out three success stories of Independent India while launching the ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ at Warangal. First, she praised India for sustaining the parliamentary form of democracy for 75 years braving all odds. It was the most vibrant and largest democracy in the world where people had a choice to elect their rulers through periodic elections. There was a democratic space for people for a reasonable debate on issues that concerned them. There was scope, albeit with limitations, for protests and social movements to lend a voice to the poor and marginalised sections. The second biggest success story, she said, was the preservation of unity and integrity of the country with diverse cultures, religions, languages, lifestyles and ethos. When India achieved Independence, there were apprehensions whether the country would be able to remain united given the vast diversity and lack of coherence among people of different regions. But, India proved the sceptics wrong. Sections of people who were marginalised in the past now got better access to education, representation in elected bodies and better share in jobs and welfare. Ms. Soundararajan said that the third biggest success story was to remain a sovereign nation that valiantly protected its territorial integrity. It was definitely a challenging task to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity. Even after getting rid of the foreign rule almost 75 years ago, India fought bitter battles with neighbouring countries to protect its territories. Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao, Warangal (Urban) Collector Rajiv Gandhi Hanumanthu, Commissioner of Police Pramod Kumar and Government Chief Whip D. Vinay Bhaskar and Mayor Gunda Prakash Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-lists-out-success-stories-of-independent-india/article34057646.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Course on online start-up launcher||The Entrepreneur Zone (TEZ - a Start-up Accelerator) in association with ASPIRE, which houses the incubators in the University of Hyderabad (UoH), is inviting applications for its Online Start-up Launcher Programme (SLP). The programme, which runs over three months, is designed as a combination of online weekend sessions and one-to-one mentorship. The programme also offers start-up incubation and support services to help aspiring entrepreneurs to start and scale. Any graduate aspiring to start or scale a business — students, researchers, innovators, SMEs, professionals, techies, family businesses, consultants without any age limit, can apply for the programme. The last date for applying is March 25, and the programme will be held from April 17 to July 3. Details on ‘www.tez.co.in’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/course-on-online-start-up-launcher/article34057649.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DPR was not submitted for ITIR: Revanth||Parliament member and Telangana Congress working president, A. Revanth Reddy has blamed the TRS government for not providing the Detailed Project Report (DPR) despite the Central government asking for it ultimately leading to shelving the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project. He said the Central government had informed the Lok Sabha about shelving the project on a question raised by TRS MP Kotha Prabhakar Reddy in 2018 itself stating that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has not received any representation from the Telangana government on the project. To another question by Mr. Prabhakar Reddy on July 3, 2019 in the Lok Sabha, the Minister for Electronics and Information Technology clearly informed that the Telangana government was asked to submit requisite information to ministries concerned but there was no response. “This clearly shows that the project was shelved as the Telangana government failed to submit the required information,” he said at a press conference here. The Telangana government and the IT Minister, K.T. Rama Rao should take the blame for shelving the project that was given by the Congress government to create diret employment to 15 lakh people and indirect employment to 55 lakh people, Mr. Reddy argued. Now KTR is raking up this issue to mislead youngsters in the MLC elections, he alleged. Now graduates should question the government why the government failed to provide the DPR for the project that had the potential to turn Hyderabad into another Silicon Valley, Mr. Reddy claimed. As per the ITIR policy the Telangana government had to create infrastructure spending Rs. 13,000 crore and this would have attracted investments to the tune of Rs. 1.18 lakh crore from the IT and ITES sector and Rs. 1.01 lakh crore from Electronic and Hardware sector. ‘Illegal transfer’ Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that lands given for setting up industries by the previous governments were now being sold to a group of people close to KTR at a throwaway price after changing the policy. He said previous Congress governments allotted lands for industries on the outskirts. In 2108 government had allowed them to change the land status to use them for non-polluting industries like the IT sector. This facility is now being used to acquire those lands by people close to KTR and officials including Chief Secretary, Somesh Kumar were backing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dpr-was-not-submitted-for-itir-revanth/article34057666.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Staff trapped with bogus fitment: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday termed the 29% fitment to employees bogus and a trap by the Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao to deceive the employees yet again. Speaking to the party workers and leaders live on social media platforms on Friday, he said the Chief Minister did not announce Interim Relief even after three years of formation of Pay Revision Commission and took no action even a month after the submission of the PRC report. However, in view of elections, he held a secret meeting with union leaders and leaked information that 29% fitment would be announced after MLC elections. He warned that if employees trust KCR and vote for TRS in MLC elections then they would not get even 29% fitment once the elections are over. Employees can make their voice heard strongly and put pressure on the government by electing the Congress candidates only. Mr. Reddy expressed confidence that the Congress candidates Sabavath Ramulu Naik and G. Chinna Reddy would get elected as MLCs from the Graduates' constituencies of Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda and Hyderabad-Rangareddy- Mahabubnagar respectively with a comfortable majority. The TPCC chief alleged that KCR realised that TRS would lose from both constituencies and took refuge behind the same unions, associations and NGOs to whom he never gave importance. He said Minister K. T. Rama Rao and other TRS leaders literally begged before the union leaders seeking their support while making tall promises reflecting their desperation. The Congress chief questioned the Chief Minister using the picture of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, a leader who lived and died as a Congressman, while seeking votes. Such fear of CM itself is a victory of the Congress, he said. Attacking the BJP, Mr. Reddy said that it could not face voters due to its guilt for neglecting Telangana for the last seven years. Not a single assurance of the AP Reorganisation Act including Railway Coach Factory at Kazipet, Bayyaram Steel Plant, AIIMS at Bibinagar and a Tribal University was honoured. The BJP govt also shelved the ITIR, sanctioned by the UPA government. He said Ramulu Naik, candidate from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda, had played an active role in statehood movement and said no party had ever nominated a Dalit or tribal as its candidate from Graduates' constituency except the Congress. Similarly, G. Chinna Reddy, the candidate from Hyderabad-Rangareddy- Mahabubnagar constituency, is known for his honesty, integrity and clean record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/staff-trapped-with-bogus-fitment-uttam/article34057669.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Connect with people, Governor tells IAS officer trainees||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has advised the young IAS officer trainees to connect more with the people to become successful in their career. “It is important to travel and approach people and know about the issues that concern them. We must be accessible to common people,” the Governor said while speaking to a group of IAS officer trainees of the 2019 batch allotted to Telangana here on Friday. She exhorted them to be honest, committed, dedicated and straight forward in the discharge of their duties. “There will be challenges of all sorts, but be committed and dedicated to the cause of public good,” the Governor said. Describing her adoration for the IAS officers, the Governor said people would worship them for their good work. “Be innovative, go out and make your own mark and make a difference in the lives of people wherever you work,” she said. She congratulated the trainee officers on being allotted to the young State — Telangana — where they would have a lot of scope to be innovative and to contribute for the development of the State. Director General of Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute Harpreet Singh accompanied the trainee officers to the Raj Bhavan. The trainee officers who interacted with the Governor included Ankit, Chitra Mishra, Deepak Tewari, Garima Agarwal, Hemant Keshav Patil, K. Varun Reddy, Pratima Singh and Rizwan Basha Shaik. Secretary to the Governor K. Surendra Mohan explained to the trainee officers on the functions of the Governor and Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/connect-with-people-governor-tells-ias-officer-trainees/article34057653.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoU on food processing units||Agri tech startup Our Food and Telangana government have signed an MoU that seeks to promote food processing at the farm-level by facilitating creation of the infrastructure as well as take the processed products to consumers. The T-Hub incubated start-up, which recently opened a manufacturing facility for food processing equipment in Zaheerabad, will be collaborating with the State government to set up 20,000 micro food processing units over the next five years. From rice, pulses, groundnut, millets, turmeric to chilli, all major crops grown in the State are expected to be covered under the MoU. Addressing media, on the MoU, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said food processing has emerged as a focus area with agriculture yield enhancing substantially in the backdrop of irrigation facilities developed by the State government. The emphasis should be on primary processing since that would reduce dependence on middlemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mou-on-food-processing-units/article34057654.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC dismisses application over housing society bye-law||Justice T. Amarnath Goud of Telangana High Court on Friday dismissed an interim application in a writ petition seeking to uphold a bye-law of Jubilee Hills Co-operative Housing Society’s prohibiting members from contesting in society election for more than two consecutive terms. The writ petition was filed by Bollineni Ravindranath, one of the members of the society. The petitioner wanted the HC to declare bye-law 22 a of the society as valid. He also requested the court to announce the clarification given by the Registrar and Commissioner of Co-operative Societies that the bye-law was no more valid as illegal and arbitrary. Additional Advocate General J. Ramchandra Rao, appearing for the State government, informed the court that bye-law 22a of the Society lost significance in the backdrop of deletion of section 21 (c) of the old Co-operative Societies Act. Deletion of the said section facilitated member of a co-operative society to contest election for more than two consecutive terms. The section was deleted following the 97th constitutional amendment, Mr. Ramchander Rao told the court. Since the very section prohibiting a member from contesting society election for more than two terms was deleted from the basic Act, the bye-law relating to the same issue of the Jubilee Hills Co-operative Housing Society had not validity, the AAG contended. Agreeing with the contentions of Mr. Rao, the judge dismissed the interim application of the petitioner. Elections for the managing committee of the Jubilee Hills Co-operative Housing Society are on the cards. The notification was issued and the elections for the managing committee of the society was scheduled for March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-dismisses-application-over-housing-society-bye-law/article34057675.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP complains to EC against TRS ‘poll malpractices’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer alleging that ministers, legislators and other leaders of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) were indulging in election malpractices by distributing money and arranging liquor parties to woo the voters of the two Graduates Constituencies in the Legislative Council going for polling on Sunday. A delegation of senior leaders of the party led by Chintala Ramachandra Reddy, Motkupalli Narsimhulu, S. Prakash Reddy and others complained to the Election Commission that the TRS was indulging in all sorts of malpractices including arranging the transport of voters to function halls located near the polling stations where the liquor parties were being thrown for them in addition to distribution of money to influence their voting preference. Further, the BJP leaders alleged in the complaint that the TRS leaders including ministers and MLAs were threatening the polling officials not to check the identity proof of bogus voters so that they cast their vote in favour of TRS candidates in the two constituencies. The BJP delegation requested the CEO to direct the police to conduct searches at all functions halls located near the polling stations and also direct the polling officials to strictly verify the identity of voters and polling agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-complains-to-ec-against-trs-poll-malpractices/article34057651.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Govt. responsible for Bhainsa clashes’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Friday held the TRS gvernment and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao squarely responsible for the recent communal clashes in Bhainsa, more so, as they have been occurring every year. Talking to media after visiting the injured undergoing treatment in a private hospital, he charged that the Bhaina town has become a hotbed for anti-social elements even for those from Maharashtra and accused the MIM of fomenting communal trouble. Mr. Kishan Reddy stated that communal clashes hadecome the norm wherever the MIM held sway as in rest of the State people belonging to all communities have been living peacefully without much ado. His own party leaders are being threatened to leave the area and this is a reflection of the law and order situation and the government's control over the situation. The Minister also claimed that the government was trying to hush up certain violent incidents and demanded a high level probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-responsible-for-bhainsa-clashes/article34057664.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TS became debt-ridden under KCR’||Telangana Telugu Desam Party (TTDP) president and MLC candidate for Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubngar Graduate MLC constituency, L. Ramana said the ruling TRS had turned the surplus state into debt-ridden state with its corruption and it was time the party was taught a lesson. Addressing a Meet the Press here on Friday, he alleged that Chief Miniser, K. Chandrasekhar Rao had lost a great opportunity of serving the state with sincerity and focussed on destroying all the institutions in an effort not to be questioned for his corruption. Mr. Ramana said lack of sincerity from the Chief Minister had doused the hopes of lakhs of youngsters who fought for a separate Telangana for better employment opportunities. He said the development in Telangana and Hyderabad was due to the policies of the earlier governments. He said his opponents - BJP's Ramchander Rao and Independent K. Nageshwar were given opportunities earlier but they failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-became-debt-ridden-under-kcr/article34057671.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IRCTC offers tour package||Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) under Ministry of Railways has announced the launch of “Domestic air tour packages’ starting from Hyderabad in April. The programme includes onward and return flight journey tickets, three-star hotel accommodation, breakfast and dinner, AC transportation and tour escort travel insurance. Uttarakhand Kumbh special — Rs. 24,100 from April 2-7 (5 nights/6 days) per person on Delhi-Mussoorie-Rishikesh-Haridwar double sharing. Ganga Ramayan Yatra — Rs. 24,700 (4 nights/5 days) from April 7-11 per person on Varanasi-Prayagraj-Ayodhya (Allahabad), Naimisharanya-Lucknow on double sharing basis. Jewels of Manipur and Nagaland — Rs. 33,450 per person starting from April 23 to 29 (6 nights/7 days) Imphal-Loktak-Moreh-Kohima on double sharing. Every Friday — Hyderabad to Tirupati ‘Tirupati Balaji Pratyeka Pravesha Darshanam’ — Rs. 10,920 per person on double sharing, one night and two days covering Tirupati-Kanipakam-Srinivasa Mangapuram-Srikalahasti-Tiruchanur-Tirumala. Contact IRCTC zonal office 040-27702407, Secunderabad 9701360701, 8287932228, 8287932229 or look atwww.irctctourism.com, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irctc-offers-tour-package/article34057657.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Retired staff meet Gangula||Retired Employees of Joint Action Committee (JAC) met the BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Minister, Gangula Kamalakar and extended support to the TRS candidates in the Graduate MLC elections. JAC Chairman, Kolishetty Laxmaiah along with other leaders met the Minister and said they were supporting the TRS candidates. The JAC has 27 associations under its umbrella and it passed a unanimous resolution to this effect. Welcoming their support, Mr. Gangula Kamalakar promised to take their pending issues to the notice of the Chief Minister. He reminded that the government was always with the retired employees who played a key role in the agitation and also in the development of the State. JAC leaders including T. Subhakar Rao and S. Gyaneshwar met the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/retired-staff-meet-gangula/article34057670.ece
13 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Teach a lesson to ruling parties: Bhatti||Squarely blaming the BJP-led Central government and the TRS dispensation in the State for the spiralling prices of fuel and its cascading effects on essentials, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M B Vikramarka called upon the voters to teach a lesson to both the ruling dispensations in the March 14 MLC election. “It is a good opportunity to make the BJP and the TRS realise the growing public anger against their dispensations for imposing high tax burden on fuel, aggravating the woes of common man already devastated by the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. He was speaking at a meeting held at the District Congress Committee office here on Friday evening after completing his six-day cycle yatra from Bhadrachalam to Khammam in protest against the soaring prices. He received a loud cheer on his arrival at the party office after covering about 240 km in 13 mandals of old Khammam district. The TRS government miserably failed to achieve the Steel factory in Bayyaram the railway coach factory in Kazipet as per the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, he alleged. He reiterated his appeal to the graduate voters to elect the Congress candidate Ramulu Naik from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teach-a-lesson-to-ruling-parties-bhatti/article34057674.ece
13 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Rallies mark end of campaigning||Huge rallies and meetings marked the culmination of the high-voltage campaign for the March 14 Legislative Council election to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency in the old undivided Khammam district on Friday. As many as 71 candidates are in the poll fray from the vast Graduates constituency spread across 12 districts including Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts. The constituency is poised for a fierce battle with the contestants of the major political parties and also the independent candidates locked in a keen tussle. The TRS candidate and the sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwara Reddy is seeking reelection from the constituency on the "development plank." The main Opposition Congress fielded Ramulu Naik on the plank of "social justice." Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) candidate M Kodandaram, the former chairman of the Telangana JAC, spearheaded a whirlwind campaign with the support of the CPI (ML-ND) seeking votes for "realisation" of the aspirations of the separate Telangana movement. CPI candidate Jayasaradhi Reddy, backed by the CPI (M), conducted an extensive campaign asserting to "amplify" graduates’ voices in the Legislative Council. Telangana Inti Party president Cheruku Sudhakar, Yuva Telangana Party candidate Rani Rudrama, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate N Tirumala Rao and a host of independent candidates including Teenmaar Mallanna conducted a whirlwind campaign to win over the hearts of graduates in the past few weeks. 90,826 graduates Nalgonda Staff Reporter writes: District Collector and Returning Officer of the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency MLC poll, Prashant J Patil said a total of 90,826 registered graduates in Nalgonda would exercise their franchise on the polling day on Sunday. All arrangements to ensure smooth proceedings on the poll day have been made, with 17 nodal officers and another 46 sector and route officials, he said. The poll in the district will be held at 130 stations, equipped with presiding and assistant presiding officers. For strict application of model code of conduct, 31 flying squads and 12 videography units will be on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rallies-mark-end-of-mlc-poll-campaigning/article34057672.ece
13 March 2021||MALLANNASAGAR (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Sleepless and awaiting compensation for displacement||On the outskirts of Etigaddakishtapur village, in Toguta mandal, a tall board fixed to iron poles cautions visitors to keep away. “This is not a pathway. Reservoir works are on. Heavy vehicles are moving. Movement by others is prohibited,” read the letters in red, blue and green colours on the board. True to the warning on the board, heavy trucks were moving with huge loads in top gear in the area. The huge Mallannasagar bund — being built out of mounds of sand, black and red soil, gravel — is clearly visible standing high on the other side of the road and one has to lift his head high to see its top. About a kilometre away from the spot in the heart of the village a group of senior citizens — Anasuya and her friends — are sitting on the deck of a house. Hardly 300m away from where they are sitting work on building of the bund is going on round-the-clock. Mallannasagar, part of the larger Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, on its completion would submerge a number of villages, including Etigaddakishtapur. The elderly on the deck and their neighbours have been spending sleepless nights for the past few years. They have watched the greenery and many structures disappear under the bund right before their eyes and the bund has slowly crept up right next to their village. “We are yet to receive a part of the compensation. Most of us who are being displaced by the Mallannasagar are not in a position to buy farm land anywhere else as the price of land elsewhere has skyrocketed and the we were paid a mere Rs. 6 lakh per acre. On the other hand the persons displaced from Vemulaghat village were paid Rs. 11.5 lakh per acre. We do not know why this discrimination and why we have been discriminated against? Who will address our problem?” ask Anasuya and others, tears rolling their cheeks. Their repeated queries have not been answered for the past two years. Few kilometres away is Mogilicheruvu Tanda, a tribal hamlet under the Etigaddakishtapur panchayat. The ride to the Tanda is sure to send shivers down the spine. There are huge deep pits on both sides of the approach road and some of them are full of water. It definitely requires guts to live in the Tanda. It is becoming a herculean task for residents to reach their homes. Further, the tribals who are traditionally herders have been forced to sell away their livestock as the greenery has vanished under the Mallannasagar project. “I have sold my 60 goat recently unable to rear them and kept only two for festival. There is no green fodder or water in our habitation. Same was the case with cows and bullocks,” Ajmeera Lavanya, a resident of this Tanda told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sleepless-and-awaiting-compensation-for-displacement/article34057890.ece
13 March 2021||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||NH 161 road widening works pick pace||The road-widening works of National Highway 161 (Nanded-Akola) are moving fast and construction of road underbridges and flyovers is already on. The road is being widened from the existing two-lane to four-lane from Mamidipally in Kandi mandal to Pampalgam in Maharashtra located on the borders of Telangana. The total estimated cost of the road work is Rs. 3,160 crore in three packages. The project was taken up under Bharatmala Pariyojana programme in Hybrid Annuity Mode (HAM). The contract agreement was signed on January 3, 2020 and was scheduled to get completed by October 4, 2022. Operations and maintenance will be for 15 years from the date of completion. The first package is 39.98-kilometre stretch from Mamidipally in Kandi mandal to Ramsanipally in Andol mandal with an estimated outlay of Rs. 1,000 crore followed by 47 kilometres stretch from Gadipeddapur in Alladurg mandal. The works between Mamidipally and Ramsanipally were taken up in the first phase and work on laying of service roads is on. Bridges are coming up at Andol, Shivampet and Choutkur. The second phase of 48 kilometres from Ramsanipally to Mangloor section was awarded for Rs. 1,234 crore and the agreement was signed on May 9, 2018 and appointed date was May 2, 2019. The project was likely to complete by July 30, 2021. Operations and maintenance will be by 15 years. By January 1, 2021, over 69 % of the project was completed. The third phase is from Mangloor to Maharashtra borders with a length of 48.963 kilometres. The project was awarded for Rs. 963 crore and appointed date was April 12, 2019. It will be completed by April 4, 2021. As of January 31, 2021, the project was completed up to 77 %, according to official sources. “The project works are moving fast and we will have a wider national highway. At the same time, the tree tunnel on this way has disappeared forever,” said Ramachandraiah, a resident of Pulkal, adding that widening of road will ease traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nh-161-road-widening-works-pick-pace/article34057680.ece
13 March 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Quiz competition tomorrow||The district-level quiz competitions will be held at Gandhi Grama Seva Kendram located at Gonglur in Pulkal mandal on Sunday from 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. The programme is aimed at improving communication and personality development, said P. Sudhakar Naik, initiator and coordinator of Gandhi Grama Seva Kendram. Winners and runners will be awarded a prize money of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quiz-competition-tomorrow/article34057896.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Idyllic sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/idyllic-sight/article34057892.ece
13 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||MHA denies info on IPS officers, says serves ‘no public interest’||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has denied giving information under the Right To Information Act, 2005, surrounding details of Indian Police Service officers across the country, who since 2014 have been prematurely retired, removed or dismissed from service. The information has been denied on the pretext that “there is no public interest involved”. Hemant Kumar, an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court had through RTI, sought information about the total number as well as names along with their State cadres of all IPS officers who have been prematurely retired, removed, terminated or dismissed from the All India Service, namely IPS, since May 2014 to till date i.e. till the disposal of this RTI application. The MHA replied on March 11, saying, “It is stated that there is no public interest involved in providing the information. As such, the information sought can’t be provided under section 8(1)(j)of the Act .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mha-denies-info-on-ips-officers-says-serves-no-public-interest/article34057549.ece
13 March 2021||Dehradun,||Uttarakhand’s new CM constitutes Cabinet, 11 Ministers sworn in||Uttarakhand’s new Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday constituted his Cabinet, inducting 11 Ministers who were sworn in by State Governor Baby Rani Maurya. Barring newly appointed State BJP president Madan Kaushik, all other Ministers in former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s council have been made Ministers in the new government. The swearing-in ceremony, which was held after a delay of around 25 minutes, was attended by Chief Minister Rawat, former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, Vijay Bahuguna along with several MLAs and other prominent people. Besides the the Ministers in Trivendra Singh Rawat’s government, four new faces were inducted into the new Council of Ministers. Out of the 11 newly inducted Ministers, eight have been made Cabinet Ministers and three State Ministers with independent charges. The new faces in the Tirath Rawat’s Council are MLAs Banshidhar Bhagat, Bishan Singh Chufal, Ganesh Joshi and Swami Yatiswaranand, respectively from Kaladhungi, Didihat, Mussoorie and Haridwar (Rural) Assembly segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/uttarakhands-new-cm-constitutes-cabinet-11-ministers-sworn-in/article34057550.ece
13 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Gandhi’s message will shake PM’s conscience on farm laws: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said he was looking forward to a decision on the Centre’s agriculture sector laws hoping that the spirit of Dandi March and Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy would “shake the conscience” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Gehlot flagged off a symbolic Dandi March from the Khadi Sansthan Sangh campus here, marking the 91st anniversary of the salt march undertaken by Gandhi as an act of non-violent civil disobedience in 1930. Mr. Gehlot called upon the youths to get inspiration from the march and fight injustice. Mr. Gehlot said since Mr. Modi himself had flagged off a march from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to commemorate the day, he hoped that Gandhi’s message would guide him and he would take a decision on the farm laws. “The government has adopted a stubborn attitude towards the farmers who played an important role in the freedom struggle,” he said. He hoped that the BJP would not undermine the contribution of freedom fighters associated with Congress during the Amrit Mahotsava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gandhis-message-will-shake-pms-conscience-on-farm-laws-gehlot/article34057833.ece
13 March 2021||Mumbai,||Cheating, copyright breach case filed against Kangana||A case of alleged cheating was filed against actor Kangana Ranaut by the Mumbai Police on Friday on a local court’s orders after the author ofDidda: The Warrior Queen of Kashmiraccused her of copyright violation. The FIR was filed at Khar police station against Ms. Ranaut, Kamalkumar Jain, Rangoli Chandel and Akshat Ranaut. Ashish Kaul, the author of the book which has been translated into Hindi asKashmir Ki Yodhha Rani Didda, alleged in a complaint before a magistrate that he has exclusive copyrights to the life story of Didda, the princess of Lohar (Poonch) and the queen of Kashmir. As per the complaint, he had sent an email about the storyline of his book to Ms. Ranaut, and she used some part of the story in a tweet while announcing her movie without Mr. Kaul’s permission. “Is it believable by any stretch of imagination that a story and a book are being usurped by a renowned actor- turned-social activist?” he said. On the Bandra metropolitan magistrate’s order, theFIR was registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code and also under the Copyright Act, a police official said. Further probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cheating-copyright-breach-case-filed-against-kangana/article34057760.ece
13 March 2021||Mumbai,||HC allows woman to contest Bombay Parsi Panchayat polls||The Bombay High Court on Friday permitted a Parsi woman to contest the Bombay Parsi Panchayat polls. She was denied a chance to stand for the polls as the person who had nominated her was not a Parsi. A Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Vinay Joshi set aside a judgment of a single judge Bench and permitted Zuleika Homavazir to contest the polls on March 14. Ms. Homavazir’s nomination was rejected by the Panchayat Trustees on the ground that her proposer, Rustom Jeejeebhoy, had renounced the Parsi faith and converted to Christianity. The Bench had upheld the trustees’ decision this year, following which Ms. Homavazir appealed before the Division Bench led by Justice Kathawalla. In her plea, she said Mr. Jeejeebhoy was a well known philanthropist and one of the founding members of the Bombay Parsi Panchayat. She also said he was very much a Parsi as his name was still in the Panchayat’s general register and its voters’ list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-allows-woman-to-contest-bombay-parsi-panchayat-polls/article34057759.ece
13 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Night curfew in Panvel||The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has imposed night curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. from Friday till March 22. Panvel had recorded 125 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. “Failure to follow rules has led to the surge. Positive patients have to be in home isolation. If such people are found outside, a criminal case would be filed against them,” PMC Commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/night-curfew-in-panvel/article34057544.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Deshbhakti Budget’ passed in House, puts focus on progress||The ‘Deshbhakti Budget’ was passed in the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Friday and talking about it, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that deshbhakti means envisioning growth and progress for all in Delhi. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, during his address to the Assembly, congratulated Mr. Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, for presenting an “excellent” and surplus budget despite difficult circumstances that Delhi had to witness due to less tax and revenue collection due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He also sought to criticise the Opposition for opposing various initiatives, such as the installation of 500 flag masts across Delhi and the free ‘ teerath yatra’ to the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya for elders proposed as part of it. “What is fundamental to our party is that we uphold the ideals of the Constitution while keeping Lord Ram in our hearts. For us, progress and growth of Delhi is deshbhakti . We don’t believe in empty promises and zero actions,” Mr. Sisodia said. ‘Politics of work’ “We believe in fulfilling our promises and truly working for the people of Delhi. It is the key focus of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to extend help and hope to those who are not privileged. The politics of Delhi government is politics of work,” he also said. Addressing the Assembly, Mr. Kejriwal said circumstances last year were “very tough” with losses in jobs and business. While there was no tax collection on one side, there was an increase in expenditure on the other. Last year, when the government’s revenue got “drastically reduced”, he said, many had predicted that the subsidy on electricity and water would cease, but that was not the case. “We continued to provide free electricity, water, school education, healthcare and bus rides for women. We will continue to provide all these services for free in the next financial year as well. I want to congratulate the people of Delhi on this,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “In the last 1-1.5 months, budgets were presented in almost all the States of India, along with the Central budget that was presented recently. Almost all have presented budgets in deficit. Delhi is the only State to have presented a surplus budget despite such difficult times, which is a huge achievement,” he also said. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who led a walkout after a bitter exchange during Mr. Sisodia’s address, termed the Delhi government “directionless” and the budget an exercise in futility. “The claim that the Budget had shown a phenomenal growth during the last six years of AAP government’s rule is totally false and misleading. During previous governments’ rule, the budget growth has been around 55%, whereas during the six budgets presented during the AAP government rule, it has slipped to 12% which is deplorable,” he alleged. “The New Excise Policy, under which the government has promised to open 200 new liquor vends to earn Rs. 2,500 crore revenue in the coming year, is highly objectionable and already every ward in Delhi has a liquor vend and opening more such shops will only lead to social unrest,” he also alleged. On his part, Mr. Kejriwal said he failed to understand why the BJP and Congress were “opposing the setting up of flags” across Delhi. “What makes them oppose this? This is a remarkable move and they should support it and appreciate it. There should be no politics of patriotism. Is it a crime to provide our elders with a free pilgrimage to a place of worship such as Ayodhya? They want to play politics in everything,” he said. “Many opposition parties are mocking us after hearing that we will bid for the Olympics and we will raise the per capita income of Delhi up to Singapore, but we will definitely do it like we fulfilled promises to provide free power, water and improve the condition of government schools and hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cms-budget-message-progress-and-growth-of-delhi-is-deshbhakti/article34057532.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports highest number of virus cases in two months||The city witnessed 431 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,42,870, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. This is the highest number of cases in over two months and the second consecutive day when more than 400 cases have been reported. The last time more number of cases was reported was on January 9, when there were 519 cases. Two deaths were reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,936. A total of 72,031 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,29,841 people have recovered and there are 2,093 active cases. The number of active cases has shown a slight increase over the last two weeks. Meanwhile, 30,575 beneficiaries took the vaccination in the city on Friday, said a Delhi government spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-reports-highest-number-of-virus-cases-in-two-months/article34057536.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Set up panel to look into financial anomalies in DU colleges: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday directed the Directorate of Higher Education to set up an enquiry committee to look into alleged financial irregularities in 12 Delhi government-funded colleges of Delhi University. The Minister said that stringent action shall be taken against officials responsible, if irregularities are found. “It has been brought to my notice that several Delhi government-funded colleges of Delhi University have not disbursed the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staffers from the grant-in-aid released for the third quarter of 2020-21. I have also come to know that many of the colleges have not submitted the utilisation certificates of the grant-in-aid given in the third quarter,” Mr. Sisodia said while ordering the probe. Bid to avoid scrutiny He added that if the colleges have not disbursed salaries, then questions need to be raised as to what they have done with the funds that were with the college and why colleges have not submitted utilisation certificates. “The non-submission of utilisation certificates seems to indicate financial irregularities. It seems like an attempt to avoid scrutiny and accountability,” he said. The committee, Mr. Sisodia said, will include senior accounts functionaries to look into how the third quarter grants and existing surplus funds have been spent. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association, which had called for a university strike on the issue of non-payment of salaries in the 12 Delhi government colleges, said on Friday that Delhi government has now released the sanction letter of Rs. 82,79,79,507 under salary head and an amount of Rs. 9,50,90,500 under other heads. “An emergent meeting of DUTA executive will be held to decide on our action programme,” DUTA president Rajib Ray said. DUTA has been on strike since Thursday over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/set-up-panel-to-look-into-financial-anomalies-in-du-colleges-sisodia/article34057538.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal flags off celebration of India’s 75th year of Independence||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday presided over the commencement of year-long activities to celebrate 75th year of India’s Independence with an event at Central Park in Connaught Place here. Mr. Kejriwal unfurled the Indian flag on the stage and felicitated several eminent citizens. The Chief Minister said that food, water, electricity, shelter and employment were among the dreams of 130 crore Indians, and people should together make a resolution to fulfil these. The programme also witnessed eminent singer Palash Sen’s music concert.  Among those felicitated were Anguri Devi, a resident of Chilla in Mayur Vihar, who was one of the beneficiaries of the CM’s Tirth Yatra Scheme; Gogi Saroj Pal, an eminent Indian artist; Suman Kurade, who runs an organisation called Goenkarancho Ekvot and is organising the three-day Goa Festival in the city. Raghu Rai, photographer and photojournalist; Jaspal Kaur (91), the first woman who was compensated by Mr. Kejriwal under the 1984 rehabilitation scheme; Giriraj, a sculptor and potter who in 1987 won a national award in pottery; Kamla Bhasin, an Indian developmental feminist activist, poet, author, and social scientist; G.K Aggarwal, a well-known orthopedic; Khalida Zaidi, a retired principal who has displayed exemplary service through her tenure at a civic body school were also honoured. He also felicitated Riaz Umar, a renowned educationalist from Zakir Hussain Delhi College; Shefalika Verma, a Sahitya Akademi awardee, and Col. Ashok Tara, a veteran who has been awarded the Vir Chakra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-flags-off-celebration-of-indias-75th-year-of-independence/article34057540.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSUI holds ‘Chhatra Adhikar March’ against rising unemployment||Students from across the country affiliated to the National Students Union of India (NSUI) gathered on Raisina Road in the Capital to participate in a ‘Chhatra Adhikar March’ to protest against rising unemployment in the country.  Blames Centre The students said that a majority of them, even after completing their degrees from prestigious State and Central universities, were unable to find employment. They blamed the Central government for failing to provide jobs and alleged that several recruitment examinations had also been cancelled. National president Neeraj Kundan said that while unemployment was at an all-time high, scams in various exams, inactive placement cells and various pending results of exams were problems that the Narendra Modi-led government was not addressing.  Shouting slogans like “ naukri do ya degree vapis lo [provide jobs or take back our degrees]” students gathered to hear the speeches of senior Congress leaders. They then started a march towards Parliament House and were stopped by the police. When the students tried to climb over barricades to continue towards Parliament, police detained them and used batons to disperse them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nsui-members-converge-on-raisina-road-hold-chhatra-adhikar-march/article34057542.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||AAP attacks BJP over salaries to civic body workers||The AAP on Thursday attacked the BJP over municipal corporation employees not getting salaries on time and claimed that a Delhi High Court order has held Commissioners of the three Corporations directly responsible for non-payment of salaries. “The civic bodies have not paid teachers, doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and retired employees for a long time. No solution has been brought forth. The Commissioners have now been directed to make these payments with respect to salaries and pensions by April 5,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-attacks-bjp-over-salaries-to-civic-body-workers/article34057534.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Reserve 5% parking capacity for EVs, says Jain||Power Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that all buildings with parking capacity of more than 100 vehicles should set aside at least 5% of their total parking capacity for electric vehicles (EVs) along with suitable slow EV chargers. “All parking spaces in Delhi, which have a capacity of housing more than 100 vehicles, have been directed to set aside 5% of the total capacity for electric vehicles with suitable EV chargers so that people get adequate infrastructure to charge their vehicles. In the first phase, we aim to instal 500 charging points at 100 locations,” Mr. Jain said. He said that in new constructions, 20% of parking capacity should have provisions for charging of EVs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/reserve-5-parking-capacity-for-evs-says-jain/article34057543.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP accuses AAP of making personal attacks on Oppn.||The BJP on Friday accused AAP of stooping to making personal attacks on the Opposition, losing both patience and decency. Delhi BJP vice-president Virendra Sachdeva and spokesperson Harish Khurana, at a joint press conference, said that with time, the schemes and works of the Arvind Kejriwal government were “getting exposed” and their language against opponents was getting worse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-accuses-aap-of-making-personal-attacks-on-oppn/article34057533.ece
13 March 2021||Patna,||35 RLSP leaders join RJD, call it ‘merger’||As many as 35 Rashtriya Lok Samata Party leaders, including the State president (in-charge), on Friday joined the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and declared it ‘merger’. RLSP president Upendra Kushwaha is likely to join the ruling JD(U) on March14 or 15. Mr. Kushwaha has called a party meeting in Patna on March13-14 to discuss the issue. ‘Mr. Kushwaha expelled’ “We’ve have expelled Upendra Kushwaha from the party and merged the RLSP with the RJD today,” declared RLSP leader and State president (in-charge) Virendra Kushwaha after joining the RJD. The RLSP leaders took membership of the RJD in presence of party leader and Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, State RJD president Jagdanand Singh and party leader Prem Kumar Mani at party headquarters in Patna. The RLSP leaders who joined the RJD include Nirmal Kushwaha, Jitendra Kushwaha, Madhu Manjari Mehta, Vijay Mahto, Sajjan Kashyap, Diwakar Kushwaha, Amit Kumar, Chandan Bihari, Krishna Kumar Mahto and others. “Earlier, Upendra Kushwaha used to say that whoever has friends like Nitish Kumar doesn’t need an enemy, but now Mr. Kushwaha has started liking Mr. Kumar, who earlier had used a derogatory term for him,” said RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Meanwhile, there have been indications that in the RLSP’s party leaders meet called on March 13-14, Mr. Kushwaha may announce the party’s formal merger with the JD(U). Recently, State JD(U) chief Basistha Narayan Singh had said, “Mr. Kushwaha has already come with the JD(U) and now only formalities are to be done of the merger with us.” Before 2005, Mr. Kushwaha was a close ally of CM Nitish Kumar but later he parted ways with him and allied with several other parties. He even became a Minister at the Centre in NDA part-1, but later had joined the Opposition mahagathbandhan. The RLSP did not win even a single seat in the 2020 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/35-rlsp-leaders-join-rjd-call-it-merger/article34057548.ece
13 March 2021||Pune,||Surge continues as Maharashtra records nearly 16,000 new cases||Maharashtra reported a new high of 15, 817 COVID-19 cases on Friday, pushing its active case tally to 1,10,485. While 56 more deaths took the total toll to 52,723, the State’s case fatality dipped to 2.31%. The State’s recovery rate stood at 92.79%, with 11,344 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. The total tally has reached 22,82,191 and the cumulative recoveries stand at 21,17,744. “Of 1,73,10,586 laboratory samples tested thus far, 22,82,191 (with the case positivity rising to 13.18%) have returned positive, with over 97,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district reported a new single-day high of over 3,100 cases — the highest in the State — to take its tally to 4,33,237. Seven deaths were reported as the toll reached 8,121. However, as per district authorities, the active case tally has surged past 17,000, while the death toll has crossed 9,350. The district accounted for over 20% of the State’s case surge. 1,647 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 1,647 new cases, taking its tally to 3,40,290, of which 11,083 are active. Four deaths took the city’s toll to 11,523. Nagpur district reported over 2,000 cases as its total case tally reached 1,68,915, of which 15,011 are active. With six deaths, its toll has reached 3,563. Nashik reported over 1,000 cases again to take its tally to 1,35,513, of which 5,272 are active. Two deaths took the toll to 2,087. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported over 1,000 new cases and 10 deaths as its tally reached 68,308, of which 4,802 are active. Its death toll has reached 1,538.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/surge-continues-as-maharashtra-records-nearly-16000-new-cases/article34057546.ece
13 March 2021||Pune,||No lockdown, but fresh curbs in Pune||While clarifying that no lockdown has been imposed across Pune district, the administration on Friday said all schools and colleges would remain closed till March 31 in the wake of a spike in COVID-19 cases. Pune district has been recording the highest single-day jump in Maharashtra for the past few days, clocking up a daily average spike of more than 2,000 cases. Following a review meeting between district Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar and senior district authorities in which BJP MP Girish Bapat was also present, Mr. Pawar directed the administration to curtail the operating time of hotels and restaurants. “According to the new set of restrictions, schools and colleges will remain closed till March 31, while hotels and restaurants will be allowed to function at 50% of their total capacity till 10 p.m. Takeaway food deliveries will be permitted for an hour after that till 11 p.m.,” Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said. Restrictions on malls It was mandatory for hotels to put up a board, giving details about the occupancy on the premises. Malls and cinema halls should be kept closed after 10 p.m., while people would not be allowed to loiter on roads between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. Only essential services were to be permitted during this time. Maharashtra Public Service Commission coaching centres and libraries would be allowed to remain open with 50% occupancy. Rules for the number of people attending weddings remained the same (not more than 50 people), while public transport services were to operate with 50% occupancy.  Mr. Rao said, “Doctors and health workers are of the opinion that vaccination for Pune should get top priority in the wake of soaring cases. They have opined that if we have to reduce the impact of the second wave, then vaccination is the best option. Since January 16 till today, the number of vaccination centres in the district have increased seven-fold from 33 to 208 with frontline workers largely covered in the first phase.” He said the administration planned to restart the jumbo COVID-19 care facility on the College of Engineering Pune premises.   Health workers are of the opinion that vaccination for Pune should get top priority in the wake of soaring cases Saurabh Rao Pune Divisional Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-lockdown-but-fresh-curbs-in-pune/article34057547.ece
13 March 2021||Washington,||Biden seeks ‘independence from virus’||One year after the nation was brought to a near-standstill by the coronavirus, President Joe Biden pledged in his first prime-time address to make all adults eligible for vaccines by May 1 and raised the possibility of beginning to “mark our independence from this virus” by the Fourth of July. He offered Americans fresh hope and appealed anew for their help. Speaking in the White House on Thursday night, Mr. Biden honored the “collective suffering” of Americans over the past year in his 24-minute address and then offered them a vision for a return to a modicum of normalcy this summer. “We are bound together by the loss and the pain of the days that have gone by,” he said. “We are also bound together by the hope and the possibilities in the days in front of us.” Call for cooperation He predicted Americans could safely gather at least in small groups for July Fourth to “make this Independence Day truly special.” But he also cautioned that this was a “goal” and attaining it depends on people’s cooperation in following health guidelines and rolling up their sleeves to get vaccinated. Only that, he said, can bring about an end to a pandemic that has killed more than 5,30,000 Americans and disrupted the lives of countless more. “While it was different for everyone, we all lost something,” Mr. Biden said of the sacrifices of the yearlong-and-counting pandemic. The speech came just hours after Mr. Biden signed into law a $1.9 trillion relief package that he said will help defeat the virus, nurse the economy back to health and deliver direct aid to Americans struggling to make ends meet. COVID-19 aid Bill signed Some cash distributions could begin arriving in the bank accounts of Americans this weekend. “This historic legislation is about rebuilding the backbone of this country,” Mr. Biden said as he signed the bill in the Oval Office. Most noticeable to many Americans are provisions providing up to $1,400 in direct payments and extending $300 weekly emergency unemployment benefits into early September. Also included are expanded tax credits over the next year for children, child care and family leave — some of them credits that Democrats have signalled they’d like to make permanent — plus spending for renters, food programs and people’s utility bills. Mr. Biden said that as vaccine supplies continue to increase, he will direct States and territories to make all adults eligible for vaccination by May 1. The U.S. is expecting to have enough doses for 255 million adults by the end of May, but Mr. Biden warned the process of actually administering those doses would take time, even as his administration looks to instill confidence in the safety of the vaccines to overcome hesitance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-seeks-independence-from-virus/article34057175.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Exclusive blocs’ should not target ‘third party’: China||In a statement just hours before the first summit on Friday of the four leaders of the Quad framework, China has said cooperation between nations should not “target or damage interests of a third party” and countries should not “pursue exclusive blocs”. “Exchanges and cooperation between nations should contribute to mutual understanding and trust among nations rather than target a third party or damage interests of a third party,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in response to a question about the Quad virtual summit of India, United States, Japan and Australia. “We hope that relevant countries uphold the principles of openness, inclusiveness and win-win results, refrain from pursuing exclusive blocs, and do things that are conducive to regional peace and stability,” he said. The first Quad leaders’ meet is being closely followed in China and covered by the State media, which has broadly framed it as a U.S.-led effort aimed at “containing” China. At the same time, Chinese experts have sought to play down the significance of the meet. Speaking to State broadcaster China Global Television Network, former People’s Liberation Army Senior Colonel Zhou Bo, a frequent commentator on strategic affairs, said, “China should not take it too seriously.” “I can give you my comment on the Quad in one sentence,” he told the channel. “None of the four countries would like to sacrifice its own interests [with regard to China] for the interests of the other three countries,” he said, referring to their different relationships with China, particularly on trade. “If you ask all four, are you against China or is this an anti-China club, they say no,” he said. “My conclusion is the Quad is definitely established because of China, although they would not say that it is against China. But if you look at this club as a military alliance, India would totally deny that. [The Quad] is still developing and coming into shape, but it is difficult for them to decide which way it will go, be it military or economic.” On the meeting between the top diplomats of the U.S. and China set to be held in Alaska on March 18 — Yang Jiechi, a member of the Politburo and director of the Central Committee’s Foreign Affairs Commission, and Foreign Minister Wang Yi will travel for talks with Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan — Mr. Zhao, the Foreign Ministry spokesperson, termed the meet “a high-level strategic dialogue”. This was in contrast to Mr. Blinken’s comments that the meet would not be the start of a strategic dialogue and any following engagement with China would only depend on “tangible” outcomes. China has said it wants a reset with the new Biden administration, but has laid the blame for the past four years of strained ties at the door of Washington. The Biden administration, in statements so far, has suggested it might continue at least some of the previous administration’s policies with respect to China, including on trade. Mr. Blinken in a March 3 speech described ties with China as “the biggest geopolitical test”. Mr. Zhao said, “China’s position on China-U.S. relations is clear.” “We ask the U.S. to view China and China-U.S. relations in an objective and rational manner, reject the Cold-War and zero-sum game mentality, respect China's sovereignty, security and development interests, and stop interfering in China’s internal affairs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/exclusive-blocs-should-not-target-third-party-china/article34057220.ece
13 March 2021||Washington,||Biden slams attacks on Asian Americans during pandemic||U.S. President Joe Biden on Thursday condemned what he called “vicious hate crimes” committed against Asian Americans since the start of the pandemic, calling such acts “un-American” and demanding they stop. “Too often, we’ve turned against one another,” Mr. Biden said in his first primetime address, detailing the progress made in the fight against COVID-19. He decried “vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who have been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated” over the pandemic, which originated in China. “At this very moment, so many of them, fellow Americans — they’re on the front lines of this pandemic trying to save lives and still, still they’re forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America... It’s wrong. It’s un-American. And it must stop.,” he said. Racial motivation is hard to establish in many cases, but reported anti-Asian hate crimes more than doubled from 49 to 122 last year across 16 major U.S. cities — even as overall hate crime fell, according to a California State University study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-slams-attacks-on-asian-americans-during-pandemic/article34057176.ece
13 March 2021||Moscow,||Russia for Taliban’s inclusion in Afghan interim govt.||Russia said on Friday it backed the Taliban’s integration into a future interim government in Afghanistan, as global powers ramped up efforts to secure a peace deal and end decades of war. The Foreign Ministry’s comments come as a May deadline looms for the U.S. to end its two-decade military involvement in the ravaged country. Washington has encouraged the Afghan leadership to work towards establishing an “inclusive” government and proposed talks with the Taliban to secure a peace accord. “The formation of an interim inclusive administration would be a logical solution to the problem of integrating the Taliban into the peaceful political life of Afghanistan,” Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told reporters ahead of talks next week in Moscow. But she added that the decision should be made “by the Afghans themselves and should be resolved during negotiations on national reconciliation”. Regional stability U.S. President Joe Biden is reviewing whether to stick to a deal with the Taliban negotiated by his predecessor Donald Trump, who wanted to pull out the U.S. troops from Afghanistan by May.  The Biden administration has signalled that it wants to take a hard look at Mr. Trump’s deal and its repercussions for Afghanistan and regional stability. U..S Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrote a letter to Afghan leaders, encouraging them to consider a “new, inclusive government.” The U.S. withdrawal is being complicated by a new surge in fighting and concern that a speedy exit may only unleash further chaos. Mr. Blinken’s letter to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said bluntly that Washington feared the “security situation will worsen and the Taliban could make rapid territorial gains” if the U.S. suddenly withdrew. Mr. Blinken proposed a 90-day reduction in violence that would avoid the Taliban’s annual bloody spring offensive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-for-talibans-inclusion-in-afghan-interim-govt/article34057182.ece
13 March 2021||Beijing,||Hong Kong move a ‘combination of punches’ to end chaos: China||China’s plans for electoral reform in Hong Kong, coupled with the imposition of a security law, amount to a “combination of punches” to quell unrest in the southern city, a top Beijing official said on Friday. Hong Kong was rocked by massive and sometimes violent pro-democracy protests in 2019 against Beijing’s encroachment on its unique freedoms. The Chinese government has since cracked down on the opposition, arresting dozens of activists and smothering the street movement with a draconian national security law. On Thursday, it moved to ensure only “patriots” run the city, when an annual rubber-stamp Parliament voted for sweeping changes to Hong Kong’s electoral system — including powers to veto candidates. The plan was swiftly pilloried by the U.S., EU and Britain, the city’s former colonial ruler which handed control of the territory to Beijing in 1997 under a special “one country, two systems” arrangement. A Beijing official in charge of Hong Kong policy told reporters on Friday the “chaos” of recent years showed that the city’s electoral system has “clear loopholes and shortcomings”. Alongside the national security law, the move represents “a combination of punches, to... effectively manage the ongoing chaos”, said Zhang Xiaoming, of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office. The problem in Hong Kong is a “political one”, he said, repeating an allegation that outside forces are fomenting disruption in the financial hub. “It is a contest between a seizure of power and countering the seizure...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-move-a-combination-of-punches-to-end-chaos-china/article34057179.ece
13 March 2021||Washington,||U.S. NSA implies LAC situation discussed at Quad leaders meet||U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told reporters after the Quad leaders summit that China was discussed at the meeting but was not the focus. He also implied that one of the China-related challenges discussed was the India-China border situation. “The four leaders did discuss the challenge posed by China and they made clear that none of them have any illusions about China but today was not fundamentally about China,” Mr. Sullivan said, adding that the focus was on pressing crises, such as COVID-19 and climate. Mr. Sullivan implied that the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was discussed by the Quad leaders as one of several examples of Chinese aggression. He was responding to a question on his and Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s meetings next week with their Chinese counterparts in Anchorage, Alaska. “This is our effort to communicate clearly to the giant Chinese government, how the U.S. intends to proceed at a strategic level. What we believe are fundamental interests and values, and what our concerns with their activities are, whether it’s on Hong Kong or Xinjiang or in the Taiwan Strait, or frankly, the issues that we heard today from our Quad partners: their coercion of Australia, their harassment around the Senkaku Islands, their aggression on the border with India,” Mr. Sullivan said, implying that the India-China border standoff had been discussed. “The Quad at the end of the day — at the end of today — is now a critical part of the architecture of the Indo Pacific,” Mr. Sullivan said. Also discussed were cybersecurity incidents impacting Quad members. The discussions included not just the cyberattacks on U.S. targets (Microsoft Exchange and SolarWinds ) but also cybersecurity incidents in India, Japan and Australia, Mr. Sullivan said. Weeks ago, news broke that spyware originating in China had made its way into several Indian power installations and port facilities. ‘Quad isn’t a new NATO’ Mr. Sullivan reiterated that the Quad was not a military alliance or NATO equivalent (it has been referred to by some commentators an ‘Asian NATO’). He was responding to a question on whether there would be greater Quad security cooperation with Taiwan so that it would become more costly for the Chinese to move against Taiwan. “So the way that we look at this is that the Quad is not a military alliance. It’s not a new NATO, despite some of the propaganda that’s out there,” Mr. Sullivan said, adding that it was an opportunity to cooperate on economics, technology, climate and security. While maritime security, humanitarian and disaster response were core to the Quad agenda , “where we go from there on everything from freedom of navigation to broader regional security questions that has to be worked through,” he said. Huawei decision Asked about recent news that India was likely to block Indian telecom operators from using Huawei equipment for security reasons, Mr. Sullivan said it was a sovereign decision for India to make but consistent with the decisions the U.S. has been advocating. The U.S. — during the Trump administration — campaigned internationally for countries to exclude Huawei from its 5G networks, citing security concerns. Overall, Mr. Sullivan sounded an optimistic note on the Quad. “Today is a big day for American diplomacy. This summit is a big deal for the President and for the country...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-nsa-implies-lac-situation-discussed-at-quad-leaders-meet/article34057254.ece
13 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Premadasa slams invite to Myanmar junta’s Minister||Sri Lanka’s Opposition Leader Sajith Premadasa “vehemently” condemned the Rajapaksa administration’s invitation to the Myanmar junta’s Foreign Minister, for a virtual meet of regional body BIMSTEC early April. The invitation “basically legitimised the military takeover”, Mr. Premadasa said, describing the Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena’s move as “distasteful and dastardly.” In a letter sent earlier this month, Mr. Gunawardena invited the junta-appointed Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin for a ministerial meeting of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation that Sri Lanka now chairs. Amid mounting criticism from hundreds of social media users and pro-democracy activists from Myanmar, Colombo sought to justify its invitation, saying it was extended to all members, and limited to the BIMSTEC meet. The government is yet to decide on its stance on the military power grab in Myanmar, Sri Lankan Foreign Secretary Jayanath Colombage earlier told The Hindu.  Urging the Foreign Minister to withdraw his invitation, and apologise to the people of Myanmar, Mr. Premadasa told media persons on Thursday that the Foreign Minister had the “audacity” to invite an illegally appointed Minister, despite Aung San Suu Kyi’s party securing a “resounding” win in the last elections. Her party, Mr. Premadasa said, came to power “by the ballot and not the bullet”, adding: “But today bullets are being used by the military administration on the people of merely for attempting to restore democracy.” Meanwhile, former PM Ranil Wickremesinghe’s United National Party has called on the government to “impress upon the Myanmar delegation”, scheduled to participate in the meet, to revert to the democratically elected President, State Counsellor and Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/premadasa-slams-invite-to-myanmar-juntas-minister/article34057173.ece
13 March 2021||Geneva,||WHO says no reason to stop using AstraZeneca vaccine||The World Health Organization said on Friday there was no reason to stop using AstraZeneca’s COVID-19 vaccine after several countries suspended the rollout over blood clot fears. The WHO, which said its vaccines advisory committee was examining the safety data coming in, stressed that no causal link had been established between the vaccine and clotting. The UN agency also said that after the injection of more than 260 million vaccine doses so far around the world, no deaths had yet been attributed to a COVID-19 jab. Denmark, Norway and Iceland paused the use of the AstraZeneca jab as a precaution after isolated reports of recipients developing blood clots. Italy and Austria have banned the use of shots from separate batches of AstraZeneca, and Thailand and Bulgaria said they would delay the rollout of the shot. A range of health authorities around the world have insisted the jab is safe, including the European Medicines Agency and the WHO. “AstraZeneca is an excellent vaccine, as are the other vaccines that are being used,” WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris told reporters in Geneva. “Yes, we should continue using the AstraZeneca vaccine,” she added, stressing though that any concerns over safety must be investigated. “We must always ensure that we look for any safety signals when we roll out vaccines, and we must review them,” she said. “But there is no indication to not use it.” No causal link found The EMA said Thursday that there had been 30 cases of so-called thromboembolic events among five million people who had received the jab in Europe. But European countries could still keep using the vaccine, the EU’s drug regulator said. Ms. Harris said that while a few countries had, as a precaution, suspended the use of a specific batch of AstraZeneca vaccine distributed in Europe, based on reports of blood coagulation disorders, “a causal relationship has not been shown”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-says-no-reason-to-stop-using-astrazeneca-vaccine/article34057184.ece
13 March 2021||Yangon,||Suu Kyi’s lawyer rejects military graft claims||Myanmar’s ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi’s lawyer on Friday rejected junta’s allegations of corruption against her as “groundless”, calling it “illegal mudslinging” by the Generals who seized power from her. The country has been in uproar since a February 1 putsch that saw Ms. Suu Kyi ousted, detained and accused of several criminal charges, including owning unlicensed walkie-talkies and violating coronavirus restrictions. On Thursday, a junta spokesman made new accusations, saying a now-detained Chief Minister had admitted giving her $6,00,000 and more than 10 kg of gold. “This allegation against Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the state counsellor, is groundless, especially regarding the dollars and gold bars — it is the most hilarious joke of all,” her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suu-kyis-lawyer-rejects-military-graft-claims/article34057183.ece
13 March 2021||Beijing,||China denies plan for $1 bn Alibaba fine, but tech firms take a blow||China denied on Friday it was planning to hit e-commerce giant Alibaba with a record fine of almost $1 billion for allegedly flouting monopoly rules, as authorities turned up the pressure on the country's vast technology sector. Alibaba has been in the crosshairs of authorities in recent months over concerns of its reach into the finances of ordinary people.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-denies-plan-for-1-bn-alibaba-fine-but-tech-firms-take-a-blow/article34057177.ece
13 March 2021||New York,||New York governor faces impeachment inquiry over harassment claims||Embattled New York Governor Andrew Cuomo found himself under increasing risk of impeachment over allegations of sexual harassment on Thursday when the Democratic head of the State Assembly authorised the Assembly Judiciary Committee to begin an impeachment investigation.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-york-governor-faces-impeachment-inquiry-over-harassment-claims/article34057181.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The new media rules are a tightening noose||The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (https://bit.ly/3bGTtGo), notified towards the end of February by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology should not come as a surprise because it is of a piece with the systematic incremental erosion of the freedom of speech and expression that has marked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s rule under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The fate, or the final shape, of the notification will depend on the way the two petitions already filed against it in courts in Kerala and Delhi are decided upon. But the more worrying aspect of this clumsily veiled move by the executive to keep the media — particularly the standalone digital news media, which have generally proved more defiant and inconvenient for the government than the mainstream press or television channels — on a leash is the way it invokes and insinuates the idea that the public, or the users, need to be protected against the very media that in fact seek to make them critically informed citizens, thereby making their democracy that much richer and deeper. A redress mechanism For all appearances, the overarching intent of this new set of rules is to put in place a grievance redressal mechanism for the end user or consumer of social media and over-the-top (OTT) platforms and the digital news web portals. That, of course, would normally be an unexceptionable public purpose. But in an already vitiated climate of overweening political and religious majoritarianism, where the street tends to (and is often egged on to), whip up and aggressively nurse and drive a sense of outrage or hurt on any and every issue, irrespective of institutional procedures or safeguards, the nature and scope of the bulk of grievances can easily be imagined. Further, the smaller or medium-sized independent digital news and current affairs portals, which are for the most part struggling to stay afloat irrespective of whether they are newer startups or have been around for a few years, will be the ones hardest hit by this redress requirement. Any criticism of the ruling party or government could trigger an orchestrated avalanche of grievances. The notified rules set out an elaborate time-bound three-tier process whereby each and every such grievance is first handled at the level of the portal itself by its own grievance officer, and if not satisfactorily settled, passes on to the self-regulatory body of the sector or industry, and if yet not resolved, moves further up to an inter-ministerial oversight committee of the central government. Regulation by the government The sheer process of such grievance handling can stymie the operations of a relatively smaller digital venture in the news and current affairs space. The process, further, makes a mockery of the concept of self-regulation, with an inter-ministerial committee of government officials in effect becoming an appellate authority over the self-regulatory exercise. This would be self-regulation by the media organisation and the industry at the government’s pleasure; regulation by the government masquerading as self-regulation by the news media entity or industry. What is worse, the notification gives the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, ad hoc emergency powers to block any content the government considers problematic even without such token procedure. Negation through distortion of the idea of self-regulation is really the nub of the matter, at least as far as the section pertaining to publishers of news and current affairs in the notification is concerned. Real or imagined grievance out there becomes an alibi for this clumsy sleight of hand whereby the government can in effect prescribe, oversee and overrule so-called self-regulation by the publishers. It would be a joke if it did not have such serious implications. Poses a financial threat A measure like this, moreover, jeopardises the very sustenance of the already financially straitened and functionally beleaguered digital news media — unless that is the very intention. Monetisation avenues become scarce, and investors and brands run scared because of what they see as political considerations supervening upon business interests and a whimsical media policy regime in constant flux. What makes this notification seem more diabolic than ham-handed censorship is the buzz around the same time about confabulations between groups of ministers and journalists — some of them proactively furthering the ruling party’s ideology and agenda, some easily pliable, some perhaps unwary and unwittingly roped into the discussions — and the classification of the journalists by the BJP caucus involved in this exercise based on how cosy or distant they are seen to be to the establishment. It then seems to be part of a concerted move by the government to bring the more critical sections of the news media to heel. Eroding pillars of democracy  The case for organic self-regulation by the news media as against by an external authority or body becomes more focused and urgent in the context of this notification and the many anecdotal symptoms of a censorship mindset we see growing around us. It is important to take a step back and remind ourselves that the fourth estate, or the fourth pillar, is as much a player as the other three pillars — the executive, the legislature and the judiciary — in the separation of powers scheme of our constitutional democracy. Although the freedom of the press per se is not an explicitly prescribed fundamental right in the Indian Constitution, and is, rather, a derivative right from Articles 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) which give every citizen the right to free speech and expression, and to practise any profession respectively, these freedoms have in practice become constitutive and definitive of the fourth estate in the country. That fourth pillar of democracy must be in a dynamic relationship of checks and balances vis-à-vis the other three pillars: the executive, the legislature and the judiciary. It is a healthy tension among the four pillars that keeps the democratic edifice strong and vibrant. The fourth estate in India, though, has increasingly been at the receiving end of draconian executive acts, invocations of legislative privilege and judicial intolerance. If the fourth estate is to be treated by the executive as an inconvenience to be sidelined, surely the other pillars, the judiciary and the legislature, lay themselves open to the same fate. Already characterisations of democracy, like the illiberal democracy in Orbán’s Hungary or authoritarian democracy here at home, are intimations of the uncertainties ahead. Surely, the body blow delivered to our democracy by the Emergency of 1975-77 must be, more than a bad memory, a lesson at this conjuncture. At the risk of sounding tongue in cheek, this notification also begs the question as to why the government should go to such devious lengths to trammel press freedom when there are deadlier weapons in its armoury, including the archaic Sedition law and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA, which it has shown little reluctance to use against critical voices. Truth is getting unstuck The situation harks back to the beginning of 18th century England, when the idea of the press freedom that we take (or now no longer take) for granted was being fought and suffered for, and secured inch by inch. The mindset of the establishment then was on telling display in the observation of Chief Justice John Holt while giving sweeping powers to the authorities to invoke seditious libel: “If men should not be called to account for possessing the people with an ill opinion of the government, no government can subsist; for it is very necessary for every government that the people should have a good opinion of it.” To this flagrant belief could be traced the origins of truth not being allowed as a legal defence in a case of libel, which had such enormous consequences for truthful journalism. It took a very long time to change that premise and make truth a valid defence against libel. Now, again, truth seems to be coming unstuck as a value. This contentious notification takes it an absurd step further. A blatant measure of government regulation of the news media is sought to be passed off as self-regulation by that same news media. If that is not post-Truth, what is? Sashi Kumar is Chairman, Asian College of Journalism||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-new-media-rules-are-a-tightening-noose/article34057158.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Casting the Asian dice on a West Asia board||This month, a contingent of the Indian Air Force including fighter aircraft and over 120 personnel is, for the first time, in the midst of a multi-nation exercise hosted by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) named Desert Flag (March 3-27). Other than India and the UAE, Bahrain, France, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and the United States are also participating, offering an interesting view for New Delhi of the various geo-political intricacies at play in and around the West Asia region. Complexities, Asia’s links West Asia is home to perhaps some of the most complex security conundrums of the modern times. The sixth edition of Desert Flag this year takes place as tensions between Iran and the U.S. peak. Also added into the mix is the signing of the Abraham Accords in September 2020 between Israel, the UAE and Bahrain, a more cordial and joint Arab-Israel dynamic predominantly designed to counter Tehran’s growing influence in the region, as seen through the wars in Syria and Yemen. While joint exercises in West Asia between Arab states and their western counterparts is common, the 2021 edition’s involvement of contingents from India and South Korea showcases the growing interests of Asian economies. As net importers of crude oil, these Asian economies rely heavily on the West Asian states for their supplies, and, by association, have increased stakes in the safety and security of the region from the perspective of political and economic stability. And more importantly, in the protection of vital sea lanes in areas such as the Strait of Hormuz, the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea stretching out into the Arabian Sea and the wider Indian Ocean. A fading U.S. hold To put the above in perspective, in April  2020, Saudi Arabia was India’s top supplier of oil followed by Iraq. For South Korea, in late 2019, it was also Saudi Arabia as the top supplier as both New Delhi and Seoul hedged their bets and diversified, with Russia and the U.S. entering as strong alternatives. The participation of both India and South Korea in these exercises in the Persian Gulf is reflective of these trends and growing concerns in Asian capitals over an eroding U.S. security blanket in the region. This is highlighted even further by the fact that January 2021 marked the first time since 1985 that the U.S. did not import oil from Riyadh (https://bit.ly/30DziDa), and this reality will be reflective in how Washington DC deals with West Asian politics in the years to come. Iran and tensions Amidst these new realities, both India and South Korea have found themselves caught in regional tensions as the pressure on Iran to restart the 2015 nuclear agreement (Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA) increases, which the U.S. unceremoniously exited in 2018 under the indelible American presidency of Donald Trump. Both India and South Korea have faced carbon-copy consequences over the past decade as the West first negotiated with Iran, and later tried to manage the fallout of the JCPOA collapse. In 2013, an Indian oil tanker named MT Desh Shanti was confiscated near the Strait of Hormuz by Iranian forces and taken to the port of Bandar Abbas on the pretext of the ship violating environmental norms. This was also the time when Iran was under sanctions, and looking for oil payments from India, which New Delhi could not complete due to said sanctions. The Desh Shanti episode was seen as a pressure tactic by Tehran. Fast forward to January 2021; Iran confiscated a South Korean tanker, MT Hankuk Chemi , also from near the Strait of Hormuz, lugging the ship to an Iranian port, once again highlighting that the vessel was violating environmental norms. This came at a time when Tehran and Seoul were locked in an argument over billions of dollars’ worth of oil payments frozen due to sanctions against Iran over its nuclear programme. India’s involvement The idea of Asian nations having to band together to protect their energy interests in West Asia is not new. Former Indian diplomats have even suggested an idea equitable to an ‘importers OPEC’, or Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by Asian states which today have a much larger stake in West Asia’s oil than the West. India’s security footprint in West Asia has seen a steady increase, and energy security and safe passage of sea routes are one of the main driving factors. The Indian Navy has made multiple port calls from the UAE and Kuwait to Iran and Qatar in recent years. In 2020, India had also planned its first bilateral naval exercise with Saudi Arabia, which was postponed due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. This trend of an increasing Asian security interest and footprint is expected to only magnify in the years to come as the nature of security in West Asia changes itself. Regional states will become more responsible for their own security, and as Asian economies become stronger stakeholders, their geopolitics will become more visible across this geography. Kabir Taneja is Fellow, Strategic Studies Programme and Head, West Asia Initiative, Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/casting-the-asian-dice-on-a-west-asia-board/article34057160.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A moral test||A year after the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, UN Secretary-General António Guterres has criticised “the many examples of vaccine nationalism and hoarding” in the world. Making available vaccines equitably presents the “greatest moral test of our times”, he added. In spite of exhortations by international organisations and efforts to pool resources in a way that all countries could at the earliest begin inoculating at least a fraction of their most vulnerable, several countries were unable to administer a single dose although vaccines were beginning to be stockpiled since November last. In Africa, only 13 countries, according to the Bloomberg tracker, have begun vaccinating. In contrast, over 10% of the U.S. population has been fully vaccinated, or got both doses, as has 3% of the EU. The percentages nearly double when accounting for their populations that have got at least one dose, reaching as high as 34% in the U.K. India is the third biggest vaccinator among countries, having administered about 26 million doses, or about 1.91 doses per 100 people. But it has fully vaccinated only 0.3% of its population. While India has earned laurels for its ‘vaccine diplomacy’, the fact is that there are several public health centres, villages and districts where no vaccines have been administered. Though vaccination in the second phase appears to have picked up, there were only 1.7 million inoculations on Friday evening as opposed to the planned vaccination capacity of 5.4 million. India aims to inoculate at least 250 million with two doses from March-July — or over 3.3 million doses per day. But at best, India has administered 1.8 million doses per day. There is also an apparent “class divide” with the rich and those better informed disproportionately getting vaccinated as compared to the poor. Thus, along with the global inequity in accessing vaccination, India is seeing a version of it play out three months since vaccinations began. The inequality was expected as like many rich countries, the U.S. contracted with many vaccine companies for several times the doses it needed. It was precisely this that had led to concerns of ‘vaccine nationalism’. The pipeline of supply was largely dependent on India and China. The Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and several other pharma companies are private entities and bound by contracts to the highest bidders, and not necessarily the Indian government. While the reprieve is that more vaccines are in the pipeline, there will always be the concern that the poor, the old and the digitally naive will be shortchanged. The UN and WHO must continue to exert pressure on the privileged nations to improve global availability as well as bear upon countries to improve equitable access within their territory too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-moral-test/article34057153.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Two bad options||President Joe Biden’s push for an interim unity government in Afghanistan is a testament to his administration’s grim assessment of the situation in the war-torn country. In a letter to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, which was first published by Afghanistan’s TOLOnews, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has proposed a senior-level meeting between the government and the Taliban in Turkey and a multilateral conference of envoys from the U.S., Russia, China, Iran, India and Pakistan to discuss a lasting Afghan solution. The peace push comes at a time when the Biden administration is reviewing the U.S.’s Afghan strategy. According to the February 2020 agreement signed between the Trump administration and the Taliban, the U.S. is scheduled to withdraw its troops by May 1. The Taliban have warned they would step up fighting targeting the coalition troops should the U.S. fail to pull out by then. The Biden administration is understandably under pressure. There appears to be a consensus in Washington that there is no military solution to the crisis. The U.S. wants to get out of the longest war in its history. But as Mr. Blinken says in the letter, the U.S. worries that if its troops are out without a peace mechanism, the Taliban, which already controls much of the country’s hinterlands, could make “rapid territorial gains”. The U.S. seeks to stop this happening by proposing an interim “inclusive” government between the warring parties. Further, both sides should hold talks on the future constitutional and governance framework. Regional powers, including India and Pakistan, could play a decisive role in this transition as part of a UN-mandated multiparty peace process. This is a more inclusive approach than what the Trump administration did. Under Mr. Trump, the U.S. held direct talks with the Taliban excluding the Afghan government. And after reaching a deal, the U.S. put pressure on the Afghan government to release prisoners, but failed to get any concessions from the insurgents on reducing violence. Even when Afghan government representatives and the Taliban were holding talks in Doha, Qatar, Afghanistan continued to witness violence. The Biden administration does not seem to have faith in the Doha talks, which, even after months, failed to achieve any breakthrough. After 20 years of war, the Afghan leadership does not have any good options to end the conflict. If the Biden administration decides to stick to the Taliban deal and pull back troops, there is no guarantee that the intra-Afghan talks would hold. The Taliban would rather try to take over the whole country using force. If the government accepts Mr. Biden’s proposal, Afghanistan’s elected leaders will have to share power with the Taliban and agree to amending the Constitution, which means some of the country’s hard-won liberties could be sacrificed. It is a choice between two bad options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-bad-options/article34057154.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inflation quickens as Jan. IIP contracts||Retail inflation quickened in February to 5.03%, a three-month high, spurred by higher food and fuel prices, official data released on Friday showed. Food price inflation as measured by the Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) accelerated to 3.87% last month, from 1.96% in January. While the prices of oils and fats surged 20.8% from a year earlier, those of pulses and products climbed 12.5%, while meat and fish prices increased 11.3%, eggs (11.1%) and fruits (6.28%). Prices of vegetables, which have been softening in recent months, saw the contraction narrow to 6.27%, after falling 15.8% in January. Inflation in the transport and communication category was 11.4%, a sharp jump from January’s 9.3%. The spurt in retail inflation mainly originated from higher food inflation, said Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist at India Ratings and Research. “Weakening of base effect in February 2021 contributed to higher food inflation. Vegetable prices remained in deflationary mode for the third consecutive month. However, deflation slowed down considerably to 6.3% in February 2021,” he added. Mr. Sinha added that higher retail prices of fuel due to a combination of higher crude prices and elevated excise duties pushed transport and communication inflation to a four-month high. “Health inflation... at 6.3% was a 17-month high and is turning structural,” he added. Factory output retreats Industrial production contracted 1.6% in January, mainly on account of a decline in output of capital goods, manufacturing and mining sectors, Press Trust of India reported, citing a separate official release. Output of the manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.6% of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), shrank by 2% in January, as against a growth of 1.8% in the same month last fiscal. ‘Some distance to cover’ “The contraction in IIP numbers at -1.6% for January comes as a bit of surprise after turning positive in December (1.04%),” M. Govinda Rao, Chief Economic Adviser, Brickwork Ratings, said in a statement. “The manufacturing sector continues to contract at 2% and shows that we still have some distance to cover before the economy recovers,” the economist added. “Going forward, the excess liquidity in the system combined with volatility in fuel prices can pose an upward risk to inflation,” Dr. Rao said. “The RBI might take some measures to drain excess liquidity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/inflation-quickens-as-jan-iip-contracts/article34057141.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre to infuse Rs. 14,500 cr. into banks under PCA soon’||The Finance Ministry is likely to decide on infusion of Rs. 14,500 crore mainly in banks that are under the RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA) framework, to improve their financial health. Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India and UCO Bank are currently under this framework that places several curbs, including on lending and management compensation. The Ministry has almost finalised its names of probable candidates for capital infusion, sources said. The infusion will be made in the next few days, the sources said, adding the biggest beneficiary of this round of capital infusion would be the banks that are under the PCA framework. The capital infusion will help these banks to come out of the RBI’s enhanced regulatory supervision. ‘Funds from market’ Most large state-owned lenders — including State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, Union Bank of India and Indian Bank — have already raised money from market sources, including share sale on a private placement basis. For the current financial year, the government had allocated Rs. 20,000 crore for capital infusion into PSBs to help them meet their regulatory requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-to-infuse-rs-14500-cr-into-banks-under-pca-soon/article34057149.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Railway freight usage surpasses FY20 level||The Railways on Friday said its freight loading for the financial year 2020-21 has already surpassed the levels achieved during the last fiscal, as of March 12, driven by transportation demand from newer sectors such as automobiles, onion, sand and cotton. In 2020-21, the Railways has till now loaded 1145.68 million tonnes (mt) of freight, marginally higher from 1145.61 mt in the previous year. ‘Emerging from deficit’ Highlighting this as a ‘huge achievement’, particularly amid the disruption to rail services due to the pandemic, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said, “This gives us a great boost and proves how the Railways has continued to be the driving force of the economy... despite the fact that the coronavirus crisis had pushed us into a deficit of 70 mt from April to July.” As per the details shared by the Railways, there was a shortfall of about 50 mt in loading of coal, which comprises half of its freight, along with decline in loading of petroleum, oil and lubricants. However, loading of commodities such as foodgrains, iron and steel, cement and clinker, fertilizers and other goods saw good growth. “The incremental loading of more than 15 mt in other goods [from 78.93 mt to over 94 mt] is indicative of freight basket diversification. For example, in non-traditional commodities, we saw a growth of 64% in automobiles, 36% in fly ash, 57% in stone, 234% in onion, 439% in chemical salt, 274% in sand, 19% in sugar and 266% in cotton... Earlier these items didn’t come to us,” Mr. Sharma said. With fewer passenger trains operational, Railways was able to almost double the average speed of freight trains to 44 kmph from 23.29 kmph earlier, he said. “A number of concessions/discounts are also being given in Indian Railways to make rail freight movement very attractive. “The strong emergence of business development units in zones and divisions, constant dialogue with the industry and logistics service providers... are adding to the robust growth of the freight business for the Railways,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/railway-freight-usage-surpasses-fy20-level/article34057139.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Hatsun to set up dairies, solar power plant||Dairy-product maker Hatsun Agro Product Ltd. (HAPL) is planning to set up two dairies in the eastern region as part of its expansion plans, said a top official. “Today, our board has given approval for setting up two dairy plants,” said H. Ramachandran, CFO. “Details such as size of the plant, total investment and the time frame of their execution will be announced in a month’s time. We have to get sizeable chunk of land in these places to set up the plants.” The Rs. 5,317-crore firm has a strong presence in the South and in Maharashtra. “The new dairies are likely to come up north of Andhra Pradesh and in Odisha, at a distance of about 150 km. This would enable us to serve the eastern region up to Kolkata,” he said.  HAPL’s board also approved the signing of a share purchase agreement with solar power company Swelect Sun Energy Pvt. Ltd. The two companies would set up a 16 MW solar power project. “Basically, this agreement is for the purchase of solar power for captive use in Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hatsun-to-set-up-dairies-solar-power-plant/article34057134.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Ramco Cements to expand cement capacity||The Ramco Cements Ltd., the flagship company of the Ramco Group, is planning to expand production capacity to 20 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) by FY22, a top official said. “Currently, we have a production capacity of over 16 MTPA and this will increase to 20 MTPA with the completion of the third line of clinkering plant at Jayanthipuram in Andhra Pradesh and a new cement plant in Kurnool,” said S. Vaithiyanathan, CFO. As per the earlier plan, Ramco Cements would expand clinkering capacity at Jayanthipuram from 3 MTPA to 4.5 MTPA, set up a plant in Kurnool with a clinkering capacity of 2.25 MTPA and cement capacity of 1 MTPA, a thermal power plant and waste heat recovery plant (WHRP) before March 2021. “Things got delayed due to COVID-19,” he said. “At Jayanthipuram plant, our plan was to install 27 MW of WHRP in all the three lines of clinker manufacturing. The first two lines have been commissioned and the third will become operational by Q1 of FY22.” Till now, the firm has incurred capital expenditure amounting to Rs. 2,500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ramco-cements-to-expand-cement-capacity/article34057136.ece
13 March 2021||new delhi / Mumbai,||Jet fuel may be brought under GST regime||The Civil Aviation Ministry is working on the airline sector’s demand to bring aviation turbine fuel (ATF) under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax (GST) and has taken up the matter with the Finance Ministry, a senior official said. At a virtual event on global aviation and air cargo, Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola also said the Ministry has taken specific steps for optimum utilisation of the country’s airspace, which would help international airlines flying over India as well as domestic carriers, in saving costs. ATF or jet fuel cost, which account for 45-55% of an airline’s operating expenses, in India is among the highest in the world. The industry been asking for it to be brought under the GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jet-fuel-may-be-brought-under-gst-regime/article34057145.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Cement sector expected to grow over 10%’||The domestic cement industry is likely to witness a growth rate of more than 10% in 2021 on account of demand revival, according to ACC Ltd. The government’s spending on big infrastructure projects and affordable housing schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) with enhanced budgetary allocations would be “primary drivers of growth” for the cement industry, it said. The cement industry had witnessed a de-growth of 10-12% due to the Covid-related disruptions. “The outlook for the cement sector in 2021 is robust, with growth estimated at more than 10% y-o-y over that in 2020,” ACC said in its latest annual report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cement-sector-expected-to-grow-over-10/article34057142.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Govt to sell 16.12% stake in Tata Comm through OFS, rest to Tata Sons arm||The Centre will sell its 16.12% stake in Tata Communications via an offer for sale and the remaining 10% to Panatone Finvest Ltd., according to a filing. Tata Sons holds 14.07%, Panatone Finvest, 34.8% and the government, 26.12% in Tata Communications. At Friday’s closing price of Rs. 1,289.75 apiece, the value of the Centre’s stake is more than Rs. 9,601 crore.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-sell-1612-stake-in-tata-comm-through-ofs-rest-to-tata-sons-arm/article34057252.ece
13 March 2021||Hyderabad,||NMDC interim dividend to fetch Centre Rs. 1,553 cr||The Centre will receive Rs. 1,553 crore as its share of the interim dividend declared by mining major NMDC for the current fiscal. The State-owned company, whose board had approved an interim dividend of Rs. 7.76 per equity share (face value of Rs. 1 each), said the outgo would be Rs. 2,274 crore of which Rs. 1,553 crore would be the Centre’s share. The government holds 69.65% stake in the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-interim-dividend-to-fetch-centre-rs-1553-cr/article34057132.ece
13 March 2021||Coimbatore,||Skin-care start-up raises $6.3 mn||Juicy Chemistry, an organic skin and personal-care brand, has raised $6.3 million in a Series A funding round led by Belgium-based investment firm Verlinvest. Juicy Chemistry, was founded in Coimbatore in 2014. “The investment will enable Juicy Chemistry to strengthen its position as a leader in the clean and organic-beauty segment,” said Pritesh Asher, co-founder and CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/skin-care-start-up-raises-63-mn/article34057137.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||FinMin asks Sebi to withdraw directive on tenure of AT1 bonds||The finance ministry has asked market regulator SEBI to withdraw its directive to mutual fund houses to treat additional Tier I (AT-1) bonds as having maturity of 100 years as it could disrupt the market and impact capital raising by banks. SEBI had earlier this week issued regulations that put a limit of 10% for cumulative investments by MFs in Tier I and Tier II bonds.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finmin-asks-sebi-to-withdraw-directive-on-tenure-of-at1-bonds/article34057143.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Trai gives 3 days' time to entities for complying with telemarketing rules||Entities who need to send bulk messages to customers, such as those involved in banking, logistics and e-commerce, will need to complete the registration process within three days to comply with telemarketing rules, failing which they will be barred from sending commercial communication to customers, TRAI said.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/trai-gives-3-days-time-to-entities-for-complying-with-telemarketing-rules/article34057151.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Interesting finale between equals||Sergio Lobera will be looking for his maiden Indian Super League (ISL) title while Antonio Habas will be keen to maintain his blemish-less record in ISL finals when Mumbai City FC takes on ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) at the Fatorda Stadium in Goa on Saturday. Mumbai head coach Lobera previously led FC Goa to a runner-up finish in the 2018-19 final, while ATKMB’s Habas has a clean 2-0 record in summit clashes, having managed two trophies with ATK – prior to the merger with Mohun Bagan – including last year. Identical records These are the two best sides in the competition, with identical records in the league stage — 12 wins, four defeats, four draws and 40 points each. But it remains to be seen if ATKMB bears any of the scars from its twin defeats to Mumbai. The second of these (2-0) came on the last day, with Lobera’s men pipping Habas to the coveted AFC Champions League slot.  But recent form in the semifinal playoffs may give ATKMB some solace. Where it defeated Khalid Jamil’s impressive NorthEast United FC 3-2 on aggregate in regulation time, Mumbai huffed and puffed and, in the end, needed a nerve-wracking penalty shootout to progress. Lobera will also miss the seasoned wing-back Mandar Rao Dessai, who is out with a suspension, while Habas has a near-full squad to choose from. Will Krishna be lucky? Of added interest will be Roy Krishna’s pursuit of the Golden Boot, which he narrowly missed out on last year. The ATKMB striker is tied with Goa’s Igor Angulo on 14 goals, and if he doesn’t score, Angulo will win by virtue of having a superior goals-scored to minutes-played ratio. The race for the golden glove will also see an endgame, with Mumbai custodian Amrinder Singh and ATKMB’s Arindam Bhattacharja tied on 10 clean sheets. The latter is slightly ahead, having conceded fewer goals (16 to 20).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/interesting-finale-between-equals/article34057306.ece
13 March 2021||Chennai,||Washington: all class and resilience||Washington Sundar is being seen in a different role — a niggardly bowler of off-spin in PowerPlay, a clean striker of the ball, and a lithe athletic fielder. Yet, it is his deeds in Tests and the pivotal moments when he came up with the crucial knocks — let’s not forget his valuable strikes with the ball — that sets him apart. The 21-year-old Washington’s batting is all about left-handed class. He picks the length early, has time to play his shots, is balanced in executing the strokes, his feet move and the timing is exquisite. His batting has grace, elegance, style… and character.  He handles pressure situations with the calmness of a monk. And all his Test innings for India have come in stressful times. Vital stand Take for instance his innings of 62 on debut on the quick pitch at the ’Gabba. India, pursuing Australia’s first innings 369, was 161 for five when Washington walked in. And then he was involved in a vital 123-run partnership with Shardul Thakur. India finished at 336, within striking distance of Australia. India was in the hunt. In the second innings, India was 265 for five, the target was 328, and Washington’s influential 22, he hooked Pat Cummins for six, off-drove him past the ropes, opened the sluice gates and India nailed the chase. Washington does have steel in his bones. Take for instance the first India-England Test at Chennai. India was struggling at 192 for five. Then Washington’s unbeaten 85 of poise and control enabled the host to reach 337. And in the fourth Test at Ahmedabad, India was gasping for breath at 146 for six — England had made 205 on a lively pitch — when Washington once again pulled his weight with solidity in defence and strokes of elegance during his unbeaten 96. And he was involved in two century partnerships, with Rishabh Pant and Axar Patel and India recovered to a series winning 365. Runs aplenty Washington has scored runs aplenty for India — he has 265 runs in four Tests at 66.25 — and done so when his team needed them, underlining his temperament. As the fifth bowler his opportunities are limited. But he can do some damage like dismissing a well-set Ben Stokes in the fourth Test by spinning a few deliveries away from the southpaw and trapping him leg-before with one that came in with the arm. Resilience is the essence of this stylist from Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/washington-all-class-and-resilience/article34057379.ece
13 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||Archer, Roy make it a no contest in opener||Having endured a disappointing time in the Tests, England demonstrated that white-ball cricket is a different story altogether. The visitor, the top-ranked T20 nation in the world, dismantled India with an eight-wicket victory in the first of the five-match series here on Friday. A brilliant bowling show kept India down to 124 for seven, before the batsmen efficiently completed the job. A rapid 72-run opening stand between Jason Roy (49, 32b, 4x4, 3x6) and Jos Buttler (28, 24b, 2x4, 1x6) took the wind out of India’s sails, in what turned out to be a sombre night for the big crowd at the Narendra Modi Stadium. As Dawid Malan (24 n.o., 20b, 2x4, 1x6) and Jonny Bairstow (26 n.o., 17b, 1x4, 2x6) applied the finishing touches, many spectators took one last selfie and made an early exit. England reached home in only 15.3 overs, with a powerful straight six from Malan. Slow start After being put in, India was slow off the blocks. The England bowlers kept it tight and built the pressure. Jofra Archer and Mark Wood bowled at good speeds — touching nearly 150 kmph — while leg-spinner Adil Rashid rarely bowled a loose ball. On a slow pitch, skipper Eoin Morgan rotated his bowlers constantly, leaving no time for the batsmen to settle in. Opener K.L. Rahul was the first to go, when an airy drive off Archer found the inside edge. Rashid, who took the new ball, got the prize wicket of Virat Kohli in the next over. Kohli, unable to get off the mark after four deliveries, backed away and tried to loft a length ball over mid-off, but couldn’t get the elevation. Shikhar Dhawan, who replaced a rested Rohit Sharma, lost his stumps to a wild slog. At the end of six overs, India was struggling at 22 for 3. Rishabh Pant (21, 23b, 2x4, 1x6) got the fans involved with an extraordinary reverse-scoop to an Archer thunderbolt, which landed in the third-man stands. The excitement was short-lived, however, as Pant flicked Stokes straight to Jonny Bairstow at deep square-leg. Repair job Shreyas Iyer (67, 48b, 8x4, 1x6) and Hardik Pandya (19, 21b, 1x4, 1x6) did the repair job, putting on 54 runs for the fifth wicket. Iyer negotiated the tricky surface by playing late, using the pace to steer his shots into gaps. Helped by exceptional timing, the Mumbai batsman recorded his highest T20I score. Archer scalped Pandya and Shardul Thakur in successive balls in the 18th over, as the duo tried to accelerate. Iyer’s lone hand came at an end in the last over, to a fine running catch by Dawid Malan. Archer, who found great rhythm and speed, was the standout performer with figures of three for 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-roy-make-it-a-no-contest-as-england-wins-opener/article34057251.ece
13 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||‘Will not change our approach’||On the eve of the first T20 against England, India skipper Virat Kohli had stated that he wanted his batsmen to play freely, even if the side loses a few wickets. The move did not work, as the home team struggled and made a sub-par 124 for seven on Friday. Shreyas Iyer explained that despite the setback, the side will stick to Kohli’s plan. “We had to keep the scoreboard ticking, even if we lost wickets. We will not change [Kohli's plan]. If you see the power-hitters that we have in our batting line-up, we don’t need to change anything. Going into the World Cup, we have to check all the boxes. This is a five-match series, so it’s the perfect time to try different things,” Shreyas said. The Mumbai batsman’s 48-ball 67 was the lone bright spark in an otherwise disappointing outing for the Indian team. Shreyas does not believe that his spot in the team is under threat. “I’m not under pressure. I’m playing freely, happily and enjoying my knocks,” he said. Going in to bat at 20 for three, Shreyas was keen to take the singles and give the strike to Rishabh Pant. “Pant was batting well. I had to give him singles, and take on the spinners,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-not-change-our-approach/article34057270.ece
13 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Lee’s knock takes South Africa to an easy victory||Despite a whirlwind 132 with 16 fours and two sixes, opener Lizelle Lee was denied the privilege of providing the finishing touches, as rain intervened in the climax, and forced the umpires to declare South Africa the winner on better run-rate in the third ODI at the Ekana Stadium here on Friday. Chasing 249, the highest total in the series so far, South Africa had a hesitant start when new captain Laura Wolvaart was dismissed after labouring for 12 runs. Lee then took the bowling apart, hitting both the medium-pacers and spinners all over the park. The limited support she needed from the other end was provided by Mignon du Preez (37) and Lara Goodall (16), as Lee single handedly tore apart the Indian resistance. Yet, at 223 for four in 46.3 overs, it was anybody’s match when rain provided an unexpected twist to the tale. It was Lee’s third hundred in one-dayers, following the ones against England and Australia. She scored 132 off 131 balls and was adjudged the player of the match. Jhulan the exception Among the Indian bowlers, Jhulan Goswami stood out, picking up two for 20 in nine overs, while the rest were at the mercy of Lee. India had reasons to believe that it had a winning total, when Punam Raut top-scored with 77, while skipper Mithali Raj, Harmanpreet Kaur and Deepti Sharma scored 36 each. Opener Smriti Mandhana missed out on more when she lost patience on 25, while Jemimah Rodrigues was again dismissed early. Mithali crossed the milestone of being only the second woman cricketer to score 10,000 international runs, after Charlotte Edwards (10273) of England. The joy of the Indian batting and the accomplishments were eventually sidelined as Lee shook the Indian team out of its slumber, with a hurricane knock that brought the rains. India has two more ODIs to get its act right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lees-knock-takes-south-africa-to-an-easy-victory/article34057244.ece
13 March 2021||Paris,||Milan grabs an edge over United||Simon Kjaer’s last-gasp equaliser gave AC Milan a dramatic 1-1 draw at Manchester United on Thursday, handing the Italians a great chance of reaching the Europa League quarterfinals while Roma, Tottenham and Arsenal cruised closer to the last-eight. Kjaer netted with a bullet header in the final seconds of stoppage time of the last 16, first leg encounter at Old Trafford, levelling the scores after Amad Diallo had opened in the 50th minute with his first United goal. Milan called the shots early on and had two goals disallowed, Rafael Leao’s effort ruled offside and Franck Kessie’s powerful 11th-minute finish chalked off after a VAR review showed the ball had glanced off the midfielder’s arm before his shot. Diallo’s introduction at half-time proved an inspired move from United coach Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as the 18-year-old Ivorian, recently bought by United from Milan’s Serie A rival Atalanta, soon broke the deadlock. Milan’s domestic rival Roma made sure it was a good night for Italian football with a 3-0 win over Shakhtar Donetsk. A Harry Kane double helped Tottenham Hotspur ease to a 2-0 home win over Dinamo Zagreb that continues a good run of form for Jose Mourinho’s team. Arsenal also came away with a win, 3-1 at Olympiakos which all but secures its passage into the quarters.  The results: Manchester United 1 (Diallo 50) drew with AC Milan 1 (Kjaer 90+2); Slavia Prague 1 (Stanciu 7) drew with Rangers 1 (Helander 36); Dynamo Kiev 0 lost to Villarreal 2 (Torres 30, Albiol 52); Ajax 3 (Klaassen 62, Tadic 82, Brobbey 90+2) bt Young Boys 0; Granada 2 (Molina 26, Soldado 76) bt Molde 0; Tottenham Hotspur 2 (Kane 25, 70) bt Dinamo Zagreb 0; Olympiakos 1 (El-Arabi 58) lost to Arsenal 3 (Odegaard 34, Gabriel 80, Elneny 85); Roma 3 (Pellegrini 23, El Shaarawy 73, Mancini 77) bt Shakhtar Donetsk 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milan-grabs-an-edge-over-united/article34057248.ece
13 March 2021||BENGALURU,||BDFA takes tough stand against BFC||The Bangalore District Football Association (BDFA), on Friday, handed out tough-looking bans and fines to Bengaluru FC (BFC) players and staff for the unsavoury incidents that unfolded after last Monday's match between FC Bengaluru United and BFC. The disciplinary committee banned defenders Jagdeep Singh and Harpreet Singh for six months and three months each, and imposed fines of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively. Assistant coach Rajan Mani was slapped with a six-month ban (fined Rs. 15,000), while the club’s operations manager Satish Kumar suffered the most severe stricture, getting banned for 12 months and fined Rs. 50,000. But curiously, BDFA couldn’t provide clarity on the tournaments and matches the ban will extend to and whether the punishment was applicable even at the National-level. The ban may become redundant if it is limited to the State, for BFC has just one inconsequential Super Division game left. A BDFA official confirmed that action was taken after the referee’s report detailed the incidents along with names of the club personnel. BFC was also warned against a repeat-act in the future and instructed to keep its players and staff under leash. The club can appeal the decision, but chose not to comment on its next move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bdfa-takes-tough-stand-against-bfc/article34057302.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC has high quality players: Pezzaiuoli||Marco Pezzaiuoli oversaw his first training session — sans captain Sunil Chhetri who recently tested positive for COVID-19 — after being appointed as Bengaluru FC (BFC) head coach, on Friday. The 52-year-old, who was previously technical director at Bundesliga club Eintracht Frankfurt, and has worked extensively with the German youth teams, has taken charge ahead of the AFC Cup playoff tie next month. Excerpts from a media interaction: Why India and BFC? People will say, ‘you are crazy’, because I left a top Bundesliga club which can reach the UEFA Champions League. [But] there was Corona and I am 52. Does not matter if it’s the highest league in the world or not. Football makes you happy. Mandar [Tamhane, BFC CEO] told me about his project, to develop young players and be back at the top. The future is youth. Maybe that is why the club chose me as I used to work with a lot of young talent. I have never been to India, but every Sunday we eat Indian food in Germany. I am open-minded and I feel I have made the right decision. Footballing philosophy I like to play with the ball. I do not want to kick and rush. The transition part is very important for me. The system depends on the players, whether it is 4-3-3 or something else. I’m Italian, born in Germany and my mother is Dutch. So, my football is a good mix. Squad changes after below-par ISL season We have high quality players and very good team spirit. Maybe we need one or two small changes. We are letting in a lot of goals. We got a central defender (Yrondu Musavu-King) because Juanan is injured and we needed a left-footed central defender for stability. It is a small, [but] key point in the team’s success. Phasing out ageing stars like Sunil Chhetri, Juanan It is not always the age, but quality that is important. Sunil is a very important player and Juanan is injured may be for the first time in his life. We will do what’s needed to bring a younger player, step by step. Football is a process. Every player who comes in needs to make the team better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-has-high-quality-players-pezzaiuoli/article34057315.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘A proud moment for us’||It was a day to remember for R.S.R. Murthy when his most famous wardMithali Raj crossed 10,000 runs in international cricket in Lucknow on Friday. The famous coach-player duo from the City is also celebrating 20 years of bonding which helped the cricketer produce some of her best batting displays in international circuit. “It is a great feeling and a proud moment for all of us. She joined South Central Railway in 2001 and since then has been training with me. Late Sampath of RTC was Mithali’s first coach,” Murthy told The Hindu . “I told her in 2017 that she would reach the milestone given her passion, commitment and the hard work she puts in, even now, in training,” he said. “The focus and the hunger to score runs is the same as it was 20 years ago. She never misses even a single day’s training. Either she will be here or at the NCA in Bengaluru,” Murthy added. Age no barrier “Age is no barrier and her performances are proof of that. She is in the preparatory mode for next year’s ODI World Cup. Even now Mithali is dreaming of winning the World Cup. That is what is driving her to stay fit. “Mithali is humble and a very simple and easy-going character. She still stays in dormitories with other players whenever she is playing for SCR or Indian Railways. I think she is good enough to play for one more year at the highest level,” the coach signed off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-proud-moment-for-us/article34057633.ece
13 March 2021||PONTE VEDRA BEACHS,||Late surge of two eagles takes Sergio Garcia to the top||Spain’s Sergio Garcia used a late surge to shoot a 7-under 65 on Thursday to hold a two-shot lead after the first round of The Players Championship here. Brian Harman was alone in second place at five-under, while a group of three at four-under included England’s Matthew Fitzpatrick, Canada’s Corey Conners and Ireland’s Shane Lowry when play was suspended due to darkness with 21 players still on the course. India’s Anirban Lahiri had a tough round before finishing at six-over 78. Playing in the morning wave, Garcia started on the back nine at TPC Sawgrass and made the turn at 3 under thanks to an eagle on the par-5 16th. He offset a bogey on No. 1 with a birdie on the next hole and added two more birdies on Nos. 7 and 8. Garcia then reached the par-5 ninth hole in two shots and rolled in his second eagle of the day. “I just love it,” Garcia said of TPC Sawgrass. “I’ve always said it, Valderrama and this course are some of my top favourite ones and for some reason they just, it just kind of fits my eye. “I see what I want to do pretty much every hole and then it’s a matter of doing it, but it definitely I feel more comfortable and I’ve done well. So all those things help.” Rocky front nine Harman, who opened his round at the first hole, had a rocky front nine with three bogeys and birdies at Nos. 2, 4 and 9. He then made three more birdies to start the back nine and had two more at Nos. 15 and 16. Fitzpatrick was poised to finish in a tie for second place before recording a three-putt bogey at No. 17. Conners, who opened his round on the back nine, had an eagle at the par-4 14th hole when he made his second shot from 153 yards and then finished his final eight holes at 2 under. Lowry also was poised to finish the day in a tie for second place before finding bunker at 18 and closing the day with a bogey. McIlroy struggles Garcia is paired for the first two rounds with Rory McIlroy, whose opening-round 79 included a quadruple bogey on the 18th hole. The defending champion made his turn in 7-over 43, tying the highest opening nine-hole score of his PGA Tour career. McIlroy also carded a 43 on the front nine in the first round of the Memorial in 2014. McIlroy was unable to defend his 2019 title when last year’s tournament was cancelled following the opening round due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/late-surge-of-two-eagles-takes-sergio-garcia-to-the-top/article34057474.ece
13 March 2021||INDORE,||Zane downs Manish||Zane Khan of USA defeated Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-1, to end the Indian challenge, in the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Friday.  The results:   Singles (quarterfinals): Marco Brugnerotto (Ita) bt Filip Bergevi (Swe) 7-5, 3-6, 7-6(7); Aidan Mchugh (GBR) bt Luca Castelnuovo (Sui) 6-2, 6-2; Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) bt Lorenzo Bocchi (Ita) 1-6, 7-6(3), 6-1; Zane Khan bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-1.   Doubles (semifinals): Luca Castelnuovo (Sui) & Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) bt Lorenzo Bocchi & Leonardo Catani (Ita) 6-4, 6-2; Jonathan Binding & Henry Patten (GBR) bt Zane Khan (USA) & Dominik Palan (Cze) 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zane-downs-manish/article34057477.ece
13 March 2021||PUNE,||Vaidehi goes down||Sixth seed Emily Webley-Smith of Great Britain put it across Vaidehi Chaudhari 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the quarterfinals of the KPIT $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Friday. Third seed Laura Pigossi beat seventh seed Zeel Desai for the loss of seven games, while fifth seed Marianna Zakarlyuk of Ukraine downed fourth seed Rutuja Bhosale 7-5, 6-2. Rutuja made the doubles final as the top seed in partnership with Emily, and will meet second seeds Miriam Bianca Bulgaru of Romania and Riya Bhatia.  The results:   Singles (quarterfinals): Emily Webley-Smith (GBR) bt Vaidehi Chaudhari 2-6, 6-4, 6-3; Laura Pigossi (Bra) bt Zeel Desai 6-4, 6-3; Marianna Zakarlyuk (Ukr) bt Rutuja Bhosale 7-5, 6-2; Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) bt Irina Khromacheva (Rus) 6-4, 7-6(6).   Doubles (semifinals): Emily Webley-Smith (GBR) & Rutuja Bhosale bt Pia Lovric (Slo) & Adrienn Nagy (Hun) 4-6, 6-4, [10-7]; Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) & Riya Bhatia bt Sowjanya Bavisetti & Prarthana Thombare 6-2, 7-6(4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaidehi-goes-down/article34057478.ece
13 March 2021||DEHRADUN,||Maanav to meet Nikhil||Maanav Jain set up a title clash with Nikhil Niranjan in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament here on Friday. In the doubles final, Maanav and Nikhil combined to beat the Belgians Sebastien Cauhape and Nyo van Dyck in straight sets. The girls’ final will be between Sanjana Sirimalla and Lakshanya Vishwanath.  The results:   Boys (semifinals): Maanav Jain bt Daksh Prasad 6-4, 6-4; Nikhil Niranjan bt Rushil Khosla 6-2, 6-2.   Doubles (final): Maanav Jain & Nikhil Niranjan bt Sebastien Cauhape & Nyo van Dyck (Bel) 6-4, 6-2.   Girls (semifinals): Sanjana Sirimalla bt Tejasvi Dabas 6-4, 6-3; Lakshanya Vishwanath bt Flo Helsen (Bel) 7-6(4), 1-6, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Flo Helsen & Mirthe Moens (Bel) bt Shruti Ahlawat & Suhitha Maruri 3-6, 6-2, [10-8] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maanav-to-meet-nikhil/article34057480.ece
13 March 2021||BENGALURU:,||Well-prepped Chashni for Governor’s Trophy||Chashni, who has been well prepared, is expected to score in the Governor’s Trophy (1,600m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Saturday (March 13). There will be no false rails.  GOOD-BYE PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 1-30 p.m.: 1. Gallic (3) R. Ravi 60, 2. Sizzler (2) Darshan 60, 3. Revan Star (4) Sai Vamshi 59, 4. Je Ne Sais Quoi (9) B. Nayak 58.5, 5. Roc Girl (7) Vivek 57, 6. Song And Dance (1) Rayan 57, 7. Prime Star (6) P. Surya 56, 8. Azeemki Princess (11) H.M. Akshay 55.5, 9. Fierce Fighter (12) Nazerul 55.5, 10. Altair (10) Sai Kiran 55, 11. Unifier (5) S. Mubarak 55 and 12. Air Force One (8) Khurshad Alam 54.5.  1. ALTAIR, 2. FIERCE FIGHTER, 3. SONG AND DANCE   CHAMPION JOCKEY TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only, 2-00: 1. Ocean Dunes (8) S. John 60, 2. Raven Rock (7) Antony 59, 3. Lucky Chance (11) Rayan 57.5, 4. Impeccable (12) Srinath 57, 5. Praia Do Cassino (2) Jagadeesh 56.5, 6. Rule Of Engagement (1) J.H. Arul 56.5, 7. Orleans (3) Akshay K 56, 8. Perfect Halo (10) Vinod Shinde 56, 9. Silent Triggar (9) Darshan 56, 10. Sparkling (4) Vaibhav 56, 11. Stunning Beauty (6) Madhu Babu 56 and 12. Prerana (5) D. Patel 54.  1. OCEAN DUNES,   2. RAVEN ROCK,   3. IMPECCABLE   PREMIUM SPIRIT PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 2-30: 1. Imperial Blue (—) (—) 56, 2. Mitsuro (5) Darshan 56, 3. Scaravaggio (8) Vinod Shinde 56, 4. The Inheritor (9) Sai Kumar 56, 5. Twilight Fame (2) Sai Kiran 56, 6. Unique Style (6) Sai Vamshi 56, 7. War Chieftain (3) Akshay K 56, 8. Beautiful Oblivian (10) Kiran Rai 54.5, 9. Gulfstream Park (11) Srinath 54.5, 10. Ohanna (4) R. Marshall 54.5, 11. Own Legacy (1) Trevor 54.5 and 12. Serendip (7) S. Shareef 54.5.  1. OWN LEGACY, 2. OHANNA, 3. MITSURO   CHAMPION TRAINER TROPHY (1,600m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only, 3-00: 1. Arlette (6) Akshay K 60, 2. Secret Source (10) J.H. Arul 59, 3. Niche Cannabis (7) Darshan 57, 4. Almanach (8) Trevor 56.5, 5. Chain Of Thoughts (1) R. Marshall 56.5, 6. Southernaristtocrat (3) Srinath 56.5, 7. Rainbow Rising (4) Sai Vamshi 55.5, 8. Royal Blossom (5) Antony 55.5, 9. Eminence Grise (11) Zervan 55, 10. Dream Chaser (9) Kiran Rai 54.5 and 11. Marvellous Maggi (2) Jagadeesh 53.  1. ALMANACH,   2. ROYAL BLOSSOM,   3. ARLETTE   LEADING STUD TROPHY (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 3-30: 1. Mountain Lion (1) Srinath 60, 2. Lucky Isabella (3) Madhu Babu 59.5, 3. Katana (8) Trevor 57.5, 4. Benediction (12) S. Shareef 55.5, 5. Sainthood (10) P. Surya 55.5, 6. Decorum (6) Aakash Chavan 54.5, 7. Griffin (11) Salman Khan 54.5, 8. See My Heels (2) Akshay K 54.5, 9. Classic Charm (9) Darshan 54, 10. Birchwood (5) S. Mubarak 53.5, 11. Stroke Of Genius (4) Sai Kumar 53 and 12. Twinkle Feet (7) Arshad 53.  1. MOUNTAIN LION,   2. SEE MY HEELS,   3. CLASSIC CHARM   LEADING OWNER TROPHY (1,400m), rated 60 & above, 4-00: 1. Colonel Harty (4) Tauseef 60, 2. Star Carnation (6) H.M. Akshay 59.5, 3. Velocidad (2) Trevor 59, 4. Malwa (1) Akshay K 57.5, 5. Peluche (8) Kiran Rai 57, 6. Alpha (7) Nazerul 55.5, 7. Set To win (5) Sai Kumar 55.5, 8. Alexandre Dumas (3) Sai Kiran 55 and 9. The Response (9) Ankit Yadav 52.5.  1. VELOCIDAD, 2. ALPHA,   3. SET TO WIN   GOVERNOR’S TROPHY (1,600m), 3-y-o, (Terms), 4-30: 1. Chashni (1) Trevor 57, 2. Flying Quest (4) Darshan 56.5, 3. Silvarius (5) Antony 56.5, 4. Scintillating Lass (3) Srinath 55, 5. Soloist (2) Akshay K 55 and 6. Teresita (—) (—) 55.  1. CHASHNI, 2. SCINTILLATING LASS   CHAMPION JOCKEY TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only, 5-00: 1. Copper Sunrise (12) Antony 60, 2. Mystic Eye (7) Zervan 60, 3. Flamingo Road (9) S. John 58.5, 4. Java Peninsula (4) R. Ravi 57, 5. Star Hopper (11) Shreyas Singh 56.5, 6. Ultimate Choice (5) Kiran Rai 56, 7. Code Of Honour (10) Trevor 55.5, 8. Comeonson (3) H.M. Akshay 55, 9. Belli Deepa (6) R. Pradeep 54.5, 10. Capable (8) S. Saqlain 53.5, 11. Highland Nectar (2) Jagadeesh 53.5 and 12. Sand Castles (1) Darshan 53.5.  1. COPPER SUNRISE,   2. FLAMINGO ROAD,   3. MYSTIC EYE   SEABISCUIT SALVER (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 5-30: 1. Marco Polo (9) J.H. Arul 60, 2. Sadaqat (4) Ikram Ahmed 60, 3. Shivalik Kiss (6) L.A. Rozario 60, 4. Rivers Of Babylon (1) M. Naveen 59.5, 5. Striking Memory (12) S. Saqlain 59, 6. Zhu Zhu Zest (8) Chandrashekar 57.5, 7. Another Rainbow (2) H.M. Akshay 56, 8. Adela (7) Chethan G 55.5, 9. Kingsfield (5) Salman Khan 54.5, 10. Happy Dancing (10) Md. Aliyar 53.5, 11. Girl With Pearl (3) Siddaraju 52 and 12. Reverence (11) B. Dharshan 52.  1. STRIKING MEMORY,   2. MARCO POLO, 3. ADELA  Day’s best: VELOCIDAD  Double: ALMANACH — MOUNTAIN LION  Jkt: 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/well-prepped-chashni-for-governors-trophy/article34057300.ece
13 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Siraj sets sights on white-ball format||For someone who was one of the star performers for India in the recently played Test series in Australia and against England at home, 24-year-old Mohd Siraj is now training his guns to be a regular member of the Indian team in the white-ball format. “By the grace of God and thanks to the all-round support of the entire Indian team, I was able to make some impact on the team’s performances in Test matches. Now, I am aiming to be a consistent bowler in the limited-overs formats too,” Siraj said in a chat with The Hindu at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here where he was playing in the HCA League on Friday. “To be honest, I’m feeling very good now. Whenever I got a chance I gave my 100 % and the best part was that as a bowler I could execute all the plans,” said Siraj, who has 16 wickets from five Tests including a five-for in the Brisbane Test. Giving your best “Playing for any team and in any match, I always try to give my 100 %. I would love to deliver what the team expects from me,” Siraj said. “The target is to keep doing well in future. I am ready for the challenge of doing well in ODIs and T20s if given the chance,” he said. Siraj is also excited about the World Test championship final against New Zealand in June in England. “If I get the chance, it will be like a World Cup for me,” he said. Focus on fitness What next? “Focussing on my fitness as I did right through the lockdown. No time to relax and every day I look at as a learning experience, working to improve all-round — in bowling and also batting,” Siraj said. “The key to success is to be patient and build pressure. The Australia series was more memorable for me and the five-wicket haul was unforgettable,” he said. On his message for other up coming talent, Siraj said it was imperative to have the desire to play for the country. “It may be a long way. Since selection is not in our hand unlike performances, we have to be consistent, be patient and have the confidence of making it big,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siraj-sets-sights-on-white-ball-format/article34057484.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Can’t get ahead of ourselves: Archer||England pacer Jofra Archer, who set up England’s win with a tight spell of 3/23, said it was important for his side not to underestimate the home team after a comprehensive eight-wicket win on Friday. Speaking about his man-of-the-match performance, Archer said, “I am just glad to help and it doesn’t matter if I get one or three wickets. It doesn’t change the way I bowl. “We still have four matches to go and they are ranked number two for a reason. We can’t get ahead of ourselves,” he added. Explaining the team’s plan with the ball of trying to bowl back-of-a-length, Archer explained, “The wicket was bit slower so it was going to be hard to hit the length-ball; if it becomes fuller then it is easier to hit. The plan for everyone was to hit a length as long as possible and luckily for us we didn’t have to change that.” On England’s success in getting Indian skipper Virat Kohli cheaply once again, Archer said, “He is a dangerous batter and to see the back of him early so many times is a real bonus. It might probably dampen their camp as well and that is a little advantage of getting him early.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cant-get-ahead-of-ourselves-archer/article34057271.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Incomparable Manickavalli||After his verse in praise of Vinayaka, Abirami Bhattar begins his Abirami Andadi. Andadi is a genre of poetry where the last word of a verse becomes the first word of the subsequent verse. Abirami Bhattar begins with the word ‘udikkindra.’ It is significant that the first letter of his work is ‘u,’ said M.A. Manickavelu, in a discourse. In the pranava mantra, the syllable ‘u’ indicates the Goddess, and so it is appropriate that Bhattar begins his praise of the Goddess with this letter. Abirami Bhattar uses the words ‘udikkindra senkadir.’ So, here he is comparing Ambal to the rising Sun. Of the three luminescences, namely the Sun, the Moon and Agni, the Sun is the brightest. And yet, the rays of the morning Sun are not harsh and can be pleasantly comforting. As the day goes on, the Sun’s heat begins to be scorching. Ambal is the embodiment of kindness and love, and so She is compared to the gentle rays of the morning sun. In the Lalitha Sahasranama, She is described as udyat bhanu, the rising Sun, and the same idea is used by Bhattar in Abirami Andadi. Just as the Sun dispels darkness, so does Ambal dispel our ignorance. In Thirumurugatrupadai, Nakkeerar likens Lord Muruga to the Sun, and he too talks of Muruga dispelling ignorance. The whole of the first verse in Abirami Andadi is about the relation of the colour red to Ambal. Her tilaka is vermillion in colour, says Bhattar. She has a cooling effect like the red pomegranate flower. Mukha Kavi, in his Arya Satakam, says that saffron from Kashmir is soaked in vats full of water. The water turns red in colour and it is this water that is used for abhisheka for the Goddess. He also compares Her to a ruby (Manicka, in Tamil). There are navashaktis, of which Manickavalli is one. Abirami protects him, says Bhattar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incomparable-manickavalli/article34057239.ece
13 March 2021||LONDON,||IPL reason for England’s success: Giles||The Indian Premier League (IPL) has been extremely beneficial, said ECB Managing Director Ashley Giles, who feels English cricketers’ presence in the lucrative T20 tournament has helped the national team in achieving the top rank in white-ball formats. “In my briefings with the players, I have encouraged them to think very carefully about what their programmes are. I have not directed them,” Giles told Sky Sports’ The Hussain and Key Cricket Show. “We aren’t forcing either way. The IPL isn’t going anywhere. It has extreme benefits to us. From this group here, I think, we have 12 of the 16 players going to the IPL. “Years ago we found it very difficult for players to get into the IPL to experience that tournament. Now all of our players are in high demand and it’s probably the big reason why we are No. 1 in world in both white-ball formats,” Giles said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-reason-for-englands-success-giles/article34057246.ece
13 March 2021||CHENNAI,||TNBSL to be held in June||The second edition of the Tamil Nadu Badminton Super League (TNBSL) will be held in Coimbatore from June 6 to 13. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, R. Sivakumar, chairman of TNBSL, said the league will have eight franchises with a total of 90 players who were selected by auction from 300 entries.  Chennai Super Kings’ star Suresh Raina, who is the brand ambassador of TNBSL, former India doubles player Jwala Gutta, and TNBA secretary Ve. Arunachallam also spoke.  The franchises:   Madurai Veerans, Trichy Blasters, Marina SuperKings, Chennai Flying Gravity, Villupuram Falcon Feathers, Karur Smashers, Kovai Kombans, Tirupur Warriors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnbsl-to-be-held-in-june/article34057445.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||WC: Qatar to host India’s qualifiers||India will play its remaining three FIFA World Cup qualifiers in Qatar as the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) decided to host the matches in centralised venues owing to the coronavirus-related travel and quarantine restrictions. “FIFA World Cup 2022 host Qatar, will welcome Group-E opponents Oman, Afghanistan, India and Bangladesh with Japan set to provide the stage for the matches in Group-F comprising Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Myanmar and Mongolia,” the AFC said in a release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wc-qatar-to-host-indias-qualifiers/article34057386.ece
13 March 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Zimbabwe follows on||Ace leg-spinner Rashid Khan and fellow slow bowler Amir Hamza shared seven wickets between them to leave Zimbabwe battling to avoid defeat in the second Test in Abu Dhabi on Friday. Forced to follow-on after being dismissed for 287 all out, Zimbabwe was 24 without loss in its second innings after the third day’s play.  The scores: Afghanistan 545/4 decl. in 160.4 overs vs Zimbabwe 287 in 91.3 overs (Prince Masvaure 65, Kevin Kasuza 41, Tarisai Musakanda 41, Sikandar Raza 85, Regis Chakabva 33, Amir Hamza 3/73, Rashid Khan 4/138) & 24/0 in 13 overs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zimbabwe-follows-on/article34057301.ece
13 March 2021||BIELLA (Italy),||Sriram Balaji loses||Second-seeded Sriram Balaji and Luca Margaroli of Switzerland were beaten 6-3, 7-6(6) by Germany’s Dustin Brown and Switzerland’s Marc-Andrea Huesler in the doubles quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here.  Other result: $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Quarterfinals: Petros Chrysochos (Cyp) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sriram-balaji-loses/article34057304.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bishan Bedi discharged from hospital||Legendary former India spinner Bishan Singh Bedi has been discharged after spending nearly three weeks at a city hospital here following a bypass surgery. The 74-year-old former India captain had complained of heart problems. He subsequently also underwent an operation to remove blood clotting in his brain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bishan-bedi-discharged-from-hospital/article34057313.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Tilak Varma century fires Gemini Friends into final||Thakur Tilak Varma’s century (110, 125b, 5x4, 7x6) helped Gemini Friends score a two-wicket over the Mohd Siraj-led Budding Stars and enter the final of the A1-Division one-day knockout championship at Uppal Stadium here on Friday. In the other semifinal, Evergreen notched up a thumping 238-run win over MP Colts.  The scores: A1-Division knock-out: Evergreen CC 320 in 50 overs (Chandan Sahani 80, Mayank Gupta 65 n.o., G. Vikram Naik 40, Ishaan Sharma 39, Rahul Buddhi 37, B. Punnaiah 4/68) bt MP Colts 82 in 25 overs (G. Aniketh Reddy 4/15, Saketh Dhatrak 4/30).   Budding Stars 199 in 44.1 overs (Tanay Thyagarajan 80, P. Vishnu 3/34, B. Rathan Teja 4/39) lost to Gemini Friends 201/8 in 43 overs (M. Abhirath Reddy 42, N. Thakur Tilak Varma 110, Md. Siraj 3/30).   A2-Division two-day league: Nizamabad 213 in 61.5 overs bt Venus Cybertech 90 in 35.2 overs (J. Rohit Kumar 6/35).   WMCC 360 in 85.3 overs bt PKMCC 250 in 72.5 overs (Raj Navaneeth 41, Aditya Singhal 99 n.o., Devarsh Khatri 3/ 42).   Adilabad 292 in 51.5 overs bt National 165 in 45.2 overs (Sarvagya Gupta 30, R.P. Praneeth 57, K. Vigna Sai 5/13).   Cheerful Chums 325/7 in 49 overs bt Elegant 96/10 in 33.2 overs (K. Anirudh 59, T.N.R. Rohit 6/33).   Abhinav Colts 280 in 58.2 overs bt S K Blues 235 in 61.1 overs (T. Anil Kumar 86, K. Srikar 40, Varun Tej 3/43, N. Sundar 3/39).   Bharat CC 324 in 81.3 overs lost to Eleven Masters 330/6 in overs (Sourish Yadav 43, Eshwar 33, S. Prajwal Rao 109 n.o., Goutham 39).   VP Willowmen 373 in 77.4 overs bt Acrylic 102 in 38.2 overs.   Hyd Cricket Academy 360 in 86.1 overs lost to Sec’ bad Gymkhana 349/7 in 67.5 overs (Anuj 35, Md Adil 164 n.o., Saurabh 44, Sahil Parakh 3/19).   Vijayanand 211 in 76 overs bt Warangal 166 in 49 overs (A. Ganesh 34, Naveen 3/29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tilak-varma-century-fires-gemini-friends-into-final/article34057636.ece
13 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Pattabhi scalps all 10, including a hat-trick||Medium-pacer K. Pattabhi of Amaravati Cricket Club achieved the rare feat of claiming all 10 wickets in an innings, including a hat-trick, against Dravid Cricket Club in the Devineni Venkata Ramana & Praneeta memorial KDCA B-Division league championship at Mulapadu on Friday.  The scores: Dravid 18 in 10 overs (K. Pattabhi 10/2) lost to Amaravati 19/0 in 2.2 overs.   Amara CA 186/6 in 20 overs (K. Gopi 62, Simha 30, P. Srinvas 53) bt Angry Eagles 150/8 in 20 overs (Yaswanth 32, Prasad 40, Raju 3/25).   Super Kings 170/5 in 20 overs (P. Chandu 44, Sushanth 63) bt Veteran Warriors 158/7 in 20 overs (Satya Naidu 3/36).   KKCA 139/6 in 20 overs. (P. Venkatesh 43, M. Rajesh 31) bt Local Boys 108 in 16.4 overs (Jaswanth 3/24, Jagadeesh 3/13).   Azam Army 140/8 in 20 overs (Vidya Sagar 56) bt Dream XI Warriors 125/6 in 20 overs (Pradeep 41).   KDCA Girls XI 106/2 in 20 overs (P. Ranga Lakshmi 40) lost to Unbeatable XI 108/4 in 16 overs (N. Guna Selhar 40).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pattabhi-scalps-all-10-including-a-hat-trick/article34057836.ece
13 March 2021||Zurich,||Swiss court rules against prosecutor in FIFA case||A Swiss court ruled that a special prosecutor investigating Switzerland’s former Attorney General acted illegally while pursuing a separate case against FIFA president Gianni Infantino, football’s governing body said.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swiss-court-rules-against-prosecutor-in-fifa-case/article34057481.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 07:51 IST,||Sudoku — March 13, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-13-2021/article34058061.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Look who’s strutting into season||No Christian wedding in Angamaly takes place without the Angamaly manga curry. On the eve of the wedding or even on the main day, it is served over steaming hot rice, often accompanied by beef, pork, chicken or fish. This seemingly simple lemon-yellow gravy is the chief attraction of the wedding feast. For those from Angamaly, summers are inextricably linked to this raw mango curry. Every Indian, for that matter has a special raw mango memory: summer makes its unofficial entry into kitchens in their form. Diced and pickled, dusted with chilli powder and salt, cooked and sweetened, mashed and juiced, the raw mango sets the template for the season. Daisy Kurien, a home-maker from Angamaly, elaborates about the curry. “It is usually made only on special occasions, such as a wedding or a baptism, but I make it at home often since the children love it.” The real taste of the curry is in the mixing of its ingredients, she says. Slices of raw mango, shallots, green chilli, ginger, garlic, a few pinches of caraway seeds, salt and red chilli powder go into a large bowl and are crushed together by hand. This mixture, after about 20 minutes, is then cooked in coconut milk. What emerges at the end of the exercise is a delicious tangy curry that lasts up to a week. On the other hand, in most Bengali households, the first smell of the season is that of tok dal , says Aparna Mukherjee, who spent her childhood summers at her maternal aunt’s home in Kolkata, where her grandmother would make it. “We still make it at home now in Nagpur. It is a very simple preparation — not too tangy and a little sweet, as we add a bit of sugar to it. Some make it with jaggery. It can be made with masur or toor dal. The essence of the dal is its simplicity and the excitement that comes with the first mangoes of the season,” she says. “For the same reason, we don’t kill it with too much spice or seasoning. The curry has to retain the taste and feel of raw mango,” she adds. YouTuber Amrita Solanki, from Indore, makes kachcha aam papad (raw mango papad ) just the way her mother does, every summer. Though easy to make, it needs sunlight and takes up to three days to dry, says Amrita. The raw mangoes are cooked, pureed and boiled along with sugar, salt, cumin, black pepper and red chilli (optional). This puree is then poured onto a plate greased with oil and left out in the sun. Once completely dried, it appears as a translucent sheet, which  can be rolled, or pressed into tiny squares and stored to be relished through the year. “It can bring you the feel of summer each time you bite into it,” says Amrita. A traditional sweet and tangy dish, it also helps cool the body, she adds. The appekayi saru is Pavithra M. Adiga’s ode to the season. “Don’t mistake it for aam panna ,” she says. While panna , the popular north Indian summer cooler uses powdered spices, the appekayi saru uses whole spices and a squirt of coconut oil. It is also seasoned with curry leaves, red chillies, mustard and cumin seeds. Pavithra, a food blogger and photographer, learnt how to make it from her grandmother. Popular in coastal Karnataka, Malnad and the Western Ghats in Karnataka, the drink is a sure presence in her kitchens during the hot months. The right tang  Appekayi is an aromatic, sour variety of mango found mainly in the Malnad/coastal and Western Ghats regions of Karnataka. Their availability in the local market has reduced to a large extent, so in their absence, Pavithra uses aromatic mangoes sourced from a friend’s farm in Bengaluru. The drink can be had chilled or warm, she says. Much like the rasam or the sambar in a South Indian household, the pachi pulusu is a Telangana summer staple. Pachi means raw and pulusu means gravy, says Geeta Gudavarthi. Geeta, settled in Bengaluru, is from Hyderabad and she makes the dish every summer. She has a food blog as well. “The traditional way of making it is to use every ingredient in its raw form — mango, onions, coriander. However, over time, people have started roasting the mangoes. Some even boil them,” she says. Steaming or grating mangoes makes them easier to mash. What gives the dish its distinct flavour is the sesame seed powder, ground coarse with red chillies, a ubiquitous ingredient in every Telangana home, she adds. Start making the most of raw mangoes now, for once the golden ripe ones flood the markets, it will be a different story.  While aam panna , the popular north Indian summer cooler, uses powdered spices, the appekayi saru in Karnataka uses whole spices and a squirt of coconut oil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/look-whos-strutting-into-season/article34057749.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A pickle to tickle your taste buds||When the season of pandu mirapakaya (ripe red chilli) arrives at the end of winter, there is no stopping chilli lovers in the Telugu States. Sold in heaps by the roadside, the vivid red chilli is a coveted ingredient in regional cuisine. Ripe chilli from Warangal, Telangana, is not too hot; in fact, it has a sweet aroma and leaves a sweetish aftertaste. The skin is fleshy and becomes slightly leathery when left to dry. If not sun-dried or refrigerated, these chillis do not last long. Despite being mild, pandu mirapakaya is rarely eaten raw, and popularly made into pickles, chutneys or used as an ingredient to add colour and spice to dishes. A big reason behind the coveted status of pickles and chutneys made from this chilli, is its short season — it appears around Sankranti, stays for a couple of months later, and disappears just before harshest stretch of summer sets in. So, pandu mirapakaya has long been relished in the form of various sauces, pickles, dips and marinades, any medium that can help extend its stay in the kitchen. Arundati Rao, a baker who also runs a culinary studio in Hyderabad, says that apart from the traditional chutney made with generous amounts of fresh garlic, pandu mirapakaya can also be used to make red pasta sauce. She suggests, “De-seed the chillies and puree them along with tomato. This cuts the tanginess of the tomatoes and adds a delicious red tinge. De-seeding takes away the heat from the chillies, making it an absolute winning ingredient. It can also be used to make chilli oil.” Sampath Srinivas Tumala, restaurant owner Spicy Venue, Hyderabad, says, “ Pandu mirapakaya pickle is one of the most popular dishes in Telugu cuisine. In our household, we make a delicious pickle out of it with gongura (sorrel leaves) and it is finger-licking good. As a restaurateur I find the paste of this chilli to be an excellent marinade for any shallow or dry non-vegetarian dish, especially prawns and chicken. Somehow, I haven’t heard too many people using pandu mirapakaya paste for curries.” Srinivas also suggests mixing (de-seeded) fresh chilli paste with hung curd and roasted garlic, as a dip for finger foods. Innovations aside, some old favourites persist. For instance, Srigouri Ketavarapu, a retired general manager with the Ordnance Factory, makes sure she makes enough pachhadi (chutney) with this mirchi . She says the recipe is her connection with her mother who used to make it every year without fail — a connection Telugu children everywhere can relate to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-pickle-to-tickle-your-taste-buds/article34057745.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||What the doc didn’t order||I am not much of a poet, but a four-liner had been haunting me for a while: Rice/ Is nice/ And with meat/ It’s good to eat. It may not get me the Nobel Prize for literature, but it did lead me to a good meal the other day. The poem was humming in my brain, so when I was told about a delivery outlet called The Biryani Experiment, I thought it needed to be looked into. This is a new initiative of Ola Foods (olafoods.co/biryani-experiment.html) that offers different kinds of biryanis. If you’ve had your fill of Hyderabadi kacchi biryani or the potato-laden Kolkata version (disclosure: I don’t think I ever will) then you may want to look up this menu. It has dishes such as chicken pilaf, Nizami murgh dum biryani, Kochi pepper chicken biryani, Afghani mutton biryani, Colaba mutton biryani, Darbari paneer dum biryani, and Darbari vegetable dum biryani. I zeroed in on Persian chicken biryani (Rs. 339), Nawabi mutton biryani (Rs. 399), Afghani paneer biryani (Rs. 289), Mutton seekh kababs (Rs. 350) and Angoori rasmalai (Rs. 79). Each plate of biryani was more than enough for one; two orders can easily serve three. The food is delivered through Swiggy and Zomato. These days, I take a lot of a pleasure in looking at the way food is delivered. Some deliver in handis , some in microwaveable containers. This one came in sun-dried areca palm leaf boxes. Just like a kulhad adds to the taste of tea, the leaf cartons did their bit to make the food seem more appetising. The biryanis were rather different from the ones we have been eating. Take the Afghani paneer biryani. I never thought I’d enjoy a paneer biryani — but I did. The paneer had been marinated and stuffed with masalas and then cooked with the rice. The mutton biryani was nicely spicy, and the meat and rice had been cooked on dum . The meat was soft, but not mushy. The Persian chicken biryani was deliciously light — the long grained rice had soaked in the flavours of whole spices. The biryanis came with a tangy raita , and I enjoyed that as well. What surprised me the most was the mutton seekh kabab. I have often held forth on how seekh kababs delivered home are either too chewy or much too soft. This was just right. The meat had been marinated well, so it had all the aromas of spices, and cooked to perfection: neither rubbery, nor hard or undercooked. It came with some green chutney and had a yoghurt-based topping that gave it a tart zing. The rasmalai — one of the household favourites — was sublime. There were six small chhaina globules in creamy, sweetened, thickened milk. Just what the doctor didn’t order. As I said, I am not a poet, but it left me writing another little poem. The sweet/ Was a treat/ The rasmalai / Made me sigh. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-the-doc-didnt-order/article34057499.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Bollywood bites||I’m super excited, dear friends. And that isn’t just because Mithun da has joined politics and declared that his top priority is going to be killing everyone with one bite like a cobra. It’s because my second most favourite actress in the universe, Priyanka Chopra, has announced that she’s opening an Indian restaurant in New York. Yippeee! While my excitement knows no bounds, as a bona fide fan, I’m a tad disappointed that the restaurant is called Sona . Why, PC? A bit lame, don’t you think, when you could have called it Dosai Girl ? Or Udipi Sri Jonasa Dosai Girl Vilas ? Or had an exclusive buffet-only restaurant called Quantity Co ? Or a vegan restaurant called Egsatwic ? Or a joint that served specialty naans called The Wheat Tiger ? Or a BBQ-style restaurant called Daddy’s Little Grill ? So many options. Anyway, the good news is that my watchman knows PC’s chef’s step-brother’s neighbour’s ex-wife. And she has shared some exciting news of what’s cooking (sorry for the cheap pun). Meaning, here’s a sneak peek of the exclusive Bollywood-themed menu of Sona . Shakti Kapoor’s Sick Kababs on a Nada, Twinkle Khanna’s Funnyboneless Chicken with Akki Roti, Alia Bhatt’s Silly Chicken Marinated in Ran Beer, Ekta Kapoor's Bahu Kurry with Killer Saas, SS Rajamouli’s Kattappam with SFX Stew, Suniel Shetty’s Expressionless Mussels Cooked on a Woodfire, and Hemaji’s Basanti Thayir Saadam with Lotus Seeds are some of the delicacies one can expect here. To be followed by Ranveer Singh’s Sequinned Strawberry Pista Blueberry Tomato Checkered Ice Cream with Simba Nuts on Steroids, Raju Hirani’s Saccharine Value Kulfi and Sanju Baba’s Cold Stoned Ice Cream in a variety of flavours for dessert. The bar will serve Sallu Bhai’s Blackbuck’s Fizz and Dharam Paaji’s signature cocktail, Canine Bloody Mary. Well, if my second most favourite actress is up to something, can my most favourite actress in the universe, nay, multiverse, be far behind? My readers are perfectly aware of who that is. It is she-who-teaches-stunts-to-Meryl Streep-and-accents-to-Tom Cruise. And could make Brando an offer he couldn’t refuse. News is that she — yes, her ! — isn’t going to let this go that easily. My sources tell me that she is planning her own restaurant right opposite PC’s. And that it might be called The Real Sona Not Like The Fake One Across The Road or Bharat Ka Sabse Greatest Most Fantastickest Jai Hind Restaurant of New York or If You Don’t Eat Here You’re Antinational Cafe or Tapsee Mukt Bistro . And her chef, apparently, is the guy who scored ten marks more than PC’s chef in catering college. And can deadlift 300 kg. And is also a qualified brain surgeon who just happens to prefer cooking sturgeon, so there. Rumour has it that while the restaurant will most likely be multicuisine, it won’t serve Mughlai. Or British. Or Italian. For obvious reasons. It also won’t serve Greek because Alexander lied and said he defeated Porus. It won’t serve West Indian because, well, Rihanna. Or Canadian, for that matter, because Trudeau is a closet farmer. In fact, it won’t serve anything grown by farmers. But there will be unlimited Patriotic Poori with Hrithik Masala, Low Cal Nepo-Free Salad tossed in KJojoba Oil and Chicken in a Bhasker. Come to think of it, why can’t we have more restaurants run by film actors, I say? And some South Indian ones, too. I, for one, would love to go to a restaurant run by T Rajendar. Where I could order a Coffee Not The Toffee made with a Decoction of the Solution in the Rejuvenation. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bollywood-bites/article34057048.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Hermes and a heavy metal iron||What should masculinity smell like in 2021? After a year of confinement and lockdown dressing, brands for men have expectedly resumed their marketing strategies with umbrella terms like ‘sophistication’ and ‘modern elegance’. Evidently, Christine Nagel was having none of that. The head perfumer at Hermès has often talked about the creative freedom she enjoys at the maison, without interference from marketing teams or a dependency on focus groups. Her new H24, the first big men’s fragrance at the brand since the iconic Terre d’Hermès 15 years ago, is ‘‘for a man in motion, free but aware of his roots’’. Unlike the spicy and woody Terre d’Hermès, Swiss-born Nagel takes her customer down an unfamiliar path, with clary sage as ‘the backbone’, narcissus, rare rosewood sourced from Peru and sclarene. The last, a chemical compound with a metallic steam scent reminiscent of freshly ironed trousers, could reference her childhood — in interviews she has mentioned the scent of wool and hot metal from her grandmother’s studio, where men’s trousers were sewed — and the workshops headed by Véronique Nichanian, the woman behind Hermès menswear for 31 years. Nagel, the first female head perfumer at Hermès, has often looked to Nichanian for inspiration, finding creative parallels and similarities in their relationship with materials. But she is just as accomplished — early achievements include Jo Malone’s Wood Sage & Sea Salt, Miss Dior Chérie and Narciso Rodriguez For Her. H24 is green, modern, radiant, and with it Nagel “wants to shine a different light on the man of tomorrow”. Excerpts from her interview with The Hindu Weekend : What influenced the decision to go botanical and vegetal for H24? I did not deliberately seek to move away from the raw materials used in men’s perfumery. I just wanted to give an Hermès perspective on an enhanced men’s fragrance, a youthful fragrance. Using botanicals for a men’s fragrance today is a real risk, but I would dare to say it was necessary to be bold, and only houses like Hermès that offer real creative freedom to their artists can allow it. Maybe it will pave the way for others? Maybe it will start a new generation of fragrances. How is the H24 man different from the man who has been faithful to Terre d’Hermès for 15 years?  The digital revolution and the arrival of social media have changed our way of life and our relationships with the world and others. For many, it is as revolutionary as Gutenberg’s printing press. But I imagine the H24 man to be anchored in his time and his energy. In his mind, the digital world and new technologies co-exist harmoniously with craftsmanship. Fragrance experts have been saying that the gendered label doesn’t matter any longer. Does this new perfume check the unisex box?  It is still a men’s fragrance, but I believe that fragrances have no gender, any more than they have colours, sounds or tastes. Society has created codes that we find very difficult to escape from. Like in your Indian culture, as well as in Oriental cultures, rose and patchouli are worn abundantly by men. And it’s beautiful. We just have to dare to be bold, trust our instincts and try things out. So I would be happy if H24 was worn by a woman. In fact, initial feedback has been unanimous on this subject. With you, textures that are visual (what Nichanian excels at) are now olfactory.  I deliberately choose words relating to touch to talk about perfume and scents, and the same words come to me to describe the disconcerting impression of being able to feel the light, supple and fluid materials in Véronique Nichanian’s collections just by looking at them. Just as she doesn’t shy away from weaving her fabrics from technical fibres on ancient Japanese looms, I use co-distillation, synthesis and biotechnology, and dare to combine them with traditional methods to give a different finish, a different texture. I also find that the electrifying, colourful touches in her collections have this same particular vibration, this sensation of olfactory force that is specific to my creations.  At the Hermès stores in Mumbai and Delhi for Rs. 8,750 (100 ml).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hermes-and-a-heavy-metal-iron/article34057092.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Get your water fix||It is sometimes hard to remember that Mumbai is an island. Despite its famous beaches, little of our lives revolve around the water. The city doesn’t boast a proper marina, nor many aquatic activities — apart from the Royal Bombay Yacht Club’s attempts to elicit interest in sailing courses. We don’t even have waterfront dining spots. So when a few of my friends decided to surprise a close pal with a yacht outing on her birthday, it seemed like a novel idea. Tricking her into thinking we were dining outdoors in Colaba, we instead blindfolded and hand held her descent down the slippery private jetty opposite the Taj hotel and boarded a tender for the big boat. It was heaven to be out on the water, and feast on the setting sun as a twinkling city skyline lit up. If only such occasions were more accessible, how different city life could be. Speaking of being out on the water, I’ve just returned, rested and tanned, from the Maldives. I know, I know. It is hard not to do an eye-roll, especially since we’ve been inundated with social media posts of several Bollywood stars and influencers who have availed of holidays in the stunning archipelago. “Going to the Maldives is like driving down to Juhu beach these days,” drawled one Statuesque Swan, when I told her where I was headed. It is so true; I know people who have spent months at a time there. If Indians are flocking to paradise, it is only natural. It is one of the few countries welcoming us, and, with new direct flights, it is also a hop and a skip away. Before leaving Mumbai, we had a slight panic as news reports of Covid-19 cases rising in the Maldives started doing WhatsApp rounds. “We cancelled Maldives! Many cases there! Resort could be sealed!” screamed various chats. Apparently, if one tests positive for the virus at a resort, one is forced to quarantine in one’s room for two weeks (it was unclear to me if this is at one’s own expense or the resort’s). Still, I could think of worse things in life. Armed with our Covid-19 negative reports, we boarded a plane and found ourselves surrounded by a wedding party. Sporting #Shazasharmagayi T-shirts, they were beyond excited. And why not? It turns out #Shazasharmagayi had a Bolly connection — the groom, Priyaank Sharma, is actor Padmini Kolhapure’s son and Shraddha Kapoor’s cousin. Upon landing, we proffered our good wishes and parted ways. We had chosen the Anantara Dhigu resort because it was 30 minutes from the capital and didn’t require a sea plane. I had been concerned about its high occupancy levels (having called before-hand to check), but the beauty of the resort was that it never appeared crowded. Russians abounded but we also bumped into a Delhi-based real estate tycoon, who was staying at the resort’s sister island, Veli. His wife, who had the most magnificent skin, was every dermatologist’s dream because she stayed out of the sun. I was dying to ask her who she consulted in Delhi but didn’t want to appear over familiar. Giles Selves, the affable, friendly hotel general manager, told us he had not left the resort in seven months because of pandemic safety issues. “We’re seeing more traffic from India these days,” he said. They really were. A large party arrived from Uttar Pradesh just as we were leaving. I returned home just in time for T he Interview — the one where Meghan Markle and Prince Harry unburdened themselves to the world about their difficult joint family. A plot line worthy of every saas-bahu serial, Ekta Kapoor could not have scripted it better. The question is, will it embolden the privileged desi daughters-in-law to speak out against injustices meted out to them? Only time will tell.  This fortnightly column tracks the indulgent pursuits of the one-percenters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-your-water-fix/article34057084.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Write me a letter||A new book, Anything Can Be: Words of W isdom & L ove for our C hildren , goes where few venture these days: reviving the tradition of writing letters. Within its pages are missives written by 34 contributors, many of them well-known personalities — attorney Zia Mody, sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, actors Hema Malini, Boman Irani, Sameera Reddy Varde, Diana Hayden and the like — to their children and grandchildren about their dreams for them and a blueprint for the future. Intimate family photos work as cheerful companions to each letter.  Anything Can Be is an initiative by CRY, so many of the letters have also been written by mothers of children supported by the nonprofit. Proceeds from the hardbound, coffee table style book will go to CRY’s 1,000 Day Campaign to support maternal and infant health through the critical period of conception to 24 months.  Legacies and lessons  Put together by author Sathya Saran, the letters are woven with tales of family legacies and life lessons, brimming with ideals of gender equality, tolerance and compassion. Khan, for example, writes to his grandchildren, Abeer and Zohaan, about their long gharana tradition and how they are born into a family that “belongs to the world of sound”. He adds, “Sound and music have connected the world. I hope you continue the tradition when your time comes to do so.” Mody’s letter prods her grandchildren to “champion a specific cause as you grow up and spend time and money to make the necessary change happen”. Other letters speak of small and big struggles of families striving to afford a home and a decent education to ensure a better life for the next generation. Contributor Seema Ramesh Nirmal, the mother of a child supported by CRY who found it difficult to adjust to the bustle of city life when her family moved to a chawl in Mumbai from her village, shares in her letter to her children, Niraj and Dheeraj, wise words of advice. “City life is different; here one loses touch with roots with family. Distances and the demands of everyday life make every one of us isolated individuals. And I am worried it could do this to you. So my sons, remember the times and learnings you have had from your elders, your grandparents… Remember the visits to our village in Pratapgarh Zilla, and what you saw and learnt there.” Universal theme Though the letters have an intimate feel to them, they speak to an audience united by similar concerns for their children. Saran says it was a curious idea to curate a book full of letters at a time when “WhatsApp and abbreviations have taken over our lives”. While letters, unlike phone messages, last and can be read and reread… most people have forgotten the art of writing one, she states in her introduction to the book, adding, “Letters imply... a certain need to communicate, to reveal true feelings, and to say things that will stand the test of time and the scrutiny of others perhaps, besides the person the letter is written for.” The contributors, too, felt charmed by the romance of writing a letter to be part of a bigger, noble theme. “I agreed to do it in a heartbeat — it was such a novel and thoughtful idea,” says Mandira Bedi, whose letter to her son, Vir, offers him a road map, by way of gratitude and love. “Normally I am a WhatsApp, short and sweet kind of person. But this was an opportunity to express my feelings and what life has taught me in detail. It is something that will stay with my kids over time.” For the actor Irani, who writes letters regularly, it was an unusual experience to address one to his young grandchildren, Ziaan and Sysha. “It was unusual simply because one does not normally write to grandchildren who don’t read or write. So the letter, in many ways, is going to be retrospective when they finally get to read it. It was an emotional little moment. I do write letters very often to loved ones, to my sons, to my wife, to friends, but when this came up, it made me extremely emotional. I am grateful for this opportunity [to write a letter] that my grandchildren can read some years from now,” he concludes.  Published by Penguin   India, Anything Can Be: Words   of Wisdom & Love for our Children is available at Rs. 699.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/write-me-a-letter/article34057046.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The women at Netflix||On the occasion of International Women’s Day, Netflix put together a series of roundtables featuring women filmmakers and actors to talk about how the role of women, both in front of the camera and behind it, has changed over the years. Ranging from Lust Stories and Paava Kadhaigal to Masaba Masaba and Tribhanga , an increasing number of stories about and by women are finding place in Netflix’s lineup. As a platform, the streaming service has been very vocal about its commitment to fostering inclusivity. Recently, the company released its first ‘inclusion report’, which revealed that women comprised 47.1% of its workforce internationally. “We are pretty close to 50% in terms of employee ratio even in India. We’ve had a great run in the movies as well. For 2020-21, 50% of our creators are either female producers or female directors. Across films and series, 50% of the protagonists were women,” says Srishti Behl Arya, Director, India Original Films, Netflix.  On Masaba Masaba : When director Sonam Nair was putting together the crew for Masaba Masaba , a hybrid show that marries fact with fiction, starring the mother-daughter pair Masaba and Neena Gupta, she found herself gravitating towards women. “In season one, our producer, the director, all the writers, most of the lead actors and most of the HODs, except for the cinematographer, were female. I instinctively felt that with something like a Masaba Masaba , a woman would know what’s on a character’s bedside table. Or when Neena ji is putting a face pack on, they’d know what kind of face pack. Basically, I didn’t want to explain the details of their intimate lives to every single person,” explains Nair.     Not just lip service: While there are more stories being told by women and about women, there are still many hurdles to clear. Author and filmmaker Tahira Kashyap Khurrana, whose short film Pinni is currently on the platform, as part of an anthology titled Zindagi in Short , says, “Everyone’s challenges are unique and individual. Personally, being a married woman with two kids and being married to a certain profile [her husband Ayushmann Khurrana is a well-known actor] has been a challenge. But I feel that it is not just lip service anymore or writing slogans for women empowerment — we can actually see it happening now.”     Focus on the flawed: Renuka Shahane, who made her directorial début with Tribhanga starring Kajol earlier this year, believes that mainstream Bollywood is a behemoth that is slow to embrace change. “Take Tribhanga, for example; after the narration people asked, ‘There’s no hero in the film? How can a film be made without a hero? There must be some romance or there must be a man.’ And so, there is nothing they would want to put their money on. Also a story like this still cannot be told in the mainstream without making it adult content, because we have a different system of censoring films.”     Unboxing roles: A future when a character’s gender doesn’t take away his or her individuality, and a ‘female’ director is referred to just as a director, is what women in cinema are hoping for. “Also, the baggage that comes with being a ‘female director’ — because you are expected to tell a certain kind of story. Not to be boxed in is the real challenge,” concludes Ayesha Sood, one of the directors of the docuseries Indian Predator .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-women-at-netflix/article34057114.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Unlearning stereotypes with Garima Surana||Cancel culture, hip-hop, internet trolls, make-up for men, the Kamasutra … are these topics that you want to discuss but can’t usually bring up? Well, Garima Surana understands the feeling. Last year, after getting married and moving to Marseille, France, the 26-year-old found herself in a new country, unemployed, and in the middle of a global pandemic. In short, it was time to start the podcast she’d been planning for a year — Popkast with Garima . Growing the tribe While it might not be as slickly-produced as other podcasts out there, its relatable content, kitsch sensibilities (in terms of posters and the like), and its nods to films (the first episode was called Dhoti, Lota aur Chowpatty) have grown the year-old podcast from just six listeners to having 230k listens in two seasons. The third season, titled #e mpow HER and comprising 10 episodes (to be released fortnightly), released earlier this week. Apart from a collaboration with UN Women and SheThePeople, Asia’s largest women’s channel, as a community partner, listeners can look forward to guests such as body positivity influencer Sakshi Sindwani and film producer Guneet Monga. How does being a woman podcaster influence her choice of topics or the responses she gets? “Honestly, it is not a gendered thing from my perspective. But women have been silenced for so long, and their thoughts and opinions have not really mattered,” she says. “There has been a revolution on interwebs and digital spaces in the last few years and, with Popkast , it just amplifies this — with women getting to openly express their thoughts.” Interestingly, while Surana has been “making it for my women tribe”, she has heard back more often from men who have “thanked [her] for talking about prioritising female pleasure”. Read the full story onweekend.thehindu.com  Don’t think, just do it “If you want to start a podcast, don’t think too much about the equipment or the best editing tools. I started with my iPhone and the mic that comes with it, and I still edit on Audacity, a free platform. Once you’ve done four or five episodes, you’ll know where your content is heading and you will pivot naturally.” As for those who may be hesitant to start a podcast because they think their English isn’t good enough, she says, “The inhibition needs to go away. Also, podcasts in Bengali, Tamil and Malayalam are really dominating the charts now. Even if someone wants to start something as niche as a Marathi podcast about sneakers, it is absolutely alright.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/unlearning-stereotypes-with-garima-surana/article34057100.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Humour in fiberglass||A blue figure kneels with its head turned almost fully backwards... as I look closely, I realise that what I’d assumed was the torso is actually the head of another figure. It is not a single sculpture but an amalgamation of limbs and heads. In another work, the protagonist is a short figure of indeterminable gender with really large lips. Dressed in a tweed jacket, with a set of space-like goggles and a superhero-style bandana, its hands are wrapped around its head in a manner that is almost gymnastic. These humorous, almost caricature-like, ‘characters’ belong to the body of work debuted by emerging artist-designer Viraj Khanna, whose solo exhibition, What My Mother Didn’t Teach Me , opens today at the Loft Quest Mall Kolkata — hosted by Art Exposure and curatorially advised by Ina Puri. “I like working with the human condition,” says Viraj, 25, when we get on the phone for an interview. “We are always trying to be perfect when, in fact, we aren’t. In my work, I strive to show the many faces that we have. That is why I like to employ humour and wit to essay this,” adds the young artist, who is the son of fashion designer, Anamika Khanna.  Moving out of the shadow  I wonder at the title of the show, What My Mother Didn’t Teach Me . Implicit is the act of self-discovery, which has outgrown ties to the maternal figure. The Khanna twins grew up surrounded by art, especially textiles and embroidery, which Viraj says helped him develop a certain aesthetic. However, his foray into art-making has been his own. “My mother is a larger-than-life character for both me and my twin brother, Vishesh. Her name is so well-known and she is such a powerful figure who overshadows everything that we do. It is a good thing, but sometimes you also want something that is your own,” he says. Like the twins’ fashion label, AK OK. The duo launched their prêt line in 2019 — starting with traditional silhouettes such as lehengas before moving to more post-pandemic friendly athleisure — to good reviews. “But art is something I did on my own. My mother didn’t teach me that. Which is why I decided to name my solo this,” he says, with laughter in his voice. What does mama think about the name? “She actually loves it! She encourages me in everything I do.”  Creative liberties  Besides the fiberglass sculptures, his artworks also include a selection of collage work with paper and cloth. “Embroidery and textiles involve putting together different materials, fabrics and other elements to express certain feelings or perceptions. Transmuting this into my collage work and paintings has been liberating [as I was able to explore similar philosophies but in a totally different architecture],” he says. Viraj, who hasn’t formally studied art, believes creativity is not inborn; rather, it is something you can work on and get better at the more you try it. “So I have never been intimidated about working with new materials and spaces,” he says, adding that while he doesn’t know what his next step as an artist would be, he is “open to opportunities”.  The exhibition is on physical display to the public from March 14-22, and will continue online at artexposure.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/humour-in-fiberglass/article34057098.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Anamika Khanna: ready for a reunion||There is no doubt that Anamika Khanna is one of India’s most talented and well-regarded fashion designers. With no formal fashion training, she has built her brand’s signature on hybrid silhouettes that work for women of all shapes, and painstaking surface embellishments that balance traditional embroideries with modern application. On the hanger, her clothes look like cherished heirlooms, yet wear like red carpet entrances. To anyone, she would be the ideal designer to open the newly-reunited FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week; the first time the twain have met since their split in 2006. Even so, she has had to face comments like ‘Why Anamika? She’s a Calcutta designer!’, the source of which she chooses not to share. “Why would anyone say something like this? I’m an Indian designer; I could be from anywhere in the country!” This only goes to show the deep chasm that the Great Fashion Week Split created when it happened. Over the years, it grew into a rivalry — the pre-existing Delhi-Mumbai Divide helped — that manifested in real business outcomes for designers based in Delhi and Mumbai, as well as elsewhere.  Quiet isn’t always bad  At 49, Khanna is one of the few designers to have shown at both fashion weeks over her 16 years in the business, so I ask her if this merger became possible because the platforms have recently gone digital due to Covid-19. “I think going digital just sped up the inevitable,” she says. “The coming together of these two giant platforms unifies the entire fashion industry. When you go to France, you don’t have 10 different fashion weeks, do you? This is a good move, and I’m excited to be part of this historic event.” But will this partnership survive when physical shows come back? “That’s just a detail,” she says. “Shows can happen anywhere. All over the world, the media travels to the host cities. As a designer based in Kolkata, I’ve always packed up my collection and my team, and gone to wherever the shows are being held. So I hope this merger continues to go strong.” Khanna’s last show happened in Mumbai at Lakmé Fashion Week (LFW) in January 2018 (the finale; Kareena Kapoor walked the ramp). Since then, the high points — at least from a brand and marketing perspective — have been few and far between. She hasn’t launched any major collections on Instagram as is the norm today, and her twin sons’ label, AK-OK — an athleisure line launched in 2019 — has not perceptibly broken any ground on social media yet (with just over 6k followers at the time of going to press). But she gently disagrees. “We’ve launched the Mumbai flagship store [at Kala Ghoda] recently,” Khanna says over a Zoom call. “And AK-OK has found its online retail presence where the collections have started rolling out. We’ve launched our men’s line, too. So a lot has been happening, even though we’ve been doing everything quietly.” She had even planned to launch a home line before the lockdown, but that took a back seat due to the pandemic. “But it has worked in our favour. We’ve always been a quiet brand, and we’re hitting higher numbers,” she adds. “India is a land of celebrations and weddings, and that never stops.” Had she felt the need to create more social media and marketing buzz, she would have, she says. “I just don’t want to go crazy and do things just because I have to.”   Flip side of fashion  The timeline of her fashion shows, for both the FDCI and Lakmé-led fashion weeks, attests to this. Famously inconsistent, she hasn’t held fashion shows season after season as expected, and prefers to pick her moments. “Everyone forgets that I’m a mother first,” she says. “I’ve brought up two boys who’ve gone through school, exams, activities, sports, illnesses, vaccines, and a number of other things. So there have been challenging times that I’ve had to navigate.” She adds that there is a part of her that needs to be 100% convinced to take anything on — and a fashion show by any standards is a big undertaking — otherwise she simply doesn’t do it. “Besides, being from Kolkata, I’m away from the daily hullabaloo of fashion.” I ask her if this physical remove keeps her sane. “Probably. There is a lot of pressure that designers face. Pressure that you have to create collections and sell them, that you have to be present on social media... otherwise you’ll be lost in the crowd; it’s extremely challenging,” she says. “It’s like you’re at a party for just a second, but you take a picture and post it. Or you’re designing a garment and you begin with thinking which colour would look best for an Instagram post. Or you stand next to a stranger’s car and take a selfie. How am I going to create anything if all I’m thinking about is how it’ll look like on social media? I cannot live like that.” Her tone at this point is earnest, and exhausted even from thinking about the topic.  The right priorities  Two years ago, Khanna went through what her friend Sonam Kapoor described on social media as a “terrible illness” that spun off into an online debate. In our conversation, she hints that one of the reasons her health suffered was work-related stress. “I had a major health episode two years ago... and that happened because I was going mad!” Once she was back on her feet, she started taking things more slowly, and allowed herself to enjoy the process. “Today, I don’t want to see Instagram. I’m totally ignorant about what other people are doing. I want to be able to create beautiful things and push my creativity to the next level, to wake up and be excited for my work,” she says. “This collection has been put together in a short time, but I’ve loved every minute of designing and making it. I’ve grown with it,” she adds, while refusing to even hint at what to expect. There is one last question that I put to her as delicately as I can, for Khanna has done multiple ‘opening’ and ‘finale’ fashion shows — a phenomenon unique to Indian fashion weeks. I ask if celebrating fashion shows because of their scheduling creates a sense of the theatrical, and if that takes away from the business and economic role the industry plays. “What bothers me more is that it creates a narrative that some designers are better than others because they are opening or closing the event,” she says, adding that she doesn’t think it affects business as much as it does the perception of the designers in the market. Not having ever worried about perception herself, Anamika Khanna may just be the exception that proves the rule.  Anamika Khanna’s show for the FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week is scheduled on March 16, and will stream live on both the FDCI and LFW Instagram handles.   The writer is a fashion commentator and brand consultant.   Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/anamika-khanna-ready-for-a-reunion/article34057073.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, March 19, Disney+ Hotstar||Marvel fans have an interesting weekend in store. After a long wait, the mini series starring Anthony Mackie, Sebastian Stan and Daniel Brühl is all set to launch. After the events in Avengers: Endgame , watch Sam Wilson/Falcon (Mackie) and Bucky Barnes/Winter Soldier (Stan) team up ‘in a global adventure that tests their abilities — and their patience — in Marvel Studios’. The series is directed by Kari Skogland and has Malcolm Spellman as the head writer.  Catch theThe Falcon and the Winter Soldier on Disney+ Hotstar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-falcon-and-the-winter-soldier-march-19-disney-hotstar/article34057035.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Tigers: Hunting the Traffickers, March 13, Sony BBC Earth||Dropping today on the network is a new film that looks at how illegal tiger trade is threatening the survival of the species. Tune in to learn about shocking secrets of tiger farms and how the power players who profit are exposed. Key trafficking routes connecting Malaysia, China, Thailand, Laos and Vietnam are uncovered by Aldo Kane, a former royal marine commando. He covertly filmed the traffickers, and met with those trying to stop them. As described by the channel, it is a gripping, fearless investigation into a sickening network of ruthless organised crime. It is also a crusading film, with enough clout to ignite a campaign for real change, before a majestic species is wiped out completely.  Tigers: Hunting the Traffickers airs at 9 pm on Sony BBC Earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tigers-hunting-the-traffickers-march-13-sony-bbc-earth/article34057037.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Donate a Wall: Kerala’s success with Insta-ready walls continues. Over 17 days, artist Sachin Samson transformed the walls of this fisherman’s house in Kasaragod with a mural that showcases Chaavukara — a phenomenon where fishes and prawns throng during a specific season. The work is part of St+art India’s Donate a Wall programme, now ongoing in the state. @startindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34057050.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Charlotte de Witte update||Belgian DJ and record producer Charlotte de Witte is bringing her brand of minimal techno to India, performing live in Goa on March 19 and Bengaluru on March 21. Tickets for the limited-capacity event start at Rs. 2,800, on in.bookmyshow.com. Meanwhile, an eclectic lineup, including Lucky Ali and Raghav Meattle, will participate in the Open Up India Concert, to help informal sector workers affected by the pandemic. Hosted by VJ-DJ Nikhil Chinapa, it is organised by UNDP India. On March 13, at 7 pm, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/charlotte-de-witte-update/article34057052.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance or make a film?||It appears that choreographer and YouTuber Sonali Bhadauria’s masterclass is much sought after. The two-hour-long session (for all age groups) will include moves to ‘Nadiyon Paar’ from the Jhanvi Kapoor-starrer Roohi . March 14 at 5 pm. Rs. 400, on insider.in. What’s keeping the director in you in check? Bengaluru-based Independent filmmaker Bharat Darira’s workshop, Make Zero Budget Short Films, will cover topics such as casting on a budget, building a crew, and the like. March 13, 4 pm. Rs. 400, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dance-or-make-a-film/article34057054.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||BAFTA nods||With over 120 changes introduced to the process, the nominees for the BAFTAs are highly diverse this year. Adarsh Gourav scored a Leading Actor nomination for The White Tiger , while four women vie in the Best Director category, including Chloé Zhao for Nomadland . Zhao’s drama has seven nominations. While the BAFTAs will be held without a live audience on April 11, the Oscars will be held on April 26 (5.30 am IST). Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas will announce the nominations on March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bafta-nods/article34057056.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Grammy Awards: Singer Harry Styles, who will open the show, and K-pop stars BTS are among the artistes who will take the stage at music’s biggest night, hosted by comedian and talk show host, Trevor Noah. For audiences tired of virtual events (and that includes the technical glitches at the Golden Globes!), Grammy organisers promise a spectacular live show. March 15 (6.30 am IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34057058.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bihar biennale||Thirteen museums are participating in the hybrid Bihar Museum Biennale. While visitors can physically see two exhibitions at the Bihar Museum, a free virtual two-day conference, tours and masterclasses (Zoom links to be available from March 15) will be held. From March 22 to 28. On biharmuseumbiennale2021.org. Meanwhile, the first vial used in the Covid-19 vaccinations in the US has been added to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. The Pfizer-BioNTech jab was administered to ICU nurse, Sandra Lindsay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-bihar-biennale/article34057060.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||This one’s for Karnad||Theatre Nisha will stageArundhati, a play written last year as an homage to author Girish Karnad. It is inspired by the maid, Swarnalatha’s narrative from Karnad’s book, Yayati . At Alliance Française of Madras. March 13 at 3 pm and 7 pm. Rs. 200 on in.bookmyshow.com. QTP and Natak Company present White Rabbit Red Rabbit by Iranian playwright Nassim Soleimanpour. The play is handed to a new performer each time. In English, Hindi or Marathi, March 13 at 8 pm. Rs. 300 onwards, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/this-ones-for-karnad/article34057062.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Select your comedy||Actor and writer Ankita Shrivastav brings her brand of observational comedy into your home. Catch her latest routine, Main , Meri Family aur Lockdown , on March 13-14, and 20-21. Rs. 299 on in.bookmyshow.com. ‘Your manager should factor in the time you spend spiralling on the internet when they fix your deadlines,’ Kautuk Srivastava recently tweeted. The writer and comedian’sWorking on the Vaccinesees him trying to make sense of the new ‘abnormal’ and his marriage. March 14 at 8 pm. Rs. 249, on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/select-your-comedy/article34057064.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Kunal Kapur’s kitchen||The celebrity chef’s new book, Kunal Kapur in the Kitchen, will explore memories of dining table conversations and flavours from his grandfather’s kitchen. Recipes get a “fresh new spin”, resulting in dishes such as ham and cheese breadpakoras.Releases March 15. Rs. 1,250. Why did Munaf Kapadia quit his job at a tech company to start his successful home restaurant, The Bohri Kitchen? Find out in his book, How I Quit Google to sell Samosas: Adventures with the Bohri Kitchen . Available for pre-order on amazon.in, at Rs. 319.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kunal-kapurs-kitchen/article34057066.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Rental appreciation trumps capital price growth||Amidst various industry reforms seen over the last seven years, multiple new trends emerged in the Indian residential real estate market. Strikingly, housing rentals in key luxury markets saw better y-o-y growth between 2014 and 2020 than average capital prices in the same localities. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants says, “The average rentals for a house of minimum 2,000 sq. ft. size in the top seven cities’ key luxury hotspots rose anywhere between 17% and 26% in 2020, as compared to 2014. In the same period, average capital prices in these micro-markets saw a maximum rise of 15% and some even saw a marginal dip.” For example, Anarock’s data indicates that the average monthly rentals in Gurugram’s Golf Course Road increased by 17% in 2020 over 2014, while average property prices in the same period declined marginally — from Rs. 13,167 per sq. ft. in 2014 to Rs. 13,150 per sq. ft. in 2020. Among the top seven cities, Hyderabad’s HITECH City saw the highest rental appreciation of 26% between 2014 and 2020; in the same period, average property prices saw a 12% jump. Impact of reforms Puri adds that their data also reveals that from 2014 to 2020, rental prices in the top luxury markets saw consistent y-o-y growth – averaging between 3-6% annually. “In contrast, capital appreciation in this period either remained range-bound or varied each year. Some years saw a decent yearly rise, even as high as 7%, while prices dropped by approx. -5% in other years — particularly in 2017, when many micro-markets saw capital prices plunge against the preceding year.” In 2017, various structural reforms like RERA and GST were implemented. After this period, most localities only saw a marginal capital price rise averaging between 1% and 3% while rental markets continued their growth run. Due to the pandemic, 2020 was an outlier year for Indian rental markets, with most luxury localities recording either no change in average monthly rentals (compared to the preceding year) or seeing some decline. Without a doubt, COVID-19 impacted luxury rental markets amidst the growing work-from-home (WFH) culture. Average property prices showed little or no change in 2020 over 2019. Top luxury hotspots The luxury residential rental market faced a setback due to COVID-19, but it now appears to have recovered with demand for rental luxury properties back almost to pre-COVID levels. Monthly rentals in some of the localities have begun heading north. With vaccinations now rolling out and positivity returning, these rental markets will pick up new momentum. Some of the prominent luxury markets in the top 7 cities that performed well between 2014 and 2020 may see further short to mid-term boosts: InBengaluru, the luxury residential hotspot JP Nagar saw avg. monthly rentals appreciate by 24% in 2020 over 2014, while capital prices in the period rose by 8%. Likewise, Rajajinagar saw rental prices rise by 22%, and capital prices by 15%.  InMMR, luxury rentals in Tardeo rose by 23% in this period, while capital prices increased by 8%. Similarly, in Worli, the average monthly rentals for a minimum 2,000 sq. ft. area home rose by 21%, while capital prices rose by 6%.  InNCR, rentals in the luxury hotspot of Golf Course Road increased by 17% while capital prices saw a meagre decline. In contrast, Golf Course Extension Road saw rentals increase by 18% and capital prices by 7% in this period.  InChennai, luxury rentals in Anna Nagar rose by 17% in this period, while capital prices increased by 10%. Similarly, in Kotturpuram, the average monthly rentals rose by 19% while capital prices rose by 7%.  InHyderabad, the luxury residential hotspot Jubilee Hills saw avg. monthly rentals appreciate by 15% in 2020 over 2014, while capital prices in this period rose 10%. HITECH City saw the maximum rental price rise of 26%, while capital prices increased by 12%.  InPune, the rentals in Koregaon Park rose by 19% in this period, while capital prices increased by 14%. Similarly, in Prabhat Road, the average monthly rentals rose by 23% while capital prices rose by just 5%.  InKolkata, luxury home rentals in Alipore rose by 20% in 2020 against 2014, while capital prices increased by 13%. Similarly, in Ballygunge, the average monthly rentals rose by 19% while capital prices rose by 13%.  Anarock Property Consultants||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/rental-appreciation-trumps-capital-price-growth/article34057116.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The future is green||During a recent interview, I was asked if there is a need to build green homes in Chennai. This question took me back 35 years, to the Chennai (or Madras at that time) that was free of apartments and high-rise buildings, the city where you could smell the ocean even a kilometre away from the coast where I grew up, and where one could walk, cycle or play on the side streets without worrying about dangerous, fast traffic. If these activities seem impossible in the Chennai of today it is because a lot has changed on-ground. A few stark examples include: Increased population density:There has been an uncontrolled increase in the city’s population density, thereby resulting in an increase in the number of multi-storey apartments, high-rise buildings and motor vehicles. Even narrow streets are now packed with traffic, footpaths encroached, thereby leaving no space for us to walk or play. Decreased tree cover:Tree cover has been sacrificed to accommodate our concrete buildings. A study conducted by the Care Earth Trust in 2018, shows that only 15% of the city is covered by trees. From the year 2000, when there was 79 sq.km. of green cover, it has now come down to 64 sq.km. Trees not only ensure our own health and well-bring but also control the micro climate of a place by mitigating the ‘urban heat island effect’— a phenomenon where the air above our cities is hotter than the air above surrounding open areas. This is due to the extensive use of concrete and other hard surfaces which radiate heat, densely constructed structures without adequate green cover and supporting infrastructure and extensive traffic. In Chennai, for instance, the increase in temperature is as high as 5°C when compared to its outskirts. Reduction of the earth’s resources:Chennai’s potable ground water has decreased and waste water has increased leading to the pollution of our waterways. Our wetlands have been built upon, leading to a drastic reduction in the number of natural water bodies. From 80% of Chennai being covered by wetlands in 1980, it was down to 15% in 2010. The current estimate would be even lower. Wetlands help hold ground water and support aquatic flora and fauna. The population of urban India is estimated to reach 600 million by the year 2030. Current statistics stand at 470 million. This means the need for more construction, more traffic and subsequently, more paved areas and less tree cover. This expansion will only lead to further overheating, leading to extremely unhealthy living conditions for city dwellers. It is clear that we need development, but we need development that is sensitive to the environment around us and looks after our water, soil and other resources. We need development that does not blindly destroy nature to make way for our existence. A green building uses biodegradable and salvaged materials, promotes re-use of resources, leads to reduced water and energy use and incorporates more open spaces and natural vegetation, leaving a lower carbon footprint. To sum up and answer the question I started with: Yes, Chennai not only needs green homes but also green buildings in general. Especially being a coastal city, Chennai would be one of the first to be affected by rising sea levels resulting from global warming making it more vulnerable to climate change. The good thing is we are now seeing a substantial increase in demand for eco-friendly construction which is a small step towards making our city a better place.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-future-is-green/article34057117.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The colours for 2021||Homes fulfilled many duties over the last year. Apart from being living spaces, they transformed into offices, classrooms, gyms, play areas, hobby centres, and kitchens. Increased stress and time at home in 2020 meant our abodes needed to evolve to reflect the current need for stability and serenity in these unsettling months. Paint manufacturers across the world also dived deep into this trend, aiming to turn home improvement into self-improvement and create a sanctuary for mindfulness. In fact, the 6 R’s dominated our mindset this year: all we wanted to do was ‘reflect, recharge, revive, reset, recalibrate, and renew’. We’re well into 2021 now and if you’re looking to redo your home as you continue to spend more time in it, we suggest looking at the top colour choices. These hues, selected by top colour forecasters across the world, are sure to create a brand new space for you. 1.Pantone’s choice: Ultimate Gray + Illuminating In these trying times, Pantone picked two hues that together convey a message of strength and hopefulness; a shade that is “enduring and uplifting”. The marriage of the Ultimate Gray and warming yellow Illuminating creates a positive and resilient feeling. Leatrice Eiseman, executive director of the Pantone Color Institute, said, “The union of an enduring Ultimate Gray with the vibrant yellow illuminating expresses a message of positivity supported by fortitude. Practical and rock-solid but at the same time warming and optimistic, this is a colour combination that gives us hope. We need to feel encouraged and uplifted; this is essential to the human spirit.” 2.Dulux’s choice: Brave Ground  Paint major Dulux unveiled a “reassuring” earthy beige hue, Brave Ground, as its colour of the year for 2021. The warm, earthy colour grounds any room, creating a feeling of stability that’s important in these times. The “elemental” showcases the strength “we can draw from nature, our growing desire to align more with the planet and looking towards the future”. The shade can be easily fitted into most colour palettes, and its “calming, restorative, and natural” nature can help “create spaces where occupants can reflect, recharge and recalibrate”. 3.Benjamin Moore’s choice: Aegean Teal Harmony seems to be the order of the day, and Benjamin Moore announced that a soft, soothing blue-green shade would be its colour for 2021. Aegean Teal weds the “tranquil nature of blue with green’s association with wellness”, and uses a gray undertone to create a splash of modernity. Hannah Yeo, colour marketing and development manager at Benjamin Moore, said the calming colour was an “intriguing blue-green that creates natural harmony and invites us to take a moment to reflect and reset”. 4.Farrow & Ball’s choice: 12 rejuvenating colours Like others, England-based paint company Farrow & Ball decided to stick to the rejuvenation theme but stayed away from grey and blue overtones. Chosen by colour curator Joa Studholme to “convey a sense of ease and familiarity”, the 12 earthy neutrals and rich natural shades reflect a broader trend toward warmer, organic colours. The shades include Deep Reddish Brown, Tanner’s Brown, Preference Red, Pitch Blue, Stiffkey Blue, Ultra Marine Blue, Green Smoke, Treron, Sap Green, Jitney, Dead Salmon, and India Yellow, and together combine to create timeless elegance. 5.Valspar’s choice: 12 cosy colours US-based paint manufacturer Valspar followed suit by naming 12 cozy, muted colours as its top picks. Spanning misty blue to warm apricot, the shades were chosen for “their ability to calm and encourage mindfulness”. The reason, according to Valspar colour marketing manager Sue Kim, was that homes had become offices, entertainment centres, and classrooms, which means “the colours, sights, and sounds in our rooms have an even bigger impact on our daily lives”. The shades include versatile neutrals such as Gallery Grey, Granite Dust, Maple Leaf, Soft Candlelight, and Unforgettable; warm shades such as Arizona Dust, Cherry Taupe, and Dusty Lavender; and cool hues like Academy Gray, Blissful Blue, Garden Flower, and Lucy Blue. 6.Sherwin-Williams’ choice: Urban Bronze  The gray paint with deep brown and bronze undertones may appear to be dark, but Sherwin Williams’ Colour of 2021 has a lot going for it. Apart from working extremely well as an accent wall, especially if you heighten the drama with warm neutrals, the gray-brown colour sets off front doors, cabinetry, furniture, and other accents. It combines very well with furniture made from natural materials. Think wood, stone, and woven fabrics. “The home is now the ultimate retreat from the world, and colour is an easy and effective way to create a personal haven,” says Sue Wadden, director of colour marketing at Sherwin-Williams 7.Gilden’s choice: Aqua Fiesta  This year, Glidden gave its yearly colour prediction a new twist: it announced its first-ever accent colour of the year. Aqua Fiesta is a bright, refreshing aquamarine shade that is sure to take an accent wall to the next level. The vibrant blue-green combines well with neutral paint colours such as grey, cream, taupe, and beige. We suggest adding neutral accessories and wooden furniture to soften the vitality, and create a harmonious look.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-colours-for-2021/article34057127.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Safeguarding one’s property||I stay in an apartment complex comprising 40 units. Due to the age of the building, it has been decided to reconstruct the same. However, one apartment has been vacant for the last two years as the owner passed away and he did not have any heirs. When we contacted a few of his relatives, they were not willing to interfere due to their strained relationship with the deceased. Given this issue, how do we proceed?  R.Sundararaman Chennai You must ascertain who is in possession of the apartment at present as well as the original documents of title. In the absence of direct legal heirs, Class II legal heirs (brother, sister or their children as the case may be) will become entitled to the property. It should also be checked whether the said person had left a Will. If the Class II legal heir(s) are not co-operative, the Association can file legal proceedings against them, seeking appointment of a receiver insofar as this flat is concerned. We are letting out our property to a school (institutional). The tenant has already breached the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) even before the commencement of the lease period. How can we safeguard our interest and our property? Shilpa Jain Chennai The recitals in your MoU would certainly provide for remedies in case of breach of terms mutually agreed upon. Consult your lawyer and proceed as per his/her advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/safeguarding-ones-property/article34057119.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Mix and match||Can a dish that isn’t fully cooked taste good? Can a half-done painting appear attractive? Can an unfinished building appear beautiful? The answer to the first two is a definite ‘no’. However, an unfinished house may still look good, if it is being built the natural way. Today, building with unwanted concrete columns, cement blocks, and surfaces finished with cement mortar has become the norm, which altogether express no character. The options left for one are to either choose the colour of chemical paints that are harmful to health or do up an ‘elevation’ to artificially spruce up the building. Alternatively, imagine the full wall being built with two or three different materials, colours, surfaces and textures creating both harmony and contrast. Imagine the pleasant looks without the falseness of lavish or grand elevation. Imagine the simple and elegant appearance. Mixed bag We may choose from laterite, mud, brick, stone, clay blocks, bamboo and of course painted surfaces too. Each of these offer more than one look, based on how they are built. Multiple walls provide varied sizes and scales to play with desired patterns, compositions and proportions. Mostly being natural, they need no chemical painting lifelong, offering a good view to all people living there and passing by. Can we add a touch of curved profiles? After all, curved lines are creations of nature, while straight lines, never found in nature, are a discovery by humans. Theoretically speaking, any combination of the two would be a beautiful fusion between natural and human creations. Unlike straight lines which appear the same from every angle, curves appear different from every spot, an attraction that cannot be explained, but can only be experienced. Elevation is key There is a strong myth about elevation, with every architect drawing it up. Once the structure is built, we can never see that elevation exactly the same way it is drawn up. What matters is the view, nowadays offered by software. Unfortunately, very few architects share it as seen by us standing on the road, but show it from impossible angles just because they appear good in those angles. We need to imagine a visual appeal when we walk along or enter the house. Vision in motion is more important than the technically drafted static elevation drawing. The frontal appearance can emerge from the design and construction itself, of course with natural materials. Therefore, it is high time we relook the ambience of aesthetic attraction and go the natural way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/mix-and-match/article34057131.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Bollywood bites||I’m super excited, dear friends. And that isn’t just because Mithun da has joined politics and declared that his top priority is going to be killing everyone with one bite like a cobra. It’s because my second most favourite actress in the universe, Priyanka Chopra, has announced that she’s opening an Indian restaurant in New York. Yippeee! While my excitement knows no bounds, as a bona fide fan, I’m a tad disappointed that the restaurant is called Sona . Why, PC? A bit lame, don’t you think, when you could have called it Dosai Girl ? Or Udipi Sri Jonasa Dosai Girl Vilas ? Or had an exclusive buffet-only restaurant called Quantity Co ? Or a vegan restaurant called Egsatwic ? Or a joint that served specialty naans called The Wheat Tiger ? Or a BBQ-style restaurant called Daddy’s Little Grill ? So many options. Anyway, the good news is that my watchman knows PC’s chef’s step-brother’s neighbour’s ex-wife. And she has shared some exciting news of what’s cooking (sorry for the cheap pun). Meaning, here’s a sneak peek of the exclusive Bollywood-themed menu of Sona . Shakti Kapoor’s Sick Kababs on a Nada, Twinkle Khanna’s Funnyboneless Chicken with Akki Roti, Alia Bhatt’s Silly Chicken Marinated in Ran Beer, Ekta Kapoor's Bahu Kurry with Killer Saas, SS Rajamouli’s Kattappam with SFX Stew, Suniel Shetty’s Expressionless Mussels Cooked on a Woodfire, and Hemaji’s Basanti Thayir Saadam with Lotus Seeds are some of the delicacies one can expect here. To be followed by Ranveer Singh’s Sequinned Strawberry Pista Blueberry Tomato Checkered Ice Cream with Simba Nuts on Steroids, Raju Hirani’s Saccharine Value Kulfi and Sanju Baba’s Cold Stoned Ice Cream in a variety of flavours for dessert. The bar will serve Sallu Bhai’s Blackbuck’s Fizz and Dharam Paaji’s signature cocktail, Canine Bloody Mary. Well, if my second most favourite actress is up to something, can my most favourite actress in the universe, nay, multiverse, be far behind? My readers are perfectly aware of who that is. It is she-who-teaches-stunts-to-Meryl Streep-and-accents-to-Tom Cruise. And could make Brando an offer he couldn’t refuse. News is that she — yes, her ! — isn’t going to let this go that easily. My sources tell me that she is planning her own restaurant right opposite PC’s. And that it might be called The Real Sona Not Like The Fake One Across The Road or Bharat Ka Sabse Greatest Most Fantastickest Jai Hind Restaurant of New York or If You Don’t Eat Here You’re Antinational Cafe or Tapsee Mukt Bistro . And her chef, apparently, is the guy who scored ten marks more than PC’s chef in catering college. And can deadlift 300 kg. And is also a qualified brain surgeon who just happens to prefer cooking sturgeon, so there. Rumour has it that while the restaurant will most likely be multicuisine, it won’t serve Mughlai. Or British. Or Italian. For obvious reasons. It also won’t serve Greek because Alexander lied and said he defeated Porus. It won’t serve West Indian because, well, Rihanna. Or Canadian, for that matter, because Trudeau is a closet farmer. In fact, it won’t serve anything grown by farmers. But there will be unlimited Patriotic Poori with Hrithik Masala, Low Cal Nepo-Free Salad tossed in KJojoba Oil and Chicken in a Bhasker. Come to think of it, why can’t we have more restaurants run by film actors, I say? And some South Indian ones, too. I, for one, would love to go to a restaurant run by T Rajendar. Where I could order a Coffee Not The Toffee made with a Decoction of the Solution in the Rejuvenation. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bollywood-bites/article34057486.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Write me a letter||A new book, Anything Can Be: Words of W isdom & L ove for our C hildren , goes where few venture these days: reviving the tradition of writing letters. Within its pages are missives written by 34 contributors, many of them well-known personalities — attorney Zia Mody, sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, actors Hema Malini, Boman Irani, Sameera Reddy Varde, Diana Hayden and the like — to their children and grandchildren about their dreams for them and a blueprint for the future. Intimate family photos work as cheerful companions to each letter.  Anything Can Be is an initiative by CRY, so many of the letters have also been written by mothers of children supported by the nonprofit. Proceeds from the hardbound, coffee table style book will go to CRY’s 1,000 Day Campaign to support maternal and infant health through the critical period of conception to 24 months.  Legacies and lessons  Put together by author Sathya Saran, the letters are woven with tales of family legacies and life lessons, brimming with ideals of gender equality, tolerance and compassion. Khan, for example, writes to his grandchildren, Abeer and Zohaan, about their long gharana tradition and how they are born into a family that “belongs to the world of sound”. He adds, “Sound and music have connected the world. I hope you continue the tradition when your time comes to do so.” Mody’s letter prods her grandchildren to “champion a specific cause as you grow up and spend time and money to make the necessary change happen”. Other letters speak of small and big struggles of families striving to afford a home and a decent education to ensure a better life for the next generation. Contributor Seema Ramesh Nirmal, the mother of a child supported by CRY who found it difficult to adjust to the bustle of city life when her family moved to a chawl in Mumbai from her village, shares in her letter to her children, Niraj and Dheeraj, wise words of advice. “City life is different; here one loses touch with roots with family. Distances and the demands of everyday life make every one of us isolated individuals. And I am worried it could do this to you. So my sons, remember the times and learnings you have had from your elders, your grandparents… Remember the visits to our village in Pratapgarh Zilla, and what you saw and learnt there.” Universal theme Though the letters have an intimate feel to them, they speak to an audience united by similar concerns for their children. Saran says it was a curious idea to curate a book full of letters at a time when “WhatsApp and abbreviations have taken over our lives”. While letters, unlike phone messages, last and can be read and reread… most people have forgotten the art of writing one, she states in her introduction to the book, adding, “Letters imply... a certain need to communicate, to reveal true feelings, and to say things that will stand the test of time and the scrutiny of others perhaps, besides the person the letter is written for.” The contributors, too, felt charmed by the romance of writing a letter to be part of a bigger, noble theme. “I agreed to do it in a heartbeat — it was such a novel and thoughtful idea,” says Mandira Bedi, whose letter to her son, Vir, offers him a road map, by way of gratitude and love. “Normally I am a WhatsApp, short and sweet kind of person. But this was an opportunity to express my feelings and what life has taught me in detail. It is something that will stay with my kids over time.” For the actor Irani, who writes letters regularly, it was an unusual experience to address one to his young grandchildren, Ziaan and Sysha. “It was unusual simply because one does not normally write to grandchildren who don’t read or write. So the letter, in many ways, is going to be retrospective when they finally get to read it. It was an emotional little moment. I do write letters very often to loved ones, to my sons, to my wife, to friends, but when this came up, it made me extremely emotional. I am grateful for this opportunity [to write a letter] that my grandchildren can read some years from now,” he concludes.  Published by Penguin   India, Anything Can Be: Words   of Wisdom & Love for our Children is available at Rs. 699.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/write-me-a-letter/article34057485.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The women at Netflix||On the occasion of International Women’s Day, Netflix put together a series of roundtables featuring women filmmakers and actors to talk about how the role of women, both in front of the camera and behind it, has changed over the years. Ranging from Lust Stories and Paava Kadhaigal to Masaba Masaba and Tribhanga , an increasing number of stories about and by women are finding place in Netflix’s lineup. As a platform, the streaming service has been very vocal about its commitment to fostering inclusivity. Recently, the company released its first ‘inclusion report’, which revealed that women comprised 47.1% of its workforce internationally. “We are pretty close to 50% in terms of employee ratio even in India. We’ve had a great run in the movies as well. For 2020-21, 50% of our creators are either female producers or female directors. Across films and series, 50% of the protagonists were women,” says Srishti Behl Arya, Director, India Original Films, Netflix.  On Masaba Masaba : When director Sonam Nair was putting together the crew for Masaba Masaba , a hybrid show that marries fact with fiction, starring the mother-daughter pair Masaba and Neena Gupta, she found herself gravitating towards women. “In season one, our producer, the director, all the writers, most of the lead actors and most of the HODs, except for the cinematographer, were female. I instinctively felt that with something like a Masaba Masaba , a woman would know what’s on a character’s bedside table. Or when Neena ji is putting a face pack on, they’d know what kind of face pack. Basically, I didn’t want to explain the details of their intimate lives to every single person,” explains Nair.     Not just lip service: While there are more stories being told by women and about women, there are still many hurdles to clear. Author and filmmaker Tahira Kashyap Khurrana, whose short film Pinni is currently on the platform, as part of an anthology titled Zindagi in Short , says, “Everyone’s challenges are unique and individual. Personally, being a married woman with two kids and being married to a certain profile [her husband Ayushmann Khurrana is a well-known actor] has been a challenge. But I feel that it is not just lip service anymore or writing slogans for women empowerment — we can actually see it happening now.”     Focus on the flawed: Renuka Shahane, who made her directorial début with Tribhanga starring Kajol earlier this year, believes that mainstream Bollywood is a behemoth that is slow to embrace change. “Take Tribhanga, for example; after the narration people asked, ‘There’s no hero in the film? How can a film be made without a hero? There must be some romance or there must be a man.’ And so, there is nothing they would want to put their money on. Also a story like this still cannot be told in the mainstream without making it adult content, because we have a different system of censoring films.”     Unboxing roles: A future when a character’s gender doesn’t take away his or her individuality, and a ‘female’ director is referred to just as a director, is what women in cinema are hoping for. “Also, the baggage that comes with being a ‘female director’ — because you are expected to tell a certain kind of story. Not to be boxed in is the real challenge,” concludes Ayesha Sood, one of the directors of the docuseries Indian Predator .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-women-at-netflix/article34057502.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Huts replace trolleys and tractors as farmers gear up for long haul||Thatched roofs and solar panels have now replaced several trolleys at the Singhu border where farmers have been camping for over three months. The rows of tractors and trolleys that had been holding fort at the Capital’s borders and had been a common sight since the agitation began, has now given way to small hut-like structures with thatched roofs to house the protesting farmers. Farmers from Delhi’s borders have been demanding a legal guarantee of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and a repeal of the three controversial farm laws brought in by the Centre last year. Stating that the chapar (thatched roof) is a means to avoid the heat, Harinder Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Roopnagar district, said: “Usually the raw material is sourced from rivers. We got one full trolley of material so that after constructing roofs for ourselves we also have enough to distribute it to others.” In a few instances, a plastic sheet has also been placed above the thatched roof to prevent seepage during rains. Solar energy Protesting farmers said that while several sets of solar panels had been distributed at the Tikri border as well, more such units would be brought to the Singhu border to ensure the movement is not disrupted if the government cuts off electricity. “For the current weather, this is sufficient. Once the heat increases, we will get air conditioners and solar panels to support it. The manner in which things are proceeding, we want to be self-sufficient as the government can do anything and even cut off power supply. We want to have our own arrangements so that the protest continues,” said Mr. Singh. Satinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Ludhiana’s Heera village, said that the process of installing solar panels had already begun for those from their village. Back up measure “We sent four solar panels to the Tikri border and have kept two panels at the Singhu border. The solar panels will be installed on the thatched roof, which we are in the process of constructing. Even if there is disruption in the electricity supply, the solar panel will ensure that at least one fan is working. Our relatives and siblings who live abroad have also contributed towards this apart from the villagers,” said Mr. Gill.  The manner in which things are proceeding, we want to be self-sufficient as the government can do anything and even cut off power supply  Harinder Singh  A protester||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/huts-replace-trolleys-and-tractors-as-farmers-gear-up-for-long-haul/article34057530.ece
13 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana budget focuses on health and agriculture||The Haryana government on Friday presented the budget for 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs. 1,55,645 crore, focusing on health, agriculture and infrastructure. Chief Minister Manohar Lal, who also holds the portfolio of Finance, while presenting the budget, said Rs. 1,55,645 crore had been allocated for 2021-22, an increase of 13% over revised estimate (RE) 2020-21 of Rs. 1,37,738 crore. “The budget outlay comprises 25% as capital expenditure of Rs. 38,718 crore and 75% as revenue expenditure of Rs. 1,16,927 crore,” he said. The budget had been prepared amid the unprecedented global crisis induced by the COVID-19 pandemic and challenges being faced as never before. “Health of our people has been accorded top priority and reiterating the same, Rs. 7,731 crore has been allocated in 2021-22, which is an increase of 20.2% over the RE 2020-21 outlay of Rs. 6,433 crore,” he said. The Chief Minister said the government had identified health, agriculture and infrastructure as key priority areas that needed to be focussed to arrest the contraction in economy and take a path of resurgence. He said the government was committed towards realising the national goal of making agriculture futuristic and doubling the income of farmers. “An amount of Rs. 6,110 crore has been allocated for the year 2021-22, an increase of 20.9% against the RE 2020-21 of Rs. 5,052 crore,” Mr. Lal said. He added that the Directorate of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, in 2021-22 fiscal, would work towards strengthening Haryana’s presence in five major focus areas — aerospace and defence, toy industry, services sector, construction and industrial parks. Mr. Lal said the government would bring in a comprehensive legislation in the Vidhan Sabha for the long-term implementation of the ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ (PPP) programme. ‘A disappointment’ However, the Congress termed the budget a sheer disappointment. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said people had high expectations from this budget, but it had nothing for them. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed concern over deteriorating financial health of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-budget-focuses-on-health-and-agriculture/article34057518.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Anamika Khanna ready for a reunion||There is no doubt that Anamika Khanna is one of India’s most talented and well-regarded fashion designers. With no formal fashion training, she has built her brand’s signature on hybrid silhouettes that work for women of all shapes, and painstaking surface embellishments that balance traditional embroideries with modern application. On the hanger, her clothes look like cherished heirlooms, yet wear like red carpet entrances. To anyone, she would be the ideal designer to open the newly-reunited FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week; the first time the twain have met since their split in 2006. Even so, she has had to face comments like ‘Why Anamika? She’s a Calcutta designer!’, the source of which she chooses not to share. “Why would anyone say something like this? I’m an Indian designer; I could be from anywhere in the country!” This only goes to show the deep chasm that the Great Fashion Week Split created when it happened. Over the years, it grew into a rivalry — the pre-existing Delhi-Mumbai Divide helped — that manifested in real business outcomes for designers based in Delhi and Mumbai, as well as elsewhere.  Quiet isn’t always bad  At 49, Khanna is one of the few designers to have shown at both fashion weeks over her 16 years in the business, so I ask her if this merger became possible because the platforms have recently gone digital due to COVID-19. “I think going digital just sped up the inevitable,” she says. “The coming together of these two giant platforms unifies the entire fashion industry. When you go to France, you don’t have 10 different fashion weeks, do you? This is a good move, and I’m excited to be part of this historic event.” But will this partnership survive when physical shows come back? “That’s just a detail,” she says. “Shows can happen anywhere. All over the world, the media travels to the host cities. As a designer based in Kolkata, I’ve always packed up my collection and my team, and gone to wherever the shows are being held. So I hope this merger continues to go strong.” Khanna’s last show happened in Mumbai at Lakmé Fashion Week (LFW) in January 2018 (the finale; Kareena Kapoor walked the ramp). Since then, the high points — at least from a brand and marketing perspective — have been few and far between. She hasn’t launched any major collections on Instagram as is the norm today, and her twin sons’ label, AK-OK — an athleisure line launched in 2019 — has not perceptibly broken any ground on social media yet (with just over 6k followers at the time of going to press). She gently disagrees. “We’ve launched the Mumbai flagship store [at Kala Ghoda] recently,” Khanna says over a Zoom call. “And AK-OK has found its online retail presence where the collections have started rolling out. We’ve launched our men’s line, too. So a lot has been happening, even though we’ve been doing everything quietly.” She had even planned to launch a home line before the lockdown, but that took a back seat due to the pandemic. “But it has worked in our favour. We’ve always been a quiet brand, and we’re hitting higher numbers,” she adds. “India is a land of celebrations and weddings, and that never stops.” Had she felt the need to create more social media and marketing buzz, she would have, she says. “I just don’t want to go crazy and do things just because I have to.”   Flip side of fashion  The timeline of her fashion shows, for both the FDCI and Lakmé-led fashion weeks, attests to this. Famously inconsistent, she hasn’t held fashion shows season after season as expected, and prefers to pick her moments. “Everyone forgets that I’m a mother first,” she says. “I’ve brought up two boys who’ve gone through school, exams, activities, sports, illnesses, vaccines, and a number of other things. So there have been challenging times that I’ve had to navigate.” She adds that there is a part of her that needs to be 100% convinced to take anything on — and a fashion show by any standards is a big undertaking — otherwise she simply doesn’t do it. “Besides, being from Kolkata, I’m away from the daily hullabaloo of fashion.” I ask her if this physical remove keeps her sane. “Probably. There is a lot of pressure that designers face. Pressure that you have to create collections and sell them, that you have to be present on social media... otherwise you’ll be lost in the crowd; it’s extremely challenging,” she says. “It’s like you’re at a party for just a second, but you take a picture and post it. Or you’re designing a garment and you begin with thinking which colour would look best for an Instagram post. Or you stand next to a stranger’s car and take a selfie. How am I going to create anything if all I’m thinking about is how it’ll look like on social media? I cannot live like that.” Her tone at this point is earnest, and exhausted even from thinking about the topic.  The right priorities  Two years ago, Khanna went through what her friend Sonam Kapoor described on social media as a “terrible illness” that spun off into an online debate. In our conversation, she hints that one of the reasons her health suffered was work-related stress. “I had a major health episode two years ago... and that happened because I was going mad!” Once she was back on her feet, she started taking things more slowly, and allowed herself to enjoy the process. “Today, I don’t want to see Instagram. I’m totally ignorant about what other people are doing. I want to be able to create beautiful things and push my creativity to the next level, to wake up and be excited for my work,” she says. “This collection has been put together in a short time, but I’ve loved every minute of designing and making it. I’ve grown with it,” she adds, while refusing to even hint at what to expect. There is one last question that I put to her as delicately as I can, for Khanna has done multiple ‘opening’ and ‘finale’ fashion shows — a phenomenon unique to Indian fashion weeks. I ask if celebrating fashion shows because of their scheduling creates a sense of the theatrical, and if that takes away from the business and economic role the industry plays. “What bothers me more is that it creates a narrative that some designers are better than others because they are opening or closing the event,” she says, adding that she doesn’t think it affects business as much as it does the perception of the designers in the market. Not having ever worried about perception herself, Anamika Khanna may just be the exception that proves the rule.  Anamika Khanna’s show for the FDCI x Lakmé Fashion Week is scheduled on March 16, and will stream live on both the FDCI and LFW Instagram handles.   The writer is a fashion commentator and brand consultant.   Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/anamika-khanna-ready-for-a-reunion/article34057501.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Showers bring relief from sweltering heat||Light shower and overcast conditions brought relief from the soaring temperatures in the Capital on Friday. The maximum temperature settled at 30.7 degrees Celsius, which fell from the 35.5 degrees Celsius recorded the previous day, six degrees above normal for the season. The minimum settled at 17.9 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is likely to fall further as several parts of the city experienced gusty winds in the evening as well. The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 2.6 mm rainfall till 8.30 a.m. but nothing after 5.30 p.m. The relief came under the influence of a Western Disturbance. The forecast by the Met department shows that the temperatures are likely to rise again as no more rain is forecast. The forecast for March 13 reads: “Partly cloudy sky with mist in the morning.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/showers-bring-relief-from-sweltering-heat/article34057526.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Doctor arrested for sending proxy to medical council exam||A 35-year-old doctor has been arrested for allegedly paying another person and making him sit at a medical exam so that he could get registered with the Indian Medical Council (IMC), police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the complainant, identified as Dr. Vinay, came to police station along with the accused identified as Manohar Singh and narrated the story. Police said that National Board of Examinations is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to standardise medical education in India. The NBE conducts a Foreign Medical Examination (FMGE) for Indian and overseas citizens to get registered with Indian Medical Examination. The accused, Dr. Manohar, completed his MBBS from Tajik State Medical University in Tajikistan and has been trying to clear the exam for the last six years but failed, police revealed. Caught on camera Police said that the last FMGE was conducted on December 4 last year and an admit card was issued in the name of Dr. Manohar. The test was conducted at Mathura Road but the result was frozen because the picture captured on the exam day did not match the picture on the application form. He was subsequently called for verification. But Dr. Manohar didn’t come. On March 10, he visited the NBE for verification and his photo didn’t match with the person whose picture was taken on the exam day. Therefore, he was taken to Sarita Vihar Police Station. The DCP said that during interrogation, the accused allegedly told the police that he was residing in Gautam Pur and met a doctor who offered him to sit at the exam in his place in return of Rs. 4 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctor-arrested-for-sending-proxy-to-medical-council-exam/article34057524.ece
13 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Allocation for SDGs hiked||The Haryana government in its budget presented on Friday earmarked Rs. 45,066.16 crore for various welfare and development schemes under 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The allocation is 14.07% higher than the revised budget estimates of Rs. 39,506.79 crore for the previous year. The maximum allocation of Rs. 7449.41 crore is for Reduced Inequalities, followed by Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (Rs. 4,705.53 crore); Zero Hunger (Rs. 4,698.98 crore); Clean Water and Sanitation (Rs. 4,433.21 crore) and Gender Equality (Rs. 3,647.22 crore). A total of Rs. 1172.04 crore — around 2.60% of the budgetary allocations for the SDGs – has been earmarked for Climate Action. The other SDGs are: No Poverty, Good Health and Well Being; Quality Education; Affordable and Clean Energy; Decent Work and Economic Growth; Sustainable Cities and Communities; Responsible Consumption and Production, Life on Land; Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions and Partnerships for the Goals.  827 schemes There are 827 welfare and development schemes and programmes linked to relevant SDGs to be implemented by different departments, including Parivar Pehchan Patra, Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana and Mukhyamantri Vivah Shagun Yojana, to name a few. A total of 175 schemes and programmes will be implemented by 28 departments under Reduced Inequalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allocation-for-sdgs-hiked/article34057513.ece
13 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha MLA tries to ‘drink’ sanitiser||An Odisha legislator tried to consume sanitiser inside the State Assembly on Friday in protest over alleged non-procurement of paddy from farmers in mandis. BJP MLA of Deogarh Subash Panigrahi was thwarted from drinking the sanitiser by State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Bikram Keshari Arukha and fellow MLAs who were present in the House.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-mla-tries-to-drink-sanitiser/article34057514.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||Toolkit: activist extended protection from arrest||A Delhi court on Friday extended by three days the interim protection from arrest granted to climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari, a co-accused along with Disha Ravi and others in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a “toolkit” on social media related to the farmers’ protest. Additional Session Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief after police sought an adjournment in the proceedings related to an anticipatory bail moved by Chaudhari in the matter. Chaudhariwas recently granted transit bail by the Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court.  Anticipatory bail pleas During the brief hearing on Friday, the police urged the court to adjourn the matter till March 15, when the anticipatory bail applications filed by co-accused Disha Ravi and Shantanu Mukul are scheduled for hearing. “No coercive action be taken against the accused till next date of hearing,” the court directed, after the accused informed the judge that the protection garnered by the High Court was scheduled to end on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/toolkit-activist-extended-protection-from-arrest/article34057520.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||AQI stays in poor category||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram continued to be in the “poor” category on Friday while Noida’s was in the “moderate” level, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. “Expected rainfall is likely to contribute to AQI positively through wet deposition. AQI is likely to improve to moderate category on Saturday,” said a statement by SAFAR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aqi-stays-in-poor-category/article34057527.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for extortion||A 32-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly cheating women by taking money from them on the pretext of medical care of his loved ones. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Mohit Goyal and he was arrested on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-extortion/article34057523.ece
13 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Realtor opens fire to ‘scare’ ex-girlfriend||A 32-year-old property dealer was arrested for allegedly opening fire to “scare” his 21-year-old ex-girlfriend after she blocked his number and started “ignoring” him in west Delhi, police said on Friday. The accused, Suresh Kadyan, is the son of a retired army officer, they said. His friend Pawan (45) was also arrested for allegedly giving his licensed revolver, which was used in the Wednesday evening incident, they revealed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said the woman has been ignoring the man for the past few days and he became more aggressive after she blocked his number. “During questioning, the accused revealed that he wanted to take revenge on his girlfriend. He went to his girlfriend’s house, but could not find her there. Then he got to know that she had gone to her friend’s house in Subhash Nagar. So he reached there and fired in the air to threaten them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/realtor-opens-fire-to-scare-ex-girlfriend/article34057528.ece
13 March 2021||Guwahati,||‘Probe Assam Rifles HQ land deeds’||An influential NGO in Mizoram has demanded a probe into the alleged land settlement certificates for owning plots within a battalion headquarters of India’s oldest paramilitary force. The 186-year-old Assam Rifles has been occupying a vast area in the central part of State capital Aizawl as a battalion headquarters since 1917. The force’s 46th Battalion is currently camped there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-assam-rifles-hq-land-deeds/article34057515.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||FIIB hosts author’s talk with Bhavna Dalal||Premier Business School, Fortune Institute of International Business (FIIB), conducted its first-ever author’s talk on March 6 with leadership coach Bhavna Dalal, author of Checkmate Office Politics. The session focused on how one could evolve learning from every corporate experience. The online session, which revolved around several aspects of corporate life, had 51 participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fiib-hosts-authors-talk-with-bhavna-dalal/article34057519.ece
13 March 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19: HC refuses to postpone Mar 13-14 judicial exam||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to postpone Delhi Higher Judicial Service Main Examination-2019, scheduled on March 13-14, till the COVID-19 vaccination drive is complete for lawyers. A Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and A J Bhambhani said the exam cannot be postponed at the eleventh hour as other candidates who have already arrived for writing the exam would be prejudiced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-hc-refuses-to-postponemar-13-14-judicialexam/article34057522.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Donate a Wall: Kerala’s success with Insta-ready walls continues. Over 17 days, artist Sachin Samson transformed the walls of this fisherman’s house in Kasaragod with a mural that showcases Chaavukara — a phenomenon where fishes and prawns throng the ocean during a specific season. The work is part of St+art India’s Donate a Wall programme, now ongoing in the state. @startindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34057487.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Charlotte de Witte update||Belgian DJ and record producer Charlotte de Witte is bringing her brand of minimal techno to India, performing live in Goa on March 19 and Bengaluru on March 21. Tickets for the limited-capacity event start at Rs. 2,800, on in.bookmyshow.com. Meanwhile, an eclectic lineup, including Lucky Ali and Raghav Meattle, will participate in the Open Up India Concert, to help informal sector workers affected by the pandemic. Hosted by VJ-DJ Nikhil Chinapa, it is organised by UNDP India. On March 13, at 7 pm, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/charlotte-de-witte-update/article34057488.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance or make a film?||It appears that choreographer and YouTuber Sonali Bhadauria’s masterclass is much sought after. The two-hour-long session (for all age groups) will include moves to ‘Nadiyon Paar’ from the Jhanvi Kapoor-starrer Roohi . March 14 at 5 pm. Rs. 400, on insider.in. What’s keeping the director in you in check? Bengaluru-based Independent filmmaker Bharat Darira’s workshop, Make Zero Budget Short Films, will cover topics such as casting on a budget, building a crew, and the like. March 13, 4 pm. Rs. 400, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dance-or-make-a-film/article34057489.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||BAFTA nods||With over 120 changes introduced to the process, the nominees for the BAFTAs are highly diverse this year. Adarsh Gourav scored a Leading Actor nomination for The White Tiger , while four women vie in the Best Director category, including Chloé Zhao for Nomadland . Zhao’s drama has seven nominations. While the BAFTAs will be held without a live audience on April 11, the Oscars will be held on April 26 (5.30 am IST). Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas will announce the nominations on March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bafta-nods/article34057490.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Grammy Awards: Singer Harry Styles, who will open the show, and K-pop stars BTS are among the artistes who will take the stage at music’s biggest night, hosted by comedian and talk show host, Trevor Noah. For audiences tired of virtual events (and that includes the technical glitches at the Golden Globes!), Grammy organisers promise a spectacular live show. March 15 (6.30 am IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34057491.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The Bihar biennale||Thirteen museums are participating in the hybrid Bihar Museum Biennale. While visitors can physically see two exhibitions at the Bihar Museum, a free virtual two-day conference, tours and masterclasses (Zoom links to be available from March 15) will be held. From March 22 to 28. On biharmuseumbiennale2021.org. Meanwhile, the first vial used in the COVID-19 vaccinations in the US has been added to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. The Pfizer-BioNTech jab was administered to ICU nurse, Sandra Lindsay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-bihar-biennale/article34057492.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||This one’s for Karnad||Theatre Nisha will stageArundhati, a play written last year as an homage to author Girish Karnad. It is inspired by the maid, Swarnalatha’s narrative from Karnad’s book, Yayati . At Alliance Française of Madras. March 13 at 3 pm and 7 pm. Rs. 200 on in.bookmyshow.com. QTP and Natak Company present White Rabbit Red Rabbit by Iranian playwright Nassim Soleimanpour. The play is handed to a new performer each time. In English, Hindi or Marathi, March 13 at 8 pm. Rs. 300 onwards, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/this-ones-for-karnad/article34057493.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Kunal Kapur’s kitchen||The celebrity chef’s new book, Kunal Kapur in the Kitchen, will explore memories of dining table conversations and flavours from his grandfather’s kitchen. Recipes get a “fresh new spin”, resulting in dishes such as ham and cheese breadpakoras.Releases March 15. Rs. 1,250. Why did Munaf Kapadia quit his job at a tech company to start his successful home restaurant, The Bohri Kitchen? Find out in his book, How I Quit Google to sell Samosas: Adventures with the Bohri Kitchen . Available for pre-order on amazon.in, at Rs. 319.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kunal-kapurs-kitchen/article34057495.ece
13 March 2021||March 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Select your comedy||Actor and writer Ankita Shrivastav brings her brand of observational comedy into your home. Catch her latest routine, Main , Meri Family aur Lockdown , on March 13-14, and 20-21. Rs. 299 on in.bookmyshow.com. ‘Your manager should factor in the time you spend spiralling on the internet when they fix your deadlines,’ Kautuk Srivastava recently tweeted. The writer and comedian’sWorking on the Vaccinesees him trying to make sense of the new ‘abnormal’ and his marriage. March 14 at 8 pm. Rs. 249, on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/select-your-comedy/article34057494.ece
