14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 60% of active COVID-19 cases recorded in Maharashtra||India on Saturday recorded 24,882 fresh COVID-19 infections, the highest so far this year. This is also the highest daily rise in the last 83 days. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded on December 20 last year. Maharashtra continues to account for over 60% (63.57%) of the active COVID-19 cases with Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh constituting 87.72% of the new cases in the 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Saturday, according to the Health Ministry. The active caseload stands at 2.02 lakh (2,02,022) on Saturday, which is 1.78% of the positive cases, while the country registered 24,882 new cases in the last 24 hours. “Eight States — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana — are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. On the other hand, 20 States/UTs, including Goa, Bihar, Sikkim and Tripura, have less than 1,000 active cases,” the Health Ministry said. It said 140 deaths had been reported, with five States accounting for 81.43% of them. Maharashtra saw the highest casualties (56), followed by Punjab (34) and Kerala (14). The cumulative recoveries stand at 1,09,73,260 and the national recovery rate is 96.82%. The gap between recovered and active cases is constantly rising and stands at 1,07,71,238. In the last 24 hours, India registered 19,957 recoveries, 86.43% of them concentrated in six States, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of single day recoveries at 11,344.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-60-of-active-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra/article34064874.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai,||Follow rules, Thackeray orders hotel industry||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday ordered the hotel industry in the State to strictly adhere to safety protocols to counter COVID-19. Cautioning them to not force his government to implement lockdown yet again, Mr. Thackeray said this was the last warning from his side. “In the last four months, everything had come back to normal as if the pandemic was gone and over. Even in Europe, similar behaviour was seen resulting in an increase in number of cases. If we do not want to let our State turn in to Europe like situation then we have no option but to adhere to strict health norms,” said Mr. Thackeray, in a meeting with representatives from the hotel industry. Mr. Thackeray said self-discipline is one of the most important thing. “Last year, the pandemic was spreading in slums and now it is being observed mostly in housing societies, bungalows. That is because this class of people has suddenly begun going out, eating in hotels and socialising,” he said. Recalling the observations of a central team which had come to Mumbai last week, Mr. Thackeray said the team pointed to slackness in observing physical distancing, and non-use of masks, among other things. “Initially all norms were followed. We still have time to learn from the mistakes. We have no interest in imposing lockdown but don’t force us,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said that he has authorised local civic bodies to take appropriate actions against those hotels and restaurants who are not following the guidelines. 15,602 cases Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 15,602 fresh COVID-19 cases and 88 deaths, taking the number of cases to 22,97,793 and fatalities to 52,811, according to the health department. Of these 88 fatalities, 40 occurred in the last 48 hours and 21 in the last week. With 7,461 patients getting discharged from hospitals during the day, recoveries rose to 21,25,211. At 1,828, Nagpur city recorded the highest number of fresh cases, followed by 1,709 in Mumbai and 1,667 in Pune city. Mumbai’s COVID-19 tally increased to 3,41,999 while five more fatalities took the toll to 11,528. Pune division comprising civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, among others reported the highest number of 3,365 infections.    (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/follow-rules-thackeray-orders-hotel-industry/article34065358.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||On Twitter, Disha recounts ordeal||A month after she was arrested by the Delhi police on February 13 for sedition, 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi came on record for the first time and wrote about her ordeal in a series of posts on Twitter. “All that is real feels far too unreal,” she said. Ms. Ravi, who resides in Bengaluru, was arrested over a toolkit to express global solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ protests she had allegedly edited. She was granted bail 10 days later. Expressing her dismay at how she found herself arrested, Ms. Ravi said: “In all the years that someone had asked me where I see myself in five years, I would have never answered ‘jail’ but here I was...I had coerced myself into believing that the only way I would be able to live through this was by tricking myself into thinking that this wasn’t happening to me.” She also detailed how she realised she did not have legal counsel. “As I stood in that courtroom, desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that I would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available so when the judge asked me if I had anything to say, I decided to speak my mind,” she said. She also criticised the media outlets “seekers of TRP”. “...In the days that followed, my autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty -- not in the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs,” her statement said. She went on to add about her climate change activism: “...It is about being radically inclusive of all groups of people, so that everyone has access to clean air, food and water,” she said. She thanked everyone who stood by her. “...I was lucky enough to have excellent pro bono legal assistance, but what of all those who do not?” she said. She ended her message with the importance and impact of truth. “Ideas do not die. And, truth, no matter how long it takes, always reveals itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-twitter-disha-recounts-ordeal/article34064923.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Spike in daily infections continues||The State reported two COVID-19 deaths and 175 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning even as the spike in daily infections continued in several districts. The two deaths occurred in Anantapur and Chittoor districts. While the death toll reached 7,182, the tally increased to 8,91,563. The mortality rate was 0.81%. The number of active cases increased to 1,268 despite 132 patients recovering during the period. The overall number of recoveries increased to 8,83,113. The recovery rate marginally came down to 99.05%. During the 24-hour period, 40,448 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 0.39%. So far, 1.449 crore samples, with a positivity rate of 6.15%, had been tested. The number of tests per million reached 2.71 lakh.  Chittoor leads the chart Chittoor once again reported the highest number of new infections (40) and it was followed by East Godavari, which reported 31 new cases. They were followed by Krishna (24), Visakhapatnam (20), Guntur (15), Kadapa (9), Prakasam (9), Anantapur (7), Srikakulam (6), Vizianagaram (6), Nellore (5) and West Godavari (3). There were no new cases in Kurnool district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-in-daily-infections-continues/article34064878.ece
14 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to ban burkha, shut 1,000 madrasas||Sri Lanka will soon ban the burkha or face veil, a Cabinet Minister said on Saturday, as he announced the Rajapaksa administration’s latest policy decision impacting the minority Muslim community. Public Security Minister Sarath Weerasekara said the authorities would henceforth use the controversial Prevention of Terrorism (PTA) law — that human rights defenders have termed “draconian” — to deal with religious extremism, with wide-ranging powers to detain suspects for up to two years, to “deradicalise” them. Security concerns At a media conference, Mr. Weerasekara said, “The burkha is something that directly affects our national security… this [dress] came into Sri Lanka only recently. It is a symbol of their religious extremism. While the Minister said he had signed documents outlawing the burkha, the move awaits Cabinet approval. Over 1,000 madrasas would be shut, he said. The announcement on the burkha ban comes after a year-long controversy over the government’s policy of mandatory cremation of COVID-19 victims, based on unsubstantiated claims that the bodies would contaminate ground water. The government reversed its decision recently, amid persistent calls for burial rights from Muslims, who make up about 10% of the 21-million population, as well as international bodies including the U.N.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sri-lanka-to-ban-burkha-shut-1000-madrasas/article34064918.ece
14 March 2021||Kolkata,||Yashwant Sinha joins Trinamool Congress||Former Union Finance Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Yashwant Sinha on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress. Senior leaders of the Trinamool, including Sudip Banerjee, Derek O’Brien and Subrata Mukherjee welcomed Mr. Sinha into the party. Before officially joining the party, Mr. Sinha met its chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for nearly 45 minutes at her Kalighat residence. Mr. Sinha, once one of the tallest leaders of the BJP, is now a vocal critic of the policies of the Narendra Modi-led government. He quit the BJP in April 2018. The development assumes significance in poll-bound West Bengal. “You will be surprised at today’s development as to why at this age I am joining a party when I had withdrawn from party politics. This is because the country is passing through crucial times,” Mr. Sinha said. The 83-year-old politician said democracy does not only mean elections every five years. “The strength of democracy lies in the strength of institutions and I say it with regret that these institutions, including the judiciary, in the country have been weakened,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yashwant-sinha-joins-trinamool/article34064919.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Don’t encourage bogus voting, CEO tells parties||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO)Teeka Ram Meena on Saturday requested political parties not to encourage bogus voting, adding that such illegal practices will be dealt with sternly. Candidates are required to disclose information regarding criminal cases against them when filing the affidavits, Mr. Meena said, addressing a meeting of political parties held here in connection with the April 6 Assembly polls. The filing of nominations had begun in the State on Friday. Political parties are required to explain as to why they were unable to select individuals without criminal antecedents as candidates. The political party concerned should publish the explanation in newspapers and the social media platform and website of the party within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate or not less than two weeks before the first date for the filing of nominations, whichever is earlier. Political parties are also required to file a report of compliance in this regard to the Election Commission within 72 hours of the selection of the candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-encourage-bogus-voting-ceo-tells-parties/article34065224.ece
14 March 2021||Kolkata,||Yashwant Sinha joins Trinamool||Former Union Finance Minister and BJP leader Yashwant Sinha on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress. Senior leaders of the Trinamool, including Sudip Banerjee, Derek O’Brien and Subrata Mukherjee welcomed Mr. Sinha into the party. Before officially joining the party, Mr. Sinha met its chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for nearly 45 minutes at her Kalighat residence. Mr. Sinha, once one of the tallest leaders of the BJP, is now a vocal critic of the policies of the Narendra Modi-led government. He quit the BJP in April 2018. The development assumes significance in poll-bound West Bengal. “You will be surprised at today’s development as to why at this age I am joining a party when I had withdrawn from party politics. This is because the country is passing through crucial times,” Mr. Sinha said. The 83-year-old politician said democracy does not only mean elections every five years. “The strength of democracy lies in the strength of institutions and I say it with regret that these institutions, including the judiciary, have been weakened,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yashwant-sinha-joins-trinamool/article34065477.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No mask, no flight,’ say tough, new DGCA rules||Passengers refusing to wear masks properly or follow social distancing norms during a flight despite repeated warnings could be put on a no-fly list for a period of three months to two years or more, according to an order issued by aviation safety regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The DGCA also said if a passenger refuses to comply with the instructions before a flight takes off, he or she should be deboarded. The strict instructions follow a Delhi High Court order after a judge noticed blatant disregard for COVID-19 safety protocols during a flight. “In case any passenger on board refuses to wear a mask or violates the COVID-19 protocol even after repeated warnings, such passenger may be treated as ‘unruly passenger’ and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger as provided in CAR (civil aviation requirements) shall be followed by the concerned airline,” the DGCA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-mask-no-flight-say-tough-new-dgca-rules/article34064880.ece
14 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to ban burqa, to shut madrasas||Sri Lanka will soon ban the burqa or face veil, a Cabinet Minister said on Saturday, as he announced the Rajapaksa administration’s latest policy decision impacting the minority Muslim community. Public Security Minister Sarath Weerasekara said authorities would henceforth use the controversial Prevention of Terrorism (PTA) law — that human rights defenders have termed ‘draconian’— to deal with religious extremism, with wide-ranging powers to detain suspects for up to two years, to ‘deradicalise’ them. At a media conference, Mr. Weerasekara said, “The burqa is something that directly affects our national security…this [dress] came into Sri Lanka only recently. It is a symbol of their religious extremism.” While the Minister said he had signed the documents outlawing the burqa, the move awaits Cabinet approval. Over 1,000 madrasas would be shut, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sri-lanka-to-ban-burqa-to-shut-madrasas/article34064879.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Election for two Graduates’ constituencies today||The stage is set for election to two of the three Graduates’ constituencies of the Legislative Council spread over 76 Assembly constituencies in six districts of the State on Sunday. The two Graduates’ constituencies represent two clusters of erstwhile districts, Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahabubnagar and Khammam - Warangal - Nalgonda, where polling will be held from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Counting of votes will be taken up on Wednesday in Hyderabad and Nalgonda respectively. The TRS and BJP are vying to retain their seats in the two constituencies but both parties face stiff challenge from rivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/election-for-two-graduates-constituencies-today/article34065171.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Dancing up a storm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dancing-up-a-storm/article34065293.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,||IIM seeks govt. support for Chennai campus||Indian Institute of Managemen-Tiruchi is keen on establishing a permanent campus in Chennai for which it expects sanction of land by the State government. The institution has been functioning out of a rented building in Chennai where it offers MBA programme for working executives. Citing the start of satellite campuses by IIM-Lucknow, IIM-Rohtak and IIM-Kozhikode in Noida, Gurgaon and Kochi respectively with support of the respective State governments, Director of IIM-Tiruchi Pawan Kumar Singh told media persons on Thursday that allotment of 10 acres of land in Chennai will enable scaling up of enrolment. The Chennai campus now caters to 100 learners. “The place where we operate is important for the institution's growth,” Prof. Pawan Kumar Singh said. The student strength would be increased gradually on the main campus in Tiruchi from the present 490. For this to happen, the IIM-T awaits release of the last tranche of seed money from the Ministry of Education, he said. While the institution has attained financial sustenance, funding was vital for the infrastructure expansion to have a higher number of students on the campus. Having established its expertise in offering certification programmes, management development programmes and faculty development programmes, the IIM-T would strengthen its focus on consultation for government and corporate sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iim-seeks-govt-support-for-chennai-campus/article34065098.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Moves and the movement||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/moves-and-the-movement/article34065056.ece
14 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to ban burkha, shut madrasas||Sri Lanka will soon ban the burkha or face veil, a Cabinet Minister said on Saturday, as he announced the Rajapaksa administration’s latest policy decision impacting the minority Muslim community. At a media conference, Public Security Minister Sarath Weerasekara said the authorities would henceforth use the controversial Prevention of Terrorism (PTA) law — that human rights defenders have termed “draconian” — to deal with religious extremism, with wide-ranging powers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sri-lanka-to-ban-burkha-shut-madrasas/article34065476.ece
14 March 2021||Kolkata,||Yashwant Sinha joins TMC||Former Union Minister and BJP leader Yashwant Sinha on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress. Senior Trinamool leaders including Sudip Banerjee, Derek O' Brien and Subrata Mukherjee welcomed Mr. Sinha into the party. Before officially joining the party, Mr. Sinha met its chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for nearly 45 minutes at her Kalighat residence. Mr. Sinha, once one of the tallest leaders of the BJP, is now a vocal critic of the policies of the Narendra Modi-led government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yashwant-sinha-joins-tmc/article34064876.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai,||SSS to protest for waiver of power bills||The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, an ally of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has decided to hit the streets on March 19 demanding a waiver of domestic electricity bills charged during the first three months of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sss-to-protest-for-waiver-of-power-bills/article34065359.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai,||Hiren case: court denies pre-arrest bail to Vaze||A sessions court at Thane rejected assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze’s plea for pre-arrest bail in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiren, an auto parts dealer linked to the car found next to Mukesh Ambani’s residence. A threat letter was found in the car. Additional Sessions Judge Shailendra Tambe passed the order on March 12 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hiren-case-court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-to-vaze/article34065360.ece
14 March 2021||mangaluru,||Some parts of NH-75 still in a poor state||At a time when a complete overhaul of the existing carriageway of the Mangaluru-Bengaluru NH 75 has brought some respite to road users, the pathetic condition of the highway between Maranahalli and Hassan in Hassan district has made driving miserable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-parts-of-nh-75-still-in-a-poor-state/article34065340.ece
14 March 2021||Chennai,||State records 695 new cases of COVID-19||On Saturday, fresh COVID-19 infections inched closer to the 700-mark as 695 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu. A little over 60% of these new cases were reported in Chennai, its two neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, and Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-695-new-cases-of-covid-19/article34064969.ece
14 March 2021||Chennai,||PMK may do better than BJP in Assembly polls||The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) may fare better than the BJP this time, if the performance of the AIADMK-led alliance, which includes the two parties, during the 2016 Assembly election and the 2019 Lok Sabha poll is any indication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pmk-may-do-better-than-bjp-in-assembly-poll/article34064970.ece
14 March 2021||Salem,||Puthiya Tamilagam not in our alliance, says CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said Puthiya Tamilagam, which was in the forefront of the agitation to classify seven Dalit subsects under the common title ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ and to be delisted from the Schedule, has left the ruling alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/puthiya-tamilagam-not-in-our-alliance-says-cm/article34064972.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Theatres see 100% occupancy for ‘Robert’||For the first time in months, a film filled up theatres on the weekend. Darshan starrer ‘Robert’, which was released on Thursday, has got the biggest opening since the lockdown, raising hopes of a revival of fortunes in the Kannada film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/theatres-see-100-occupancy-for-robert/article34064921.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Kaveri system hit by software, hardware woes||Over the last couple of months, registration of properties in the State has been hit frequently. While shutdowns have been reported from various sub-registrar offices across the State, what has alarmed the officials is frequent State-wide shutdowns that have delayed registration process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kaveri-system-hit-by-software-hardware-woes/article34064922.ece
14 March 2021||Nandigram,||Nandigram’s daughters face difficult choice||Two women, victims of violence that rocked Nandigram during the land acquisition protests in 2007 who live barely 50 metres apart, now find themselves in opposing camps. When Nandigram votes on April 1, they have to choose between Mamata Banerjee, who became Chief Minister in 2011 on the back of the land movement, and Suvendu Adhikari who nurtured the constituency as a Trinamool Congress MLA but defected to BJP in December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nandigrams-daughters-face-difficult-choice/article34065294.ece
14 March 2021||Patna,||Uproar in Bihar Assembly over illicit liquor||The Bihar Assembly on Saturday witnessed pandemonium after LoP Tejashwi Yadav urged the Speaker to enable an adjournment motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uproar-in-bihar-assembly-over-illicit-liquor/article34065295.ece
14 March 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar back on militancy radar||Within six months of Srinagar being declared a militant-free zone, the Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday released a list of nine “wanted militants”, with seven recruits identified from the city and operating from the Capital. The police have offered to reward “informers suitably”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/srinagar-back-on-militancy-radar/article34065053.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU reading rooms, food courts reopen||As part of phased reopening, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday said that reading rooms at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Central Library and in various centres and schools, and two of the eating joints on the campus will be permitted to reopen. The university administration has issued a notification in this regard .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jnu-reading-rooms-food-courts-reopen/article34065054.ece
14 March 2021||Nandigram,||Nandigram’s own daughters face difficult choice||Two women, victims of violence that rocked Nandigram during the land acquisition protests in 2007 and who live barely 50 m apart, now find themselves in opposing camps. When Nandigram votes on April 1 for the Assembly election, they have to choose between Mamata Banerjee, who became Chief Minister in 2011 on the back of the land movement, and Suvendu Adhikari, who nurtured the constituency as a Trinamool Congress MLA but defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December 2020. Krishna Pramanik of Gokulnagar village received a plaque from Ms. Banerjee and a medal from litterateur Mahasweta Devi. She holds on to the memorabilia, a symbol of her courage for the ordeal she endured. “We are with Didi  [Ms. Banerjee] but the situation scares us,” said Ms. Pramanik, around 48 years old. Her neighbour, Radharani Arre, who was tortured during the land violence, wishes she never had to see this day. “Suvendu has been looking after our needs, at the behest of Didi  who has not been able to visit Nandigram often. Everyone cannot get rajbhog (a Bengali sweet delicacy). We will have to support those who have stood by us all these years,” said Ms. Arre, who looks older than her age. In 2007, it was like fighting a war, recall Ms. Pramanik and other women. The Bhumi Ucched Pratirodh (Land Eviction Resistance) Committee (BUPC), backed by the Trinamool, was pitched against the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M). The protests, which began over alleged land acquisition by the government for a chemical hub, came to a head on March 14 when 14 people were killed and scores injured in police firing. The Left Front, which was in power, had to withdraw the police under pressure. It clarified that no land would be acquired by force. When the BUPC embarked on creating a “liberated zone” in the area, more violence followed. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) finally managed to enter Nandigram in November 2007. Fear of violence Ms. Pramanik, whose scars from the violence are yet to heal, is upset with Mr. Adhikari for “dividing a village on communal lines”. She referred to him as Mir Jafar, the military commander of Siraj ud-Daulah, who betrayed him in the Battle of Plassey against the British in 1757. “The peace has been disturbed and we do not know what lies ahead. We do not want to relive those violent days of 2007,” she said, rooting for Didi  , who has launched many women-centric schemes, notably the Kanyashree scheme, which gives a cash handout of Rs. 25,000 for a girl who studies till Class 12; the Rupashree scheme, which provides a one-time sum for marriage; and also Swastha Sathi, a family health card in the name of the eldest woman member. In Bengal, 49% of the electorate of 7.2 crore voters are women. Ms. Pramanik hoped that if the Trinamool returned to power, some of her aspirations would be fulfilled — help for a son studying to be a lawyer, and windows for a home yet to be painted and covered with newspapers. Much has changed in Nandigram in Purba Medinipur since 2007. New huts have sprung up around the brick kilns that nobody dared enter during the violence. The bridge on Talpati khal (canal) that served as the no-go zone between pro- and anti-land acquisition groups can be easily crossed by foot. The narrow roads, which had been dug up at many places, have been neatly laid. Hours before the Chief Minister began her campaign in Nandigram, about 130 km from Kolkata, on Tuesday, Ms. Pramanik was dressed in a crisp blue sari to attend her public rally. “Let us go and meet Mamata, Bengal’s own daughter,” she urged 95-year-old Narmada Sheeth. Ms. Sheeth, another victim of violence, is unwilling to talk at first. Her story comes out in bits and pieces. “I have forgotten how many times my shop has been burnt down,” she said. She runs a small bidi shop on one of the intersections of Sonachuda Bazaar. A pension of Rs. 1,500 a month stopped coming six months ago “because I don’t go to meetings any more”. The Adhikari family has “ruled” over the region for long, and issues like corruption, mismanagement of Amphan cyclone relief funds, and non-delivery of schemes are likely to stick. Campaign trail As Ms. Banerjee filed her nomination on March 10, posters of “ Bangla nijer meye ke chay ” (Bengal wants its own daughter) appeared on many walls. Launching her campaign, and armed with the slogan, “ Bhulte pari nijer naam , bhulbo na go Nandigram (I may forget my name, but I will never forget Nandigram),” she said she chose the seat because it was a symbol of struggle. At the rally, Ms. Pramanik and Ms. Arre could not meet Ms. Banerjee as they were too far away from the stage. They went home dejected, hoping to have an audience with the CM soon. The Sanyukta Morcha has fielded CPI(M) candidate Minakshi Mukherjee in Nandigram. “It is a good thing to say that Bengal wants its own daughter but what about Bengal youth who are hungry and without jobs?” is the young leader’s retort to the Trinamool campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nandigrams-own-daughters-face-difficult-choice/article34064781.ece
14 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Supporters resent Cong. move to shift Chandy||Amidst speculations of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy contesting the Assembly elections from the Nemom constituency in Thiruvananthapuram, hundreds of Congress workers, including women, poured onto the road and staged protests against him leaving the Puthuppally seat when the senior Congress leader reached his residence on Saturday. The drama began to unfold around 9 a.m following reports that Mr. Chandy would be reaching home after the discussions on the Congress candidates list with the party leadership in New Delhi. Raised slogans A large number of party workers gathered near his house and raised slogans against any attempt to field Mr. Chandy from any seats other than Puthuppally. The tension in the air escalated further when a band of supporters waylaid Mr. Chandy’s car, declaring that they would not let their long-time MLA leave Puthuppally. The anger boiled over when an emotionally charged supporter, holding a party flag in his hand, climbed atop the rooftop of Mr. Chandy’s house and threatened to jump off. The 77-year-old leader, also a two-time Chief Minister, has been representing Puthuppally in the State Assembly for the last 51 years since 1970. As the protest continued to rage, senior Congress leaders, including K.C. Joseph and District Congress Committee president Joshy Philip, reached the spot and attempted to pacify the party workers, though with little success. Following this, Mr.Chandy held discussions with the Congress local leadership and assured the supporters that he would not leave Puthuppally to contest in Nemom. “Candidates in as many as 81 constituencies have been finalised and my name is given as the candidate in Puthuppally. Neither the State nor the central leadership have asked me to contest from Nemom. I completely understand and acknowledge the emotions of party workers and followers. There is no way I am leaving Puthuppally,” Chandy said. He, however, did not rule out the possibility of contesting from two seats by stating that ‘it is up to the party leadership to decide on all such matters.’ Letter sent Meanwhile, the DCC president said he had already sent a letter seeking not to shift Mr. Chandy from Puthuppally. The presence of Mr. Chandy in the seat, according to him, would be crucial for the party in Central Kerala. The protests came as a major embarrassment for the Congress leadership, which seeks to field a strong candidate in Nemom – a sitting seat of the BJP. Besides Mr. Chandy, the Congress high command was reported to be considering Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala as its candidate in Nemom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supporters-resent-cong-move-to-shift-chandy/article34064811.ece
14 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Modi, Gotabaya speak ahead of Geneva vote||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa reviewed “topical developments” during a telephone call on Saturday, an official press release said, just over a week before a crucial vote on Sri Lanka at the U.N. Human Rights Council, where Colombo has sought New Delhi’s support. The call, initiated by the Sri Lankan side according to officials sources, assumes significance amid strained bilateral ties, following Colombo’s recent policy choices on key infrastructure projects, including a decision to boot India out of a Colombo Port terminal project and an approval for a Chinese energy project on the northern islands, close to the Tamil Nadu coast. New Delhi conveyed its displeasure on both moves. Colombo has subsequently offered an alternative terminal project and is negotiating with the Adani Group. “Had a telephone conversation with President @GotabayaR. We discussed issues relevant to our bilateral and multilateral cooperation, including in the context of COVID-19,” Mr. Modi said in a tweet. A media release issued by the Indian government said: “The leaders reviewed topical developments and the ongoing cooperation between both countries in bilateral and multilateral forums. They agreed to maintain regular contact between relevant officials, including in the context of the continuing COVID-19 challenges,” and added that Mr. Modi “reiterated the importance of Sri Lanka” to India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy. As the Human Rights Council prepares to vote on a resolution on Sri Lanka’s rights record later this month, the Rajapaksa administration is counting on friends and neighbours, who are currently members of the Council, to back it. President Rajapaksa earlier wrote to Mr. Modi, among other leaders, seeking a favourable vote. Reiterating Colombo’s expectation, Foreign Secretary Jayanath Colombage told The Hindu in a recent interview that “India cannot abandon us.” Crucial role It is widely predicted that India might abstain, given its own principle against country-specific resolutions and growing geopolitical concerns in the strategic island nation. All the same, those familiar with the Geneva process observe that India could still play a crucial role in last-minute negotiations among members of the council, and potentially tip the scales. Intervening in an interactive dialogue in February on the report by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights noting that Sri Lanka is “on alarming path towards recurrence of grave human rights violations”, India’s Permanent Representative in Geneva made an unambiguous call to respect the rights of the Tamil community. “We believe that respecting the rights of the Tamil community, including through meaningful devolution, contributes directly to the unity and integrity of Sri Lanka,” Ambassador Indra Mani Pandey said. China, which is also currently a member of the 47-member council, has assured Sri Lanka of its support. Economic assistance Irrespective of how the Geneva vote goes, Colombo is faced with a major economic challenge, as it prepares to repay over $4 billion of its outstanding debt by next year. While Thursday’s media release said Mr. Modi and Mr. Rajapaksa discussed COVID-19 challenges — Sri Lanka’s first consignment of vaccines was a gift from India — it made no specific mention of economic assistance from India. During his last call with Mr. Modi in May 2020, President Rajapaksa sought an additional $1-billion currency swap facility — the RBI extended $400 million — to boost the foreign reserves that are under enormous strain since the pandemic struck. India is yet to respond. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s debt freeze request made over a year ago, too, awaits New Delhi’s response. Earlier this week, Sri Lanka said China approved a 10 billion yuan ($1.54 billion) currency swap. In March last year, China granted an ‘urgent’ $500 million loan to Sri Lanka to cope with the economic stress of the novel coronavirus. Colombo has sought a further $700 million loan from Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-gotabaya-speak-ahead-of-geneva-vote/article34064828.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Pollution linked to virus spread: Vardhan||There is emerging evidence to suggest that exposure to ambient air pollutants, especially PM2.5 and NO2, contribute to the spread and virulence of SARS-CoV-2 infections, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. He was inaugurating the new green campus of Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute for Research in Environmental Health (NIREH), at Bhopal. “Furthermore, ambient air pollution is a known risk factor for multiple adverse health outcomes, including chronic cardio-respiratory morbidities, and the presence of said morbidities renders the affected population more vulnerable to COVID-19,” the Health Minister said. To worsen matters, he added, closed indoor spaces provide ideal environments for viral transmission due to the lack of ventilation preventing the dilution of viral particles, and the absence of ultraviolet rays which can potentially inactivate the virus. Speaking about the challenges before NIREH, Dr. Vardhan said the World Health Organization (WHO) had reported in 2018 that over 91% of the global population resides in areas where ambient air pollution levels exceed the normal limits prescribed by the WHO, resulting in around 4.2 million annual deaths. Water pollution He further explained that the Lancet Commission on Pollution and Health estimated that 1.8 million deaths worldwide are related to “water” (mainly microbiological contamination) and 0.5 million deaths occur due to chemical pollution of water and soil by heavy metals and other man-made chemicals. “Another major source of water pollution that is yet to be appropriately quantified is plastic debris. It has become an important environmental problem because of its ubiquitous prevalence, persistence, accumulation in aquatic food chains, and adverse effects on aquatic organisms and potentially to human health,” the Minister said. He added that the emission of huge quantities of greenhouse gases (GHG) into the atmosphere is the main cause of climate change. “Thus, research, especially targeted at estimating the burden of pollution/climate change and consequent health effects, is essential to design and implement suitable intervention strategies that will enable the achievement of the sustainable development goals of UNDP (United Nations Development Programme),” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pollution-linked-to-virus-spread-vardhan/article34064842.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We are first front by virtue of people, capacity to deliver’||Politics seems to sit very well on Kamal Haasan . A ‘newbie’ in politics, this veteran of cinema seems to be comfortable with the new skin he wears. He says he hit the ground running with the launch of the party in 2018, and he’s been running since. Things are hectic, possibly more than ever, but his demeanour says “relaxed” and “confident”. Having skimmed off a double digit polling percentage in Coimbatore and South Chennai constituencies in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, he believes his party has grown in strength with love from the people. Here, he discusses a range of issues relevant to this election, but also beyond that. Excerpts:  What is your ideology? Do you believe in a left-right ideological spectrum? We do believe that the left and right exist and they have their virtues. We have criticisms also. But, we have this vantage position of ‘centrism’, which allows us to place people before even ideologies. This is the virtue and strength of centrism, which is fast gaining momentum in world politics. At the same time, let me tell you that all ‘isms’ are a work in progress. They do not offer complete resolution for all problems. So we also use yet another approach and an ideology towards addressing the maladies of people. Many governments are successfully trying it. Is your manifesto a completion of schemes for social development? Yes. It’s an inclusive politics, which doesn’t exclude anyone. We don’t start by saying this is not for them. It is not an exclusive club. It incorporates everybody’s well being. It’s not state welfare, but a welfare state. You are taking on two Dravidian parties in Dravidian land. Do you find both the All Indian Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) problematic? The word Dravidian is just rhetoric first used by the Justice Party. It’s an anthropological description. Everyone who speaks Tamil and is dark-skinned and has thick lips, like we are in this room, are qualified to be Dravidians. I think Dravidianism cannot be limited to two or three parties or Tamil Nadu alone. I think the word Dravidian — as an anthropological word — applies to the whole nation and is pan-national. Do you believe that the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) front is a third front of sorts? It’s the very first front. It is only by virtue of calculations and data that you call it the third front. But by virtue of people and capacity to deliver, we are the first front. The other party has 33% criminality in candidates. That is the crowd that you’re voting for? Are you looking to become the CM in 2021 or you are in for the long run ? We are here for the long run; otherwise, I wouldn’t have started a party. I would have attached myself to something existing [party]. We came up with a symbol and an ideology, which will last at least another century. Yes, I am a man of the moment and this is the party of the moment. And that moment in political history could be 100 years or 200 years. But, we must at least have that kind of longevity before you arrive at a major decision in life. It’s not that I haven’t been thinking of entering politics but I did not because I thought change would happen with available resources in politics. But there is further and further criminalisation that it deserves a reasoned set of people to step in and take up this civic duty. Do you disagree with the Dravidian parties in terms of their stated ideology, leaving out corruption? They are the linear progressions of the Justice Party…who were a group of people who really felt the discrimination … and that angle had to be changed. The DMK sprang out of the DK (Dravidar Kazhagam). And from that another branch broke out — AIADMK. The first difference of opinion was not ideological but it was about corruption. The dissent of MGR (late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran) was due to rampant corruption. It has been questioned again by many other parties, including us now. What went into MNM’s candidate selection process? First, we saw if they have an inclination to do something for the people. If we had placed their affluence before anything else, then most of them would not have been selected. Some of them are still working to make ends meet. Their track record shows that they have already done what politicians usually promise to do after they are elected. Within their limited powers, they’ve already served the people, and want to do more. And they already have plans. And these are people who are going to enhance our manifesto, merely by participation. They are not going to bring in finance, but their tenacity of purpose will energise our engine to go forward. When we come to power, they will present a critical analysis of our service to the people. And that is what is going to keep us awake. And not sleeping in our chair. Why did you pick the Coimbatore South constituency ? The reason why I chose Coimbatore South, out of the 234 constituencies, is that it is the constituency affected worst by corruption by very notorious politicians… So I thought that needs to be directly challenged, if not attacked. Another reason is that Coimbatore has been bearing the brunt of communal disharmony clearly engineered by national parties, and they are also contesting there. It’s a direct challenge. What would have been safe and silly would have been to go to Mylapore, where I have my relatives and people of the same caste. I had to prove the point that I am beyond caste, beyond community and beyond religious divides, and that’s why I chose Coimbatore.  (Full interview on   bit.ly/KamalSpeaks ) K. Pichumani  Yes, I am a man of the moment and this is the party of the moment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-first-front-by-virtue-of-people-capacity-to-deliver/article34064777.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Southern States record a steady rise in virus cases||The graph of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the southern States, with Kerala reporting 2,035 new cases, Telangana 216, and Karnataka showing a rise of 1,000 cases in its weekly tally. Telangana’s 216 cases on Friday was the highest since January 23. The highest number after that was lower, at 189 on February 25. The Health department tested 34,482 people on Friday and two COVID-19 patients died. Health Minister Eatala Rajender asked testing to be raised to 50,000 samples a day, up from the March 1-12 figure of about 41,000. Friday’s new cases include 52 from Greater Hyderabad, 19 from Rangareddy, 18 from Medchal- Malkajgiri, and 11 from Karimnagar. New COVID-19 infections in Karnataka last week showed an increase of 1,000 cases compared to the previous week, but the surge was not uniform. While Bengaluru Urban accounted for 639 of the 1,000 additional cases for the week ending March 11 to touch 4,606, the Health and Family Welfare department said 10 districts reported a decline while the numbers remained constant in five others. However, 15 of 30 districts in the State had shown an increase. The cases have shown an upward trend in Tumkur, Mysuru, Kalburgi, Udupi, Kolar, Ballari, Dharwad, Bidar, Uttara Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Bagalkote, Dakshina Kannada, Gadag and Chickmagaluru apart from Bengaluru Urban. Fresh infections began rising between February 19 and 25 when 2,961 new cases were reported in the State compared to the previous week’s tally of 2,809. It was 3,606 between February 26 and March 4, before rising by another 1,000 as of March 11 to touch 4,606 cases. Kerala reported 2,035 new cases from 58,344 samples, taking cumulative cases to 10,89,478 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate on the day was 3.49%. With 3,256 recoveries on Saturday, active cases dropped to 30,939. The drop in active cases was rapid, nearly double the number of recoveries than new cases on a daily basis. On Saturday, 12 new deaths from the past few days were added, taking the cumulative toll to 4,381 deaths. Thrissur reported three deaths, one death each took place in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod  One person from South Africa and another from Brazil who reached Kerala in the past 24 hours, tested positive. In all, 103 persons from abroad arriving from mid-December tested positive, including 99 from UK, three from South Africa and one from Brazil. So far, 11 including one contact of a UK returnee, tested positive for the virus variant B.1.1.7 in Kerala. On Saturday, infections in Tamil Nadu inched closer to 700 as 695 persons tested positive. A little over 60% were reported in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, and Coimbatore. In Chennai, 271 persons tested positive, taking the city’s tally to 2,38,559. Chengalpattu had 65, Coimbatore 54 and Tiruvallur 40 cases. Tiruppur and Kancheepuram recorded 27 and 24 cases respectively, while Thanjavur reported 20 cases. The fresh cases that included five returnees — two from Odisha and one each from UAE, Jharkhand and West Bengal — took the State’s overall tally to 8,58,967. The number of active cases stood at 4,662. The State recorded four more fatalities — two in Chengalpattu and one each in Chennai and the Nilgiris, taking the toll to 12,543. Among the dead was a 54-year-old man from Chengalpattu who had coronary artery disease, diabetes and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on March 10 and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory failure. Another 512 persons were discharged. Till date, 8,41,762 persons were discharged after treatment. A total of 65,295 samples were tested on Saturday. Till date, 1,82,17,281 samples have been tested in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/southern-states-record-a-steady-rise-in-virus-cases/article34064821.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||UN rights panel slams detention of Zargar||Taking note of the detention of Jamia Millia Islamia University student Safoora Zargar, who was pregnant when Delhi police arrested her in April 2020 over the Citizenship law protests and the Delhi riots, the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council’s (HRC’s) Working Group against Arbitrary Detentions (WGAD) has adopted an opinion critical of the government’s workings, and referred the case to three Special Rapporteurs for action. In the opinion, based on a complaint from a “source” who was not identified by the human rights body, Ms. Zargar had suffered a “deprivation of liberty” contravening “universally recognized human rights, in particular the right to freedoms of opinion, expression and peaceful assembly” and several articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It also called the government to ensure a “a full and independent investigation” of the case and measures against those responsible for the “violation of her rights” including Ms. Zargar’s allegedly irregular detention despite her pregnancy, where she said she was made to sign blank sheets of paper, the conditions of her incarceration, alleged discrimination, and curbing her right to protest. “Given the fact that Ms. Zargar was critical of the passing of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, as a woman human rights defender engaged in public protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and a media liaison officer for the Jamia Coordination Committee, her current detention can clearly be interpreted as another move to curb her dissent by intimidating her and others associated with the Jamia Coordination Committee,” the WGAD’s 11-page opinion, adopted on November 27, 2020, that was released on Thursday, said in its analysis of Ms. Zargar’s case (A/HRC/WGAD/2020/91). Declines to comment Ms. Zargar and her lawyers declined to comment on the WGAD report. In the disposition, the WGAD also said it was referring the case to Special Rapporteurs on “the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression; the situation of human rights defenders; and on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism,” for appropriate action. The Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to the HRC body’s decision. The WGAD report said it had written to the Indian government on July 22, 2020, with a request for a reply for information in the Zargar case within three months, but the government had not responded nor requested an extension of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-rights-panel-slams-detention-of-zargar/article34064831.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Srinagar back on militancy radar||Just within six months of Srinagar being declared a militant-free zone, the Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday released a list of nine “wanted militants”, with seven recruits identified from the city and operating from the capital. “Yes, militancy in Srinagar was brought to the level of being a free zone in September 2020, when most recruits from the city were either neutralised or arrested. However, the latest list of wanted militants has seven from or around the city,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . According to the police records, Waseem Qadir Mir of Shahzadpora, Nowgam, Srinagar, joined militancy on December 20, 2020; Shahid Khursheed from Methan, Chanapora, joined on February 6, 2021; Irfan Ahmed Sofi from Astan Mohalla, Natipora, joined on December 14, 2020; Bilal Ahmed Bhat from Natipora joined on February 14, 2020 and Saqib Manzoor Dar of Old Barzulla, Srinagar, on August 5, 2020. Abirar Nadeem Bhat from Eidgah has been active but outside Srinagar since December 12, 2018. Another militant Muhammad Yousuf Dar, alias Iss Kantroo, who joined militancy in 2012 and again in 2015, and another militant Ubaid Shafi Dar is from Firdousabad, Batamaloo, Srinagar. “Muhammad Abbas Sheikh from Rampora, Koimoh in Kulgam, in south Kashmir is among those operating in Srinagar,” the police said. The police have offered to reward “informers suitably”. Mr. Kumar said the wanted listed included “associates of terrorists”. “There is a new emerging trend wherein overground workers carry out grenade throwing, pistol shooting like those involved in the killing of owner’s son at the Krishna Dhaba (on February 17). The dhaba attackers were not listed terrorists,” he said. Two policemen were also killed on February 19 by a militant, “who does not live very far away from the location of the attack”. Twenty militants were killed in nine encounters in Srinagar in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srinagar-back-on-militancy-radar/article34064847.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Questions of identity simmer with farmers’ stir||As Haryanvi singer Ajay Huda croons “ Zindabad kisani , zindabad jawani ”, his latest song on farmers’ protests, sons of farmers break into a jig at the Bhojpur panchayat called by the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) against the contentious farm laws. Among them are four upper caste software engineers working in private companies in Noida and Gurugram. They say the protests against the farm laws have brought them closer to their roots. “We are professionals and we want the government to understand that farmers are also professionals who know what is good for them. Why are they not being taken into confidence?” asks Abhishek Rathi. “We are being told to diversify. When the stray cattle are not leaving the wheat crop in this region, how do you expect us to sow pulses?” Old-timers say youth who had moved out of villages because of better prospects have responded to the protests because they realise it has become a matter of losing their identity. Suddenly, khap s, which were considered outdated and regressive, have become “cool” for they help in spreading the word. “Land was relevant for youngsters only at the time of the wedding, when we could boast that we have this much bigha of land. Otherwise, it was given on batai (sharecropping) and there was no day-to-day connection with farming. These laws have spurred interest in farming and its symbols,” says Dheer Singh, a farmer with 15 bigha s of land in Bhojpur, looking at a fleet of tractors on the road. Temple politics “We were swayed by the Ram temple politics and the nationalist agenda of the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) but khali pet na hot bhajan gopala (even prayers cannot be sung on an empty stomach). The Modinagar sugar mill has just begun to pay the dues of last February,” says Satyam Kaushik, citing the popular Hindi proverb. MSP an illusion “Input costs are rising and MSP remains an illusion,” he adds. “It affects everybody. If we won’t get the payment in time, how would we pay those who work for us in the fields?” “If politics is not important for them, why are the top two in the BJP ignoring farmers’ protests and are putting in all their energy into Bengal polls?” chips in Vishal Malik. “Why don’t they clarify farmers’ doubts about the Bills?” Ajay Malik, who runs a fertilizer shop along with tilling his land in Bhojpur is equally stressed. “If corporate farming becomes a reality, companies will provide seed and fertilizer. What would be my role?” he asks. The principal doubt, says Mr. Malik, is that the laws will leave farmers at the mercy of corporates. “Having worked in the corporate set-up, I know they work only for their profit. They might give farmers incentives in the first couple of years, but after that they would do manmaani (arbitrary approach). How would we stand up to them without government support? These laws give an indication that the government is moving out of agriculture,” he says. Prashant Chaudhary, a young farmer from neighbouring Bulandshahr, says the three-month-long protests have unravelled the character of the ruling party. “Our elders used to call it sarmayedaron (capitalists) ki party. Their arrogance has proven it. I kick myself as to how I supported such an insensitive party,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/questions-of-identity-simmer-with-farmers-stir/article34064835.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Seat selection or a game of musical chairs||Mainstream political parties that felt secure at the start of the election campaign now seemed to be glancing nervously over their shoulders in Kerala. The resentment over candidate selection has fuelled concerns about vengeful cross-voting in several key constituencies. In varying degrees, the Congress and the CPI(M) face strife within their ranks over candidate choice. The organisations saw party workers stiffly opposing the ceding of specific constituencies to coalition partners. Both the parties seemed to have realised the electoral fight is anything but a straightforward setpiece this poll season. Dissidence is threatening to undermine the electoral prospects of the Congress and the CPI(M) even as the traditional rivals in Kerala faced an asymmetrical threat from an emergent force, the BJP. The three parties had attempted to seize the high ground early into the campaign. Routine accusations, counter-charges and political hyperbole marked the embryonic phase of electioneering. Consequently, the UAE gold smuggling case and the alleged misuse of central agencies to tarnish the LDF government dominated the poll narrative. The initial phase saw an anti-government wave against “backdoor appointments and keeping it in the family postings”. However, the familiar political attack lines and recycled debates faded into the background with the commencement of the seat allocation process. Provincial sentiment, factional feuds and personality politics threatened to jeopardise the exercise. CPI(M) workers in the Kuttiyadi constituency in Kozhikode rose in protest against the ceding of the seat to the Kerala Congress(M) The absence of Kannur CPI(M) veteran, P. Jayarajan, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, PWD Minister G. Sudhakaran, and Law Minister A.K. Balan on the candidate list triggered poster and online campaigns against the CPI(M) leadership. The Congress’s candidate selection also ran into powerful headwinds. The party countenanced the challenge of possible rebels or LDF-backed party deserters in Pattambi, Chadayamangalam, Konni and Muvattupuzha Assembly constituencies. It is not smooth sailing for the BJP either. Its leading partner in the NDA, the BDJS, narrowly survived a vertical split in February. Coalition realignments, generational shift, infighting within parties and the rise of identity politics are likely to see the mainstream parties fighting on new fronts in Kerala with barely 25 days left for the campaigning to end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seat-selection-or-a-game-of-musical-chairs/article34064772.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Framework for testing water launched||Citizens can now get the water quality in their taps tested at reasonable rates, as part of a monitoring framework rolled out by the Centre’s flagship Jal Jeevan Mission on Saturday. Using an information management system modelled on the COVID-19 testing framework, the samples tested by members of the public, as well as government officials, will create a nationwide database of water quality, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhaawat told presspersons after the launch. However, a major hurdle remains as only 66 of the 2,033 water testing laboratories have been certified by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). The “drinking water quality testing, monitoring and surveillance framework and guidelines” released on Saturday mandate a network of NABL accredited labs to be set up in every State, district and block over the next year. At the panchayat level, teams of women in the village water and sanitation committees will be given field testing kits. Of the Rs. 3.6 lakh crore Jal Jeevan budget, 2% has been earmarked for quality monitoring. Detailed testing protocols and standards have been laid out to check for chemical and biological contaminants, which are present in more than half of all blocks, according to a 2018 assessment by the Central Groundwater Board. State governments can include private players as part of the network, but the Centre has capped tariffs to ensure that they remain within the reach of the common man. The suggested tariffs would allow one to test a water sample’s pH level, turbidity, alkalinity and hardness for a package rate of Rs. 50. Testing the water for the presence of chloride, sulphate or iron would cost Rs. 50 each, while tests for the more dangerous arsenic, fluoride, nitrate or coliform bacteria would cost Rs. 100 each. A package for all the 16 water quality parameters would cost Rs. 600. Turnaround time for chemical tests should not be more than 24 hours, while testing for the biological contaminants will produce results within 48 hours, the guidelines said. Apart from voluntary tests by members of the public, officials have been mandated to do regular inspections. All results of testing will be fed into the Water Quality Information Management System, a portal developed with the support of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Similarly, results of all tests will now be sent to the citizen who requested it, as well as the WQMIS database and a local official who will be deputed to take remedial action in case of contamination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/framework-for-testing-water-launched/article34064871.ece
14 March 2021||Mysuru,||Mysuru airport expansion, tourism growth in focus||The imperatives of airport expansion for the growth of Mysuru tourism was impressed upon the Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar here on Saturday. The Minister was at the airport at Mandakalli and interacted with officials to take forward the concept of helitourism announced by him. The discussion revolved around the use of the facility, the procedure to secure permission from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and completion of other formalities ahead of the launch of the project. The Minister was apprised of the benefits of helitourism and the officials described it as a project that could give a boost to tourism development in the State. But in the process the authorities also underlined the imperatives of airport expansion and said that this will automatically give a fillip to the sector and increase tourist footfall. The attention of Mr. Yogeshwar was drawn to the land acquisition issue. The expansion requires 240 acres and the government should expedite the funding for the project which requires 115 acres in the first phase. Sources said the officials pointed out that Mysuru MP Pratap Simha had sought funds from the State government and it would be useful if the Minister could help expedite the process. Mysuru used to draw over 3.5 million tourists every year (in the pre-pandemic days) and this number could be increased if there was direct flight connectivity to other important centres. However, given the short runway of the airport, long haul flights could not be operated and hence the runway length had to be increased from 1,740 metres to 2,750 metres. Increasing the runway length to 2,750 metres and breadth to 45 metres will be suitable for larger aircraft that can fly long distances to connect Mysuru with Mumbai, Delhi, Jaipur or other tourist places. According to the airport master plan, the runway expansion requires around 182 acres while 58 acres is required for expanding the terminal building. The Minister was told that the expansion of the runway hinges on land acquisition. The plan entails a runway below which an underpass will be constructed as the Mysuru-Nanjangud highway bisects the runway alignment and this cannot be diverted. Even the DGCA has given its approval for construction of an underpass below the runway and hence the onus was on the State government to expedite the land acquisition process by releasing the funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mysuru-airport-expansion-tourism-growth-in-focus/article34065247.ece
14 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram group demands sanctions on Myanmar||A Mizoram-based group representing the Zo indigenous people of India, Bangladesh and Myanmar has petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impose sanctions on military-ruled Myanmar. The Zo Reunification Organisation (ZORO) comprising the Chin-Kuki-Mizo-Zomi group of people has also asked the Centre not to turn away the Myanmar nationals who crossed over to escape the military regime and provide them shelter on humanitarian grounds. Their letters to the President and Prime Minister were submitted through Mizoram Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai on March 12, two days after the Minister of Home Affairs asked the paramilitary Assam Rifles and four north-eastern States bordering Myanmar to check “illegal influx” into India. Ethnically related These four States – Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram – share a 1,643 km border with Myanmar and people on either side are ethnically related. The Mizo people of Mizoram and the Kuki-Zomi communities in Manipur have a strong kinship with the Chins across the border. The ZORO sought Delhi’s help for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar and immediate release of State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, President U. Wint Myint and other leaders of the National League for Democracy, who have been detained after the military junta seized control of an elected Myanmar government on February 1. The organisation said India should take the lead in solving the current political crisis in Myanmar by imposing sanctions on the military junta for human rights violations. “We request you to take up the matter on a war footing to save innocent lives and in the best interest of supporting democracy in line with the international community,” it said in the letters.  Porous border Six Mizoram districts – Champhai, Lawngtlai, Siaha, Saitual, Hnahthial and Serchhip – share a 404-km-long porous border with Myanmar’s Chin State. At least 100 people, including deserters of the Myanmar police and fire service department, have taken shelter in the border areas of Mizoram. Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga had earlier announced that his government would provide shelter and other relief to the Myanmar refugees on humanitarian grounds. While some refugees are being provided with food and shelter by the district administration, several others have been reportedly accommodated by the locals in border villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-group-demands-sanctions-on-myanmar/article34065058.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Probe officers can face action if private data is leaked: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has declared that action for dereliction of duty or other proceedings can be initiated against investigation officers (IOs) if they are found to have furnished any third party data, retrieved from electronic gadgets that could impinge on privacy of any person connected to the probe in criminal cases. The court also declared that it is the responsibility of the (IOs) to safeguard the information or data retrieved from electronic gadgets such as smartphones, computers, laptops and storage units, including cloud-based storage, email accounts, etc. Judge to determine “The disclosure, making public or otherwise in court proceedings would have to be determined by the judge of the court concerned by passing a judicial order. In no case could such details or data be provided by the investigation officer to any third party during the course of investigation without the written permission from the court concerned,” the court held. Justice Suraj Govindaraj made these observations in his March 12 verdict while setting aside a trial court’s order directing Virendra Khanna, a party organiser and an accused in 2018 drug case, to undergo a polygraph test and to provide passwords of his electronic gadgets and e-mails to the police. The court said investigating officers were to be held responsible to safeguard privacy as the retrieved data may contain private information that may or may not be needed for the probe, and as there could not be strict compartmentalisation of data stored as personal or not personal in those gadgets. Exceptions However, the court said that use of data retrieved from electronic gadgets protected by passwords, pass codes would not amount to violation of right to privacy of a person in a criminal case as access to such data by the police would fall under the exceptions carved out by the Supreme Court in Justice Puttaswamy’s case on the right to privacy. On what the investigating agency could do if accused persons refused to disclose passwords to access gadgets and information, the court said the investigating agency would be at liberty to engage a specialised agency to hack the passwords, pass code or biometric data, and the accused could not contest the methodology used by the investigating agency to access information in the gadgets or emails. Also, the court said that the investigating agency was at liberty to block access to email accounts and gadgets by changing the passwords to ensure no one else apart from designated officers would have access to them. When manufacturers of gadgets or service providers were not facilitating opening of gadgets and email accounts, the court on an application filed by the investigating agency could permit hacking into the gadgets and email accounts.  The disclosure, making public or otherwise in court proceedings would have to be determined by the judge of the court concerned by passing a judicial order High court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-officers-can-face-action-if-private-data-is-leaked-hc/article34064807.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,||DMK promises 75% jobs for Tamils in industries||Promising to create 5.5 lakh jobs in the government sector, the DMK Assembly election manifesto, released on Saturday, said a law would be enacted to reserve 75% of jobs for Tamils in industries in the State. The private sector would be convinced to offer communal reservation in employment. It also announced waiver of education loans borrowed by students up to 30 years of age who pursued school and higher education in Tamil Nadu. The party also sought to fight the accusation of being anti-Hindu, announcing restoration and consecration of temples at Rs. 1,000 crore and Rs. 25,000 in grant for one lakh people to undertake pilgrimage. For restoring churches and mosques, Rs. 200 crore would be allotted. The manifesto contained other populist schemes with financial benefit to the people and monetary aid of Rs. 4,000 for ration cardholders impacted by COVID-19, and a freeze on property tax revision till the economy revived. However, there was no mention of prohibition, a pet promise of the party in 2016. It said Mandarin, French, German, Russian, Arabic, Spanish and Japanese would be taught at colleges and universities. Party president M.K. Stalin said a Ministry would be established to implement the promises. “The list of candidates [released on Friday] is the first hero and the manifesto is the second hero,” he told reporters. The manifesto proposed a separate Ministry to increase the revenue through extraction of mines and minerals and prevent looting of these resources, “The technological capacity of TAMIN will be strengthened.” Establishing a special court to try corruption charges against AIADMK Ministers; live telecast of Assembly proceedings; a law abolishing NEET in the first Assembly session; restoration of the old pension scheme for government employees; monthly electricity billing cycle; and free milk for school students in the morning are some of the promises. At a time when the increase in the prices of petroleum products has become a cause for concern, Mr. Stalin announced Rs. 100 in subsidy per cooking gas cylinder. The prices of petrol and diesel will be reduced by Rs. 5 and Rs. 4 a litre respectively. The price of Aavin milk will be reduced by Rs. 3 a litre. The manifesto also reiterated the DMK’s promise for a proper inquiry into the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and prosecution of the guilty. Reiterating its commitment to reservation without the income limit, the manifesto said it would persuade the Union government to increase the annual income ceiling to Rs. 25 lakh to determine the creamy layer for Central government institutions. Reservation Taking its cue from the recommendation of the National Backward Classes Commission for 27% reservation for the BCs in the private sector, the DMK said it would press for reservation for the BCs and the SCs/STs in the private sector. Priority would be given to first generation graduates in government jobs. The party would urge the Union government to make Tirukkural a “national book”. There are a slew of promises for the welfare of women, including 40% reservation for them in government jobs, an increase in the maternity leave to 12 months and Rs. 24,000 in maternity assistance. The differently abled people will get smart cards, free travel passes and motorised three-wheelers for travel. As many as 500 Kalaignar Unavagam, on the lines of Amma Unavagam, would be opened, and night shelters would be created for workers. The other promises include piped drinking water supply in Chennai; free sanitary napkin for government school/college students; a grievance redress mechanism in every Assembly constituency; resolution of the petitions received by Mr. Stalin during his campaign; housing pattas in urban areas where there are no objections; an enhanced old age pension of Rs. 1,500, an enhanced assistance for destitute, widows and unmarried women aged above 50; Tamil Nadu River Protection Project; and steps to get Indian citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dmk-promises-75-jobs-for-tamils-in-industries/article34064926.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ayushman Bharat campaign picks up pace||The “Aap Ke Dwar Ayushman” campaign of the National Health Authority (NHA) recorded more than 4.7 lakh beneficiary verifications in a single day on March 10 for free healthcare services under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) scheme, a release issued by the group said on Saturday. “On Wednesday, at least 4,77,105 beneficiary records were created in the ongoing “Aap Ke Dwar Ayushman” campaign which was launched on February1. Bihar was the first State to activate the verification process in the mission mode,” the release said. The aim is to create large-scale awareness about the AB PM-JAY health insurance scheme, especially in rural and interior parts, which provides cashless healthcare benefit of up to Rs. 5 lakh per family per year. The drive is being implemented in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Haryana and J&K, among other States. So far, about 1,16,83,808 Ayushman cards have been issued in this calendar year. Ram Sewak Sharma, CEO, AB-PMJAY, said: “The aim of the campaign is to verify beneficiaries residing in the remotest areas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ayushman-bharat-campaign-picks-up-pace/article34064840.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Law student files affidavit in contempt case against Kamra||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra is a haughty man “puffed up with conceit” who wants to justify his “scandalous tweets” about the Supreme Court as “jokes”, law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar told the Supreme Court in an affidavit. Mr. Kamra is facing criminal contempt proceedings in the top court on a plea filed by the student. In his response to the contempt petition, Mr. Kamra had said the Supreme Court should trust the public not to form opinions on the basis of a few jokes cracked by him on Twitter. Mr. Kamra said “taking offence” to comedy or satire had become a much-loved indoor sport in a growing culture of intolerance. He had refused to apologise or retract his tweets. Countering in his rejoinder affidavit, Mr. Katneshwarkar said, “...he (Kamra) says the tweets were funny. An ordinary prudent man can gather they are obnoxious.” The law student said Mr. Kamra had forgotten in his “hubris” as an “alleged/so-called” comedian that jokes are meant to cause amusement or laughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/law-student-files-affidavit-in-contempt-case-against-kamra/article34064851.ece
14 March 2021||KALPETTA,||Gregarious bamboo flowering in Wayanad poses threat||The “gregarious flowering of bamboo” inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) and the nearby Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and Gudalur forest division in Tamil Nadu this year may pose a threat to wildlife in the Nilgiri biosphere, a major tiger and elephant habitat. The bamboo groves in the Wayanad forest are the mainstay of herbivores in the Nilgiri biosphere during summer. With the advent of the season, migration of wild animals starts from the adjacent sanctuaries in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to Wayanad due to shortage of fodder and water. May affect migration “The gregarious flowering may adversely affect migration, especially by elephants, wild gaur, and other lower herbivores owing to the mass destruction of bamboo groves after the flowering,” S. Narendra Babu, wildlife warden, WWS, said. “Bamboo groves, which grow in more than 500 hectares of the 344.44 sq km of the sanctuary, have fully bloomed, a phenomenon said to occur once in the life cycle of bamboo plants” he added. Moreover, pointing to a threat to wildlife as well as the ecology of the Nilgiri biosphere, it is reported that over 25% of bamboo groves in the WWS and nearby sanctuaries have bloomed since 2010, and the phenomenon is continuing. Thorny bamboo ( Bamboosa bambos ) is a monocarpic (flowering only once) plant belonging to the Poaceae family (grass family), and its flowering cycle varies from 40 to 60 years. Profuse natural regeneration occurs from seeds after gregarious flowering. Seeds have no dormancy, and it helps germination under favourable conditions soon after seed fall, Mr. Babu said. Protection from fire But protection from fire and grazing is essential for proper establishment of seedlings, he observed. Fire incidents have been comparatively low in the sanctuary for the past five years owing to summer rain and conservation measures implemented by the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gregarious-bamboo-flowering-in-wayanad-poses-threat/article34064817.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Reaffirm 1991 Act on places of worship’||The CPI(M) Polit Bureau called the Supreme Court notice to the government seeking a response on the PIL petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay challenging the Places of Worship (Special Provision) Act, 1991, “unfortunate”. The Act mandates that the character of all religious places of worship should be maintained as it was on August 15, 1947, and no suit or proceedings shall lie in a court of law with respect to the character of places of worship. This effectively barred courts from entertaining cases which raise disputes over places of worship that existed as of August 15, 1947. While invoking this exemption, the Supreme Court in the 2019 Ayodhya verdict reaffirmed that similar such cases cannot be entertained with respect to other sites in view of this Act. “The Polit Bureau of the CPI(M) reaffirms that the grounds on which this law was enacted need not be re-examined. The Central government must respond to the Supreme Court, seeking its views, in a firm affirmation of the Places of Worship Act, 1991,” the party said in a statement here. While there was no official response from the Congress, Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi in a tweet said the notice by the Supreme Court to the government was merely a “ prima facie view”. Adding a note of caution, he said this notice should not lead to “reopening of closed issues” and “scraping of old wounds”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reaffirm-1991-act-on-places-of-worship/article34064829.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Kaveri online system hit by software, hardware issues||Over the last couple of months, registration of properties in the State has been hit frequently as technical glitches have led to shutdowns. While shutdowns have been reported from various sub-registrar offices across the State, what has alarmed the Revenue officials is frequent State-wide shutdowns that have delayed registration process. What ails the Kaveri online system, which was once showcased as the government’s IT initiative success in land registration system, and also received national recognition? The Department of Stamps and Registration is struggling with multiple issues that are technical in nature. KAVERI 1 online system is on Visual Basic (VB) in Windows XP platform that has become obsolete in the current times. It does not have any technical support from Microsoft. An urgent requirement is the development of centralised web-based system from the current individual application. “The upgrade has to be on a war footing. Otherwise, the registration will collapse one day,” a senior official said. “What is happening currently is fire fighting exercise after each shut down.” Cumbersome affair The official, who is aware of developments, said it had become highly difficult to manage day-on-day affairs in 282 locations where registrations take place in the State. Technical persons from C-DAC authorised to address the issues are neither in the office of Inspector General of Registrations and Commissioner of Stamps, or at any of these locations. “Each time, the issue is flagged to the C-DAC Pune office from where the technical support comes remotely,” he said. KAVERI 1, developed in 2003, is being maintained by Pune-based C-DAC. It won several awards for IT initiative in public space. Meanwhile, an effort to develop KAVERI 2 since 2013 by C-DAC has not yielded results. The department and C-DAC entered into an agreement for development of KAVERI 2 and maintain it for five years at the cost of around Rs. 5 crore. This was scheduled to be completed in less than a year’s time. However, due to various reasons, work on KAVERI 2 did not take off and the project has been shelved. The C-DAC is learnt to have disbanded the team already over delays. In early 2020, C-DAC had indicated to the government that it wanted to withdraw from the Kaveri project by December 2020, but later, pursued to be continued till another vendor is identified.  It is not the software alone that ails the system since the department that brings in a huge chunk of revenue to the exchequer in the way of registration revenues sits on very old hardware and power back-up systems. Karvy Data Management Services, which bought HCL Infosystem that was maintaining the hardware in 2018, has failed to maintain the hardware up to the required levels as well as supplying consumables to all 282 sub-registrar offices. “The net result is that UPS and battery systems are in a non-repairable condition and registration gets affected during power outage. The unscheduled power outage also results in data loss,” said an officer. Further, Karvy is learnt to have made a fresh proposal at 56% higher cost in maintenance,” the official pointed out, adding that it is yet to be accepted. An internal government communication seen by The Hindu shows that a combination of old hardware and inadequate power back up is creating bad sectors whenever there is a crash, and it takes the department several days to restore crucial data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kaveri-online-system-hit-by-software-hardware-issues/article34064946.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||CPI leader defends tie-ups in Bengal, T.N.||Political compulsions were behind the limited share of seats for the Left parties in Tamil Nadu, said CPI general secretary D. Raja, ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections. He also defended the Left Front’s alliance with Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui’s party Indian Secular Front (ISF) in Bengal. The DMK has conceded only six seats each to the CPI and the CPI(M) in Tamil Nadu, when the latter had demanded a number that touched at least double digits. “There are many political compulsions, which is understandable. We tried our best to get a good share, but that was not possible. We felt that it was far more critical to stall the BJP in the State, which is trying to get a foothold by riding on the AIADMK’s shoulders,” Mr. Raja told The Hindu . The CPI leader, however, conceded that the Left’s seat share in alliances often did not correspond to the political and ideological influence that it wielded. The Left Front in Bengal has come under severe criticism for its alliance with greenhorn party ISF, which is headed by chief patron of Furfura Sharif Abbas Siddiqui. Defending the decision, Mr. Raja said, “There is no evidence that the ISF or Mr. Siddiqui has stoked communal violence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-leader-defends-tie-ups-in-tn-bengal/article34064833.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Case registered on Jarkiholi’s complaint||The Bengaluru Police on Saturday registered a case of conspiracy and blackmailing against unknown persons based on a complaint by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, who resigned as Minister following allegations of sexual harassment against him. Instead of approaching the police, the former Minister sent his confidant M.V. Nagaraj to the Sadashivanagar Police Station in the afternoon to hand over the copy of his complaint. Police registered a case of criminal conspiracy, extortion and forgery under various sections of the IPC, sources said. In the complaint, Mr. Jarkiholi has named no one but has charged that some people with an intention to extort money resorted to defaming him. ‘CD is fake’ He stated that a conspiracy had been going on against him for the past three months by “creating” a fake CD (video) to finish him off politically and blackmail him. “There are many people involved in it, amongst them a few hatched the conspiracy, became part of preparing the fake CD and released it on the Internet to create political instability,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-registered-on-jarkiholis-complaint/article34064818.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 60% of active cases in Maharashtra||The Ministry stressed that more than 70% of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Eighteen States/UTs including Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Puducherry and Assam have not reported any death in the last 24 hours. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,58,39,273 samples had been tested until March 12 including 8,40,635 on Friday. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the Ministry said on its website, adding that State-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 2.91 crore on Saturday according to a release issued by the Health Ministry. It added that a total of 2,91,92,547 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 7 p.m. These include 73,31,498 Health Care Workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 42,58,297 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 72,96,474 Frontline Workers (FLWs) (first dose), 10,53,732 FLWs (second dose), 78,66,241 beneficiaries aged above 60 and 13,86,305 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific comorbidities. A total of 9,74,090 shots were given on Saturday, the 57th day of the vaccination drive. Of these, 8,05,014 beneficiaries were given the first dose and 1,69,076 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-60-of-active-cases-in-maharashtra/article34064805.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Woman in Karnataka CD case seeks security||In a new twist to the sex CD case involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, hours after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) registered an FIR based on his complaint, a video message allegedly by the woman in the CD surfaced, in which she has sought security. The woman in the widely circulated video claimed that Mr. Jarkiholi promised her a job. “And now the video is also released defaming me,” she said, and urged Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai that she should be provided security. She said the episode had led to her and her family being humiliated. Minutes later, Mr. Bommai said that the woman in the video would be provided adequate security. Meanwhile, reacting the video, Mr. Jarkiholi sought to know why such a statement was not made for 11 days but immediately after the FIR was registered. He said it suggested the woman was a “puppet in someone’s hand”. Mr. Jarkiholi lodged a complaint with the Sadashivanagar police earlier on Saturday in which he alleged “a conspiracy” to politically defame him and extort money and it was hatched for over three months in Sadashivanagar. Though Mr. Jarkiholi claimed in an earlier press conference that four leaders were behind the conspiracy, he hasn’t named anyone in his complaint and hence the FIR is against unknown individuals. The case is registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code for forgery, extortion and conspiracy. Activist Dinesh Kallahalli had lodged a complaint with the CD, purportedly showing intimate moments of the former Minister with a woman, alleging a “sex for favours” scandal. He had subsequently withdrawn the complaint. The woman’s video message is expected to again open up the allegations of “sex for favour” allegations against Mr. Jarkiholi. The terms of reference for the SIT to only probe the conspiracy behind the fake CD, as alleged by Mr. Jarkiholi, had drawn the ire of women activists. Meanwhile, the SIT that had questioned four individuals including three journalists in connection with the alleged conspiracy on Friday, is on the hunt for two more individuals presently at large --- one from Sira in Tumakuru district and another from Devanahalli in Bengaluru Rural, where SIT sleuths conducted search operations on Saturday. One of them hacked a server in Russia and uploaded the video on the Internet, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-in-karnataka-cd-case-seeks-security/article34064865.ece
14 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Joseph group names candidates for 10 seats||The Kerala Congress led by P.J.Joseph, an ally of the United Democratic Front, on Saturday released the list of its candidates for the 10 seats in which the party is contesting the State Assembly election. As per the candidate ist, the regional party is slated to come face to face with the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani in four seats - Kaduthuruthy, Thodupuzha, Idukki and Changanassery. The party leader and sitting legislator P.J. Joseph will face off KC(M) leader K.I. Antony at Thodupuzha while Mons Joseph, MLA, will battle it out with KC(M) general secretary Stephen George in Kaduthuruthy. In Idukki, senior leader Francis George is being pitted against KC(M) leader and sitting MLA Roshy Augustine while in Changanassery, V. J. Laly will contest against KC(M) leader Job Michael. The list also features the name of M.P. Joseph, a former IAS officer and son-in-law of the late Kerala Congress (M) patriarch K.M.Mani, who will be contesting from the Thrikkarippur segment in Kasaragod. The other persons named on the list are Kunjukoshy Paul in Thiruvalla, Thomas Unniyadan in Irinjalakuda, Shibu Thekkumpuram in Kothamangalam, Jacob Abraham in Kuttanad and Prince Lukose in Ettumanur. The candidature of Mr. Lukose in Ettumanur comes amidst strong protests within the party against the denial of seat to Saji Manjakadambil, Kottayam district president of the party. The Congress workers too had raised strong objections against allocating the seat to constituent party, which, according to them, did not command any significant presence in the segment. Senior leader Joseph M.Puthussery and Victor T. Thomas, Pathanamthitta district unit president of the party, too have been denied the ticket this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joseph-group-names-candidates-for-10-seats/article34064812.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Yashwant Sinha joins Trinamool Congress||The development assumes significance in poll-bound West Bengal. “You will be surprised at today’s development as to why at this age I am joining a party when I had withdrawn from party politics. This is because the country is passing through crucial times,” Mr. Sinha said. The 83-year-old politician said democracy does not only mean elections every five years. “The strength of democracy lies in the strength of institutions and I say it with regret that these institutions, including the judiciary, in the country have been weakened,” he said. “The BJP of Atal ji (Atal Bihari Vajpayee) and the BJP now are poles apart. Atal ji believed in consensus; today’s government believes in crushing. Atal ji used to co-opt people; today’s government wants to conquer people,” Mr. Sinha said. Showering praise on Ms. Banerjee, Mr. Sinha said she is a fighter and expressed the hope that the Trinamool would return to power with a thumping majority. He recalled that during 1999 Kandahar hijack of Air India plane, when the Trinamool was a coalition partner of the Vajpayee government, Ms. Banerjee had volunteered at the Cabinet meeting to go and meet the hijackers to secure the release of hostages “as she is not afraid of her life”. “A message should go from Bengal that what Modi (Narendra Modi) and Shah (Amit Shah) are doing from Delhi cannot go on,” he said, adding that a victory of Trinamool would strengthen call for parivartan (change) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Listing a series of failures of the BJP government at the Centre — including handling the farmers’ protest, the condition of migrant workers during lockdown, the state of education and healthcare, Mr. Sinha said, “It seems like that the sole aim of the BJP is to win every election everywhere.” “The tipping point was the attack (in Nandigram) on Mamata Banerjee. When I spoke to her today, she described the incident to me... This government [at the Centre] can do anything to win the election. The attack on Mamataji made me decide that I want to work with her,” he said about the March 10 incident. The veteran politician had a maintained good rapport with the Trinamool leadership in the past and had also campaigned for the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll in West Bengal. Mr. Sinha’s son Jayant Sinha is the BJP MP from Hazaribagh in Jharkhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yashwant-sinha-joins-trinamool-congress/article34064813.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Sri Lanka to ban burkha, shut 1,000 madrasas||While the Minister said he had signed documents outlawing the burkha, the move awaits Cabinet approval. Over 1,000 madrasas would be shut, he said. The announcement on the burkha ban comes after a year-long controversy over the government’s policy of mandatory cremation of COVID-19 victims, based on unsubstantiated claims that the bodies would contaminate ground water. The government reversed its decision recently, amid persistent calls for burial rights from Muslims, who make up about 10% of the 21-million population, as well as international bodies including the U.N. Following the Islamic State-inspired Easter terror bombings in Sri Lanka in April 2019, attributed to a local Islamist radical network, the government temporarily banned the face veil using emergency laws. A small section of Sri Lankan Muslim women wears the burkha, and some of them reported harassment in public spaces at that time, when they were barred entry into banks and commercial establishments. Some sections criticised the move then for ‘targeting’ the women of the community that had not only condemned the attacks but also provided evidence that investigators said was crucial to their probe. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa was elected to office in November 2019, following his campaign on the plank of enhancing security, promising a crackdown on extremism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lanka-to-ban-burkha-shut-1000-madrasas/article34064823.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||“No mask, no flight,” say new DGCA rules||“In case any passenger on board refuses to wear a mask or violates the COVID-19 protocol even after repeated warnings, such passenger may be treated as ‘unruly passenger’ and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger as provided in CAR (civil aviation requirements) shall be followed by the concerned airline,” the DGCA said. The March 13 circular emphasised that passengers should not wear their mask below their nose at all times of the journey. The CAR on unruly passengers provides for an offender to be put on a no-fly list for varying periods — three months for verbal abuse, six months for physical assault and two years or more for life threatening behaviour. “The internal committee constituted by an airline to look into the incident will decide which category the offence falls,” a senior official of the DGCA said. If a passenger is found violating the protocols before boarding a flight, then the DGCA order requires that airport staff hand them over to security personnel after sufficient warnings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-mask-no-flight-say-new-dgca-rules/article34064824.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA arrests Mumbai police officer Waze||A sessions court at Thane rejected assistant police inspector Sachin Waze’s plea for pre-arrest bail in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the car found next to Mukesh Ambani’s residence. A threat letter was found in the car. Additional Sessions Judge Shailendra Tambe passed the order on March 12 and held, “The accused is unknown hence, there is criminal conspiracy and thorough investigation is necessary by Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). Hence, this court is not agreed to grant interim bail to the applicant (Mr. Waze) because there is prima facie evidence and material against the applicant. The say of ATS is necessary. The custodial interrogation of the applicant is necessary.” Mr. Waze sought interim bail through advocate Aarti Kalekar. Ms. Kalekar argued that Mr. Waze had been extensively interrogated for eight hours on March 8 by senior officers. She mentioned the Khwaja Yunus custodial death in 2004 and said he (Yunus) suffered from 17 years of undue suspension in a false case. The court recorded, “On February 27 and 28, Hiren was along with Mr Waze. Hiren’s body was found and after prima facie investigation, offence was registered against the unknown person. But in the statement of the informant (Hiren’s wife) who is knowing all the facts which was stated in FIR, she informed the police that Mr. Waze and her husband were in regular contact. She has informed the police about all the facts and directly made allegations against Mr. Waze with name.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hiran-case-court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-to-waze/article34064848.ece
14 March 2021||Bhopal,||Night curfew likely in Bhopal, Indore: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that night curfew might be imposed in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday in view of a spurt in coronavirus cases in these two districts. He said this during a meeting held on Friday evening to review the coronavirus situation in the State. “Look at the rise in infection cases... Tough measures will be taken to flatten the curve. Night curfew might be clamped in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday,” Mr. Chouhan was quoted as saying in an official statement. The Chief Minister said that people coming to the State by air, trains or roads from Maharashtra, where there is a spike in cases, should be thermally scanned. Ways to restrict the influx of people from Maharashtra were also discussed during the meeting, the statement said. Mr. Chouhan also instructed the officials to ensure that COVID-19 rules were strictly followed by people. On Friday, 603 new COVID -19 cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh. Indore, the worst-hit district in the State, saw 219 new cases, taking the caseload there to 61,642, Bhopal witnessed 138 fresh cases, which pushed its total count to 45,079. Indore has so far reported 940 deaths and Bhopal 621.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/night-curfew-likely-in-bhopal-indore-chouhan/article34064849.ece
14 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘SP will not ally with national parties’||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Saturday it was the farmers who saved the economy during the pandemic. He was addressing a kisan panchayat organised by the party and Mahan Dal. Announcing that the Samajwadi Party will not ally with national parties in future elections, he appealed to the audience to maintain a distance with other parties as well. Mr. Yadav said the region was the cradle of Ganga-Jamuna tehzeeb (composite culture) but the BJP was trying to divide people in the name of religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-will-not-ally-with-national-parties/article34064826.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Vijayakumar to contest in Kanyakumari||The Congress leadership on Saturday night released the list of candidates for 21 of the 25 Assembly constituencies allotted to it by the DMK and for the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency. According to the announcement made by AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik, V. Vijayakumar alias Vijay Vasanth, son of H. Vasanthakumar whose death caused the vacancy, is the candidate for the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha byelection. The names of the candidates for four Assembly constituencies, including Vilavancode, a seat the party holds, have been withheld after protests at the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) headquarters. R. Mohan Kumaramangalam, son of late Union Minister Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, is the candidate for Omalur. Thirumagan Evera, son of former TNCC president E.V.K.S. Elangovan, has been fielded in Erode (East). Dalit leader K. Selvaperunthagai is the candidate for Sriperumbudur (reserved). Mayura S. Jayakumar will enter the fray in Coimbatore South against Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder and actor Kamal Haasan. The seat has been allotted to the BJP in the AIADMK-led alliance. Though the Congress won three Assembly constituencies in Kanniyakumari district in 2016, the candidate for Killiyoor alone has been announced. The sitting MLA, S. Rajeshkumar, has been renominated. The candidates for Colachel (sitting MLA J.G. Prince) and Vilavancode (sitting MLA S. Vijayadharani) are yet to be announced. Rubi Manoharan is the candidate for Nanguneri. Vasanthakumar had won from the constituency and resigned to contest from Kanniyakumari in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. In Tenkasi, the party has fielded S. Palani Nadar. In Srivaikundam, the candidate is Urvasi S. Amirtharaj, son of late Congress MLA Selvaraj. R.M. Karumanickam is entering the contest in Thiruvadanai and A.M.G.C. Ashokan in Sivakasi. P.S.W. Madhava Rao is the candidate for Srivilliputhur (reserved) and T. Ravichandran has been put up in Melur, Madurai. The party has fielded S.T. Ramachandran, son of party MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar, in Aranthangi and S. Mangudi in Karaikudi. The candidate for Virudhachalam is M.R.R. Radhakrishnan and K. Thennarasu is the candidate for Udumalaipettai. The sitting MLA, R. Ganesh, is re-entering the fray in Udhagamandalam and K.I. Manirathnam in Kallakurichi (reserved). J.S. Arumugam will contest from Uthangarai (reserved) and A.M. Munirathanam, who recently rejoined the Congress, from Sholinghur. Durai Chandrasekar has been fielded in Ponneri (reserved). Protests held Earlier in the day, Satyamurthy Bhavan, the headquarters of the TNCC here, witnessed protests by party workers who alleged that tickets had been given to those who joined the party recently or to those with deep pockets. “Tickets are sold for money,” Congress MP M.K. Vishnuprasad, who staged the protest at the headquarters, said. Mr. Vishnuprasad gave up the protests after TNCC president K.S. Alagiri held talks with him. Jothimani, another Congress MP, also came out in support of the protesters, adding that she was aware of the sentiments of the workers. “There is no transparency in selection of constituencies and candidates. There are a lot of mistakes. I questioned them, but there is no response,” she tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-announces-nominees-for-21-seats-kanniyakumari-bypoll/article34065014.ece
14 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab shuts all anganwadi centres due to rising cases||Punjab Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Saturday instructed to close all anganwadi centres till further orders in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State. The social security, women and child development minister said ration and other material will be distributed door to door through anganwadi workers and helpers, so that nutritional support to beneficiaries is not affected.  34 more deaths Thirty-four more fatalities due to COVID-19 were reported in Punjab on Friday, taking the death toll to 6,030, while the infection count climbed to 1,94,753 with 1,414 new coronavirus cases in the state. In January, the Punjab government had announced that all anganwadi centres for children and other beneficiaries across the state would reopen from February 1. The centres were closed earlier due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-shuts-all-anganwadi-centres-due-to-rising-cases/article34065059.ece
14 March 2021||Shimla,||Polls in new Himachal civic bodies in April||Elections for four municipal corporations and six nagar panchayats in Himachal Pradesh will be held on April 7, the State Election Commission announced on Saturday. The Commission notified the schedule for the elections of Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan municipal corporations and Chirgaon, Nerwa, Ani, Nirmand, Kandaghat and Amb nagar panchayats. The four municipal corporations except Dharamshala and the six nagar panchayats are newly created and will go to the polls for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polls-in-new-himachal-civic-bodies-in-april/article34065060.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Queries raised on Nandigram episode||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Saturday raised doubts about West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s injury earlier this week, asking whether it was an “orchestrated” incident. Ms. Banerjee sustained injuries on her left leg while campaigning in Nandigram on Wednesday. Asked how the incident could impact the Bengal poll scenario, Mr. Shekhawat said, “The question is whether the incident happened or was it orchestrated?.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/queries-raised-on-nandigram-episode/article34064775.ece
14 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Infighting back in Cong. in Rajasthan||Eight months after the rebellion of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, the discontent simmering in the ruling Congress in Rajasthan has come to the fore through three MLAs from the eastern parts of the State. The legislators of the Pilot camp have alleged discrimination in the Assembly proceedings and their constituencies being ignored. Sapotra MLA Ramesh Meena, sacked as the Food and Civil Supplies Minister during the political crisis in July last year, Dausa MLA Murari Lal Meena and Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki have alleged that the State government is trying to suppress the voice of legislators representing the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minority communities. Mr. Ramesh Meena, who had an argument with Speaker C.P. Joshi earlier this week over the allotment of a seat without a microphone in the House, said here on Saturday that he would not hesitate to resign if things did not improve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infighting-back-in-cong-in-rajasthan/article34064825.ece
14 March 2021||Lucknow,||Akhilesh, 20 SP workers booked||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and 20 party workers have been booked in connection with an alleged assault of some journalists in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district, the police said on Saturday. A counter-FIR has also been lodged against the journalists. According to the complainant, Mr. Yadav was irked by a few personal questions posed by some journalists during an interaction on March 11. Following this, he allegedly instigated his security guards to attack the journalists, the FIR claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-20-sp-workers-booked/article34064868.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Uproar in Bihar Assembly over illicit liquor||The Bihar Assembly on Saturday witnessed pandemonium after Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav urged Speaker Vijay Sinha to enable an adjournment motion for discussing Revenue and Land Reforms Minister Ram Surat Rai’s alleged “involvement” in illicit liquor business in dry Bihar. Mr. Rai, a BJP MLA from Aurai, challenged Mr. Yadav to prove his charges in two days or apologise. When the Speaker turned down Mr. Yadav’s demand, the Opposition mahagathbandhan leaders staged a walkout amid slogan shouting. They demanded that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar sack the Minister immediately. It was observed that members of the Janata Dal (U) did not come out in support of the BJP members. Later, Mr. Yadav, who heads the Rashtriya Janata Dal, along with other mahagathbandhan leaders, marched to the Raj Bhavan and demanded that Governor Phagu Chauhan dismiss the government for “muzzling the Opposition’s voice”. Earlier in the day, Mr. Yadav held a press conference and displayed pictures before mediapersons, alleging that Mr. Rai was present at a function held in a school from where illegal liquor bottles were seized in November 2020. “How can the Minister wash his hands of a matter that involves a property and an institution with which he is involved?” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uproar-in-bihar-assembly-over-illicit-liquor/article34064838.ece
14 March 2021||Srinagar,||BJP condemns Rizvi’s remarks about Koran||The BJP on Saturday joined several Valley-based Muslim organisations in condemnation of Shia leader Waseem Rizvi’s move to approach the Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 verses of the Koran. “We have filed a complaint (before the police) and want the accused to be dealt with strictly. Nobody will be allowed to speak against any community or their holy book,” BJP leader Manzoor Bhat said. Another BJP leader Altaf Thakur termed the remarks of the former chairman of the Shia Waqf Board “unacceptable”.   National Conference president and Member of Parliament Farooq Abdullah said the act of Mr. Rizvi was abominable. “The holy Koran is the incorruptible and unchangeable word of Allah. The petition should not be entertained...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-condemns-rizvis-remarks-about-koran/article34064844.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Move to phase out older govt. vehicles||Government departments will not be able to renew registration of their vehicles older than 15 years from April 1, 2022, if a proposal issued by the the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is finalised. The Ministry has sought stakeholders’ comments to amend related rules in this regard by issuing a notification. Once approved, this will be applicable to all government vehicles. “From April 1, 2022, government departments will not be able to renew the certificate of registration of their vehicles after 15 years,” the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways said in a tweet. The development comes close on heels of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union Budget for 2021-22 on February 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/move-to-phase-out-older-govt-vehicles/article34064872.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Celebrities ready to take the plunge||Popularity on the screen has only rarely translated into electoral success for celebrity candidates in Kerala, unlike in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Yet, in recent years, more film celebrities than in the past are ready to take the plunge. Actor Innocent won as a Left independent in the Lok Sabha election of 2019, while K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA of LDF ally Kerala Congress(B), has since 2001 had multiple successes in elections and is contesting this time too. Actor Mukesh of the CPI(M) is also contesting for a second time. Suresh Gopi, who lost as the BJP candidate from Thrissur in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, is rumoured to be in the fray this time as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/celebrities-ready-to-take-the-plunge/article34064769.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tightrope walk for the Congress||Candidate selection for key seats in the capital district of Kerala is proving to be a tightrope walk for the Congress. Despite witnessing much wrangling for seats, the party leadership is yet to zero in on candidates likely to win in the Nemom, Vattiyurkavu and Kazhakuttom segments. The predicament has forced the party to consider relaxing its supposed ban on permitting MPs from contesting in the Assembly polls. With Nemom, the BJP’s lone seat in Kerala, fast emerging a focal point of the election, the Congress leadership has been toying with the possibility of fielding an MP who could satisfy the caste arithmetic and wrest the United Democratic Front (UDF) vote-base that has eroded in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tightrope-walk-for-the-congress/article34064771.ece
14 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Deer ‘swamps’ poll talk in rhino land||Mandate 2021 has made the swamp deer steal the one-horned rhino’s thunder in eastern Assam’s Golaghat district. The swamp deer is the most unobtrusive of the Kaziranga National Park’s big five animals, the others being the rhino, Bengal tiger, elephant and Asiatic water buffalo in that order of prominence. The headquarters of the park is in Golaghat district. On March 11, the district administration launched ‘Tikhor’, the swamp deer as the male mascot for the systematic voters’ education and electoral participation (SVEEP) programme. ‘Sutibai’, the butterfly, has been made the female mascot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deer-swamps-poll-talk-in-rhino-land/article34064774.ece
14 March 2021||Kolkata,||Farmers’ body says don’t vote for BJP||Members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday held a public meeting at Nandigram and urged the people of the constituency not to vote for the Bharatiya Janata party ( BJP). Along with Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), social activist Medha Patkar was also present at the meeting at Nandigram. “If you want save the country, then you will have to remove this government. You can ask, there are elections in West Bengal and what are we non-political people saying. We are saying, do not vote for BJP and vote for anyone else you want to,” Mr. Tikait said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-body-says-dont-vote-for-bjp/article34064779.ece
14 March 2021||AMBALA,||Bomb shells found in riverbed near Ambala||Six old bomb shells were found on Saturday in the Markanda riverbed near Tangail village, around 20 km from Ambala Cantonment. Some people noticed them, following which police were informed. Police said the shells were old and rusted and did not pose any danger. One villager told reporters that nearly three decades ago the Army had conducted an exercise in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bomb-shells-found-in-riverbed-near-ambala/article34065062.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||54%||of the sitting MLAs in Tamil Nadu declared that they were graduates or more, while 44% declared that they were between ‘5thpass’and ‘12th pass’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/54/article34064782.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||77%||of the sitting MLAs in Tamil Nadu’s Legislative Assembly are crorepatis. The average assets declared per sitting MLA is Rs. 6.05crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/77/article34064783.ece
14 March 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,||Brief tension at Bhongir||Brief tension prevailed near the camp office of Bhongir MLA Paila Sekhar Reddy in the town here on Saturday, when local Congress leaders alleged that ruling party leaders were indulging in luring voters in the wake of polling on Sunday. At around 4.30 p.m. on Saturday, eight local leaders and activists of the Congress charged the ruling TRS party leaders with distributing money and other items to graduate voters at the local legislator’s camp office. Police officials along with reserve police staff soon contained the situation and kept the Congress leaders under preventive detention. Bhongir police said the situation was brought to normalcy after a brief protest by the activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brief-tension-in-bhongir/article34065197.ece
14 March 2021||Yadgir,||Village tense after violence over photo||The taluk administration has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and ordered the suspension of the annual fair of Sri Mahanteshwar Temple in the village to ensure peace after tension prevailed in Doranahalli village, of Shahapur taluk in Yadgir district. There was a group clash and instances of stone-pelting after an 18-year-old youngster allegedly insulted the ‘Shivalinga’ and posted a photo on social media on Thursday. The youth, identified as Mallikarjun, son of Basavaraj, has been arrested. On Thursday night, some activists of Hindu organisations and residents of the village blocked the main road demanding immediate action against the accused, after he had posted the photo. According to a case filed by Sharanabassappa, DSS organiser, on Thursday miscreants suddenly entered a locality where Dalits were residing and allegedly started hurling abusive words and assaulted the residents, elderly persons, and women with lathis, rods, and chilli powder. The police personnel, who were already on the spot to control the situation, were said to have been injured after the miscreants pelted stones. Additional police force was immediately brought to bring the situation under control  Following the incident, Jagannath Reddy, tahsildar of Shahapur, imposed the prohibition and suspended the scheduled annual fair of Sri Mahanteshwar Temple on Friday to prevent a possible clash in the village. In the order, it was said that the prohibition order would be in force till further notice. The order also banned people from gathering and carrying weapons. The police have registered three cases. Based on the complaint, a case against Mallikarjun was registered for allegedly insulting the ‘Shivalinga’. A second case was registered by the police against 25 people for allegedly being involved in stone-pelting. A third case was registered based on the complaint by Sharanabassappa against 27 people for allegedly assaulting people and abusing them over their caste. The cases were registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3(1) (r), 3 (1)(s), and 3 (1)(w) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. ‘Under control now’ “We have registered three cases and arrested three accused, including Mallikarjun. The situation in the village is under control as additional police forces have been deployed to prevent any untoward incidents,” said Rishikesh Sonawane, Superintendent of Police. But despite the police’s efforts, the people of the village are in fear even as devotees are upset by the suspension of the annual fair. “This was not a good move. We are in the situation which has forced us not to trust one another,” said an elderly villager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/village-tense-after-violence-over-photo/article34064866.ece
14 March 2021||Kalpetta,||Captured tiger shifted to Thrissur zoo||Officials of the North Wayanad forest division on Saturday shifted a tiger captured from a human habitat at Vellarippalam in the district to the Thrissur zoo. The tiger, aged about 10 years, which triggered panic among local residents at Ozhakkody, Muthirery, and Makkikolly under the forest division, was captured on Wednesday. Under observation The animal, identified as a resident of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, was under observation at the forest Inspection bungalow at Thirunelly. The predator was shifted to the zoo after it was found that the animal was not fit for release in the wild as it had lost its canine teeth, North Wayanad divisional forest officer Remesh Bishnoy said. The animal was shifted in a wildlife ambulance around 12 a.m. from Thirunelly and it was handed over to the zoo authorities at 10 a.m. following the protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, he said. Apart from a team of forest officials, two veterinarians and a wildlife biologist also accompanied the big cat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/captured-tiger-shifted-to-thrissur-zoo/article34064815.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Congress says Mohan Delkar had spoken of ill-treatment to Parliament panel||The Congress party in Maharashtra alleged on Saturday that Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, who was found dead in a hotel in Mumbai in February, had spoken of ill-treatment meted out to him and how he was on the verge of suicide, to the privilege committee of Parliament two weeks before his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-congress-says-mohan-delkar-had-spoken-of-ill-treatment-to-parliament-panel/article34064837.ece
14 March 2021||Guwahati,||BJP leader stabbed to death in Tinsukia||The police in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district has arrested one person for stabbing a 48-year-old BJP leader on Thursday evening. Debananda Gogoi, the BJP’s booth president of Buridihing Gain Panchayat, succumbed to his injuries at a government-run hospital in adjoining Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leader-stabbed-to-death-in-tinsukia/article34064843.ece
14 March 2021||Srinagar,||Former legislators pitch for resumption of democratic political process in J&K||A group of 10 former legislators belonging to different political parties, who served in the Upper House of the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly, on Saturday demanded “early resumption of democratic political process in the erstwhile State”. The legislators said the current impasse on the restoration of the political process had only added to the miseries of the masses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-legislators-pitch-for-resumption-of-democratic-political-process-in-jk/article34064845.ece
14 March 2021||Srinagar:,||2 policemen injured in Sopore grenade attack||Two policemen were injured in a grenade attack in north Kashmir’s Baramulla. An official said two Special Police Officers sustained minor injuries in a grenade explosion near the Bus Stand in Sopore. “We are investigating the nature of the blast,” the official said. The injured SPOs were identified as Mohammad Afzal and Azad Ahmad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-policemen-injured-in-sopore-grenade-attack/article34064850.ece
14 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram group urges Centre to impose sanctions on Myanmar||A Mizoram-based group representing the Zo indigenous people of India, Bangladesh and Myanmar has petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impose sanctions on Myanmar. The Zo Reunification Organisation has also asked the Centre not to turn away Myanmar nationals seeking refuge in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-group-urges-centre-to-impose-sanctions-on-myanmar/article34064853.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traditional rivals go at it again on civic issues||In the Tambaram Assembly constituency, the battle will be between traditional, long- time rivals belonging to the key Dravidian parties — the AIADMK and the DMK. The fight is believed to be essentially between these two candidates, though many more are in the fray. The incumbent MLA S.R. Raja of the DMK will lock horns, for the fourth time, with former Minister and MLA T.K.M. Chinnayya of the AIADMK. The constituency consists of the Tambaram and Sembakkam municipalities; Chitlapakkam, Madambakkam, Perungalathur and Peerkankaranai town panchayats; and Mudichur, Agaramthen, Thiruvancheri and Madurapakkam village panchayats. While residents in the constituency are happy with the progress of various infrastructure works, those coming under Tambaram municipality complain about the delay in the completion of the underground drainage system, which has been dragging on for more than a decade. Some also said the road condition in the municipality was bad due to the execution of the drainage work. The residents of Mudichur panchayat rue the State government’s failure to issue pattas to the residents of Indira Nagar. The locality, developed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, has not been provided with patta for more than 35 years. P. Damodaran, former chairman of the Mudichur panchayat and office-bearer of the Federation of Mudichur Residents’ Welfare Association, wanted the long-delayed expansion of the Mudichur Main Road to be executed for easing traffic congestion, in addition to the construction of stormwater drains to prevent flooding. Residents credit Mr. Raja, along with Sriperumbudur MP T.R. Baalu, for getting the third railway terminal in the city to Tambaram. They believe the development of the third railway terminal has helped in Tambaram becoming a multi-modal transport hub, helping the cause of several local businesses. Mr. Raja, who was successfully elected in 2006 and 2016 but lost to Mr. Chinnayya in 2011, said the successful completion of the integrated stormwater drain project helped in preventing floods in West Tambaram, Perungalathur and Peerkankaranai. He said funds were allotted for the construction of community halls in Mudichur, Madurapakkam, and Agaram villages. He has also given a push to education with the construction of public libraries in Tambaram, Chitlapakkam and Madambakkam. Funds had also been allotted to improve crematoria in Peerkankaranai and Chitalpakkam and the work had started, he added. DMK candidate Mr. Raja, having cut his teeth in business before entering politics, said the development of Tambaram into a business centre had resulted in encroachments, causing traffic bottlenecks in several areas. He also said the widening of the Mudichur Main Road was pending for a long time and would be taken up if he was elected again. The residents of Chitlapakkam, which comes under the town panchayat, said they were facing hardship due to the poor drinking water supply. They want Chitlapakkam to be merged with the Greater Chennai Corporation and include the locality under the Tambaram-Pallavaram-Pammal Water Scheme to solve the issue. L. Sundararaman, president, Chitlapakkam Muthulakshmi Nagar Welfare Association, said at present the residents were provided with water from Palar but the supply remained sloppy, particularly during summer. Citing the drainage work in Tambaram municipality, he wants a similar scheme to be taken up in Chitlapakkam, which had become a popular residential area because of its proximity to the Sanatorium railway station. The residents of east Tambaram, comprising Rajakilpakkam, Madambakkam, and Selaiyur have their own set of grievances, such as widening of the Rajakilpakkam Main Road leading to Agaram, construction of a flyover to ease traffic at the Kamarajapuram junction, electrification of the Madambakkam crematorium and repairing of several roads in Rajakilpakkam, damaged in last year’s heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traditional-rivals-go-at-it-again-on-civic-issues/article34065000.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Manifesto tries to stave off ‘anti-Hindu’ label||The DMK on Saturday found itself receiving bouquets and brickbats for its “pro-Hindu” announcements in its manifesto for the Assembly election. Seeking to counter the charge of being “anti-Hindu”, the party came out with a series of promises, including restoration and consecration of temples at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore. “There are temples where ‘kumbhabhishekham’ has not been performed for years. The DMK government will allot Rs. 1,000 crore for the purpose,” the manifesto said. Besides announcing restoration of temples, which showcase Dravidian architecture, it promised to organise sponsored “spiritual tours” so as to respect the sentiments of Hindus. Every year, one lakh devotees would be selected for a tour to Rameswaram, Varanasi, Kedarnath, Badrinath, Tirupati and the Jagannath temple in Puri. Each devotee would be given a maximum of Rs. 25,000. While Isha Foundation founder Jaggi Vasudev expressed his gratitude for the allocation of funds for restoration of temples, BJP leaders like Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman wondered about the sudden change in the DMK’s attitude towards Hindus. Asked whether the DMK made these promises to counter the campaign that it was anti-Hindu, party treasurer and manifesto committee chairman T.R. Baalu said that through the announcement, “we were explicitly telling” that our party is not against the Hindus. “We are all Hindus and a lot of our party workers are visiting temples. But there is an opinion that we are anti-Hindu and anti-Brahmin. We are secular and have faith in the dictum, ‘one god and one race’. We are sending the right signal,” he said.  ‘Party of rationalists’ Mr. Baalu recalled that the DMK had performed thousands of ‘kumbhabhishekham’ when it was in power. “We are rationalists and never behave like barbarians,” he stressed. The manifesto, released by party president M.K. Stalin, said the Girivalam Path and car streets in Tiruvannamalai would be made concrete structures and planted with trees. “As overhead electric lines are causing problem during the car festival, they will be converted into underground cables,” it said. The party said all the temple tanks would be desilted periodically and filled with water. There is also a proposal to operate cable cars at hill temples such as Sholinghur, Tiruttani, Thiruneermalai, the Rockfort temple and Tiruchengode. “Performing of pujas in Tamil will be extended. The services of contract and part-time employees of the temples managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department would be regularised with all benefits,” the manifesto said. “Appointment will be given to 250 archakas who have been waiting for 14 years,” it further said. Increase in salary Members of the temple village priests board will get Rs. 2,000 in pension. Their monthly salary will be increased to Rs. 4,000 from Rs. 3,000. Recalling the efforts made by the DMK government to make people of all communities archakas, the manifesto said 205 persons who had been trained at archaka training schools would be appointed with an adequate age relaxation. The manifesto proposed to set up an international Vallalar centre at Vadalur to encourage amity among communities and propagate the ideas of Ramalinga Adigal. Transport facilities and lodgings will be modernised at pilgrimage centres such as Chidambaram, Tiruvannamalai, Srirangam, Palani, Tiruttani, Rameswaram, Kanniyakumari, Nagapattinam, Courtallam, Nagore and Velankanni, the party said.  We are secular and have faith in the dictum, ‘one god and one race’ T.R. Baalu Manifesto committee chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manifesto-tries-to-stave-off-anti-hindu-label/article34064974.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK may do better than the BJP||The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) may fare better than the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) this time, if the performance of the AIADMK-led alliance, which includes the two parties, during the 2016 Assembly election and the 2019 Lok Sabha poll is any indication. The AIADMK has allotted 23 seats to the PMK and 20 to the BJP. Five years ago, when the PMK, the BJP and the AIADMK contested separately, the sum of votes polled by the three parties in the seats allotted to the PMK exceeded the vote share of 50% in 13 constituencies. Of the remaining 10 constituencies, four constituencies saw the alliance’s vote share varying from 45% to 49%; five saw 40% to 45% and only one, Neyveli, under 40%. But in 2019, when all three came together to fight the Lok Sabha election, the situation was completely different, as the alliance had only one Assembly segment — Jayamkondan — where its vote share exceeded 50%. A combination of factors, including the “anti-Modi” mood, worked against the coalition. As far as the AIADMK-led front is concerned, its performance in the Assembly election is bound to be much better than what it was during the Lok Sabha poll. Jayamkondan is one of the six segments that form the Chidambaram Parliamentary constituency. In 2019, in this segment, Thol. Thirumavalavan, the founder of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), polled about 25,000 votes less than what the AIADMK’s nominee, P. Chandrasekar, got. The VCK leader made it to Parliament by a margin of about 3,200 votes. Shifting focus The AIADMK-led combine scored a vote share of 45% to 49% in two Assembly constituencies (Dharmapuri and Pennagaram), both falling under the Dharmapuri Lok Sabha constituency. PMK president G.K. Mani perhaps decided to shift to Pennagaram from his earlier constituency of Mettur as the alliance had performed better there than in Mettur, where the vote share was only about 40% against 45.27% in Pennagaram. Neyveli and Sholinghur were the two other seats where vote share was in the 40%-45% range. In five constituencies, it was in the bracket of 35%-40%; in eight 30%-35%; in two 25%-30% and in two less than 20%. As for the BJP, in 2016, the combined vote share of the candidates of the AIADMK, the BJP and the PMK crossed 50% in four constituencies — Ramanathapuram, Coimbatore (South), Aravakurichi and Nagercoil; 45%-50% in 10 constituencies, including Tirunelveli, Colachel and Virudhunagar; 40%-45% in three constituencies, including Karaikudi, and less than 40% in three segments. BJP in Thalli Three years later, even though the alliance’s vote share did not go beyond the 50%-mark even in one of the 20 seats allotted to the national party this time, it doubled its vote share in Thalli, from what it was in 2016. The NDA’s score card in Thalli, which comes under the Krishnagiri Lok Sabha seat, went up from 20.9% to 44.47%. In Nagercoil (in the Kanniyakumari Parliamentary seat), the figure was at 44%. In four constituencies, the NDA’s score was in the bracket of 35%-40%; seven- 30%-35%; four- 25%-30% and three- 20%-25% Even though the alliance’s vote share did not exceed 35% in Coimbatore (South) and Tirunelveli Assembly segments, the BJP hopes to win there this time by fielding well-known personalities. In 2016, Vanathi Srinivasan, now the party’s national chief of women’s wing (mahila morcha), contested from Coimbatore South and polled about 21.57% votes. Nainar Nagenthiran, who lost in Tirunelveli by a margin of around 600 votes five years ago as a nominee of the AIADMK, has filed his nomination paper as the BJP candidate this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-may-do-better-than-the-bjp/article34064980.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 695 new cases, 20 districts report less than 10 cases||On Saturday, fresh COVID-19 infections inched closer to the 700-mark as 695 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu. A little over 60% of these new cases were reported in Chennai, its two neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, and Coimbatore. A total of 271 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, taking the city’s tally to 2,38,559. There were 65 cases in Chengalpattu, 54 in Coimbatore and 40 in Tiruvallur. Tiruppur and Kancheepuram recorded 27 and 24 cases respectively, while Thanjavur reported 20 cases. While there were no new cases in Kallakurichi, 20 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. The fresh cases that included five returnees — two from Odisha and one each from the UAE, Jharkhand and West Bengal — took the State’s overall tally to 8,58,967. The number of active cases stood at 4,662. The State recorded four more fatalities — two in Chengalpattu and one each in Chennai and the Nilgiris — taking the toll to 12,543. Among the dead was a 54-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who had coronary artery disease, diabetes and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in the city on March 10. He died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory failure. Another 512 persons were discharged. Till date, 8,41,762 persons have been discharged after treatment. A total of 65,295 samples were tested on Saturday. Till date, 1,82,17,281 samples have been tested in the State.  Vaccines administered Another 85,933 persons received the COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, with nearly 80% of them getting vaccinated at government centres. A total of 68,193 persons were inoculated in government COVID-19 vaccination centres and 17,740 persons in private vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-695-new-covid-19-cases/article34065009.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK promises agriculture budget||Announcing a slew of promises to protect agriculture and the interests of farmers, the DMK on Saturday said it would adopt a resolution in the Tamil Nadu Assembly urging the Centre to withdraw all three farm laws. It would present a separate agriculture budget as well. “It is a matter of shock that the Centre has failed to meet the farmers who have been protesting against the legislation for over 100 days. The DMK will also repeal the law on contract farming enacted by the AIADMK government,” said the manifesto released by party president M.K. Stalin. Expressing its commitment to protecting the Cauvery delta region that has been declared a protected agricultural zone, the manifesto said it would prevent any move by the Centre to implement the coal bed methane (CBM) project and the shale gas project. The manifesto said the party would present a separate budget for agriculture. “It will be presented after consulting farmers’ associations and others to improve productivity,” it said. Farmers’ markets The DMK also announced its plan to set up farmers’ markets to eliminate middlemen. As per the proposal, all crops and farm products produced in rural areas would be sold in those farmers’ markets. A separate section would be established in the Agriculture Department to promote organic farming, it said. A research centre for organic farming, to be named after the late G. Nammalwar, an organic farming scientist and crusader, would also be established, the manifesto said. Subsidy for inputs would be provided to farmers involved in organic farming.  The party said it would sell jaggery and palm sugar through ration shops, apart from supplying black gram and 1 extra kg of sugar. “The minimum supportive price [MSP] for paddy will be increased from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 2,500 per quintal and Rs. 4,000 for sugarcane per tonne,” it said. The manifesto also promised to regulate shrimp farms to prevent damage to farmers’ lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-promises-agriculture-budget/article34065017.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||48% of Chennai’s first-time voters still not on the rolls||Over 48% of first-time voters in the 16 Assembly constituencies of the city district have not registered their names on the electoral rolls, according to the findings of a study by the District Election Office. The city’s district election officials found that only 64,152 of the 1,24,824 residents in the age group of 18-19 have enrolled their names on the electoral rolls. Many of the young voters have been unwilling to enrol. Officials have started visiting households to persuade young voters to enrol. Officials have also planned to take initiatives to increase the turnout among young voters this election. “We have started a campaign to create awareness among young voters. Officials will contact each of the 64,152 first time voters and persuade them to enrol. We are conducting 34 different activities focusing on young voters. The music event on Marina Beach on Sunday at 6 a.m. will attract young voters. Another event at Nagaswara Rao Park at 5 p.m. on Sunday is also expected to focus on young voters. Another event will be organised at Anna Nagar Tower Park on Sunday at 6 p.m.,” an official said. In the last election, more than 84,000 first time voters were on the rolls in the 16 Assembly constituencies in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-of-citys-first-time-voters-still-not-on-the-rolls/article34064997.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election staff hope for better facilities||Over four lakh government employees and school and college teachers, who have been drafted for election duty, are hoping for better facilities at polling booths. Many are reluctant to take up election work because of the lack of amenities at the place where they stay, the availability of food near the polling booth on the day of polling and the absence of transport services in case the booth is located in a remote area. G. Venkatesan, one of the coordinators of JACTTO-GEO, said, “Though they are eligible for postal votes after they are assigned a polling booth a day before polling, they are usually busy finding out how they can reach the place. Some of them end up not receiving their postal ballots. Only after they cast their postal ballots should they be given the polling duty letter.” A teacher of a women’s college in the city pointed out that many women staffers hope not to be drafted for election duty because of the lack of wash rooms and accommodation near the polling booths. Another government employee said most of those assigned election duties are aged above 50 and tend to have high blood pressure and diabetes. “Naturally, they have to eat food on time. Instead of giving money, breakfast and lunch packets can be made available to them on the day of polling through the local bodies. Local police stations could take care of the requirements of all policemen deployed in their jurisdiction.” “The Transport Department must operate special night buses for the polling staff so that they are not left in the lurch after they hand over the EVMs and the VVPATs to the police personnel,” he said. When The Hindu contacted Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo, he said, “We are very, very vigilant on this. Time and again, we have been instructing our election machinery to provide minimum facilities, which the Election Commission desires... It is non-negotiable and we are ensuring that also.” “Even after that, if there are some cases or some deviations are noticed, we will be strict on that. We will ensure that all facilities provided by the Commission are made available to those involved in election work,” he said. As for the demand for allowing government workers to proceed on polling duty only after they cast their postal ballots since some of them are not able to collect them on time, Mr. Sahoo said government officials assigned election duty were given postal ballots much in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-staff-hope-for-better-facilities/article34064990.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID interrogates ex-Special DGP in sexual harassment case||A former Special DGP, who was accused of sexually harassing a woman IPS officer, on Saturday appeared before an investigation officer of the Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) for interrogation in connection with the case booked against him, said sources. “He arrived at the CB-CID headquarters at 11 a.m. and appeared before the investigation officer and other personnel. The interrogation lasted till 3.30 p.m. His statement was duly recorded. It will be decided if he will be called for a second interrogation soon,” a source said. On February 27, the CB-CID registered an FIR against the former Special DGP under Sections 354 A (sexual harassment), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002. Legal experts claimed that it becomes a non-bailable offence when Section 354 A is registered along with 506 (1) in the FIR. Superintendent of Police D. Kannan was also named in the FIR along with the DGP ranking officer for preventing the victim from lodging a complaint. The government set up a six-member Vishaka Committee led by Additional Chief Secretary Jayashree Raghunandan to probe the case. It will recommend a further course of action as per the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The High Court, which was monitoring the investigation suo motu, restrained the media from publishing the names of the main accused and the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-interrogates-ex-special-dgp/article34065001.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hoteliers seek reduction in GST rates of commercial LPG cylinder||Hoteliers have urged the Central and the State governments to reduce the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders for stand-alone restaurants. They say that unless GST, which is charged at 18% for refills, is brought down they would have no option but to increase the prices of food items. Like the prices of domestic LPG cylinders, commercial LPG prices too went up. Between December last year and March this year, the price of a 19 kg commercial cylinder went up by over Rs. 300 each. In March, a single 19 kg cylinder was Rs. 1,730.50, whereas in February, the same was priced at Rs. 1,634.50. The price of the unit was only Rs. 1446.50 in December 2020. “An average restaurant with a footfall of 600 persons a day will require five cylinders a day. The government charges GST of 18% for cylinders in star category hotels too but they have input credit, which we do not have. The least the government can do is reduce GST rates for restaurants,” said M. Venkadasubbu, president, Tamil Nadu Hotels’ Association. With patronage yet to return to pre-COVID-19 levels and the numbers remaining below 70%, hoteliers said increasing prices would not be an easy option. “In many cases, around 20% of sales depend on online aggregators, meaning we have to give them a portion of the earnings. Such customers keep looking for offers and go for these,” another hotelier said. Already, a section of tea shops have increased the price of tea by Rs. 2 a cup. “We are caught between the devil and the deep sea. If we increase prices, the number of customers will decrease. These few tea shops have made the increase without any other option. Prices of tea and coffee powder has also gone up. Private milk brands too have hiked rates,” said E. Sundaram, who runs a tea shop in the city. With petrol and diesel prices going up, the cost of input materials, including cooking oils, dal, tea and coffee powder and coconuts, have also increased. “Those who cannot afford to buy commercial LPG are now switching over to kerosene or wood-fired stoves. Such high prices will also lead to diversion of domestic cylinders. Already in the western suburbs, families are using LPG for over 80 days by using wood and selling their spare cylinders to small eateries,” consumer activist T. Sadagopan said.  Such high prices will lead to diversion of domestic cylinders. Already in the western suburbs, families are using LPG for over 80 days by using wood and selling their spare cylinders to small eateries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hoteliers-seek-reduction-in-gst-rates-of-commercial-lpg-cylinders/article34065003.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen seek parties’ stand on private port’s request||The fishing panchayat of Kattupalli Kuppam in Tiruvallur district has written an open letter to all political parties asking them to give their opinions on a private port in the area asking for the sea around its periphery to be declared a no-fishing zone. In a press release here, Kannan, of Kattupalli Kuppam, said in a letter in 2019, the port had sought a no-fishing zone of 7.7 sq km, which was huge and was meant only for the existing port. The expanded port, with land cover of 6,100 acres, would require nearly 50 sq km, where fishermen from not only Kattupalli or Pulicat but also those from the city and other areas of Tiruvallur would be prevented from fishing, he added. K. Saravanan, of the Save Ennore Creek Campaign, said the villagers had been forcibly evicted in 2008 to make way for the port. “The proposed expansion will increase the area of the port from the present 331 acres to 6,100 acres of which 2,000 acres will be new land created by dumping sand on very rich fishing grounds,” he said. He had obtained a copy of the letter through an RTI petition. “The letter argues that the fishing boats and nets pose a serious security concern and safety hazard to the ships,” he added. A retired official of the Fisheries Department said though it was common for sensitive installations such as ports, atomic power stations or rocket launch sites to seek no-fishing zones, such a large zone was not known previously. “It would be under 500 m. The channel and anchorage would be covered under this. It would be based on the requirement of each site. At times, when there is a special need, such no-fishing zones would be brought into effect and implemented by local Fisheries Department officials. Fishermen too know it is safer not to fish in areas where ship traffic is heavy,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-seek-parties-stand-on-private-ports-request/article34065002.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More schools in Tiruvottiyur, Kolathur to become sparrow sanctuaries||This World Sparrow Day, falling on March 20, three school campuses in north Chennai will turn sanctuaries for sparrows. Koodugal, a voluntary organisation working towards sparrow conservation, will distribute nearly 1,000 nest boxes to students and also fix them in the schools to increase the sparrow population in urban areas. Though the lockdown was a dampener for the initiative, D. Ganeshan, a professor at SRM University and convener, Koodugal - Nest (Network for Environment Sustainability Trust), and his team continued to make nest boxes amidst funding crunches. “There has been a rise in sparrow count in areas around Tiruvottiyur where over 1,000 nest boxes were distributed. At least 100 birds can be spotted on school campuses in Kaladipet. Students, too, reported about sparrows hatching eggs four or five times. Nest boxes will be fixed at schools in Tiruvottiyur and Kolathur this month,” Mr. Ganeshan said. Popularly called as ‘Kuruvi’ Ganeshan, he continued to pursue his passion during the lockdown to achieve his target of making 10,000 nest boxes. “I have been able to complete only 60%-70% of my goal along with my colleagues. The work is waiting to be completed for want of funds,” he said. Mr. Ganeshan and his team are assembling machines to cut down the production cost. “We are also trying to find alternate materials for nests. Once schools reopen, there are plans to conduct workshops and also open more sparrow clubs,” he said. His passion towards sparrow conservation has made Mr. Ganeshan pursue research on improving the life expectancy of house sparrows. On March 20, Koodugal will organised an event at Revoor Padmanabha Chetty Matriculation School, Tiruvottiyur, to distribute nest boxes, give away awards to schools and students engaged in sparrow conservation and also host a photo exhibition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-schools-in-tiruvottiyur-kolathur-to-become-sparrow-sanctuaries/article34065006.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protests in Satyamurthy Bhavan over Assembly election tickets||Satyamurthy Bhavan, the headquarters of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) here, on Saturday witnessed protests by party workers who alleged that tickets were given to those who joined the party recently or to those with deep pockets. “Tickets are sold for money,” alleged Congress MP M.K. Vishnuprasad, who staged a protest at the headquarters. Asked about how he could make the allegations when the candidates’ names were not yet announced, he said he had adequate information about tickets being sold and given to those who had joined the party recently. Mr. Vishnuprasad gave up the protests after TNCC president K.S. Alagiri held talks with him. Jothimani, another Congress MP, also came out in support of the protesters, adding that she was aware of the sentiments of the workers. “There is no transparency in selection of constituencies and candidates. There are a lot of mistakes. I questioned them, but there is no response,” she tweeted. She alleged that leaders who “suck the blood of cadres” did not listen to the voice of justice. “If my leader Rahul Gandhi had given priority to money, I would not have become an MP,” she further said. Another section of workers and leaders from Kanniyakumari district staged a protest, saying the sitting MLA Vijayadharini should not be allotted Vilavancode constituency. They alleged that she was living in Chennai and did not bother to visit her constituency when the COVID-19 pandemic affected the livelihoods of the people of the district. Senior Congress leader A. Gopanna joined issue with Ms Jothimani saying that time had come to put an end to her “atrocious politics.” “Action should be taken against her for denigrating the party,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-in-satyamurthy-bhavan/article34065110.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) announces six candidates||The CPI(M), an ally of the DMK, on Saturday announced candidates for six Assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu. State secretary K. Balakrishnan said Nagai Mali would be the candidate from the Kilvelur (reserved) constituency. S.K. Ponnuthai will contest from Tirupparankundram, K. Srinivasan from Kovilpatti, M. Chinnadurai from Gandarvakottai (reserved), A. Kumar from Harur (reserved) and N. Pandi from Dindigul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-announces-six-candidates/article34065018.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police team rewarded for nabbing two burglars||Commissioner of Greater Chennai Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday rewarded a special team, which nabbed two habitual burglars from Bengaluru. The team, led by Anna Nagar crime inspector A. Kannan, arrested the suspects, who were notorious thieves in Bengaluru. The police said Nadarajan, 50, a businessman living in ‘R’ Block of Anna Nagar, and his family went to Pudukottai in January. While they were away, burglars broke into his house and took away gold jewellery and Rs. 4 lakh cash. Mr. Nadarajan lodged a complaint with the Anna Nagar police station. A special team tracked the suspects with the help of CCTV footage and with information shared by the Bengaluru police. The two accused were spotted travelling in an autorickshaw and tried to escape but were caught after a chase. The police identified them as Bharath, 39, and Karthikumar alias ‘Escape’ Karthik, 32, both from Bengaluru. Investigation revealed that the duo targeted and burgled locked houses in Anna Nagar, Aminjikarai, Thirumangalam, Mogappair, Koyambedu and Arumbakkam. They were also involved in the burglary at Mr. Nadarajan’s house. The police recovered 64 sovereigns of gold, Rs. 10.5 lakh in cash and an autorickshaw from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-team-rewarded-for-nabbing-serial-burglars/article34064993.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Helpline to report unsafe sewer cleaning practices launched||Metrowater has introduced a helpline 14420 to enable residents to register complaints regarding unsafe practices during the cleaning of septic tanks or the sewer network. A press release said residents could inform them about unsafe practices, such as workers not wearing safety masks, belts and gloves, and about unauthorised entry into septic tanks and manholes. Centre’s initiative This is being done in adherence with the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’, launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, to mechanise sewer and septic tank cleaning operations in cities. Such unsafe operations have led to workers’ deaths. Moreover, house owners or contractors who employ the workers under unsafe cleaning conditions are also punishable under the Prohibition of Employment as a Manual Scavenger and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-to-report-unsafe-sewer-cleaning-practices-launched/article34064992.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Haemodialysis unit opened||Saveetha Medical College and Hospital inaugurated a haemodialysis unit in line with the World Kidney Day on March 11. According to a press release, the Rotary Club of Guindy, Rotary International District 3232, Rotary Club of Alor Star, Malaysia, and Rotary Club of Glenhaven and Hills-Kellyville donated approximately Rs. 35 lakh as grants for the procurement of the equipment that was installed at the hospital. A total of six high haemodialysis units were donated by the Rotary Club of Guindy. S. Muthupalaiappan, district governor, Rotary Club of Guindy, inaugurated the facility. N.M. Veeraiyan, founder and chancellor, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, and Saveetha Rajesh, medical director, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/haemodialysis-unit-opened-in-city-hospital/article34064994.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Invitations||Aloysius Xavier Lopez   Chennai district election officials have found that over 90% electors at a polling station in Villivakkam did not vote in the last poll. Officials will now visit all houses in polling station no.244A, at the Institute of Mental Health in Kilpauk, urging residents to vote. They will give printed invitations to each elector in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invitations/article34064978.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No EWS quota for Medical Biotechnology course at BU||Bharathiar University has not accommodated the economically weaker section (EWS) quota while admitting students to the Central Government-sponsored Medical Biotechnology course, said highly placed sources. In the backdrop of the ongoing legal tussle before the Madras High Court involving courses in Anna University, the sources said that the University too offered the course. At the time of releasing selected candidate list, there arose a dilemma – whether to follow the Central Government’s reservation system by including the EWS quota or to go by the State Government’s 69% reservation model. After discussing with the officials in the State Higher Education Department, the University decided to increase by 10 the number of seats to take it to 20 to implement the State Government’s reservation system. The increase was purely to follow the Tamil Nadu reservation system and the admission the University had made was based on this. Therefore, the course had 20 seats, of which the Central Government sponsored 10. The sources further said that the list doing the rounds in social media was only a partial list and did not present the complete picture. Association of University Teachers state president A. Pasupathy sought to know if the University had admitted the student whom it had selected under the EWS quota and if so on what grounds. If the University had followed the Central Government’s reservation system, it called for an inquiry and action against the University administrators because it was a Constitutional breach, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-ews-reservation-for-medical-biotechnology-course-at-bu/article34065034.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gandhipuram-Ukkadam elevated corridor, TIDEL Park II find place in DMK manifesto||An elevated corridor from Gandhipuram to Ukkadam junction formed a part of the Coimbatore section of the district-specific manifesto that the DMK released on Saturday. For the district, the DMK had made 47 entries. Of those, the party’s promises on the infrastructure front include bypass roads in Pollachi, Neelambur and Mettupalayam, steps to four lane the Coimbatore-Pollachi and Pollachi-Palani roads, Gandhipuram-Ukkadam junction elevated corridor, elevated corridors from Ondipudur and in Sulur, tourist infrastructure in Kovai Courtallam, building plan approval in Coimbatore for structures measuring not more than 2,500 sq.ft., subways in Gandhipuram, Ukkadam, Peelamedu, CMCH junction, Singanallur, Hope College and few other places, government hospitals in Singanallur and Anamalai, government arts and science college in Sulur, new bus stand in Valparai among others.  The party had also promised to shift dump yards outside residential locations. On agriculture, water management and rural infrastructure front, the DMK had said that it would implement the Anamalaiaru-Nallaru scheme, Edamalaiaru water storage scheme to prevent excess rainwater in Valparai from reaching Kerala, upper Amaravati water storage scheme, Bhavani-Noyyal, Amaravati-Upparu river linking schemes, banana research station in Mettupalayam, cold storage facilities in Kinathukadavu, Alandurai and Thondamuthur, diversion of excess water from River Bhavani to Chinna Vedampatti tank and a few others. The party had also promised to convert the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital into a multi-speciality hospital, establishment of a pump set laboratory to benefit industry, an industrial training institute in Pollachi, a second TIDEL park in Coimbatore, a textile park for readymade garments, steps to run profitably the mills under National Textile Corporation, a coir rope training centre in Pollachi, an international textile exhibition in Coimbatore and a few others. As for issues concerning local bodies, the DMK had promised that it would scrap the agreement that the Coimbatore Corporation had signed with Suez India Pvt. Ltd. and ensure clean drinking water for Mettupalayam residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhipuram-ukkadam-elevated-corridor-tidel-park-ii-find-place-in-dmk-manifesto/article34065036.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PHCs start administering vaccine||All the 89 Primary Health Centres (PHC) in Coimbatore district have started administering COVID-19 vaccine from Friday under the Phase-II vaccination drive for those aged above 60 and those between 45-59 years with 20 co-morbidities specified by the Government of India. According to Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar, 89 PHCs, 12 Government hospitals and two medical colleges namely the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, are now administering COVID-19 vaccine in the Government sector. The official said that people in the specified age group can either register online on Aarogya Setu App or CoWIN portal/App or walk-in to the centre with the requisite documents to receive the vaccine. Any of the following documents such as Aadhaar, PAN card, driving licence, passport, voter ID, bank passbook or pension document affixed with photo can be used as identification card. Those aged between 45 and 59 and suffering from the 20 co-morbidities listed by the Government need to carry a proof from their treating doctor -- a certificate or prescription in hard copy -- to get the vaccine. 54 cases in Coimbatore Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 54 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s overall tally to 56,403. The district had 377 active cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The Health Department said that 44 persons were discharged upon recovery from different hospitals on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 27 new cases on Saturday and the overall tally rose to 18,617. No deaths were reported. As many as 18,227 patients have recovered and 166 were active cases in the district. On Saturday, 11 patients were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, twelve persons tested positive for the disease on Saturday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 8,428. With the death of one person, the toll increased to 48 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phcs-start-administering-vaccine/article34065046.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||ECI deputes six expenditure observers for Coimbatore||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has deputed six Indian Revenue Service officers to act as expenditure observers for the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district, said a release from the district administration. Contact numbers Amitabh Shah would be the expenditure observer for the Mettupalayam Assembly constituency and he could be reached on 94899-46723; Mahesh G. Jiwade for Sulur and Thondamuthur and he could be reached on 94899-46724; Vijay Kumar Singh for Kavundampalayam and Coimbatore North and he could be reached on 94899-46725; Shashank Dwivedi for Coimbatore South and he could be reached on 94899-46728; Hitendra P. Ninawe for Singanallur and Kinathukadavu and he could be reached on 94899-46727, and Ram Krishn Kedia for Pollachi and Valparai constituencies and he could be reached on 94899-46726. The release also said that at the meeting the IRS officers had with the District Election Officer and Collector K. Rajamani it was decided that the expenditure made thus far should be accounted for against respective political parties and after nomination, the expenditure should be accounted for against the candidate concerned. While asking teams assigned for monitoring expenditure to be vigilant, the release asked prospective candidates to open separate bank accounts and route all their expenditure only through that account. The release also asked the candidates to furnish receipts for expenditure made so as to furnish them as and when asked for. To the bankers, the district administration said they should furnish high value transaction and cash transaction over Rs. 1 lakh. It also asked them to report withdrawal of over Rs. 10 lakh, ensure that agencies engaged in refilling cash in ATMs carried proper documents and asked flying squads to alert Income Tax officials to report seizure worth over Rs. 10 lakh. The release also appealed to the public to report expenditure-related violations to the officers concerned. Cash seized The flying squad and static surveillance teams in Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency seized Rs. 1.50 lakh in cash. In Sulur constituency, the teams seized Rs. 1.02 lakh. The total cash seizure thus far was Rs. 58.39 lakh, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-deputes-six-expenditure-observers-for-coimbatore/article34065047.ece
14 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wagons derail inside cement factory||Four wagons transporting cement clinker to a private cement factory at Madukkarai in Coimbatore district derailed on the factory’s premises in the early hours of Saturday. No one was injured. According to sources in the Palakkad Railway Division, 59 open wagons transported cement clinker from Bijapur, Karnataka, on Friday and they were placed inside the factory campus in three lines, each comprising 23, 18 and 18 wagons. Three wagons from one of these lines derailed at around 3 a.m. on Saturday and were reported to be damaged. A team of four officials from the Palakkad Division will conduct an inquiry into the derailment, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wagons-derail-inside-cement-factory/article34065038.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two persons electrocuted||Two persons were electrocuted in separate incidents reported in Coimbatore district on Thursday. In the first incident, Sai Chandru (22), a Tangedco lineman from Bombay Nagar in Narasimhanaickenpalayam was electrocuted while working on a transformer at Sakthi Nagar. Chandru died while being rushed to hospital. In another incident, B. Soundarapandiyan (26) of Pattiveeranpatti in Dindigul district was electrocuted while arranging decorative bulbs for a temple festival at Onnipalayam near Periyanaickenpalayam. K. Hariharan (27), a native of Madurai, also suffered electric shock. He was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-electrocuted/article34065044.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||81 kg ganja, 1,280 litre IMFL seized in West Zone||The police seized 81 kg ganja worth Rs. 7.25 lakh and 1,280.36 litre of illegally stocked Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) valued Rs. 7.12 lakh during special drives conducted in eight districts in the West Zone in the last 15 days. The special drives were initiated by R. Dhinakaran, Inspector General of Police (West Zone). In Coimbatore range, the special drives supervised by DIG K.S. Narenthiran Nayar and Superintendent of Police in Coimbatore (Rural), Tiruppur (Rural), Erode and the Nilgiris districts led to the arrest of 31 persons and seizure of 62 kg of ganja worth Rs. 5.41 lakh. In the raids conducted in Tasmac bars, the police booked 260 persons and seized 573.03 litres of IMFL (3,077 bottles) worth Rs. 3.64 lakh, stocked for illegal sale. DIG Pradip Kumar and SPs in Salem(Rural), Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Namakkal supervised the drives in Salem range in which eight persons were held with 19 kg of ganja worth Rs. 1.83 lakh. The police also booked 278 persons and seized 3,462 bottles of IMFL worth Rs. 3.47 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-kg-ganja-1280-litre-imfl-seized-in-west-zone/article34065043.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Baralikadu eco-tourism centre reopens to visitors||The Forest Department’s eco-tourism centre at Baralikadu near Karamadai had 108 visitors on Saturday, when it was reopened after a gap of about a year. According to the Forest Department, the visitors undertook a coracle ride and bathed in River Bhavani. They were provided lunch, which is included in the package. Karamadai Forest Range Officer E.N. Manoharan said that 120 people have booked for a visit to the centre on Sunday. However, the guest houses at Poochimarathur are closed for renovation. People who wish to visit the eco-tourism centre are required to make online registration as per instructions given in the website www.coimbatorewilderness.com. The entry fee per person, inclusive of lunch, is Rs. 550 for adults and Rs. 450 for children. For enquires, contact the centre at 94899-68480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baralikadu-eco-tourism-centre-reopens-to-visitors/article34065042.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘No EWS reservation for biotechnology’||Bharathiar University (BU) has not accommodated the economically weaker section (EWS) reservation while admitting students to the Central government-sponsored Medical Biotechnology course, according to sources. In the backdrop of the ongoing legal tussle before the Madras High Court involving courses in Anna University, sources said BU, too, offered the course. At the time of releasing the selected candidates list, there arose a dilemma – whether to follow the Central government’s reservation system by including the EWS quota or to go by the State government’s 69% reservation model. After discussing the issue with officials in the State Higher Education Department, the University decided to increase the number of seats by 10 — to take it to 20 — to implement the State government’s reservation system. The increase was to follow the Tamil Nadu reservation system. The admission process followed by the University was based on this. Therefore, the course had 20 seats, of which the Central government sponsored 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-ews-reservation-for-biotechnology-course/article34065109.ece
14 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Velumani||Special Correspondent   DMK nominee for Thondamuthur Karthikeya Sivasenapathy started his campaign by creating an e-mail account, asking people to report omissions by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, the incumbent. He also released a video highlighting the discharge of effluents into drains in Meenakshi Nagar and Priya Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velumani/article34064988.ece
14 March 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Focus on complaints against women’||Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya gave away two-wheelers to police officers exclusively assigned with the task of inquiring crime against women, complaints of child marriage and child abuse, among others, here on Saturday. Director General of Police J. K. Tripathy had recently directed all district SPs to give special focus on complaints received from women and children. The victims or the complainants need not even visit the stations. It was enough to give a call to either helpline no 100 or the exclusive number - 1098 helpline. The SP, who gave the bikes to the personnel at the Armed Reserve Police Grounds, said that the objective of providing vehicles was to ensure that the investigating officers reached the spot without hassles as their immediate presence would instil confidence and help prevent any other untoward incidents. The SP also said that the police personnel shall register cases and secure the accused without delay. The All Woman Police Stations in the district too were provided with vehicles. The district police had recently conducted an awareness cum refresher programme for officers here on child abuse cases and crimes against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-officers-get-two-wheelers/article34065124.ece
14 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||13,160 personnel appointed for 2,741 polling stations in Erode||A total of 13,160 officers have been appointed to conduct polling in 2,741 polling stations in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district on April 6. On Saturday, Collector and District Election Officer C. Kathiravan carried out computerised randomisation of polling personnel for election duty at the Collectorate. Basic amenities in all the stations were being established by officials, he said and added that a presiding officer and three polling officers were appointed for each station. He said 523 reserve polling booths were also established in the constituencies in the district. Officers appointed for each constituencies were: Erode East – 384 polling stations and 1,536 officers; Erode West – 484 stations and 1,936 officers; Modakkurichi – 398 stations and 1,592 officers; Perundurai – 390 stations and 1,560 officers; Bhavani – 402 stations and 1,608 officers; Anthiyur – 337 stations and 1,348 officers; Gobichettipalayam – 419 stations and 1,676 officers and Bhavanisagar – 324 stations and 1,296 officers. A total of 104 polling booths in Anthiyur constituency and 504 booths in Bhavanisagar constituency were located in hill areas, he added. Training would be held for these officials on March 18, he said. District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, Personal Assistants to Collector Balaji (General), Eswaran (Accounts) and other officials were present. Staff Reporter from Salem adds As many as 20,544 polling personnel will be deployed at the polling stations in 11 Assembly constituencies here. Collector and District Election Officer S.A. Raman conducted the first randomisation of polling personnel digitally on Friday and the first round of training for polling personnel will be held on March 18. The personnel have been advised to take COVID-19 vaccine and get the certificate. According to officials, 88% polling personnel have received the vaccination. The officials said 5,136 presiding officers, and an equal number of Booth Level Officer-1, Booth Level Officer-II and Booth Level Officer- III would be deployed at 4,280 polling stations in the district. As many as 1,003 additional booths would be set up as part of COVID-19 safety protocols. In a release, Mr. Raman said the polling personnel would be given training on polling duties at the respective centres in 11 Assembly constituencies. Forms for postal votes for polling personnel would be given at the training centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13160-personnel-appointed-for-2741-polling-stations-in-erode/article34065132.ece
14 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Agri students get hands-on experience in crop cultivation||A month-long training programme for a group of agriculture students from Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Coimbatore, has helped them gain hands-on-experience in crop cultivation, farm technologies and also marketing of agri products. Under the Rural Agricultural Work Experience programme, seven final year students of Agri Business Management Studies from the university stayed at Sathyamangalam from February 13 to March 13 and visited Ukkaram, Kallipatti, Kodiveri and a few other villages and interacted with farmers. They studied the crop patterns being followed, cultivation methods of various crops, types of pests and insects that affect the crops and preventive methods and challenges in marketing agri products in the markets. Crops like banana, sugarcane, tapioca and flowers, particularly jasmine, were cultivated widely in Sathyamangalam block and hence students got first hand information on cultivating the crop. Sharing their experience, students M. Vanitha Rajam, M. Sangeetha, M. Sripriya, M. Jeyapradha, K. Kavipriya, S. Gowthami and N. Abitha said varieties of banana crops were cultivated widely in villages in the block. Sigatoka leaf spot was the common fungal disease that affected banana and the farmers were asked to take steps to rectify it, they said. Also, they visited the Uzhavar Sandhai to learn how farmers marketed their products. Also, the students had a three-day training at ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra, MYDRA, at Gobichettipalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agri-students-get-hands-on-experience-in-crop-cultivation/article34065129.ece
14 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four shops sealed for violation of COVID-19 norms||Four shops that failed to adhere to COVID-19 norms were sealed while three other shop owners were fined Rs. 5,000 each for violations here on Saturday. Collector C. Kathiravan made a surprise inspection at commercial establishments, hotels and vegetable shops functioning on Perundurai Road, GH Roundabout, Edayankattuvalasu, Sampath Nagar and at Collectorate bus stop. He found a hotel, mobile store and two establishments without sanitisers and thermal scanners at the entry points. Hence, he ordered officials to seal the shops. Three other establishments were fined Rs. 5,000 for violation. Also, 20 persons who were not wearing masks were fined Rs. 200 each. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, City Health Officer Murali Shankar and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-shops-sealed-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms/article34065133.ece
14 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Textile processing unit sealed||A textile processing unit functioning at Mothur village in Gobichettipalayam was sealed when officials found effluents discharged into the open. Based on complaints, officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board inspected the unit at Sengaradu Thottam and found untreated effluents discharged into the open. The officials submitted a report to Collector C. Kathiravan, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the unit. Later, the unit was closed and sealed. Mr. Kathiravan said dyeing, bleaching, printing and other textile processing units should ensure zero liquid discharge and warned that action would be taken against the violators. He said many printing units were processing the effluents and reusing it. Also, flying squad officials were monitoring the units round the clock to check for violations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-processing-unit-sealed/article34065134.ece
14 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Single-day poll shows good law and order’||The Election Commission of India's decision to hold the election in Tamil Nadu in a single day was a reflection of good law and order situation, said Revenue Minister R B Udayakumar here on Saturday. Starting off his poll campaign at Maravankulam here, the Minister, along with his supporters, visited the dwellings seeking votes for Two Leaves symbol. When the ECI had announced the conduct of election in eight phases in West Bengal, single day polling in TN showed that all is well here. "If the DMK comes back to power, the law and order will not be the same. The common man and small vendors will be under constant threat from anti-socials," he claimed. He went on asking the people, if they ever encountered any problem from any AIADMK functionary or were there any intervention by any party men in police stations on any complaints or disputes, which used to be the order when the DMK had ruled the State. At a time, when the opposition parties were raising an alarm over the price hike of LPG refills, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has given an assurance to provide six free refills to the BPL families in a year, he said. The AIADMK government, he said, had fulfilled all its promises made in 2016. During the covid-19 pandemic, the CM himself visited every district and conducted review meetings with the officials, which not only prevented the virus from rapid spread but also many casualties were avoided. Such was the pro-active approach of the government. Risking their lives, all the AIADMK's elected representatives also reached the needy. In Madurai, the Minister said that he himself took the initiative of providing food to the Covid-19 patients in the hospitals and Covid care centres for nearly 150 days through the Amma Charitable Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-starts-poll-campaign/article34065338.ece
14 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Action plan to reduce air pollution in Madurai||Madurai has been identified as one of the 122 non-attainment cities across the country with higher levels of air pollution under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). Madurai Corporation, the nodal body to implement the programme, has prepared a draft action plan to bring down pollution levels in the next five years. The Centre launched NCAP as a long-term and time-bound strategy to tackle air pollution in a comprehensive manner. The programme aims to achieve 20% to 30% reduction in PM 10 and PM 2.5 concentrations by 2024, keeping 2017 as the base year for the comparison of the concentration. The 122 cities have been identified across the country based on the Air Quality data from 2014 to 2018. A corporation official said the concentration of PM 10 and PM 2.5 in the city were higher than the average levels. Madurai is among the four cities identified in Tamil Nadu under NCAP. The civic body has prepared a rough action plan to tackle this issue and has submitted a proposal to the Central government seeking around Rs. 451 crore. "The proposal was about the steps that must be taken to reduce the levels of pollution in the next five years. The civic body is still waiting for the approval of the proposal," said the Corporation official. According to the draft action plan of the Corporation, interventions are required for controlling air pollution mainly caused due to road dust, construction activities, traffic congestion, waste dumping and burning, and vehicular emissions. Regularly removing dust settled on roads, improving the green cover, and constructing water fountains at major traffic intersections are some of the steps proposed to reduce dust pollution in the city. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that a private consultant will be engaged to identify the steps that need to be taken to reduce the levels of air pollution in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-plan-to-reduce-air-pollution-in-madurai/article34065127.ece
14 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special weekly superfast train from Wednesday||A special weekly superfast train No.01201/01202 will run between Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Madurai from March 17. A railway statement said that Train No.01201 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus – Madurai Weekly Superfast Express will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on Wednesdays at 1.15 p.m. on March 17 and reach Madurai at 6.10 p.m., the next day until further advice. In return direction Train No.01202 Madurai – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Weekly Superfast Special will leave Madurai on Fridays at 3.50 p.m. on March 19 and reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 8.30 p.m., the next day until further advice. The train will stop at Raichur, Mantralayam Road, Adoni, Guntakal, Cuddapah, and Renigunta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-weekly-superfast-train-from-wednesday/article34065471.ece
14 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Amendment to Land Ceiling Rules challenged||An advocate has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court challenging a government order and a subsequent amendment made to Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Rules. It violated the basic objectives that were envisaged in the Tamil Nadu Land Ceiling Act, he contended. The petitioner, M. Suresh of Tirunelveli said the Act was enacted with the social objective of distributing lands to the landless persons and paved the way for equitable distribution among the citizens. However, the government order destroys the general provisions of the Act, he said. It dilutes the power vested with the Authorising Officers who under the Act have the power to declare the illegal holding of lands by any person over the ceiling limit as per the Act. As per the government order the parameters fixed for consideration before granting permission for the selling of excess land were also vague, he said. The government order cannot supersede the Act, the petitioner said and sought the quash of the GO and the amendment made to the Rules. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi observed that any action pursuant to the GO would be subject to the result of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amendment-to-land-ceiling-rules-challenged/article34065464.ece
14 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Training for polling personnel held||Training for personnel to be deployed on duty in polling stations across Madurai district for the upcoming assembly elections was conducted at 10 centres across the district on Saturday. Training was provided at a centre in each of the 10 constituencies under the respective Returning Officers. District Election Officer and Collector T. Anbalagan inspected the training sessions held at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School and Holy Family Girls Higher Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-polling-personnel-held/article34065337.ece
14 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Theni||L. Srikrishna   The fight in the Andipatti Assembly constituency in Theni district is between two brothers. A. Logirajan (AIADMK) and A. Maharajan (DMK) have been named candidates by the two Dravidian majors. In 2019, the elder brother, Mr. Maharajan, defeated Mr. Logirajan by 12,323 votes in the bypoll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni/article34064986.ece
14 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Miffed with Congress-DMK combine CPI(M) may contest alone in U.T.||Miffed over the Congress-DMK grouping’s decision not to accommodate the party for contesting the Assembly poll under the Secular Progressive Democratic Alliance, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has in-principle decided to contest alone from four seats in the Union Territory. “We are really unhappy the way we were treated by the Congress and the DMK during seat-sharing talks. We have closely associated with Congress and other secular parties in opposing the policies of the former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and on the Centre’s attitude towards the elected government. We fought for the last four years to protect the rights of the Congress government in the Union Territory but we were ignored,” party secretary R. Rajangam told The Hindu . A party delegation on Friday met former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy to express displeasure over not being considered for the poll. A few days ago, the Congress signed a seat-sharing pact with the DMK by allocating 13 constituencies of the total 30. After leaving one seat each to the CPI and the VCK, the Congress decided to contest from the remaining 15, leaving no room for the CPI(M) in the SDPA. “We have told the Congress leadership to give due recognition to our party. If we don’t get a positive response in a day, the party will be fielding candidates in four constituencies,” Mr. Rajangam said. The local leadership had informed the Tamil Nadu unit ofi ts decision to field candidates from Thirubuvanai, Bahour, Lawspet and T.R. Pattinam constituencies. ‘Committed votes’ The party was keen to contest from Thirubuvanai due to its cadre base in the constituency, Mr Rajangam said. “We have committed votes in all these four constituencies,” he added. The last time the CPI(M) got an elected representative in the Assembly was in 1980 when its nominee K.V. Raghavan won the Mahe seat. In the last Assembly election, CPI(M)-backed Independent V. Ramachandran won the Mahe constituency seat.  We have told the Congress leadership to give due recognition to our party. If we don’t get a positive response in a day, the party will be fielding candidates in four constituencies R. Rajangam, Party secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miffed-with-congress-and-dmk-cpim-may-go-it-alone-in-ut/article34065412.ece
14 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK announces list of candidates in the fray in Puducherry||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has announced its candidates for 12 of the 13 constituencies the party will contest from in the Union Territory. While sitting legislator R. Siva has shifted his constituency to Villianur after leaving his traditional constituency Orleanpet to recently-inducted businessman S. Gopal, former Ministers S.P. Sivakumar and A.M.H. Nazeem will contest from the seats which they won in the past, Raj Bhavan and Karaikal South, respectively. List in Chennai The list was released by DMK president M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Saturday. Other candidates are V. Anibal Kennedy (Uppalam constituency), L. Sampath (Mudaliarpet), Sun Kumaravel (Mangalam), V. Karthikeyan (Nellithope), A. Krishnan alias A.K. Kumar (Mannadipet), S. Muthuvel (Kalapet), A. Mugilan (Thirubuvanai reserved constituency) and M. Nahathyagarajan (Neravy T. R Pattinam) The party has not yet announced its candidate for Bahour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-announces-list-of-candidates-in-the-fray-in-puducherry/article34065409.ece
14 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 31 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday registered 31 new novel coronavirus cases while screening 1,199 people for the infection. Of the total new admissions, 23 are in Puducherry region, 5 in Mahe and remaining 3 in Karaikal. As per statistics released by the Health Department, 26 patients got cured of the virus from Friday morning to Saturday morning. Currently, there are 87 persons undergoing treatment at government hospitals and 104 under home isolation. The case fatality now stood at 1. 67 % and recovery rate at 97. 85 %, data said. The Health Department also informed that a total of 24,487 people got COVID-19 vaccination in the Union Territory as on Friday. Of the total vaccinated persons, 12,367 are healthcare workers, 7,847 general public and 4,273 front-line workers. Doctors said the vaccination programme had received a good response from the public. On Friday alone, 823 people got the jab in the Union Territory, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-31-new-cases/article34065410.ece
14 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PMK demands three seats from NDA||The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) has decided to contest alone if its demand for three seats was not conceded by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Union Territory. PMK Puducherry unit convenor K. Dhanraj told reporters here on Saturday that his party had been denied seats for the Assembly polls in the Union Territory though it was a constituent of the NDA. “We have informed the BJP leadership on the neglect shown to us. We have demanded at least three seats. If our demands are not accepted, we will contest alone,” he said. BJP in-charge Nirmal Kumar Surana and former Minister A. Namassivayam on Saturday held talks with Mr. Dhanraj. Sources said no breakthrough had been achieved at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-demands-3-seats-from-nda-in-ut/article34065097.ece
14 March 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Sattur||S. Sundar   Denied ticket to contest again from Sattur, ruling party MLA M.S.R. Rajavarman switched sides and got a ticket from the same seat as part of the AMMK. On Saturday, campaigning near Rajapalayam, he said the “AIADMK would be routed in Virudhunagar”. However, thereafter he asked votes to be cast for “two leaves” symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattur/article34064984.ece
14 March 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Be vigilant, Expenditure Observers tell surveillance teams, flying squads||Expenditure Observers Saurabh Dubey and Milan Ruchal, who have been posted by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for the four Assembly constituencies in Ramanathapuram district, appealed to the flying squads and static surveillance team of officials to be vigilant and fair in discharging their duties. Speaking at a review meeting held at the Collectorate, in which the District Election Officer-cum-Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik and other officials were present, the Expenditure Observers said that the objective of the ECI was to conduct the polls in a fair and transparent manner. “While seizing cash or other valuables, proof of documents was mandatory. In the event of non-production of any evidence, the objects shall be seized and recorded as per the ECI guidelines,” they noted. Earlier, Mr Dinesh explained the number of teams deployed in each of the four Assembly constituencies, the duties and responsibilities. So far, he said that the officials had seized about Rs. 50 lakh from 50 instances. The special control room had received 11 complaints so far and the special telephone number - 1950 had received 1007 calls from different locations, upon which action was being initiated at different stages. Sivaganga In Sivaganga district, two Expenditure Observers - Amitkumar Singh and Vanashree Hullanannavar – have been posted for Karaikudi, Tirupathur, Sivaganga and Manamadurai Assembly constituencies. The Expenditure Observers inspected the control room and interacted with the static surveillance teams. According to a press release, the Observers can be contacted at 83004-30996 (Amit kumar Singh) and 83004-36191 (Vanashree) respectively by the general public for lodging poll related complaints. Dindigul District Election Officer-cum-Collector M. Vijayalakshmi presided over a meeting on Saturday in which Expenditure Observers Raja Ghosh (Palani and Oddanchatram), Suraj Kumar Gupta (Athur), Muneesh Rajani (Nilakottai and Natham) and Sushil Kumar Khatiyar (Dindigul and Vedasandur) participated. According to the Expenditure Observers, the officials were told to ensure that all poll related advertisements in the print and electronic media including cable televisions had the stamp of approval of the Media Committee. Any violation or any release in the public domain without pre-approval from the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) panel would be deemed as poll violation. The officials inspected the control room, which was established at the Collectorate from Feb 26. The staff, who would be available 24x7 in three shifts, said that they would be monitoring the advertisements released in the television channels and also closely watch the releases in print media by political parties and candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-vigilant-observers-tell-surveillance-teams/article34065114.ece
14 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Puthiya Tamilagam not in our alliance, says CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said the Puthiya Tamilagam (PT), which was in the forefront of the agitation to classify seven Dalit subsects under the common title ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ and to be delisted from the Schedule, has left the ruling alliance. “The PT is not part of our alliance. They left the alliance earlier itself,” Mr. Palaniswami, who had been maintaining that the alliance formed by the AIADMK during the last Lok Sabha elections would continue for the Assembly election, said. The exit of another ally, the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), was not a loss for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), he said in Salem. Asked about charges that the AIDMK did not accord “due respect” to the DMDK, the Chief Minister said he himself had held the (seat-sharing) talks and that the discussions were held based on each party’s vote bank. “There is nothing wrong [for a party] in planning to contest alone when an agreement is not reached. But it is wrong to blame another party for it,” he added. On the dissatisfaction in some quarters about the distribution of the AIADMK tickets, he said it was natural as everyone would desire to contest. The dissenters have been pacified, Mr. Palaniswami added. Stating that he had not seen the DMK manifesto yet, he said it was the AIADMK which had announced its manifesto first. He listed out out how his government had waived cooperative farm loans based on ground inputs. According to him, people were the “rulers” and the AIADMK was hopeful that they would deliver the right judgment. The ruling alliance would win majority of the seats in the elections, the Chief Minister said. On the proposed use of NEET scores for admission to nursing courses, Mr. Palaniswami said the AIADMK was firmly against NEET. Talks were progressing with the BJP and with former Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangaswamy for seat-sharing in the Union Territory and it would conclude smoothly, he said. Meanwhile, AMMK functionaries and former Paramakudi legislator S. Muthiah, former Nillakottai legislator R.Thangadurai joined in AIADMK in presence of Chief Minister at Salem late on Saturday night  There is nothing wrong [for a party] in planning to contest alone when a pact is not reached. But it is wrong to blame another party for it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthiya-tamilagam-not-in-our-alliance-says-cm/article34065012.ece
14 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery worth Rs. 36.57 crore seized||Election surveillance team seized gold jewellery worth Rs. 36.57 crore from a truck during vehicle check near Thalaivasal here during the late hours of Friday. Officials said a flying squad team during vehicle checks near Nathakarai toll plaza intercepted a container truck moving towards Salem from Chennai. On checks, the team found gold jewellery weighing about 237.34 kg worth Rs. 36.57 crore in boxes. As the transporters could not produce documents for the goods, the officials seized the jewellery and handed them over to sub-treasury. Income Tax officials had been alerted, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewellery-worth-rs-3657-crore-seized/article34065135.ece
14 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Unreserved train services||The Salem Railway division has announced operation of unreserved train services between Salem and Arakkonam from March 17. According to a release, Train no.06087 / 06088 Arakkonam – Salem – Arakkonam MEMU trains will run fully unreserved with fare structure of Express and Mail trains. The revalidation of season tickets will come into effect from March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unreserved-train-services/article34065136.ece
14 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman found murdered||A woman was found murdered in her home near Ammapet here on Friday. The deceased was identified as Umaya Banu (40). According to the police, she lived with her husband Basha and two children. On Friday, when Basha returned home in the evening, he found her body with hands and legs tied. Basha immediately alerted the police. The Ammapet police recovered the body. A case has been registered and the police have collected CCTV footages from the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-murdered/article34065137.ece
14 March 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Woman, brother killed in accident||Lakshmi, 50, and her brother Pandi, 40, from Chinnathambiyapuram were killed when a speeding van mowed them down at a bus stop on Madurai-Tirunelveli highway on Saturday. The police said that a group of tourists from Ponneri in Chennai were proceeding to Kanniyakumari. The driver of the van lost control of the vehicle and hit passengers who were standing at the bus stop on Pethureddiyapatti junction. The Sattur Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-brother-killed-in-accident/article34065115.ece
14 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Courts remained vigilant against Parliament excesses, says Judge||Courts always remained vigilant and controlled any excesses committed by the Parliament even in its constituent capacity, Justice Rohinton Nariman, Judge, Supreme Court, said on Saturday. Delivering the first M.K.Nambyar Memorial lecture on the First Amendment of the Indian Constitution organised by the School of Law, SASTRA Deemed University, on virtual mode, Justice Nariman wished the courts would continue to remain vigilant. Stressing the fertilisation of fundamental rights, Justice Nariman traversed the constitutional journey of Articles 19, 21, 22, 31(A) and (B) and 46. Recalling the efforts of M.K.Nambyar in the famous A.K.Gopalan and Golaknath cases before the Supreme Court, he enlightened the audience on how his arguments had the legal foresight that laid down the pathway for protecting the basic structure of the Constitution in the Kesavananda Bharati case. Justice Nariman also launched the C.S. Vaidyanathan Chair on Law and Development established at the School of Law, SASTRA, with the support of Senior Advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, who explained the genesis and purpose of the Chair. Presiding over the event, former Chief Justice of India, Justice M.N. Venkatachaliah called upon the SASTRA Law School students to study the nuanced relationship between law and socio-economic development. Attorney General, K.K. Venugopal, former Attorney General and Senior Advocate, K.Parasaran, and Advocate General, Tamil Nadu and grandson of Nambyar, Vijay Narayan and SASTRA Vice-Chancellor, S.Vaidhyasubramaniam, took part in the event, according to a SASTRA press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courts-remained-vigilant-against-parliament-excesses-judge/article34065107.ece
14 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Courts always vigilant against Parliament excesses’||The courts have always remained vigilant and controlled any excesses committed by Parliament even in its constituent capacity, Justice Rohinton Nariman said on Saturday. Delivering the first M.K. Nambyar Memorial lecture on the First Amendment of the Indian Constitution organised by the School of Law, SASTRA Deemed University, virtually, the Supreme Court judge hoped that the courts would continue to remain vigilant. Speaking about the fertilisation of fundamental rights, Justice Nariman highlighted the constitutional journey of Articles 19, 21, 22, 31(A) and (B) and 46. Recalling the efforts of M.K. Nambyar in the famous A.K. Gopalan and Golaknath cases before the Supreme Court, he enlightened the audience on how his arguments had the legal foresight that laid down the pathway for protecting the basic structure of the Constitution in the Kesavananda Bharati case. Justice Nariman also launched the C.S. Vaidyanathan Chair on Law and Development established at the School of Law, SASTRA, with the support of senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan. Presiding over the event, Justice M.N. Venkatachaliah, former Chief Justice of India, called upon the SASTRA Law School students to study the nuanced relationship between law and socio-economic development. According to a press release, Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, former Attorney-General and senior advocate K. Parasaran, Advocate-General, Tamil Nadu, and grandson of Nambyar, Vijay Narayan; and SASTRA Vice-Chancellor S. Vaidhyasubramaniam took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courts-must-continue-to-be-vigilant/article34065010.ece
14 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Candidates begin poll campaign||Prominent candidates fielded by the Dravidian parties commenced their electioneering on Saturday. While the sitting DMK MLAs G.Anbalagan and Durai Chandrasekaran launched their election campaign after garlanding the statues of their party leaders at Kumbakonam and Thiruvaiyaru Assembly Segments, respectively, the AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP R.Vaithilingam nominated by his party to contest at Orathanadu and Arivudainambi at Thanjavur also kicked off their electioneering after garlanding the statues of Jayalalithaa, MGR and Periyar at Orathanadu and Thanjavur on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidates for Papanasam, Orathanadu and Kumbakonam – M.Rangasamy, M.Sekar and Balamurugan, respectively, also commenced their campaign in their constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prominent-candidates-begin-poll-campaign/article34065101.ece
14 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Students send 1 lakh postcards urging relatives to vote||As a novel and an effective initiative, the district administration has encouraged students to send 1 lakh postcards to their parents and relatives appealing to them to cast their votes without fail in the Assembly election scheduled to be held on April 6 so as to achieve the dream of cent per cent polling. Even as the district administration is carrying out voter awareness programmes to encourage the electorate to come to the polling station on April 6 to cast the vote in this keenly contested Assembly election, students from Class 9 to 12 from various government and private schools have been involved in this noble mission. The students were given postcards to write an appeal to their parents, grandparents and the relatives requesting them to exercise their franchise without fail to ensure vibrant democracy. As the district of Thoothukudi houses over 14 lakh voters in six Assembly segments – Kovilpatti, Ottapidaaram (Reserved), Vilaathikulam, Thoothukudi, Srivaikundam and Tiruchendur – it was decided to reach directly to at least 5 lakh voters – over one-third of the electorate - through these postcards, all sent by the enthusiastic children. “The students have written soulful letters asking their parents, grandparents and the relatives to fulfil their democratic right without getting lured by cash, gifts and allurement of any sort. We believe that this emotional appeal from their children as part of SVEEP (systematic voters education on electoral participation) will make them vote without any fear or favour,” said District Collector and Electoral Officer K. Senthil Raj. Since 1 lakh postcards were not readily available in the district as only a few people use it as medium of communication, Dr. Senthil Raj, who contacted the senior officials of Department of Posts, has sourced the postcards from the neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-send-1-lakh-postcards-urging-relatives-to-vote/article34065125.ece
14 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 87 lakh seized so far in Thoothukudi||District Election Officer and Collector K Senthil Raj on Saturday said that so far, the flying squads and other teams have seized Rs. 87 lakh in cash from various people, who could not furnish valid proof for the money. As per the model code of conduct (MCC), which is in force since February 26, the Election Commission of India had given broad guidelines for conduct of the elections to the Legislative Assembly on April 6 in a fair and transparent manner. Keeping this in mind, the officials have been intercepting vehicles and people and in the event of sufficient proof for the cash, they have been permitted to proceed. In the case of non-production of documents, the money would be deposited with the Treasury, the Collector said. In the case of persons carrying Rs. 10 lakh in cash and above, the Joint Commissioner (Income Tax) at Tirunelveli would be informed. Only after due investigation by the teams, the money would be released, the Election Officer said. Training on March 17 The district, which has 2097 polling stations in six Assembly constituencies, would begin training for the presiding officers and others from March 17. Trainers are ready with models of EVMs, polling stations and among others. The Collector said that each polling station would have four officers, who would undergo the training. Similar training would be held at all the training centres in the Assembly constituencies simultaneously. On the campaign for 100 % voting in the district, Dr Senthil Raj said that very many events were conducted including issuance of stickers to motorists on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-87-lakh-seized-so-far-in-thoothukudi/article34065465.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Call for policy on organic farming||Traditional paddy growers and representatives of consumer organisations, who participated in a workshop on traditional paddy varieties here on Saturday, have urged the government to come out with a policy on organic farming. A resolution adopted at the workshop, organised by CREATE – Save Our Rice campaign, said a large number of farmers were practising organic farming in the State. However, the State does not have a policy for promoting and achieving total organic farming. “The State should bring a clear and comprehensive organic farming policy with a roadmap for implementation,” the resolution said. The meet urged the State to initiate consumer awareness programmes at the district level on the importance of consuming diversified food varieties such as traditional rice varieties. Food festivals should be conducted at the collector’s offices in districts and women SHGs members can be involved in cooking various recipes using traditional rice varieties. The State should include traditional rice varieties as one of the food items in its procurement policy and rice provided under the Integrated Child Development Scheme and noon meal programme in schools should be of a traditional rice variety at least one day a week. The workshop urged the State to stop supply of fortified rice in its pilot project areas and instead supply traditional rice variety with nutritional and health benefits. More than 20 prominent traditional rice varieties are sold in many organic shops in Tamil Nadu as many consumers prefer them for their nutritional and health benefits. The State should introduce those varieties in ration shop so that the common man is benefited. This will encourage more farmers to cultivate traditional varieties, a resolution said. More than 100 participants including traditional paddy farmers, consumer organisations associated with CREATE (Consumer Research Education Action Training Empowerment) participated in the meeting to discuss various aspects of cultivation, processing, value addition, certification and marketing of traditional rice varieties and the need for sustained interface between consumers and producers. The importance of maintaining genetic purity and role of universities in strengthening the research on traditional varieties were stressed by speakers. P. Duraisingam, Chairman, CREATE and Save Our Rice Campaign, said the paddy festival organised as part of the campaign has helped revive several traditional rice varieties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-policy-on-organic-farming/article34065461.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Milk sachets to carry messages for voters||To improve the polling percentage, the district administration launched a campaign here on Saturday to sensitise voters to the importance of exercising their franchise without fail. Aavin milk sachets delivered to households and sold across the city would carry voter awareness message. The messages will remind them of their democratic duty and the polling date. Pamphlets would also be distributed to residents. Collector S.Sivarasu, who distributed the milk sachets to some residents, said the polling percentage in urban areas was less than in rural pockets. So, the campaign has been taken up. N.Rasikala, general manager, Aavin, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milk-sachets-to-carry-messages-for-voters/article34065460.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||20 students among 67 cases in central region||The central region reported 67 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday including 20 students. A student of Government-aided Girls Higher Secondary School at Ammapettai in Thanjavur suffered from fever last week. When she underwent the test, the result turned out to be positive. Tests were conducted for 460 students out of 1100 girls studying on March 11. Twenty students tested positive; 16 were admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College hospital and four at the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. Samples were collected from other students, teaching and non-teaching staff on March 12 and sent for test and a holiday for two weeks was declared. Tiruchi district reported 14 cases, Tiruvarur 11 and Nagapattinam 10. Karur recorded eight cases. Two cases were reported in Pudukottai and one each in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-students-among-67-cases-in-central-region/article34065100.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||Members of the Desiya Thennindhiya Nadhigal Inaippu Sangam on Saturday buried themselves neck deep in the Cauvery near Mambalasalai here expressing solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi seeking repeal of three farm laws. Led by its president P. Ayyakannu, the farmers tried to perform “symbolic rituals” for those killed in Delhi protest. Later, a group buried themselves neck deep in the river. They dug pits and covered themselves with sand and raised slogans against the Centre. The police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot. The farmers withdrew the protest after talks with the police. Later, 25 protesters, including four women, were detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest/article34065103.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ABVP conference begins||A two-day south Tamil Nadu conference of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) began at Srimad Andavan College of Arts and Science here on Saturday. More than 200 members from different parts of the State took part in the conference. Rahul Chowdhry, national secretary, ABVP, said students had to imbibe discipline and the spirit of national integration. They should spread awareness among the students and youth on national politics. Lakshman, national joint organiser, ABVP, and Ammangi V. Balaji, secretary, Srimad Andavan College, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abvp-conference-begins/article34065456.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||12 detained||Twelve passengers were detained at the airport here on Saturday for allegedly smuggling gold from Dubai. Acting on inputs, Customs and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence officials screened passengers who arrived at airport by an Air India Express flight. During the check, it was found that a few passengers were smuggling gold by concealing it in their dresses. The metal was in compound (paste) form. All 12 patients have been detained at the airport and the gold was sent for extraction from the dresses and then for smelting it to measure the weight and assess the value. According to a preliminary report, the weight of the smuggled gold could be around 10 kg, worth Rs. 4 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-detained/article34065453.ece
14 March 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Shops that violate COVID-19 guidelines will be sealed’||The Corporation Commissioner G Kannan has warned of stern action against shops and establishments which neglected or violated the COVID-19 guidelines. The authorities have been instructed to seal such establishments for at least 10 days. With the number of active cases rising steadily, it has been planned to tighten the safety protocol. “The idea is not to harass the shopkeepers or the shoppers. We have to ensure that the virus is kept under control,” he told reporters here on Saturday. Hence, as a precautionary measure, the shops and commercial undertakings have been instructed to meticulously follow the guidelines and cooperate with the civic authorities. An official in the Health Department said that following a steady rise in COVID-19 cases in some of the States in northern India, the travelling public from those destinations would come under scanner at the railway stations. “If required, they will be instructed to quarantine for a week,” the official said. Surveillance at check posts has also been intensified. People from States like Kerala and Maharashtra were being screened. The Corporation Commissioner said that pregnant women, children and senior citizens should stay indoors. Unless there was an absolute necessity, they should not venture out, he stressed. “Not that the situation is alarming, but it is just a precaution,” he clarified. Having come a long way by beating the virus over the last 10 months, the doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital said that the number of active cases was rising in small numbers, but the rise was steady. “The infection is not virulent, but it is better not to take a risk at this time,” they said. Meanwhile, the government has also appealed to those aged above 45 years to get vaccinated at the designated centres. There was no apprehension about the vaccine, a notification had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-that-violate-covid-19-guidelines-will-be-sealed/article34065467.ece
14 March 2021||Tirupattur,TAMIL NADU||In Vaniyambadi constituency, Muslim votes do count||When it comes to leather exports, Vaniyambadi tops the list. The constituency is also famous for its lip- smacking biriyani and footwear industries. But there are long-pending issues such as the linking of the Thenpennai and the Palar, lack of government colleges and the need for a rail over-bridge. The constituency comprises many villages. A good number of farmers have abandoned agriculture because of the lack of water for irrigation and migrated to Bengaluru to work as daily-wage earners. It has seen both the DMK and the AIADMK winning in the past elections. This year, the AIADMK has fielded G. Senthil Kumar. Mohammed Nayeem of the Indian Union Muslim League is contesting on behalf of the DMK-led alliance. The sitting MLA is Nilofer Kafeel, the Labour Minister. However, she was denied renomination. She blames it on Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani. Vaniyambadi has a large Muslim population. “The people here usually do not vote for the party that has an alliance with the BJP,” says social activist Palar A.C. Venkatesan. Demands unfulfilled Residents, however, complain that whichever party comes to power, some of their demands are never fulfilled. “The Palar enters Tamil Nadu from Andhra Pradesh in Vaniyambadi. Agriculture and about 10 lakes are dependent on the river, which is most often dry. The river is the lifeline for most parts of north Tamil Nadu. However, as Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have built check-dams across the river, the water never reaches us,” says Mr. Venkatesan. The rainwater flows downstream in this region. “Many years ago, the National Water Development Agency said it was possible to divert 3.5 tmc ft of water from the Thenpennai to the Palar. All that needs to be done is to construct a canal from the Nedungal check-dam across the Thenpennai in Krishnagiri district and bring water to Kallar near Natrampalli in Tirupattur district. This will bring water to the Palar. But this has not been done so far,” he adds. Another demand is to construct a subway at New Town Railway Crossing in Vaniyambadi. “There were two railway crossings in the constituency — Pudur LC 82 and New Town LC 81. After much efforts, a rail over-bridge was constructed at Pudur 10 years ago. During the same period, a subway was sanctioned for the New Town crossing. But the work has not even begun. The work should be done soon,” says K. Sekhar, a resident. Residents also want government arts and polytechnic colleges. “We also need a government higher secondary school. Children have to travel around six kilometres to a government school. Most educational institutions are private ones,” he says. Road development The constituency has seen development in terms of road, transport and water. “But many villagers want water supply through the Cauvery Integrated Water Supply Scheme,” notes Mr. Venkatesan. People want the government to take over the private quarries as they are causing severe damage to the environment. “As there are many tanneries and leather industries in the constituency, we need an export zone, a leather park and an institution to train youngsters in leather technology,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslim-votes-matter-in-vaniyambadi/article34065418.ece
14 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||10-year-old girl hit by car, dies||A 10-year-old girl was killed after being hit by a speeding car outside her residence in Palladam on Friday. The police said that P. Charuhasini was playing outside her house in Kallampalayam at around 3.30 p.m. when the accident occurred. She died on the spot after sustaining multiple injuries, the police said. The Palladam police have registered a case against the car driver Murugaiah (55) from Karnataka under Sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-old-girl-hit-by-car-dies/article34065140.ece
14 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||Flying Squad officials seized Rs. 82,000 cash from a car during a vehicle check on Kangeyam Road in Tiruppur South Assembly constituency on Saturday and Rs. 75,000 from a two-wheeler rider at Chinnakarai in Palladam Assembly constituency on Friday night.   A 10-year-old girl was killed after being hit by a speeding car outside her residence in Palladam on Friday. The police said that P. Charuhasini was playing outside her house in Kallampalayam at around 3.30 p.m. when the accident occurred. She died on the spot. The Palladam police have registered a case against the car driver Murugaiah (55) from Karnataka. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized/article34065039.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Ornaments seized||Gold and silver ornaments worth Rs. 9.82 crore were seized by the police, led by Muthulakshmi, Inspector, Vaduvur Police Station, at Vaduvur check post on Friday evening. The vehicle proceeding towards Thanjavur from Mannargudi was found carrying 64.623 kg of gold and silver ornaments. They were handed over to Election Flying Squad by the police team, sources said. Sources claimed that so far, the Tiruvarur police have effected the seizure of gold, silver, diamonds and cash totalling Rs. 19.27 crore during vehicle checks conducted by special police teams at different check posts in Tiruvarur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-silver-ornaments-seized/article34065108.ece
14 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district records 16 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,125 with 16 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 20,682 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 92. The district's death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, two cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,272. In Tirupattur district, two new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,659. In Tiruvannamalai district, three new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,545. Of this, 19,238 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-records-16-fresh-cases/article34065415.ece
14 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||One killed, 3 injured in fire at match unit||One worker was killed and three others, including a woman, were injured in a fire accident at a colour match unit near Virudhunagar on Saturday evening. Condition of two men, admitted to Government Hospital in Sivakasi, is said to critical as they have suffered 100% burns. The police identified the deceased as K. Puduraja (40) of Amathur. The injured are M. Panchavarnam (50) and V. Veerasamy (55) of Gurumoorthinaickkenpatti and S. Natarajan (50) of Muthulapuram. Friction while handling the chemical dipped match sticks at the dipping room in Durga Color Match unit is said to have caused the fire at around 4.30 p.m. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Virudhunagar put out the fire in the dipping room. Amathur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-three-injured-in-fire-at-match-unit/article34065122.ece
14 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat to be held on March 22||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level Dak Adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Virudhunagar division in Virudhunagar at 3 p.m. on March 22. Postal customers having grievances may send their complaints on or before March 20.  Any suggestions to improve the services are also invited. The customers can attend the adalat in person on March 22 at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Virudhunagar Division, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-to-be-held-on-march-22/article34065112.ece
14 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||MNM cadre unhappy with seat allocation||With intra-party wranglings being reported in many Dravidian parties after allocation of seats among alliance parties, the trend has caught up with Makkal Needhi Maiam too. The Virudhunagar district unit has threatened to quit en masse if Virudhunagar Assembly constituency was not taken back by MNM from its alliance partner, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK). Talking to reporters here on Friday night, the party Virudhunagar central district secretary, J. Kalidoss, said that MNM candidate had bagged 12,400 seats in Virudhunagar Assembly constituency alone during the 2019 Parliamentary Election for Virudhunagar Lok Sabha constituency. “This is despite the fact that the party got its symbol only 18 days before the polling day. We managed to take the symbol to the voters in a short span,” Mr. Kalidoss said. The party candidate, Muniyasamy, had campaigned in Virudhunagar Assembly constituency for a very short period. In the meantime, after the break out of COVID-19 pandemic, the partymen had reached out to people with lot of welfare assistance. “We have worked hard in the last nine months and have won the confidence of more people in the constituency. We are confident of a better finish in this election,” he added. He stated that the party district unit had selected District Youth Wing secretary, Pitchaimani, as its candidate for Virudhunagar district. “We are ready with a propaganda vehicle and had planned for a two-wheeler road show on the day of announcement of seat sharing. However, we have expressed our disappointment to our party high command and told them that we will resign en masse from party and continue to work as Kamal Fans’ Welfare Club,” Mr. Kalidoss said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-cadre-unhappy-with-allocation-of-seat/article34065120.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 15 new cases||Erode district reported 15 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 14,954. While six persons were discharged, 102 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 11 persons tested positive. According to health officials, nine indigenous cases were reported and two patients returned from Erode and Namakkal. In Namakkal, four cases were reported, two patients returned from Erode. Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 54 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s overall tally to 56,403. The district had 377 active cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The Health Department said that 44 persons were discharged upon recovery from different hospitals on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 27 new cases on Saturday and the overall tally rose to 18,617. No deaths were reported. As many as 18,227 patients have recovered and 166 were active cases in the district. On Saturday, 11 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, twelve persons tested positive for the disease on Saturday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 8,428. With the death of one person, the toll increased to 48 on Saturday. A total of 49 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-15-new-cases/article34065130.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hype over generic name for a group of SCs fades||The nature of electoral politics seems to have ensured that the hype over the provision of the generic title of ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ to a group of seven Scheduled Castes has fizzled out. Puthiya Tamilagam, one of the important parties that was at the forefront of the campaign for bringing the seven communities under one fold and their removal from the list of the Scheduled Castes, is no longer in the AIADMK-led alliance. When the Centre decided to bring in legislation on the generic name a month ago, Puthiya Tamilagam founder K. Krishnasamy expressed disappointment over the exclusion of his demand for the removal of the communities from the list of the Scheduled Castes. Subsequently, the AIADMK and the BJP appeared to have maintained a distance from the party. Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK), led by B. John Pandian, has been accommodated in the AIADMK-led front. It has been allotted one seat in the northern region: Egmore (reserved) in Chennai, though it would have preferred a constituency in the southern districts, where Devendrakula Velalar communities are more in number. In 2016, the TMMK leader tried his luck in Thiruvadanai, Ramanathapuram, and in 2011, from Nilakottai and Mudukulathur. On both occasions, he contested separately. According to him, Egmore has been given to him as he contested there in 2001 as an AIADMK ally and lost by 86 votes. Vasudevanallur, Sankarankoil, Tirunelveli, Nanguneri, Paramakudi, Nilakottai and Ottapidaram are among the constituencies suggested by the TMMK to the ruling party this time. Mr. John Pandian said that despite his party not getting any of the seats sought by him, he decided to remain in the AIADMK-led front because of “alliance dharma” and a “sense of gratitude” to the ruling party and the BJP for having addressed the demand on the generic name. However, V. Kamaraja, founder-president of the Devendra Kula Mallar Chamber of Commerce, a BJP member and one of those who mobilised the communities on the issues, does not agree with the contention that the matter has to be viewed only in terms of electoral politics. “We view the government’s decision on the generic title emotionally and see it as a great success. It is for this purpose that all the communities will support the BJP and the AIADMK in the election, regardless of the presence or absence of any leader.” G. Palanithurai, an academic, said the focus of State politics is shifting to “micro-level and sub-caste” nuances from larger issues like cultural nationalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hype-over-generic-name-for-a-group-of-scs-fades/article34064976.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK vows to set aside 75% jobs for Tamils||The manifesto proposed a separate Ministry to increase the revenue through extraction of mines and minerals and prevent looting of these resources. “The technological capacity of TAMIN will be strengthened.” Establishing a special court to try corruption charges against AIADMK Ministers; live telecast of Assembly proceedings; a law abolishing NEET in the first Assembly session; restoration of the old pension scheme for government employees; monthly electricity billing cycle; and free milk for school students in the morning are some of the promises. At a time when the increase in the prices of petroleum products has become a cause for concern, Mr. Stalin announced Rs. 100 in subsidy per cooking gas cylinder. The prices of petrol and diesel will be reduced by Rs. 5 and Rs. 4 a litre respectively. The price of Aavin milk will be reduced by Rs. 3 a litre. The manifesto also reiterated the DMK’s promise for a proper inquiry into the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and prosecution of the guilty. Reiterating its commitment to reservation without the income limit, the manifesto said it would persuade the Union government to increase the annual income ceiling to Rs. 25 lakh to determine the creamy layer for Central government institutions. Taking its cue from the recommendation of the National Backward Classes Commission for 27% reservation for the BCs in the private sector, the DMK said it would press for reservation for the BCs and the SCs/STs in the private sector. Priority would be given to first generation graduates in government jobs. The party would urge the Union government to make Tirukkural a “national book”. There are a slew of promises for the welfare of women, including 40% reservation for them in government jobs, an increase in the maternity leave to 12 months and Rs. 24,000 in maternity assistance. The differently abled people will get smart cards, free travel passes and motorised three-wheelers for travel. As many as 500 Kalaignar Unavagam, on the lines of Amma Unavagam, would be opened, and night shelters would be created for workers. The other promises include piped drinking water supply in Chennai; free sanitary napkin for government school/college students; a grievance redress mechanism in every Assembly constituency; resolution of the petitions received by Mr. Stalin during his campaign; housing pattas in urban areas where there are no objections; and steps to get Indian citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-promises-to-set-aside-75-jobs-for-tamils/article34065015.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Timely business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timely-business/article34065139.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Art for worship||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/art-for-worship/article34065414.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campaign begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-begins/article34065470.ece
14 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Private agency set to handle water supply in Belagavi city||The State government will hand over water supply in Belagavi city to a private infrastructure company, with a mandate to expand 24x7 water supply to the whole city and manage the entire process, from storage to filtering to supply and billing. The World Bank-funded project will be taken up on a Design, Build, Operate, Maintain and Transfer (DBOMT) basis. Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board will transfer assets and manpower to the private company, which will run the water supply system for 15 years. The assets and manpower will be returned to the board after the contract period is over. As of now, the 24x7 water supply is available only in 10 of the 58 wards. This will be extended to all the wards in the next five years. In the first phase, 85,000 homes will get round-the-clock water, a KUWSDB officer said. The Rs. 800-crore project involves the laying of 900 km of pipelines and their maintenance for the contract period. Officers of the private company have begun a door-to-door survey of water supply and the challenges in various wards. They are expected to take over the water supply by April. “The challenge in the old city is that the water supply channels are very old and it is difficult to repair them because of the narrow roads and congested living areas. The challenge in the new city is that there are not enough storage spaces and distribution points, owing to the undulating landscape and scattered residential areas. The private company officers have been appraised of this. They have promised to come up with innovative solutions,” a city corporation officer said. The aim is to provide piped water with continuous pressurised water supply to every residential unit. The project is expected to achieve 100%billing and collection and reduction of losses to the board and the city corporation, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-agency-set-to-handle-water-supply-in-belagavi-city/article34065143.ece
14 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers to organise panchayat on March 31||Various farmers organisations will hold a Raitha Maha Panchayat at Rani Channamma Circle in Belagavi on March 31 to protest against the new farm laws brought out by the Union and State governments. Farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait is likely to address the gathering. Akhila Bharat Samyukta Kisan Morcha, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and others will organise the protest. Farmers leaders like Chukki Nanjundaswamy, Suresh Babu Patil, Sidagouda Modagi, Jayashree Gurannanavar, Choonappa Pujari and others said the rally would also aim to create awareness about the dangers of the new laws. “We had requested the district administration to accord permission to hold the rally in the district stadium or the CPED ground. But the officers have denied this. The DCs in Haveri and Shivamogga had given permission. We don’t know why we have been denied. Hence, we have decided to hold the rally at Rani Channamma Circle,” Ms. Guranannanavar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-to-organise-panchayat-on-march-31/article34065144.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Theatres see 100% occupancy for Robert||For the first time in months, a film filled up theatres on the weekend. Darshan starrer Robert , which was released on Thursday, has got the biggest opening since the lockdown, raising hopes of a revival of fortunes in the Kannada film industry. The first big commercial film to hit the screens post lockdown was Pogaru on February 19, weeks after the State government allowed 100% occupancy in theatres on February 1. However, not all theatres were open at the time, and for the most part, the public was also wary of going to theatres. But that changed with Robert . “Producers of Pogaru were also confident of making a handsome profit, but women and families did not turn up for that film. Robert has got a big opening, not seen in a long time in the industry, even before the lockdown. This may be due to a long gap in good potboilers hitting the Kannada screen. Families are flocking to theatres even in small towns,” said an industry insider. However, with a rise in COVID-19 cases and fears of a second wave, exhibitors fear that the re-issual of revised guidelines for public gatherings will lead to another round of restrictions on theatre occupancy. Exhibitors and theatre owners said they are taking all precautions prescribed by the government. “We are doing our best to implement Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) in theatres even when shows are on. Everyone has to wear masks. Theatres are being sanitised after every show,” said D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, and also an exhibitor.  K.V. Chandrashekhar, president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association, said several big films – Yuvaratna starring Puneeth Rajkumar, Kotigobba 3 starring Sudeep and Salaga starring Duniya Vijay – are lined up for release in the coming weeks. “As of today, theatres in Maharashtra and Kerala, which are reeling under a second wave, allow 100% occupancy. But if restricting the occupancy in theatres is necessary to prevent a second wave of COVID-19, we cannot oppose it. Our only request is to announce it well in advance so the upcoming releases can be planned accordingly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theatres-see-100-occupancy-for-robert/article34064935.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No specific allocation for over 60 proposals in State Budget||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who increased the size of the 2021-22 State Budget over the previous year by Rs. 8,314 crore (3.5%), has refrained from making specific allocations for over 60 proposals mentioned. While big allocation figures were announced under seven heads, including schemes under the Women’s Day special, no specific amounts were allocated to 60 projects/proposals. It also mentioned more than a dozen proposals that were either related to policy announcements or restructuring of existing programmes. Bits and pieces For effective and people’s friendly implementation of schemes, the Budget said that “it has been proposed to integrate various projects of the State government under a few umbrella projects”. But, at least 35 proposals/projects mentioned in the Budget received Rs. 5 crore or less, while another 16 proposals received funds between Rs. 25 crore and Rs. 50 crore. At least 13 proposals/projects received funds between Rs. 5 crore and Rs. 10 crore, and another 14 proposals between Rs. 10 crore and Rs. 20 crore. Allocations of more than Rs. 500 crore were related to mega projects that were largely confined to irrigation, drinking water, roads, railways, Kalyana Karnataka welfare, backward taluks under D.M. Nanjundappa Committee Report, and infrastructure projects in Bengaluru. No specific funds were allocated in the Budget for many proposals, though money is expected to be allocated to such projects under the specific sectors later. For instance, the Budget said the Ayurvedic College in Shivamogga would be upgraded as Ayush University. But, no funds were allotted. Similarly, it was proposed to start evening colleges in selected city corporations on pilot basis, but again no specific amount was mentioned. No specific fund was earmarked for starting an extension of the Central Footwear Training Institute in Chitradurga, Kolhapuri Footwear Cluster in Belagavi, establishment of 100 more Kittur Rani Chennamma childcare centres, 25 mobile health check-up centres, and upgrade of 5,622 rural libraries. The Budget mentioned 17 proposals under Public Private Partnerships (PPP). It included construction of agricultural markets, theme park on 100 acres at Hesaraghatta in Bengaluru, medical college in Chitradurga, construction of 150 hostels for backward classes, waterways between Mangaluru-Panaji for development of tourism, and a textile park at Guledagudda in Badami among others. Policy announcements The Budget had many schemes related to policy announcements or formulation of new rules for restructuring existing schemes. They include formulation of new hybrid policy, framing new rules for creating labour and industry-friendly environment, new aerospace and defence policy, revision of start-up policy, and single-window system for film industry. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who has presented several State Budgets, is expected to speak on the Budget on Monday and is expected to identify many loopholes in the proposals, including revenue receipts and expenditure, mentioned in the 2020-21 and 2021-22 Budgets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-specific-allocation-for-over-60-proposals-in-state-budget/article34064944.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC dismisses plea to arraign Munirathna, two others||The High Court of Karnataka has dismissed a petition seeking direction to arraign Munirathna, MLA of Rajarajeshwarinagar, his wife, and a film producer as additional accused in a criminal case of 2014 on alleged fabrication of bills to appropriate public money to the tune of Rs. 120 crore of the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) without doing any civil work. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order while rejecting the petition filed by Amruthesh N.P., a city-based advocate. The petitioner had questioned the June 15, 2018, order passed by a special court dismissing his application to arraign the MLA, his wife Manjula, and producer Rama Babu as the Lokayukta police, who had seized certain documents pertaining to the case from a premises belong to the MLA’s wife, had not arraigned them as accused in the charge sheet. The High Court rejected the petition citing multiples reasons like the petitioner being a stranger to the case and that there was no special circumstance to entertain his plea as he had not produced any material to implicate the trio. The petitioner wanted a direction to arraign them as accused by treating as “confession” the contents of statement of Mr. Munirathna, recorded by the Lokayukta police under Section 161 of Code of Criminal Procedure. ‘Far fetched’ However, the High Court termed this contention as “too far-fetched an argument” while observing that “by no stretch of imagination, it can be construed as an admission, much less a confession... there is nothing in the statement to implicate him.” “From the bulky prosecution papers, not even a leaf is shown to contain the names of these persons,” the court observed, while pointing out that even the de facto complainant, Y.H. Shrinivas of Bhrastaachaara Virodhi Vedike, in his examination had not whispered anything against them. The court wondered as to why the petitioner sought to arraign Ms. Manjula as an accused in the absence of any material against her except the house, from where certain documents were seized, being registered in her name. The court also did not find anything wrong on the part of the Lokayukta police in opposing the petitioner’s plea to arraign Mr. Munirathna as an accused.  The High Court rejected the petition citing multiples reasons like the petitioner being a stranger to the case and that he had not produced any material to implicate the trio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-dismisses-plea-to-arraign-munirathna-two-others/article34064942.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Air-conditioned terminal at Baiyappanahalli to open soon||The country’s first centralised air-conditioned railway terminal at Baiyappanahalli, which has been built on the lines of the one at Kempegowda International Airport, is set to become operational soon, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal announced on Twitter on Saturday. The South Western Railways plans to run long-distance services to metros such as Mumbai and Chennai, besides intra-State services from the terminal, which has been named after civil engineer and Bharat Ratna awardee Sir. M. Visvesvaraya. The station building is spread over around 4,200 sq.m. and can cater to 50,000 people every day. With seven platforms, eight stabling lines and three pit lines, the terminal can operate 50 trains daily. Other amenities include a waiting hall, real-time passenger information system, a food court, escalators, a foot-over-bridge and two subways. The project was sanctioned in 2015-16, and commercial operations were scheduled to start by May 2020. However, it was delayed due to the pandemic and other factors. The SWR estimated the project cost at around Rs. 314 crore. Officials said once operational, the station would help decongest KSR Bengaluru and Yeshwantpur railway stations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the terminal. SWR officials said they were waiting for a date from the Prime Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-conditioned-terminal-at-baiyappanahalli-to-open-soon/article34064930.ece
14 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on March 15 from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in the areas serviced from MEI Layout sub-station. Feeder 4 Acharya College Road: Hesaraghatta Main Road, Widia bus stop, Panduranga Layout, Bhuvaneshwari Nagar, Mallasandra, T. Dasarahalli will be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article34064927.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man caught recording Robert on mobile phone||Alert staff caught a 28-year-old man red-handed while he was recording the newly released Kannada movie Robert in a theatre at Puttenahalli on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Madhu K.B., a resident of Kallanakuppe, in Ramanagaram. According to the police, he has been watching the movie for the last three days and recording it in parts on his mobile phone clandestinely. Luck ran out for him on the last day when theatre staff found his behaviour suspicious and alerted the film team who are keeping a close watch on piracy. They rushed to the theatre and apprehended Madhu. He was handed over to the Puttenahalli police, who are questioning him to ascertain his possible link with the piracy racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-caught-recording-robert-on-mobile-phone/article34064928.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||There is an attempt to fix me in CD case: DKS||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, referring to the SIT probe into the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, claimed that an attempt was on to “fix” him in the case. Speaking at a Congress protest rally in Shivamogga on Friday, he said he would speak about the incident at an appropriate moment. “I know they are trying to fix me in this case. But, I will expose those behind this incident at a suitable time,” he said. Several leaders participating in the rally, in support of B.K. Sangameshwara, Bhadravati MLA, who is allegedly being “harassed” by the police, said that BJP leaders had been engaged in illegal activities though they often chant the name of Lord Rama. Former Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar said: “Rama with a heavy heart sent his wife Sita as he gave respect to the opinion of one individual in his State,” he said, asking if that is indeed the Rama respected by the BJP. Referring to the resignation of 17 MLAs in Operation Lotus, Mr. Kumar sarcastically asked if all the MLAs, who were lodged in Mumbai, read Bhagvad Gita there or did they spend time doing yoga. Former Minister Krishna Byre Gowda commented that “BJP leaders chant Lord Rama’s name, but behave worse than Ravana.” Referring to the CD scandal, he said the BJP was bringing bad name to Karnataka by their “immoral conduct”. “Somebody called it a conspiracy to fix the Minister. What is the conspiracy?.. Are we responsible for his conduct?” he asked. Former Minister G. Parameshwara said: “Earlier, the BJP leaders collected bricks in the name of Srirama. Where are the bricks? Now, they are raising funds for Ram temple. Where is the money they collected earlier for the same purpose?” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the present government was “immoral” as the party made 17 MLAs of the Opposition parties resign. He alleged that they were offered crores of rupees each and came to power. Financial status Further, he said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had no moral right to continue in power considering the financial status of the State. During his rule the State’s loan had increased, beyond all records, he said. The Congress organised the event to condemn police action against Mr. Sangameshwara, in connection with a clash between workers of the Congress and the BJP during a Kabaddi tourney on February 28. The MLA’s son is among those arrested in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-an-attempt-to-fix-me-in-cd-case-dks/article34064939.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to develop KAVERI 2 through CSG||After its experience with C-DAC not going very well, the State government has decided to develop KAVERI 2 through the Centre for Smart Governance (CSG). While the NIC was also considered, the CSG has been identified since land is a State subject and developing a State-level module would be better by the CSG. The upgraded KAVERI 2 is likely to be rolled out this year, and C-DAC is being convinced to continue the maintenance support system till CSG takes over. The CSG will not only develop upgraded KAVERI 2, but also come up with development of integrated land management system, which will be completed in two years’ time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-develop-kaveri-2-through-csg/article34064947.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SBI Wealth Hub launched||The State Bank of India launched its Wealth Management Services by opening SBI Wealth Hub in Mysuru recently. SBI Wealth now has presence in 64 major centres with a network of 151 wealth hubs and five e-wealth centres in the country. Presently, SBI Wealth is serving over 2,34,000 clients with an AUM of over Rs. 1,85,000 crore. Addressing a gathering at the launch, Dinesh Khara, chairman of SBI, said: “Introducing wealth business has been one of the strategic business priorities of the bank as we have numerous HNI clients whose banking needs require highly specialised services.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sbi-wealth-hub-launched/article34064940.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teachers to be tested more frequently||In the wake of an outbreak of COVID-19 cases in two government schools in Karnataka on Friday, managements of government and private schools are stepping up monitoring to ensure that their campuses do not become clusters. Many managements said they were willing to bear the cost of vaccination for their teachers. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, Delhi Public Group of Schools, said that they have been conducting COVID-19 tests for their teachers once a month since their schools reopened in January. “From now on, we will conduct tests on teachers and our staff every fortnight to ensure that our students and staff are protected,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that he would advise managements to bear the cost of vaccination. “Ideally, it is the responsibility of the government to bear the cost and ensure that teachers are vaccinated. But as this has not been done, we have asked schools to take up this responsibility and bear at least 50% of the cost,” he said. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said while staff and students are screened on campus, they are also planning to instruct parents to monitor their children for flu-like symptoms before they leave for school. “All teachers who are above 45 years and have co-morbidities are being encouraged to get themselves vaccinated. Schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education are planning to have an online meeting to discuss best practices to safeguard the health of students,” she said. Meanwhile, officials are monitoring the situation at the two schools – one in Bengaluru and the other in Kalagi in Kalaburagi district – where the clusters were reported. V. Anbu Kumar , Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that the department has asked Deputy Directors of Public Instruction to ensure that they report all COVID-19 cases. “We have sought a report from officials on the cause of the clusters in the two schools,” he said.  Ideally, it is the responsibility of the government to bear the cost and ensure that teachers are vaccinated. But as this has not been done, we have asked schools to bear at least 50% of the cost D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-to-be-tested-more-frequently/article34064952.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Marshals on high alert||Civic officials are taking note of the crowds. “We have noted that Robert is running to packed houses amidst fears of a second wave of COVID-19. For now, I have directed marshals to conduct surprise checks at theatres while the shows are on, and ensure that people are wearing masks,” said civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. AC halls With 100% occupancy and lack of social distancing in closed air-conditioned halls, civic officials are concerned. “If COVID-19 cases continue to rise, we will be forced to again consider restricting occupancy in theatres,” Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marshals-on-high-alert/article34064931.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Norms have been of little effect’||Strict norms on the entry of individuals from a second wave-hit Maharashtra and Kerala seems to have meant little on the ground. “The unchecked proliferation from the Kerala border has particularly hit Bengaluru,” admitted a senior civic official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/norms-have-been-of-little-effect/article34064954.ece
14 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New cases rise to 921||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise with 921 people testing positive on Saturday. Of the new cases detected, 630 were from Bengaluru Urban alone, the highest so far since the beginning of March. The total number of cases since the onset of the pandemic currently stands at 9,59,338, across Karnataka. With one person from Mysuru district succumbing to COVID-19, the toll rose to 12,387. This is apart from 19 deaths owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 992 people were discharged on Saturday.  A total of 72,650 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Testing is expected to increase in the coming days. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive continued on Saturday, with 39,253 people getting their shot . Of these, 24,824 people above 60 years of age got their first shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-cases-rise-to-921/article34064960.ece
14 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Police should not harass Cong. workers’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has said the Congress will not tolerate harassment of party workers by the police. “If the police does not stop registering false cases against the Congress, our workers will picket police stations across the State”, he said at a public rally in Shivamogga on Saturday. The rally was organised by the Congress to condemn the police action against Bhadravati MLA B.K. Sangameshwara and other Congress workers in connection with a clash that broke out following a kabaddi tourney on February 28. During his five-year rule, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, he never used the police to book cases against political rivals. “The police get a salary from the government, not from either Yediyurappa or Eshwarappa. If all Congress workers hit the streets, no police can control them”, he said and also warned the police saying, “We will come back to power in two years. Be careful”. Congress leader D.K.Shivakumar said the event was organsed to instil confidence among party workers across the State. “Wherever a Congress worker is harassed, we will go there and protest”, he said. Criticising the State government, he said “the end of the BJP rule” had begun with this rally. Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa said the rally was timely. “Shivamogga is a land of struggles. The Congress has chosen this place to start the agitations against the BJP. Such struggles are required to dislodge the BJP government. The huge response to the event is an indication that people are against the BJP rule.” Mr. Sangameshwara, addressing the rally, said false cases were filed against him and his family members. His son was still in judicial custody. “The BJP is trying to divide people for political reasons. None of their tactics will work in Bhadravati.” The MLA also criticised the BJP for ignoring MPM and VISL industries in Bhadravati. Protest march Earlier in the day, Congress workers took out a protest march from the bus stand to Science Field. Hundreds of party workers from different parts of the district took part in the march called ‘Janakrosha Pratibhatane’ that started near the bus stand. Along the route, the workers raised slogans criticising BJP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa. When a group of workers raised slogans praising D.K.Shivakumar, the KPCC president intervened and appealed to them not to take names of individuals of the party. KSE condemns rally  Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa has criticised the Congress for holding the rally.  He told presspersons in Shivamogga that he went through the list of leaders participating in the rally. “This shows they are attending it just to show that their party is active. Instead, they should visit Bhadravati and find out what happened during the kabaddi tourney.” The Congress workers attacked BJP workers who had raised slogans, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-should-not-harass-cong-workers/article34065370.ece
14 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Sahitya Akademi’s Bal Sahitya Puraskar for Hafiz Karnataki||Shikaripur-based Urdu writer Hafiz Karnataki has been chosen for Sahitya Akademi’s Bal Sahitya Puraskar of 2020. He received the award for his book Fakr-E-Watan, a work on freedom fighters of India. Mr. Karnataki, 57, began his literary career as a poet in the 1980s and later turned towards writing for children. So far, he has brought out 94 books. He has translated many vacahanas of Basavanna and Akkamahadevi and writings of Kuvempu into Urdu. Born into a family of teachers, he developed an interest in literature at a young age. He became a teacher at a government primary school in 1987 and worked at different places before resigning from the job in 2006. Now he looks after his educational institution, which provides education to 3,000 girls at Shikaripura. He also worked as chairman of Karnataka Urdu Academy. A couple of students have done PhDs on his literature. Considering his contribution to the field of literature, Gulbarga University honoured him with an honorary doctorate in 2013. After the Sahitya Akademi announced the award on Friday, he received calls from different parts of the country congratulating him. “I am getting congratulatory messages from many people. First among those called me were the scholars who did study my literature for PhD,” he told The Hindu on the phone. Mr. Karnataki wants to hit a century by bringing out six more books soon, as he has already published 94 works. “Children of the present generation are more intelligent than me. I wish to write for them on values they have to inculcate at a young age,” he said. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 50,000, besides a memento.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sahitya-akademis-bal-sahitya-puraskar-for-hafiz-karnataki/article34065161.ece
14 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hiremath: Arrest those who assaulted activist||Social activist and founder of Jan Sangram Parishad S.R. Hiremath has urged the Shivamogga police to arrest those who attacked activist Girish Achar. At a press conference in Shivamogga on Saturday, he said Mr. Achar had been fighting illegal activities in the district. He fought a legal battle against the illegal grant of forest land and got a favourable order from the courts. “Some people with vested interests abducted and assaulted him at Mattimane in Hosanagar taluk recently. Later, a false case was filed against him,” he said. He also expressed suspicion of the police playing a role in the filing of a false case against Mr. Achar. “The police should probe the case considering the CCTV footage and arrest all those involved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hiremath-arrest-those-who-assaulted-activist/article34065162.ece
14 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Garment unit worker dies in mishap||A woman employee of a garment unit at the KIADB industrial area in Hassan died in an accident while on her job on Friday. Shilpa, 20, a native of Doddabyagathavalli in Holenarsipur taluk ,suffered serious injury when a part of a machine she was handling hit her. The textile unit staff shifted her to a private hospital in Hassan. However, she succumbed to injuries. Hassan Rural Police have registered a case. Shilpa is survived by her parents, sister and brother. Her family members have blamed the unit owners for the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garment-unit-worker-dies-in-mishap/article34065362.ece
14 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Solar heaters for old-age home||Solar water heaters required for the hot water needs of Anandashrama, an old-age home near Dharwad where 65 aged persons have taken shelter, were handed over symbolically and inaugurated on Saturday. Two water heaters of 500-litre capacity each have been jointly donated to Anandashrama, at Nigadi village near Dharwad, by Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank, SELCO Solar Foundation, and Inner Wheel Club of Dharwad. B.C. Ravichandra, GM, Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank, symbolically dedicated the solar heaters to the inmates of the old-age home, in the presence of Inner Wheel Club president Bina Vyas, DGM of SELCO Prasanna Hegde, Host Club president Mathura Kulkarni, event conveners Kavita Deshpande, Soubhagya Kulakarni, district chairman Jyoti Patil, district secretary Jyothi Kiran Das, president of Anandashrama Trust Suresh Kulkarni and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/solar-heaters-for-old-age-home/article34065147.ece
14 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||No classroom of one’s own: Children taught on road as lease dispute claims school land||Students of a school in Ramnagar in Hubballi were taught on the road as a mark of protest, following a dispute over lease of land on which the school building is located. The authorities have declared three-day holiday for the school in a bid to find an alternative solution. On Saturday, parents and members of the alumni association of the school met Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohankumar Hanchate. Abdul Ghani Wali Ahmed, an alumni, told The Hindu that they were knocking on all doors to solve the issue, which concerned the education of scores of children. The dispute is over the land that was reportedly leased out to “Harijan Kannada Hennumakkala Shaale Mattu Balawadi” at Ramnagar. As the lease period has ended, the office-bearers of Gandhiwad Cooperative Housing Society have taken possession of the school building and have locked it. They have a court order in their support. The police provided protection when the society office-bearers took possession of the building on March 10, even as some of the members of School Development and Monitoring Committee and alumni association members opposed it. Nearly 100 students now have no building for their classes. On Friday, the teachers taught them on the road, while the SDMC members and some of the alumni staged a protest forcing the officials to intervene and declare three-day holiday for the school as a temporary measure. “We have met the district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar and aired our grievances. We met the DDPI and submitted documents to save the school. We will meet the society office-bearers too. The alumni association has taken up the responsibility to find a solution,” Mr. Abdul Ghani said. The school, which receives grant in aid, originally started for girls of SCs and STs, now has coeducation and students of all communities. School headmaster Virappa Hanchinamani filed a complaint with Keshwapur police in Hubballi alleging that while taking possession of the building, the society office-bearers took away important documents. However, the police said when asked to take the documents, the school committee members declined to do so and consequently, the society preserved the documents. Meanwhile, Mr. Hanchate said an alternative arrangement for classes would be made immediately. He said action would be taken after consulting legal experts and higher officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-classroom-of-ones-own-children-taught-on-road-as-lease-dispute-claims-school-land/article34064949.ece
14 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two policemen waylaid, thrashed||In a bizarre incident, two police personnel attached to the Armed Reserve Police were beaten up by three persons, who were allegedly inebriated, in Dharwad. The incident occurred on late on Friday night at Itigatti Cross on the Hubballi-Dharwad bypass road. The injured policemen, Nagesh Byatgeri and Uday Bhandari of Uppinbetageri, who were initially treated at the district civil hospital, were shifted to a private hospital on Saturday. They were returning home on their motorcycle when three unidentified persons waylaid them and thrashed them. Both have sustained serious injuries to their face and head. The Dharwad Rural police have registered a case and are on the lookout for the trio who beat the policemen up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-policemen-waylaid-thrashed/article34065148.ece
14 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||ABVP alleges ‘malpractices’ at educational institutions||Demanding a detailed investigation into the alleged sale of B.Ed seats by some educational institutions, members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest in Dharwad on Saturday. They said that while Karnataka was known for quality education across the country and had become a model for other States, a few institutions were involved in malpractices,bringing disrepute to the whole State by selling seats to ineligible candidates. They alleged that some institutions were indulging in malpractice to enable candidates to get degree certificates. They also alleged that these institutions were even fleecing students who had secured seats under government quota by demanding additional fees. Probe sought The protesters alleged that even the submission of assignments required under the B.Ed course was being done by the institutions for additional charges. They urged the government to order a detailed inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abvp-alleges-malpractices-at-educational-institutions/article34065145.ece
14 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||RRBs to participate in bank strike||With United Forum of RRB Unions (UFRRBU), an umbrella organisation of eight apex level unions of Regional Rural Banks, calling for a strike on March 15 and 16, the banking services of RRB are likely to be affected on the said dates. The strike call has been given to oppose the move to privatise public sector banks and demand complete implementation of the 11th bipartite settlement and eighth joint note of the officers’ wage revision in RRBs. In a press release issued on Saturday, General Secretary of All India Grameen Bank Employees’ Association G.G. Gandhi said that the UFRRBU had asked members to participate in the strike as the government policy of privatisation of public sector banks was detrimental to interests of the common people. He said in the release that the terms of award of National Industrial Tribunal had been upheld by the Supreme Court and RRB staff were entitled to get complete bipartite wage revision settlement. Although the 11th bipartite settlement was finalised in November, 2020, even after lapse of four months, it had not been implemented, he said. On March 15 and 16, the members of RRB associations will hold a dharna before all regional offices and district headquarters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rrbs-to-participate-in-bank-strike/article34065163.ece
14 March 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Award for social worker||Jayvardhan J. Ambalgi, social worker and member of the Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, was conferred the Dr. Ambedkar Sewashree National Award-2020 by the Bharatiya Dalit Sahitya Akademi at New Delhi on Saturday. The award was conferred on Mr. Ambalgi in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the social services and other literary activities related to uplifting the downtrodden and backward people of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-social-worker/article34065150.ece
14 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Duo with new strain of virus doing well’||Two persons from Ballari who tested positive for the South African strain of COVID-19 on Thursday are doing well. Speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Ballari Pavan Kumar Malapati said that both the patients were healthy and doing well. “This is just another strain of COVID-19. All the protocols meant for handling the pandemic are strictly followed. Both the patients are healthy and doing well. As soon as they got the confirmation of being infected with the new strain, they got isolated. We are going to send their throat swab samples for repeated test to get the negativity of the disease confirmed,” he said. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan H.L. was not available for comments on the preventive measures taken for containing the new strain. The infected persons returned from Dubai and landed in Bengaluru on February 24. Their throat swab samples were collected at Kempegowda International Airport and sent to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS). Ballari is one of the worst-hit districts in the State with 39,386 positive cases and 597 deaths as on Friday. There are still 103 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/duo-with-new-strain-of-virus-doing-well/article34064953.ece
14 March 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||MBBS student found dead||A final-year student of Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences (BRIMS) killed himself by hanging inside his hostel room in the early hours on Saturday. The deceased is Vineet V. Kamble, 24, hailing from Basavakalyan taluk in Bidar district. The police are yet to ascertain the cause of suicide.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mbbs-student-found-dead/article34065151.ece
14 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sakleshpur-Hassan NH-75 stretch continues to be in poor state||At a time when a complete overhaul of the existing carriageway of the Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 in Dakshina Kannada district has brought some respite to road users, the continued pathetic condition of the highway between Maranahalli and Hassan in Hassan district has made driving miserable. Stretches of NH-75 between B.C. Road and Addahole in Dakshina Kannada and Maranahalli and Hassan in Hassan district continue to be under the four-laning project of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). While an existing sub-contractor was continuing four-laning work in Hassan district, the NHAI was finalising new contractors for the stretch in Dakshina Kannada. The authority made the highway, which was in a deplorable condition, in Dakshina Kannada motorable a couple of months ago after road users raised a hue and cry. With the ongoing work between Hassan and Sakleshpur, on about 40 km of NH-75, potholes and craters on the existing carriageway have been left unattended. While the NHAI says it was the contractor’s responsibility to keep the carriageway in motorable condition, road users say it takes not less than 90 minutes to traverse the 40-km stretch, instead of 45 minutes. At some places, where the new concrete two-lane road has been laid as part of the four-lane project, drivers move on the new stretch to avoid the potholes on the existing carriageway. At many places, they cannot take a diversion and have to negotiate potholes and craters, according to Shivashankar, a truck driver. The NHAI says that a 30-km stretch between Hassan and Sakleshpur was made motorable by the contractor three years ago. However, the highway continues to be in a deplorable condition, said Ashok Kumar, a regular traveller. With the four-lane project expected to take another year for completion, he wondered about the situation during upcoming monsoon, when the existing potholes and craters are sure to become pools of water. Residents of the villages and towns on the way too have been hit hard by the state of the highway. It becomes difficult to cross it when vehicles get piled up while negotiating bad stretches, said Kenche Gowda, a resident of Ballupet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sakleshpur-hassan-nh-75-stretch-continues-to-be-in-poor-state/article34065341.ece
14 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Holapu sports meet of local body members inaugurated||Holapu 2021 – a sports meet for members of rural and urban local bodies of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts was inaugurated at Kota in Udupi district on Saturday. The meet was organised by Kotathattu Gram Panchayat and Dr. Shivarama Karantha Pratishthana to commemorate the birth anniversary of late Karantha at Viveka High School Grounds. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel received the guard of honour from local bodies’ members during their march-past while Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat hoisted the sports meet flag. Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader received the sports light while MLC Appaji Gowda administered the oath and MLC Prathap Simha Nayak released balloons marking the beginning of the meet. Members of urban and rural local bodies took out a march-past at the beginning of the meet. It also had tableaux depicting the rich cultural heritage of the twin districts, including Yakshagana, Tattiraya, Koraga’s Dolu, Kambala, etc. On the occasion, panchayats that had shown remarkable performance were recognised and felicitated. Kotathattu GP president Ashwini Dinesh presided. Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari, Udupi Zilla Panchayat president Dinakara Babu, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department Principal Secretary L.K. Atique and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/holapu-sports-meet-of-local-body-members-inaugurated/article34065351.ece
14 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for assaulting driver of solid waste collection van||The Udupi Town police on Saturday arrested two persons on the charges of assaulting the driver of the vehicle collecting solid waste for Udupi City Municipality on Friday. The police identified the arrested as Ismail (56) of Nejar and Suhail (28) of Hoode. They have been accused of assaulting the driver, Sanju Madara, a resident of Nittur, for asking them to hand over segregated waste while collecting solid waste from people’s doorsteps in Udupi city bus stand area. A video clip of the duo assaulting the driver surfaced on social media. MP for Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Shobha Karandlaje, MLA for Udupi K. Raghupathi Bhat, and former Udupi district-in-charge Minister Pramod Madhwaraj condemned the incident. Sources said that an official of the municipality visited the spot after learning about the assault. But the duo defended their action. Based on a complaint from Madara, the Udupi police arrested the duo and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-assaulting-driver-of-solid-waste-collection-van/article34065344.ece
14 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KIOCL chess tournament on March 21||KIOCL Ltd. will organise the third Kudremukh Trophy, an inter-district open rapid chess tournament, on March 21 at Nehru Bhavan, KIOCL Township, Kavoor. The competition will be conducted in the age-wise categories of 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 years, and open category, with special prizes to be presented to ‘Best Veteran’ and ‘Best Youngest Player’. The total cash prizes plus trophies will be worth Rs. 60,000. Competitions will be held in separate categories for boys and girls. The last date for registration is March 19. A registration fee of Rs. 400 will be charged. For more details, visit https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfkCTG- dJZpymKM21k1iIvqclzmZ4- 5nDdkYRb1tStINjzz7LcQ/viewform?vc=0&c=0&w=1- &flr=0. Fill up the online registration form and make payment to the Kudremukh account. For any queries, send an email to kudremukhchess@gmail.com, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiocl-chess-tournament-on-march-21/article34065346.ece
14 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Controlling spread of virus a challenge in coastal areas||The deep-rooted socio-cultural, religious, and economic bond the coastal districts share with Kasaragod in Kerala and Mumbai, Pune, and Nasik in Maharashtra has made the task of controlling the spread of COVID-19 again from those two States challenging. The coastal district administrations are sulking under the revised orders/circulars of the government on the one hand and “interferences” by policy makers to relax norms on the other hand. Checks imposed last month by Dakshina Kannada on Kerala arrivals is currently before the court now, with the next hearing being adjourned till March 18. When COVID-19 was spreading, Dakshina Kannada closed its borders with Kerala at 21 places last March. It began allowing entry from Kerala through four border roads (Talapady, Saradkka, Jalsoor, and Eshwaramangala) last month. But this invited protests of people at Talapady. Responding to it, Deputy Chief Minister C. N. Ashwath Narayan said in Mangaluru on February 24 that he felt that the daily commuters from Kerala to Mangaluru should not be asked to produce COVID-19 negative certificates. Since then, sources in the Health Department told The Hindu that only random checks are being done at the four checkposts. They said that the government allows all types of fairs, political rallies, events like Yakshagana and Kambala, with a rider on limiting the gathering of people. “Is it practically possible to control the crowd in such events,” the officer said, stating that a government circular on March 12 asked Dakshina Kannada to increase the daily sample tests to 3,000 and Udupi to 2,000 a day. Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra said, “The lengthy porous border with Kerala has made the checking of all those who come from Kerala challenging but not impossible.” The department is in the process of conducting the tests for about 2,500 college students. It will be completed within next two or three days. Later, about 1,250 pre-university students will be tested, said H. Ashok, the nodal officer for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada. Sudhir Chandra Sooda, District Health and Family Welfare Officer, Udupi said that the new cases in Udupi are on the rise after January especially from those arrived from Kerala and Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/controlling-spread-of-virus-a-challenge-in-coastal-areas/article34064958.ece
14 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Admar Mutt takes up projects costing Rs. 1.9 crore||The Paryaya Admar Mutt in Udupi has taken up development and renovation projects worth Rs. 1.19 crore at Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple, according to the mutt manager Govindaraj. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Saturday, he said that the projects have been taken up as per the wishes of paryaya seer Eshapriya Tirtha Sripadaru. The projects included the painting of the mutt and electrical works costing Rs. 31.88 lakh; building ‘Vishwapatha’ for the darshan of devotees at a cost of Rs. 52.63 lakh; renovation of a part of a roof of Madhwa Sarovar at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh and the renovation of the Madhwa Gudi in Madhwa Sarovar at an estimated cost of Rs. 20 lakh. The car festival is being held every Wednesday now. The mutt has begun serving food daily and all sevas have commenced in the temple/mutt, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admar-mutt-takes-up-projects-costing-rs-19-crore/article34065353.ece
14 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold valued at Rs. 33.75 lakh seized at airport||In yet another case, officials of Mangalore Air Customs seized 737 grams of gold valued at Rs. 33,75,470 from a passenger at Mangaluru International Airport on Saturday. A customs release identified the accused as Koppa Mammini Khalid, 45, from Koppa in Kerala. He was intercepted after arriving on an Air India flight from Dubai. “He tried to smuggle gold concealed in his specially designed inner wear. Further investigation is under progress,” the release said. The operation was led by Avinash Kiran Rongali, DC, Customs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-valued-at-rs-3375-lakh-seized-at-airport/article34065354.ece
14 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Additional coaches||The Railways has added a few more coaches to three pairs of express special trains, including the Mangaluru-Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Matsyagandha Express, on a permanent basis. Releases from Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. and Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division here said Train Nos. 02620/ 02619 Mangaluru Central-Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central express special (Matsyagandha) has got one AC 2-tier, one AC 3-tier, and one sleeper class coach permanently from the first week of March. Train Nos. 06347/06348 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central express special has got one AC 2-tier, one AC 3-tier, and one sleeper class coach permanently, also from the first week of March. Both pairs of trains will come to have a revised composition of two AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 11 sleeper class, five second sitting, and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Meanwhile, Train Nos. 06338/06337 Ernakulam-Okha-Ernakulam bi-weekly express special will be augmented with two sleeper class coaches permanently, with effect from April 7 and 10, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-coaches/article34065342.ece
14 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||ESIC relaxes criteria for getting treatment||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has relaxed the eligibility criteria for availing medical treatment for beneficiaries of the ESI scheme. As a number of ESI-covered units were shut down because of COVID-19 impact, many of the employees of the ESI scheme may face difficulty in availing medical benefits/reimbursement of medical claims on account of non-contribution. To extend the social security even to these employees, ESIC has decided to grant a one-time relaxation in entitlement criteria for employees whose contribution could not be filed between April 2020 and September 2020. As per the one-time relaxation, these employees and their family members can avail medical treatment under the ESI scheme, including super-speciality treatment, as if the contribution was received during said period. This relaxation will benefit the beneficiaries of the ESI scheme in availing medical treatment and in the reimbursement of claims from January 1 to December 31, 2021. The decision is expected to benefit about 2.3 lakh employees and their family members covered under the ESI Act in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, S. Sivaramakrishnan, Deputy Director, in-charge, ESIC, Mangaluru region, said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/esic-relaxes-criteria-for-getting-treatment/article34065343.ece
14 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||LTT-Ernakulam Duronto special from Mar. 16||The Railways has decided to reintroduce the Lokamanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Mumbai-Ernakulam Junction-LTT Mumbai Duronto bi-weekly express as a fully reserved special train. Train No. 01223 LTT Mumbai-Ernakulam Junction Duronto bi-weekly special on Tuesdays and Saturdays leaves LTT at 8.50 p.m. to reach Ernakulam Junction at 6.10 p.m. the next day with effect from March 16 to June 5, said releases from Konkan Railway and Southern Railway. The train arrives at Ratnagiri at 1.45 a.m.; Madgaon at 5.40 a.m., Mangaluru Junction at 10.15 a.m. and Kozhikode at 1.22 p.m. on Wednesdays and Sundays. Train No. 01224 Ernakulam Junction – LTT Mumbai Duronto bi-weekly special on Wednesdays and Sundays leaves Ernakulam at 9.30 p.m. to reach LTT at 6.15 p.m. the next day with effect from March 17 to June 6. The train arrives Kozhikode at 12.47 a.m.; Mangaluru Junction 4.05 a.m.; Madgaon at 8.40 a.m. and Ratnagiri at 12.05 p.m. on Thursdays and Mondays. It will have one First Class AC coach, two 2-Tier AC coaches, eight 3-Tier AC coaches and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Advance reservation for the services commences from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ltt-ernakulam-duronto-special-from-mar-16/article34065349.ece
14 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||56 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 43 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the active cases there rose to 250. The district administration has so far collected Rs. 37.45 lakh in the form of fines imposed while filing 36,386 cases against citizens for not wearing masks. Udupi district reported 13 new cases, taking its active cases to 78. The Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada recently urged citizens to undergo vaccination, saying that no adverse effects have been reported on recepients in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/56-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34065348.ece
14 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Social Welfare Department has invited online applications from students from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities for availing/renewing post matric scholarships. Apply by March 20. Call 2441269.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34065345.ece
14 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Conserve lakes: Yogeshwar||After visiting the Hebbal Lake here on Friday to see how the water body had been restored by the Infosys Foundation, Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C.P. Yogeshwar on Saturday visited Lingambudi and Varuna lakes which are the city’s two other popular water bodies. Varuna lake is known for water sports and many youth throng the site. Pollution During his visit to Lingambudi lake, the Minister was told about lack of freshwater inflow into the lake as rainwater was blocked by plastic and other wastes accumulated along the feeder lines. The Minister told the officials from the Mysuru City Corporation, who were present, to clear the debris and facilitate freshwater flow for conserving the lake for many generations. Mr. Yogeshwar also held a meeting with the MCC staff and gave instructions for keeping the lake environs clean. Interaction Some morning walkers interacted with the Minister who was told about the lake’s history and why it needs to be conserved. The Minister later visited Varuna lake and took a boat ride besides going into the details on the types of water sports being conducted for the adventure freaks, as a part of tourism promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conserve-lakes-yogeshwar/article34065368.ece
14 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Surge in new cases not uniform||Even though the number of new COVID-19 infections in Karnataka last week showed an increase of 1,000 cases compared to the previous week, the surge does not appear to be uniform across the State. While Bengaluru Urban accounted for 639 cases out of the increase of 1,000 cases in the State during the week ending March 11, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 10 districts reported a decline in number of cases during the week compared to the previous week while the numbers remained constant in five others. However, 15 out of the 30 districts in the State have shown an increase in the week-on-week COVID-19 tally amid signs of an unmistakable surge in infections across the State. The cases have shown an upward trend in Tumakuru, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Udupi, Kolar, Ballari, Dharwad, Bidar, Uttara Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Bagalkot, Dakshina Kannada, Gadag, and Chikkmagaluru, apart from Bengaluru Urban. The number of new cases reported during the week ending Marh 11 in Davangere, Haveri, Kodagu, Koppal, and Ramanagaram have remained the same as the previous week. The number of fresh infections began rising gradually from the week between February 19 to February 25 when 2,961 new cases were reported in the State compared the previous week’s tally of 2,809. Subsequently, cases rose to 3,606 between February 26 and March 4 before rising by another 1,000 during the week ending March 11 to reach a weekly tally of 4,606 cases. The rise in the cases has also prompted the State government to revise the daily testing target in certain districts, besides issuing guidelines to restrict the number of people in gatherings at marriages, birthday parties, funerals and other functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-surge-in-new-cases-not-uniform/article34064956.ece
14 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Thumbs down for theme park at KRS||The technical advisory committee of the Institution of Engineers-India (IEI), Mysuru, has taken strong objection to fresh attempts to revive the project of developing a theme park on the model of Disneyland at the KRS dam site as a tourist attraction, arguing that the project may endanger the dam. The opposition comes after Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar’s statement on the project, which was conceptualised during the regime of Congress-JD-S coalition government. The project had faced strong criticism and opposition forcing the then government to halt it temporarily. The IEI committee said it was not against the project but against its location and urged the government to consider having the project away from Brindavan Gardens, may be beyond 10 km from the dam site. As the dam site is a restricted area, no project should be taken up that attracts a large number of tourists, according to the committee. Committee Convener M. Lakshmana, who gave a PowerPoint presentation on Saturday on why the project was unsafe, said the project is estimated to cost around Rs. 2,000 crore and the government has proposed to take it up under the PPP model. A 400-feet statue of Goddess Cauvery in the middle of the gardens is among various works proposed to be taken up under the project, which required about 700 acres of land. A joint project of the Departments of Water Resources and Tourism, the idea behind the project is tourism development with the expected income of Rs. 338.40 crore per annum after the project was done, he said. More than 33 works, including boating lake, amphitheatre, doll museum, water park, glass skybridge walk, wax and history museum, giant balloon rides, water plane and parasailing, laser show, glass castle, had been proposed.“The cost has been escalated from Rs. 1,425 crore to Rs. 2,000 crore and the present government has made a few additions to the project,” said Mr. Lakshmana and added that the committee had also opposed the project earlier and submitted its objections to the committee set up by the then coalition government. “It’s mandatory to get the nod of the Geological Survey of India since the dam is located on a fault line and any work that required deep excavation (for building the pedestal to place the mammoth statue) needs to be studied in detail, looking into various technical angles. Moreover, the dam is designed in such a way that no structures should come up along the gardens over safety reasons,” he explained. With the dam site area having widespread rock formations beneath the earth, any deep excavation required blasting and this will be risky to attempt such works at the site, he told The Hindu , after the presentation. He questioned the logic behind giving a fresh lease of life to the controversial project when quarrying in around 20 km radius of the dam had been banned over the dam’s safety. Also, he cited the reported letter from a top central agency for minimising visitors to the gardens in view of the dam’s safety. Raitha Sangha leader Hoskote Basavaraj, who was present at the presentation, also opposed the project and said the government should drop it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/thumbs-down-for-theme-park-at-krs/article34065366.ece
14 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger remains elusive but pug marks, scat found||The tiger that is suspected to have killed a boy in Ponnampet taluk of Kodagu district on Monday, continues to elude the search team scouring for it for the last six days. Though six elephants, a drone, and scores of Forest Department personnel are trying to track the big cat, it has not been sighted so far. However, the search team stumbled upon what is believed to be tiger scat, apart from sighting pug marks which reinforced their suspicion that the tiger, believed to be around 10 years, was lurking in the area.  Three dead Three persons have died in tiger attacks in the last four weeks in Ponnampet region alone. While an injured tigress was tranquillised and shifted to the wildlife rescue centre in Mysuru, the cattle kill and human death has not abated, raising suspicion that the authorities may have captured the wrong animal. However, the tigress was injured and was emaciated and hence the Forest Department staff averred that it was indeed responsible for the first two deaths and this tiger that has been eluding them since Monday, was different. Work affected Meanwhile, patience is running out among the local community that is living in fear. Plantation work has been affected as workers are reluctant to go to the field and people tend to remain indoors for a greater part of the day. Rallies and agitation have been taken out in Srimangala and nearby areas urging the authorities to either trap or shoot the tiger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-remains-elusive-but-pug-marks-scat-found/article34065164.ece
14 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Made a mistake by welcoming GTD back into JD(S), says Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Saturday regretted readmitting former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda into the party fold. He was speaking to reporters in Hunsur while campaigning for the elections to Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Societies Union Limited. Mr. Gowda, had quit the JD(S) in 2008 and joined the BJP. However, he knocked on the doors of JD(S) again before the 2013 Assembly elections. Mr. Kumaraswamy said he had committed a mistake by welcoming Mr. Gowda back into the party fold. To a question, he said the party’s purpose will not be served by suspending him. When his attention was drawn to the disappointment expressed by Mr. Gowda over being ‘let down’’ by the party leadership, Mr. Kumaraswamy said Mr. Gowda was made a Minister in the coalition govenrment and asked whether the party should have made him the Chief Minister as he had defeated Siddaramaiah in the last Assembly elections. Though candidates in the fray for the polls to cooperative bodies do not contest on symbols of political parties, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he has been forced to campaign in the elections to ensure that his party supporters gain control of MYMUL by defeating the syndicate put up by Mr. Gowda. Mr. Kumaraswamy also expressed his disappointment over Periyapatna MLA K. Mahadev’s son contesting from the syndicate propped up by Mr. Gowda. He urged JD(S) supporters comprising the electoral college of MYMUL to back the candidates enjoying the party’s support and defeat those representing Mr. Gowda. Mr. Kumaraswamy also campaigned in Periyapatna and H.D. Kote on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/made-a-mistake-by-welcoming-gtd-back-into-jds-says-kumaraswamy/article34065157.ece
14 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rise in positivity rate||The daily positivity rate in the State too has witnessed a sharp rise over the last few weeks. The daily positivity rate, which stood at 0.58% on February 4, dipped to 0.55% on February 11, before beginning its ascent to touch 0.62% on February 18, 0.74% on February 25, 0.85% on March 4, and breaching the 1% mark on March 11 to reach 1.13%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rise-in-positivity-rate/article34064959.ece
14 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Engineers’ panel plans three-tier campaign||In the wake of safety concerns raised over the theme park project at the KRS dam site, the technical advisory committee of the Institution of Engineers-India, Mysuru is mulling over launching a three-tier campaign for stopping the project from coming up at the dam site. “If the government goes ahead with the project without caring about the objections on technical grounds, and in the interest of dam’s safety, we shall have to launch a campaign to ensure it does not come up at Brindavan Gardens at any cost,” said committee convener M. Lakshmana on Saturday. Firstly, the IEI committee will once again write to the State government to relocate the project from the dam site, like it wrote when the project was proposed by the coalition government. Secondly, if the government does not respond to the concerns, the committee will approach the Ministry of Jal Shakthi to halt the project with a directive to the State government. “Thirdly, if the above efforts don’t yield results, we shall be writing to the Cauvery Monitoring Committee seeking its intervention. Our last resort will be to move the Supreme Court if the project, despite all the efforts, gets the nod,” said Mr. Lakshmana, after a presentation opposing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engineers-panel-plans-three-tier-campaign/article34065363.ece
14 March 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Shepherd feared killed||A 45-year-old shepherd is feared to be dead after being attacked by a crocodile on the banks of the Krishna, near Yakshinti village in Shahapur taluk of Yadgir taluk, on Saturday. Laxman, of Sharadahalli village, was attcked when he was bathing on the river bank. The crocodile came near the bank in search of food, attacked the man and dragged him into thewater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shepherd-feared-killed/article34065152.ece
14 March 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Farmer dead||A 28-year-old farmer is believed to have committed suicide by jumping off to a canal near Kembhavi village in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district on Saturday. He has been identified as Mallanagowda Biradar of Yadiyapur village. The police said that according to his family, the farmer was under debt, having taken a loan of Rs. 6 lakh to develop his land but suffering crop loss.   (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-dead/article34065153.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mobile testing labs to be deployed||Determined to stem the rise in COVID-19 cases, the BBMP is ramping up testing, improving contact tracing and expanding the vaccination drive. These are three pillars of a renewed action plan to prevent a second wave of COVID-19 in the city, said officials. Mobile COVID-19 testing labs, equipped to conduct both RAT and RT-PCR tests, will soon be deployed at all prominent crowded places, such as markets, malls, and bus and railway stations, to conduct random tests. The civic body will also issue guidelines for tie-ups with residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), apartment associations, educational institutions and even marriage venues to conduct random tests. The new revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday has set a target of 40,000 RT-PCR tests per day for Bengaluru Urban district in the light of the rise in cases. Data shows that tests per day, which was in the range of 25,000-30,000 in February last week, has been ramped up to the range of 35,000-40,000 since March 1. Officials set target of 50,000 tests a day “Over and above the target set by the MoHFW, we have decided to target at least 50,000 tests per day. At the peak of the pandemic last year, the city had crossed 60,000 tests per day. So we have the capacity to conduct 50,000 tests a day. Random testing at crowded places will help us find more cases,” said civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. The BBMP is worried that the city may be at the cusp of a second wave if the spread of the virus is not controlled immediately. “However, the test positivity rate today is nothing compared to the beginning of the peak last year,” said a civic health official, who was quick to add that this should not breed complacency. Mr. Prasad, on Friday, had directed officials to trace at least 15 contacts for every positive case and that the process must be completed within 48 hours after the positive report, for better results. ASHA workers and other health officials will be roped in to conduct a survey of senior citizens and those with co-morbidities in slums and other lower income pockets, for whom online registration is not feasible. “We do not have an option of conducting vaccination camps in these areas, like testing camps. These people will be convinced and mobilised to the nearest vaccination site, on a priority basis,” Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-testing-labs-to-be-deployed/article34064934.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Disha recounts ordeal||“As I stood in that courtroom, desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that I would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available so when the judge asked me if I had anything to say, I decided to speak my mind,” she said. She also criticised the media outlets “seekers of TRP”. “...In the days that followed, my autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty -- not in the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs,” her statement said. She thanked everyone who stood by her. “...I was lucky enough to have excellent pro bono legal assistance, but what of all those who do not?” she said. She ended her message with the importance and impact of truth. “Ideas do not die. And, truth, no matter how long it takes, always reveals itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disha-recounts-ordeal/article34064936.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Crackdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crackdown/article34065159.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kodihalli to challenge notice||Farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said he will legally challenge the show cause notice issued to him by the apex court appointed committee, which is looking into constructions made on land notified for formation of Shivaram Karanth Layout. The committee had recently issued a notice to him for allegedly spreading misinformation and dissuading people from submitting building documents, thereby obstructing its work. “The show cause notice is an attempt to stifle the voice of protest by farmers in these villages and should not go unchallenged. We have decided to challenge this notice in the High Court,” he said on Saturday. He pointed out that the local MLA S.R. Vishwanath, presently BDA chairman, had opposed formation of the layout when who he was in the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodihalli-to-challenge-notice/article34064950.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||On Twitter, Disha recounts ordeal||“As I stood in that courtroom, desperately searching for my lawyers, I came to terms with the fact that I would have to defend myself. I had no idea whether there was legal assistance available so when the judge asked me if I had anything to say, I decided to speak my mind,” she said. She also criticised the media outlets “seekers of TRP”. “...In the days that followed, my autonomy was violated; my photographs were splashed all over the news; my actions were pronounced guilty -- not in the court of law, but on flat screens by seekers of TRPs,” her statement said. She went on to add about her climate change activism: “...It is about being radically inclusive of all groups of people, so that everyone has access to clean air, food and water,” she said. She thanked everyone who stood by her. “...I was lucky enough to have excellent pro bono legal assistance, but what of all those who do not?” she said. She ended her message with the importance and impact of truth. “Ideas do not die. And, truth, no matter how long it takes, always reveals itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-twitter-disha-recounts-ordeal/article34065356.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru Sheni Gopalakrishna Charitable Trust:Talamaddale Srirama Niryana, Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple, 1.30 p.m.; presenting Sheni Award to Babu Rai Kotekkar, 4.30 p.m.; Yakshagana Kusha-Lava, 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34065347.ece
14 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Lokame Tharavadu’ gives new lease of life to artists||In normal times artist Bhagyanath C. would like to be out, interact with people and exhibit his paintings and drawings in exhibitions. But with art shows and exhibitions cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he had spent much of the recent months confined to his home in Ernakulam. Now, artists like Bhagyanath are back in the thick of things. Thanks to the upcoming ‘Lokame Tharavadu’, a vibrant display of contemporary art organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation in Alappuzha and Ernakulam. The 78-day-exhibition funded by the State government will begin on March 15 across six venues including five in Alappuzha. It will feature artworks of 267 Malayali artists from India and abroad, making it one of the largest art exhibitions ever to involve Malayali artists on a global scale. Organisers say the art exhibition will help the port town of Alappuzha regain its lost glory and be branded a heritage city. In Alappuzha, the exhibition will be held across five venues: Kerala State Coir Corporation, New Model Society Building, Port Museum, William Goodcare and Sons Pvt. Ltd., and the Alleppey Company, which all received a major facelift, thus making the gala a blend of art, culture, and heritage. Besides, the exhibition will take place at Durbar Hall Art Gallery, Ernakulam. Among the creative works on display will be thought-provoking paintings, sculptures, video art, performance, installations, and much more. K.M. Madhusudhanan, a filmmaker and artist, who spent his childhood and teenage life in Alappuzha before moving out seeking new pastures, says he is so excited to be part of the show. He has created a replica of the Lighthouse with its beam projected to walls showing two videos related to the death of Adivasi youth Madhu and Varghese, Kerala’s first ‘encounter’ victim. The exhibition is curated by renowned artist and curator Bose Krishnamachari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lokame-tharavadu-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-artists/article34065278.ece
14 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Poll expense observers||The Election Commission has appointed expenditure observers for Assembly constituencies in the district. It has appointed Virendar Singh for Aroor, Cherthala and Alappuzha constituencies. Basanth Garwal has been given the charge of Ambalappuzha, Kuttanad and Haripad. Raghuvansh Kumar will monitor Mavelikara, Kayamkulam, and Chengannur constituencies. The officials reached the district on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-expense-observers/article34065312.ece
14 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BDJS releases third list of nominees||The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has announced its third list of candidates for the Assembly elections in the State. According to the list, Ranjith Raveendran will contest from the Eravipuram Assembly constituency, Sangeetha Viswanathan from Idukki, Santhosh Madhavan at Udumbanchola, Ramesh Kottayipuram at Thavanur, Thazhava Sahadevan at Vamanapuram and Bharath Kaiperath at Ettumanur. The BDJS has so far announced candidates for 18 constituencies. BDJS leaders said that the party would contest in 25 seats this time around. “Candidates for the rest of the seven constituencies will be announced later. Among them, candidates for Kuttanad and Kodungalloor, which are A-plus Assembly constituencies, will be declared after discussions with the BJP central leadership,” said a BDJS leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bdjs-releases-third-list-of-nominees/article34065279.ece
14 March 2021||G. KrishnakumarKOCHI,KERALA||Read, play and watch movies, MLAs do it all||Playing or watching football and watching cinema figured top among the favourite pastimes and hobbies of the MLAs in the 14th Assembly. Reading was almost a common inclusion among the hobbies of the sitting MLAs as per the feedback collected from the legislators by the research wing of the Assembly Secretariat. More than half of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MLAs had mentioned reading as their hobby. A good number of legislators belonging to the Communist Party of India and the Indian National Congress had also selected reading as a key hobby. Watching cinema is another favourite pastime — at least 25% of the sitting MLAs pointed out that they were movie buffs. Hobbies also included performing magic, stamp collection, walking by the seaside and collection of remote-controlled toys. Only fewer than 10 members cited ‘agriculture/farming’ as their favourite pastime. Besides the actor-turned-MLAs, two members mentioned theatre and acting as their hobbies. Football was the popular sport among the sitting MLAs, closely followed by badminton. Volleyball and cricket were the favourite sport of nearly 10 elected members. Globetrotters Nearly 35% of the sitting MLAs had travelled to more than three foreign countries. Members of the IUML topped the chart, with most of its MLAs stating that they had visited multiple countries. More than 10 elected representatives of the CPI(M) and the Congress had also visited more than three countries. The Gulf nations, the U.S. and the U.K. were the in-demand destinations. The MLAs belonging to the Left front included China, Russia and Vietnam among the countries they had visited at least once.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/read-play-and-watch-movies-mlas-do-it-all/article34065258.ece
14 March 2021||Idukki,KERALA||UDF calls for hartal in Idukki on March 26||After the Western Ghats reports, another agitation on land use is brewing in Idukki following the district administration’s recent order banning constructions other than houses on land with title deeds issued under the Land Assignment Act, 1964. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has announced a district hartal demanding the repeal of the construction ban on March 26. The issue surfaced last week when Kallarkutty resident Manju Santhosh applied for a non-objection certificate (NOC) from the administration for erecting a tent on her land. However, the application was rejected with the District Collector stating that as per the title deed issued under the Land Assignment Act, the land could only be used for farming and house construction. When contacted, District Collector H. Dinesan said only the government could amend the rules and the issue was outside the purview of the district administration. He said it was an old rule and based on recent court orders, the district administration rejected the NOC for tent construction. Idukki District Congress Committee president Ibrahimkutty Kallar said an all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in 2019 decided to amend the 1964 land rules. However, the government had not yet acted on it. As per the rules, farmers could not construct even a small shop, he said adding that Section 5 of the 1964 Act should be repealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-calls-for-hartal-in-idukki-on-march-26/article34065329.ece
14 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Central agencies targeting KIIFB: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said that Central agencies had been targeting the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for some time but they were not going to find anything incriminating in the organisation. Mr. Vijayan, who is contesting from Dharmadam constituency, was addressing a public meeting here. They have to understand that KIIFB was being operated in compliance with the law. Their move was not just against the KIIFB but against the State, he said. State’s progress Mr. Vijayan said that everyone had seen the change that had come about across the State. When there was no progress happening in BJP-ruled States, there were some unable to tolerate that a lot of development was taking place in Kerala. Hence, they were trying to somehow offset this change and were targeting the KIIFB. Cong.-BJP nexus He said that there was a nexus between the Congress and the BJP in this regard. But people had expressed their faith in the LDF and they would make the right decision, he said.  KIIFB is being operated in compliance with the law. Central agencies’ move is not just against KIIFB but against the State Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-agencies-targeting-kiifb-pinarayi/article34065231.ece
14 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF candidates to file nominations||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other LDF candidates will submit their nomination papers on March 15, 16, and 17. Mr. Vijayan will file his nomination before the ADC (General) on Monday at 11 a.m. He will be accompanied by prominent LDF leaders to the collectorate from the CPI(M) district committee office. There will be no demonstrations. Minister Kadannapally Ramachandran will also file his nomination before the Deputy Collector (RR), who is in charge of election, on the same day. LDF candidates Minister K.K. Shylaja (Mattannur), M.V. Govindan (Taliparamba), K.V. Sumesh (Azhikode), M. Vijin (Kalliassery), K.V. Zakir Hussain (Peravur) will file their nominations on March 16 at 11 a.m. On the same day, Thalassery candidate A.N. Shamseer will file his nomination papers before the Thalassery Sub Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-candidates-to-file-nominations/article34065234.ece
14 March 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Cong. workers unhappy over choice of candidates||Even as the Congress is yet to announce its candidates, discontent is brewing in the party in Kasaragod and Kannur. Several party leaders in Kasaragod have threatened to resign in protest against the move to hand over the Trikkaripur constituency to the Kerala Congress (Joseph) and to replace the candidate nominated by the District Congress Committee (DCC) for Uduma. It is learnt that 10 party leaders, including DCC president Hakeem Kunnil, have communicated their wish to resign to the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). KPCC secretary K.P. Kunhikannan said the candidates were selected without consulting the district leaders of the party. “Before deciding the candidates, it is a basic formality to consult the district leadership. Unfortunately, it did not happen,” he alleged. He further said the party was considering sparing the Uduma seat for the Kerala Congress (Joseph). “They [Kerala Congress (Joseph)] do not have an organisational set-up or candidate to contest from Uduma. It is unfortunate that the party has not considered consulting the district leadership,” he added. Party sources said the names of Kasaragod DCC president Hakeem Kunnil and KPCC secretary K. Neelakantan had been proposed for Uduma. However, party leaders were apparently irked by the choice of other names, including that of KPCC secretary Balakrishnan Periye. In Kannur, Congress (A) group members expressed their displeasure when the screening committee suggested Sajeev Joseph, a close confidante of AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal, as the candidate. Protesting against the move, the annoyed party workers closed down Indira Bhavan, which functions as the Irikkur constituency committee office at Sreekandapuram, and the Alakode block Congress Committee office at Karuvanchal. They demanded the nomination of KPCC general secretary Adv. Sony Sebastian as the candidate. They also hoisted black flags in front of the offices, and posters against Mr. Joseph were put up in the area.  Before deciding the candidates, it is a basic formality to consult the district leadership. Unfortunately, it did not happen K.P. Kunhikannan KPCC secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-workers-unhappy-over-choice-of-candidates/article34065233.ece
14 March 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Ants a threat to crop pollination, says study||A team of researchers in the Central University of Kerala has found that flower-visiting ants can pose a threat to pollinators and pollination process in plants in the tropics. The study was led by Dr. Sinu. He said that the world, as per the recent report of the International Panel for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, was experiencing pollinator decline and thereby the yield of pollinator-dependent crops. He cited several factors, including increased use of pesticides, honey bee colony collapse syndrome and diseases, land use change, and invasive bees, responsible for the phenomenon. Dr. Sinu and his team comprising Anjana Unni, Rajesh T.P., Prashanth Ballullaya U. and Dr. Sajad Mir of Sher-e-Kashmir University showed that the yield of pumpkin crop could go down due to ant colonisation in pumpkin flowers. He said the study was conducted in small-scale agricultural farms in Kasaragod and Kannur districts. He pointed out that irrespective of the origin of ant species, flowers, when occupied by ants, were deserted by bees. Those ventured to linger on or land on flowers were either chased away by ants or preyed upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ants-a-threat-to-crop-pollination-says-study/article34065232.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Compensation for metro’s Kakkanad extension fixed||Even as the land acquisition process for the Kochi metro's 11.20-km Kakkanad extension might skip the June 2021 deadline by a couple of months, the Revenue Department has arrived at the compensation for the 2.01 acres that have to be acquired for the extension. Thus, road-facing plots in Edappally South village will get Rs. 38.20 lakh per are (an 'are' is equal to 2.50 cents), since much of the area comes under the Kochi Corporation, and the fair value is relatively higher than in areas that fall under the Thrikkakara Municipality. Land owners in Vazhakkala village will get Rs. 33.93 lakh per are, and those in Kakkanad village Rs. 31.78 lakh per are, for plots that face PWD roads. Plots facing municipal roads will get Rs. 26.33 lakh per are, official sources said. “We may approach the State government seeking a couple of months more time for completing the land-acquisition process, since many Revenue staff were deployed for poll duty. However, the process will be completed in the third quarter of 2021. Currently, award enquiry is on to compensate land owners. Once it is finalised, the draft award will be passed, and land acquisition will begin to widen the metro corridor that would begin from near St. Martin’s Church at Palarivattom, into a four-lane stretch,” they said. Alternative roads In the meantime, Greater Cochin Development Watch, an NGO has joined residents’ associations and others in demanding that KMRL improve alternative roads to streamline traffic flow, when piling begins for the metro's Kakkanad extension and barricades are erected at Palarivattom and on Civil Line Road. Demand for DPR Over a month since the Centre accorded sanction for the Kakkanad extension and the process to begin taking possession of 2.01 hectares for the extension reaching its final leg, KMRL is facing flak for not publishing the detailed project report (DPR) of the extension. “It is quite an irony that the metro agency has not published the Rs. 1,957-crore Kakkanad extension’s DPR although the DPR for the 1-km-long SN Junction-Thripunithura stretch, where the daily footfall for 2023 is projected as 40,000, has been published,” said Ebenzer Chullikat, a city-based RTI activist. Responding to this, KMRL sources said that the DPR had been kept confidential, since a formal communication from the Union Cabinet was awaited. “They might even suggest some changes [in the DPR]. The work on the proposed extension will, however, be implemented as scheduled, despite this delay.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/compensation-for-metros-kakkanad-extension-fixed/article34065262.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic leads to improvement in health infrastructure in Ernakulam||A year after the district began to first report cases of the COVID-19 infection among people who returned from other countries in March last year, infrastructural improvements and infection control measures are here to stay. The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) had, till recently, borne the brunt of the COVID patient load in the district, particularly in critical cases. But when the 300-bed hospital was stretched to capacity, facilities at other government health centres were gradually improved, till PVS Hospital, the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and the Aluva District Hospital were turned into exclusive COVID care centres. “In pre-pandemic times, around 70% of all hospital admissions were in the private sector, and around 90% of critical patients were admitted in private hospitals. But with COVID cases, that scenario was reversed, and over 70% of COVID patients were recovering at government facilities,” said Dr. Mathew Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Going by his estimates, the number of beds with oxygen support in public health facilities has increased by 500 in the past year, with the number going up at taluk hospitals and community health centres, which are equipped to treat COVID patients now. Testing facilities have improved at the Regional Public Health Lab, and the existing lab at the MCH was expanded, he said. A total of 1,004 beneficiaries were treated for COVID-19 at the 13 private hospitals empanelled under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP), the State government’s health insurance scheme. So far, the district has seen a cumulative total of 1,26,565 cases and 428 deaths from the infection. Two major peaks The district saw two major peaks of the infection – one in September and October last year, and another in December last year continuing into January this year, when the active caseload stood at over 10,000. After an initial few months of people who arrived from outside the State and their contacts testing positive, the number of cases of local transmission of the infection began to grow in July last year. Cases have, however, seen another slump this month. The pandemic-induced fear that gripped most people a year ago seems to have given way to disregard, says Latheesh, a 39-year-old cab driver who contracted the infection in March last year after he ferried a patient home from the airport. He had to remain in quarantine for 28 days after testing negative, and that appears almost ridiculous now, considering most people don’t even wear masks properly, said Mr. Latheesh. ‘A harrowing year’ “It’s been a harrowing year,” said Dr. Fathahudeen, pulmonologist at the MCH. “The disease was frightening because we don’t have any specific treatment, and the life of the doctor was also at risk. Now, with the vaccination, health workers seeing patients are more at ease,” he said. “As doctors, we have become wiser and realised that giving early, aggressive and supportive treatment is crucial,” he said. Dr. Numpeli added that infection control practices that have been initiated across all hospitals are here to stay, and could help deal with future outbreaks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-leads-to-improvement-in-health-infrastructure-in-ernakulam/article34065263.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Shared bicycle system gets rolling||Over 200 riders, including children, senior citizens and cycling enthusiasts, participated in the inaugural ride organised as part of the launch of the first lot of 360 bicycles, part of the MYBYK Public Bike Sharing (PBS) system that will see a total of 1,000 bicycles being launched in the Greater Kochi area, here on Saturday. A joint initiative of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KRML) and Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), the bicycles were flagged off from the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium metro station here on Saturday by Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Managing Director of KMRL, in the presence of District Collector S. Suhas, District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju, CSML General Manager Raji R., and MYBYK founder and CEO Arjit Soni. Logo launched The event also saw the launch of the logo and jersey of KMRL’s cycling club by Mr. Suhas, followed by the launch of MYBYK app by Mr. Nagaraju. Commuters will now be able to take a cycle on rent from a docking station available near them and travel to the nearest metro station to board the metro. They can again rent a cycle if needed, to reach their destination. While KMRL and CSML provided the project’s funding, Ahmedabad-headquartered public bicycle sharing operator MYBYK will be in charge of operation and maintenance of the cycles that will be berthed at 60 terminals, located approximately 500 metres away from each other. At present, the 35 hubs where the cycles would be berthed included 21 metro stations (from Aluva to Pettah) and prominent places in Panampilly Nagar, M.G. Road and Cochin University of Science and Technology, said official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shared-cycle-system-gets-rolling/article34065271.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LDF seeks to cash in on UDF woes in Kalamassery||The recently concluded elections to local bodies have given a new impetus to the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which is eager to wrest the Kalamassery constituency from the United Democratic Front (UDF), which comfortably won the Assembly elections in 2011 and 2016. The LDF won 20 seats in the 42-member municipal council in the local body polls and believes it is on a strong wicket as the State goes to the Assembly elections on April 6. Sitting MLA, V.K. Ebrahim Kunju of the Indian Union Muslim League, who won both in 2011 and 2016, is not contesting. But his son, V.E. Abdul Gafoor, IUML’s Ernakulam district general secretary, is being fielded by the UDF. Mr. Kunju had en eventful five years, marred as it was by allegations of corruption in the construction of the now-rebuilt Palarivattom flyover. He’s an accused in that case. Mr. Gafoor’s candidature has not gone down well with sections of the party and IUML activists have protested against the decision. The Left Front is keen to exploit the situation to the hilt and has fielded P. Rajeev, former member of the Rajya Sabha and former district secretary of the CPI(M), and currently a party secretariat member. Mr. Rajeev is a well-known leader in the district and is likely to benefit from the early announcement of his candidature. Mr. Kunju had defeated popular CPI(M) leader A.M. Yousuf by a margin of more than 12,000 votes in the 2016 election. In the 2011 polls, he defeated CPI(M) leader K. Chandran Pillai by a similar margin. On both occasions, the UDF candidate had bagged a little less than 50% of the votes. Kalamassery stands out as the industrial capital of Ernakulam, which is the commercial centre of the State. With public sector units such as Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore, the Assembly constituency is considered as one of the areas dominated by industrial workers, both in private and public sectors. Industrial areas such as Eloor and Kalamassery add weight to the status of the constituency by representing the sentiments of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-seeks-to-cash-in-on-udf-woes/article34065269.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Clamour for K. Babu’s nomination turns shriller||The clamour within Congress and the United Democratic Front for fielding five-time MLA and former minister K. Babu from the Thripunithura Assembly constituency has got shriller with party office bearers at various levels, including District Congress Committee (DCC) general secretaries, coming out in the open threatening mass resignation if their demand was overlooked. In a press conference held here on Saturday, they also threatened to boycott the election campaign of UDF if Mr. Babu was overlooked and said that they would take a call on the future course of action in such an event. DCC general secretary R. Venugopal claimed that Mr. Babu is the most suitable candidate to wrest the constituency back from the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Mr. Babu had been very active in the constituency over the years and his popular appeal remained immense, he said. They claimed that the public sentiment was against the sitting MLA, M. Swaraj, and the electorate would react against his stance on issues including the women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had become an influential force in Thripunithura with 30% growth in the municipal areas. Prospects uncertain Fielding a candidate little known to the constituency will dampen the prospects of UDF and efforts should be made to stem the flow of Congress votes to the BJP. The demand to field Mr. Babu was born out of the realisation to check the growth of the BJP and not out of apprehension over the candidature of Mr. Swaraj, the rebelling leaders said. They said that experimenting was not the need of the hour in an election being fought by the UDF with the aim of wresting back power. Former Mayor Soumini Jain, who is rumoured to be a potential candidate from Thripunithura, had little connect with the electorate in the constituency, they said. DCC general secretary R.K. Suresh Babu said that none of those who protested against fielding Mr. Babu were office-bearers of the party. The rebelling leaders claimed to have the support among others of 120 booth presidents, six Assembly constituency presidents, Kerala Students Union (KSU) district general secretary, Assembly constituency-level office bearers of the KSU and Mahila Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clamour-for-k-babus-nomination-turns-shriller/article34065450.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Unmonitored waterbodies turn deathtraps||The drowning of two teenagers in a public pond in the fifth ward of Kalamasserry Municipality has thrown light on the danger posed by unmonitored, easily accessible waterbodies in the district. The pond was in an abandoned state for over two decades before it was revived by the Kalamasserry Municipality last year, using funds made available under a corporate social responsibility initiative. “This is one of the three or four such large public ponds within the municipal limits, and all of them pose the danger of needless loss of lives by the misplaced spirit of adventure among youngsters. The pond in question is visited daily by youngsters in batches to swim, and they hardly listen to the warnings and advice of local residents,” said Mohammad Fessy, councillor of Ward 5. The Fire and Rescue Services Department also remains concerned about the threat posed by such waterbodies. The Eloor fire station, for instance, put up warning boards and banners along the banks of eight such waterbodies and bath ghats within its limits last year. “In some cases, we have also placed lifebuoys and rope along the banks for safety. We cannot stop people from swimming in such public waterbodies, since that amounts to violation of people’s rights. The best we can do is to alert people to the dangers involved,” said P.B. Ramakrishnan, Station Officer, Eloor fire station, who on Saturday visited the pond where the tragedy took place and placed a warning board there. There was also a lack of information about the existence of dangerous waterbodies. Mr. Ramakrishnan said it called for the cooperation of people’s representatives so that the Fire and Rescue Services Department was provided with information about waterbodies for precautionary intervention. Binu Mitran, Ernakulam divisional warden, Kerala State Civil Defence, said civil defence volunteers with local connect helped Fire and Rescue Services in making meaningful intervention by giving them information on vulnerable waterbodies. He said the volunteers helped create awareness and provided families near such waterbodies with emergency contact numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unmonitored-waterbodies-turn-deathtraps/article34065273.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||93 convicts eligible for remission||The world outside has changed beyond recognition in the 25 years and seven months since Shibin Sing  was pushed into a dingy cell of the High Security Prison, Viyyur, on charges of murder and attempt to murder. He is one of 93 life convicts, including nine women, in the State to be put behind the bars for 14 years or more. While the applications of some life convicts for remission have been rejected, some have not sought the benefit the State government could offer them. Shibin, who was also convicted for trespassing into a house at night and causing death or grievous hurt, was awarded three life sentences in three separate cases. His application for premature release was rejected two years ago. The general legal presumption, says K.T. Nizar Ahamed, secretary, Kerala Legal Services Authority, is that the punishment of life imprisonment is for the lifetime of the convict. However, the Supreme Court recently clarified that convicts who have completed 14 years in jail are entitled for remission of punishment. 3,487 in India The data on life convicts who have served more than 14 years of actual custody were recently compiled by the jail authorities on an instruction from the Supreme Court. The data indicated that there were 3,487 such prisoners in the country. K. Abdul Khader and Deepak have been incarcerated for 23 and 20 years respectively. Binitha Kumar, an inmate of the Women Prison Correctional Home, Thiruvananthapuram, narrowly cheated the gallows as her appeal against the death penalty awarded by a trial court was allowed by a higher court. She has been undergoing rigorous imprisonment for over 14 years on murder charges. She will be eligible to apply for fresh premature release after February 17 this year as the jail authorities have certified that her conduct inside the prison was satisfactory. As instructed by the apex court, such prisoners are being sensitised to their right for remission. They will also be helped to seek remission which is the discretion of the State government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/93-convicts-eligible-for-remission/article34065328.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three members of theft gang held||The Ernakulam rural police on Saturday arrested three members of a gang that had allegedly hatched a plan to carry out a series of thefts in Aluva and adjoining areas. The arrested were identified as Suresh, 55, of Thodupuzha, Vinu, 44, of Thrissur, and Eldho, 40, of Vengoor. They were nabbed following a tip-off received by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The accused had several theft cases registered against them in various police stations in Kottayam, Thrissur, and Ernakulam. Footage from CCTVs installed by residents’ associations played a significant role in the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-members-of-theft-gang-held/article34065266.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Discontent in IUML over Gafoor’s nomination||Fielding V.E. Abdul Gafoor, son of the beleaguered Indian Union Muslin League (IUML) leader V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, from the Kalamassery Assembly constituency has triggered discontent among the rank and file of the party in Ernakulam district. Mr. Kunju is under a cloud after being accused in the Palarivattom flyover case. Mr. Gafoor figured on the list of 25 IUML candidates released by the party State leadership on Friday. Senior IUML leaders in the district confessed that the candidature of Mr. Gafoor had caused widespread discontent among local party workers and leaders.  Internal inquiry The district IUML leadership had intimated the State leadership of the activities of Mr. Kunju and his son that put the party in the defensive a few months back. “A two-member inquiry commission comprising leaders M.K. Muneer and Abdurahiman Randathani constituted by the State committee had probed the matter and submitted a report. However, before the party leadership could consider the report, the local body poll was declared followed by the Assembly election,” a senior district-level leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discontent-in-iuml-over-gafoors-nomination/article34065248.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||747 recoveries, 232 new cases in Ernakulam||The district saw 232 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday and 747 recoveries. Two health workers were infected on the day. Okkal recorded nine new cases, while Ernakulam South, Elamakkara and Thripunithura registered seven each. A total of 14,597 people remain in quarantine, and 4,281 people are recovering from the infection. While 3,611 people are recuperating at home, 28 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 38 are at PVS Hospital, six are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital and three patients are at the District Hospital, Aluva. For testing, 9,027 samples were collected on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/747-recoveries-232-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article34065265.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Aim is to make Kerala the Yenan of India: Isaac||It is not just a re-election that the Left front is seeking in Kerala, but a mandate to build on the meticulously crafted model of governance and development in the years to come, says T.M. Thomas Isaac, Finance Minister in the outgoing Kerala Cabinet and CPI(M) central committee member. “We want to make Kerala the Yenan of India,” Dr. Isaac told The Hindu in an interview. “Talking of the three models in India, Kerala has been known for its distribution of resources, but it lacked industries. Gujarat only focused on industrial development. There are those States that have remained backward on all counts. But in the last few years, Kerala innovated and fashioned a model of fast-paced infrastructure growth to plug the deficit in that area, while simultaneously retaining its focus on welfare. Using the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) vehicle, works that would have taken a quarter of a century to materialise in normal course were undertaken in a very short span of time. A beginning has been made and this has to be taken forward in such a way that it becomes a model for India,” he said. While the BJP-led Centre banked on a few corporates to create infrastructure, jobs and set up industries, Kerala created its own body corporate (KIIFB) by adhering to the rules, with an independent audit mechanism featuring experts, to build basic infrastructure. “The results are for everyone to see, at our hospitals (if just about 38% of people relied on government hospitals earlier, it rose to 48% in the pre-COVID-19 time), schools and the like. Would these experts endorse the model if it was a ponzi scheme? It carries out elaborate asset-liability plotting before approving any project. The Opposition’s reasons to flay KIIFB are all political. But the Centre has unleashed its agencies after KIIFB. But we aren’t going to buckle. Let the Enforcement Directorate (ED) call anyone of us [political leaders] for questioning; we aren’t going to go until the elections are over. They are free to arrest us, if that’s what they want,” Dr. Isaac said. “People have been appreciative of our work. So, when someone like M.N. Karassery warns people of the dangers of us returning to power, we say we have discussed this and are well aware of the dangers. But we have a clear roadmap and that is why we are confidently moving forward.” Second line of leaders That’s also why the CPI(M) chose this critical moment to field a second line of leadership in the elections. “It demonstrates the depth of the party and the belief in our track record.” Each period demanded a certain type of approach, he said, adding that the CPI(M) was in step with the times and was for taking everyone, regardless of their belief or stance, along in pursuit of the new model of sustainable development. On the BJP trying to woo the warring factions of the Malankara Church in central Kerala, he said that party was more than likely to fall between two stools.  We have a clear roadmap and that is why we are confidently moving forward||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aim-is-to-make-kerala-the-yenan-of-india-isaac/article34065250.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Green belt space around BPCL unit inadequate: CPCB||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has submitted a report before the National Green Tribunal stating that there is gross inadequacy of space inside the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) unit of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) at Ambalamugal here to develop a 200-metre-wide green belt as assured in the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report. Residents’ complaint The CPCB report was submitted before the Southern Bench on March 9 in a case related to complaints by local residents that the site lacked proper green belt and buffer zone, especially on the southern side (Kakkad Kara). “There are restrictions like overhead, high-tension power lines on the southern side of the project site (Kakkad Kara) which may hinder the development of green belt owing to safety reasons. Moreover, the BPCL officials are highlighting that the safety criteria adopted in the petrochemical unit is in conflict with green belt development, which gives rise to apprehension that the space available is inadequate to comply with safety distance criteria and green belt requirement,” stated the report submitted by S. Suresh, Regional Director of the CPCB (South). The official had inspected the project site on December 29 along with officials of the State Pollution Control Board, and had interacted with local residents. As per the Environmental Clearance dated May 12, 2015, it is obligatory to develop green belt in at least 40 acres of land in and around the plant premises to mitigate the effects of fugitive emissions all around the plant as per the CPCB guidelines, it said. Company statement A spokesperson of the company said that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had issued Environment Clearance (EC) for the PDPP project only after scrutiny of the recommendations of the EIA report, Rapid Risk Analysis (RRA) report and public hearing. The EC and EIA Report had clearly recommended 40 acres of green belt in and around the project site. Verification The compliance status report of the requirement has been submitted to the ministry. The regional office of the ministry in Bengaluru has physically verified the status of the EC clearance conditions. The CPCB submission before the NGT was prepared prior to the physical verification of the green belt, according to the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/space-for-green-belt-around-bpcl-unit-inadequate-cpcb/article34065275.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi-1 card crosses one-lakh milestone||The open-loop National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) named Kochi-1, launched jointly by Kochi Metro Rail Limited and Axis Bank and claimed to be the first of its kind in India, crossed the one-lakh milestone on Saturday. About 30% of the cards were issued to women commuters. The metro agency had, as part of this year’s International Women’s Day, launched an offer on Kochi-1 card by waiving off issuance and recharge fees for women and students. Nearly 800 students and 3,825 women commuters availed the offer. The cards can also be used in the soon-to-be-launched Water Metro ferries, avoiding the need to have multiple travel cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-1-card-crosses-one-lakh-milestone/article34065272.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gloves given to 73 women labourers||The Interact Club of Cochin East, the children’s wing of Rotary Club, handed over industrial gloves to 73 contractual women labourers at Ernakulam South and Town railway stations. The gloves were purchased using their pocket money, according to a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gloves-given-to-73-women-labourers/article34065274.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pokkali farmers’ demand||Farmers in the Kandakkadavu and Maruvakkad pokkali paddy field collectives in Chellanam panchayat have demanded that the district administration should intervene to maintain the crop calendar under the one-fish-one-rice cycle. Mary Ligin, panchayat member representing Ward 12, has written to the authorities pointing out that if fish farming continued throughout the year in the paddy fields, the entire area would be flooded. She said the Inland Fisheries Act prescribed fish cultivation in the pokkali fields between November 15 and April 15 after which the fields were to be prepared for paddy cultivation by draining the salt water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pokkali-farmers-demand/article34065451.ece
14 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Protest in Kollam DCC over candidature||While the Congress is expected to announce its list of candidates on Sunday, factional feud in the party has come to the fore in Kollam with a section of leaders deciding to resign from their official posts over denial of seat to District Congress Committee president Bindu Krishna. As per reports, among those planning to submit resignation are many Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee members, DCC office-bearers, , mandalam presidents, booth presidents, and party workers. Ms. Krishna was expected to contest in Kollam and her supporters had started unofficial campaigning. But reportedly, the State leadership has asked her to contest from Kundara to accommodate P.C. Vishnunath, whose name was recommended by Oommen Chandy. “Bindu Krishna has been very active in the Kollam constituency. The denial of the ticket to her will affect the workers’ morale ,” said a party source. The protesting leaders sent emails to Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, and Priyanka Gandhi explaining the reason for their decision to resign. The members say that a candidate like Mr. Vishnunath, who is new to the constituency, will create resentment among workers. “If Ms. Krishna is the candidate we can easily win the seat as she is popular in Kollam. ,” he adds. Reportedly, Mr. Vishnunath’s name is considered for a handful of constituencies, including Kollam and Kottarakara. Her response Meanwhile, Ms. Krishna has asked her supporters not to submit their resignations. “I understand their sentiment, but I will not encourage anyone to leave the party. We are waiting for the official announcement,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-in-kollam-dcc-over-candidature/article34065281.ece
14 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sanitation drive by NCC||Cadets from 7 Kerala battalion and 3 Kerala naval battalion of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) conducted a sanitation drive on the Thirumullavaram beach here on Friday. Students from TKM Higher Secondary School, Government College, Chavara, and Fatima Mata National College took part in the event led by Captain Manoj Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanitation-drive-by-ncc/article34065313.ece
14 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Face-to-face by union||The Kollam District Municipal and Corporation Workers’ Federation (CITU) organised a face-to-face programme on Saturday at Town Hall. Mayor Prasanna Earnest and KMCWFState general secretary V.R. Vijayakumar were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/face-to-face-by-union/article34065314.ece
14 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||EVMs selected for nine segments in Kottayam||The first-round randomisation of the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail Machines (VVPAT) for the Assembly election in Kottayam district was held on Saturday. A total of 2,887 ballot units, control units and 3,128 VVPAT machines were selected for the nine Assembly constituencies through the EVM Management System, a web application by the Central Election Commission. Each constituency has been allotted an additional 20% of the actual ballot units and control units required, besides an additional 30% of the VVPAT machines.  Second phase After the randomised machines and those set aside for training, as many as 462 ballot units, 164 control units and 170 VVPAT machines are left with the election authorities. The second phase of randomisation, which will determine the machines for each polling booth, will take place later. The randomisation process was held in the presence of District Collector M. Anjana. The representatives of the various political parties and the election returning officers were present. As many as 218 sector officers have been deployed in 181 sectors in the nine Assembly constituencies to oversee the conduct of the election in Kottayam. With 30 officers, Pala accounts for the highest number of sectoral officers while Kottayam, which has 20 officers, has the lowest number. According to officials, each sector covers four to 17 polling stations. The sectoral officers will visit the polling stations on the eve of the polling day and on the polling day and report the status to the returning officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/evms-selected-for-nine-segments-in-kottayam/article34065315.ece
14 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Efforts on to resolve issues over construction near barracks||The Kozhikode Corporation is resolving issues regarding obtaining building permits near the Army barracks at West Hill in the city. At a meeting chaired by Mayor Beena Philip on Friday, it was noted that procuring a Defence no-objection certificate (NOC) for construction activities was not required in the case of the West Hill barracks, as it was applicable only to the Defence land in Kannur as per the Defence Ministry guidelines issued in 2016. As per the Kerala Municipality Building Rules (KMBR), a Defence NOC is sought if the construction activity is within 10 metres of the Defence land perimeter. The same rule is followed in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Secretary Bini K.U. said and added that the procedure could be followed in Kozhikode too. Elamaram Kareem, MP, said the issue had been brought to the notice of the Defence Ministry. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, who attended the meeting online, said only training activities were held in the West Hill barracks, and hence there was no threat to national security if buildings came up near the facility. Meanwhile, representatives of the Army barracks said they had not stopped any construction and were only conducting patrols along the Defence property. The meeting decided to follow the current procedure of granting building permits until a specific Government Order was issued. There had been instances where construction activities near the barracks were stopped by Army personnel. Subsequently, the public had formed a collective and had appealed to the authorities to find a solution to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-resolve-issues-over-construction-near-barracks/article34065229.ece
14 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM broke promise: Walayar girls’ mother||The mother of the two girls found dead in Walayar under suspicious circumstances in 2017 has said that the trust she placed on the Chief Minister’s promise of justice was ill-placed. “We were taken for a ride right from the beginning,” she said. She was speaking to media here as part of her ‘Neethiyatra’ taken out from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram seeking action against the two police officers who investigated her daughters’ deaths. “One of those police officers was promoted and it prompted me to fight for justice once again. (M.J.) Sojan who investigated the case is now SP and has been recommended to be conferred IPS. He sabotaged the investigation,” she said. She said the Chief Minister had promised her that action would be taken against the police officers, but instead promoted one. “Why are the police trying so hard to save a few daily wage workers. I wonder whether the accused are the real culprits or whether someone else is involved,” she said. Father’s charge The father of the girls said the police had tried to convince him to own up to the murders and told him that they would protect him. “They just wanted to foist the crime on anyone available,” he said. Social activist C.R. Neelakantan and Dalit activist Serena Prakkanam accompanied them. Mr. Neelakantan said there was a lack of clarity with reference to the CBI investigation ordered into the case. “We do not trust the police FIR. The CBI investigation should launch a new investigation and ideally it should be under the control of the court,” Mr. Neelakantan said. Ms. Prakkanam said the present government had come to power promising safety to women, but could not keep its word. “In 12 POCSO cases reported at the Walayar station alone, all accused have been set free,” she added. The girls’ parents took part in public meetings across the district on Saturday demanding action against the police officers.  CM had promised her that action will be taken against police officers, but instead promoted one||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-broke-promise-walayar-girls-mother/article34065322.ece
14 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No end to toilet woes in city||Over a decade ago, hundreds of women took to the streets of Kozhikode, demanding proper public toilets. As a result, several e-toilets came up in the city. However, none of them is functional now, despite a long-standing struggle and repeated memorandums to the authorities. With relaxation of COVID-19 curbs, and most women returning to their workplaces, the situation remains the same. As a matter of fact, it is not the problem of women alone. “We are forced to depend on the nearest hotel for using toilet,” said Divakaran, who travels to the city from Vadakara for work at S.M. Street. The only public toilet near Mananchira is a Sulabh toilet complex on P.M. Taj Road, which is being used by travellers and those working in shops at S.M. Street. A toilet complex constructed at Mananchira Square is yet to be opened, while e-toilets have turned showpieces. The only other working public toilets in the city are at the mofussil bus stand and Palayam. “Non-availability of toilets is a matter of concern for women,” said Supriya M., who works with an interior designing firm. It is not that the Kozhikode Corporation is unaware of the matter. The corporation is constructing toilets at Moonnalinkal, near stadium, K.P. Kesava Menon Road, and near the city bus stand. The first two have been completed, but not opened, while the other two are under construction. The corporation plans to associate with cooperative banks, voluntary organisations, and industries to set up eco-friendly toilets. The plan includes renovation of the toilet at the mofussil bus stand with modern facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-end-to-toilet-woes-in-city/article34065227.ece
14 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML units stage protest in Koduvally, Kozhikode South||Unhappy with the decision of the State leadership, a section of local leaders of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) have protested against the candidatures of M.K. Muneer and Noorbina Rasheed in the Koduvally and Kozhikode South Assembly segments respectively for the upcoming Assembly polls. Even before the announcement of the list of candidates, the IUML Koduvally Assembly committee has been resisting the move to shift Dr. Muneer from Kozhikode South to Koduvally. The local leaders have been clamouring for the renomination of party district general secretary M.A. Razak, who had lost in the 2016 polls from Koduvally by a slender margin of 573 votes to Left Democratic Front-backed Independent Karat Razak. The LDF has fielded him again. The State leadership has decided to bring Dr. Muneer to Koduvally in a bid to wrest back its traditional seat. Similarly, the Assembly committees and Kozhikode city units of the IUML have opposed the nomination of Ms. Rasheed in Kozhikode South. For the first time in 25 years, the IUML is fielding a woman candidate in the Assembly elections. But their feeling of resentment over her candidature is that she has been totally disconnected with the party for past 5-10 years. Ms. Rasheed, who is also IUML's national committee member, was a council member of the Kozhikode Corporation from 1995 to 2005. Party sources said the discontentment would be amicably settled soon. A move to shift Ms. Rasheed to Perambra was also mooted in the party circles, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-units-stage-protest-in-koduvally-kozhikode-south/article34065326.ece
14 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID-19 situation stabilises in Kozhikode||The COVID-19 situation seems to be stabilising in Kozhikode district with the daily case graph plateauing for the past couple of weeks, going by the Health Department data. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) has been well below 5% on consecutive days and the active caseload is below 4,000. The district administration, however, has issued guidelines for the upcoming Assembly poll campaign, anticipating another surge after the elections. Only five people, including the candidates, are allowed to visit houses. COVID-19 protocol should be observed without fail. There are restrictions on conducting rallies and public meetings as well. Rise and fall Though the total number of people undergoing treatment had surged in September, it went down in November-December. By January first week, the active caseload went below 6,000. However, in subsequent weeks, it again peaked to 8,000. And, the district figured among those with the highest number of active cases in the country. This was attributed to the crowding of people before and for the local body polls. Some health experts also pointed out that the launch of the COVID vaccine and the lethargy in following pandemic protocols also contributed to the surge. The daily TPR was oscillating between 8% and 13%. The district administration decided to clamp down surveillance on crowded places. But, by February mid-week the fresh cases again started declining. 255 new cases Only 255 new cases were reported on Saturday, of which 246 were locally acquired infections. The source of infection of five others is not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-situation-stabilises-in-kozhikode/article34065228.ece
14 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Trouble brewing in Cong. Kozhikode unit||A Kuttiyadi model rebellion is brewing in the Congress party over the decision of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee to offer the Perambra and Elathur Assembly seats to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK) led by Mani C. Kappan respectively under a seat-sharing pact within the UDF. So far, the IUML and the NCK have not announced their nominees in these segments. Incidentally, both these constituencies were unsuccessfully contested in the 2016 Assembly polls by the constituents, who have jumped ship to the CPI(M)-led LDF. The Janata Dal (United), now known as the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), had contested from Elathur and the Kerala Congress(M), the Perambra segment. “The KC(M) has been unsuccessfully contesting the seat for long. Now the Congress should have contested the seat. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran during his visit to Kozhikode earlier had promised us that a Congress nominee would fight from Perambra,” said president of the Congress mandalam committee P.P. Ramakrishnan, who is leading the protest. In the case of Elathur, local leaders alleged that the Congress should have fielded a party candidate rather than offering the seat to an insignificant political entity. Initially, the Congress had decided to give the seat to the Bharatiya National Janata Dal, a splinter group of the Janata Dal, which also has no political presence in Kozhikode, they said, adding that the Congress-led UDF candidate would finish third in the electoral race if the Elathur seat was offered to the NCK. However, KPCC leaders said that Elathur had been worked under the seat-sharing arrangement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trouble-brewing-in-cong-kozhikode-unit/article34065276.ece
14 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Discontent in IUML against Majeed in Tirurangadi||Discontentment has begun brewing in the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) since State president Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal announced the party candidates for the Assembly election on Friday. When some expressed their displeasure, some others have threatened to defeat the party candidate. Veteran State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed is facing opposition from the party in Tirurangadi. A large group of party workers from Tirurangadi reached Panakkad on Saturday and met the State and district presidents of the party. The protesters registered their opposition to Mr. Majeed’s candidacy in Tirurangadi. They said they wanted a candidate from Tirurangadi constituency, preferably P.M.A. Salam. Mr. Salam’s name had been tipped for Tirurangadi. Inclusion of Mr. Majeed after dropping Mr. Salam has triggered widespread rancour among the party workers in Tirurangadi. When Mr. Hyderali Thangal gave them a patient ear, IUML district president Sadikali Shihab Thangal told them that the decision could not be changed. Mr. Thangal expressed his displeasure when the protesters arrived with a few TV channel journalists. “We will defeat Majeed Sahib. We have nothing personal against him. But we don’t want him in Tirurangadi,” they said. Meanwhile, rumours were rife about fielding a strong rebel candidate against Mr. Majeed in Tirurangadi. The CPI had announced Ajit Koladi as its candidate in Tirurangadi. Talks were on between parties and groups about capitalising on the discontentment over Mr. Majeed’s candidacy. In the 2016 Assembly elections, IUML’s incumbent P.K. Abdu Rabb had a tough time winning against LDF independent Niyas Pulikkalakath. Mr. Rabb’s victory margin had plunged to 6,043, the lowest ever in this League bastion. The IUML had lost nearly 12 per cent vote share in 2016. Election watchers point out that a strong independent candidate with a fair amount of dissidence within the IUML can seal the fate of Mr. Majeed in Tirurangadi. A section of party workers took out a protest demonstration in Edappal expressing their disappointment for the denial of seat for IUML State vice president C.P. Bava Haji. Mr. Haji’s name was reportedly removed from the IUML list at the last minute. Disappointed at the party’s snub, Mr. Haji said that his 48 years of service for the IUML had gone unacknowledged. “I will decide what to do later,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discontent-in-iuml-against-majeed-in-tirurangadi/article34065238.ece
14 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML faces a daunting task in its heartland||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is facing one of the toughest challenges in Perinthalmanna. Young businessman and former Malappuram municipal chairman K.P. Mustafa is the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in Perinthalmanna. A former Muslim League member, Mr. Mustafa’s candidature may give shudders to the IUML. Meanwhile, the IUML has fielded Muslim Youth League (MYL) State vice president Najeeb Kanthapuram to take on Mr. Mustafa, who switched sides reportedly after being denied seat by the IUML. The CPI(M) has fielded him ignoring party considerations with the sole objective of wresting Perinthalmanna from the IUML. In 2016, the IUML’s incumbent Manjalamkuzhi Ali narrowly defeated the CPI(M)’s V. Sasikumar. Mr. Ali’s victory margin was 579 votes. For Mr. Sasikumar, the CPI(M)’s one-time MLA (2006) and a popular leader in the region, Perinthalmanna was a slip between the cup and the lip. Mr. Ali’s margin of victory in 2011 was 9,589. The slump from that comfortable figure to just 579 in five years was a matter of serious concern for the IUML. Until 2011, Mr. Ali had been with the LDF, winning the neighbouring Mankada seat in 2001 and 2006. The IUML and its rivals were aware that had not it been for Mr. Ali, Perinthalmanna would have remained in Mr. Sasikumar’s hands.  Ali at Mankada But sensing the attrition in the IUML vote bank in Perinthalmanna, due largely to internal rivalry, Mr. Ali shifted back to Mankada this time. With Mr. Ali moving to Mankada, the IUML brought in Mr. Najeeb, an outsider, hoping to unify the warring groups. The UDF has fresh hopes in Mr. Najeeb, a fresher from Kozhikode district. Mr. Mustafa’s candidature has given heartburning to some loyal party leaders of Perinthalmanna. But the party is hopeful of repeating a ‘Manjalamkuzhi act’ by using Mr. Mustafa’s deep pocket to make inroads into the UDF vote bank. Hopes are high for both fronts. For the winner, it will never be a cakewalk. Realising this, both have begun campaigning in earnest in Perinthalmanna, which is made up of Perinthalmanna municipality and the panchayats of Melattur, Vettathur, Thazhekode, Aliparamba, Pulamanthol, and Elamkulam. While the LDF is ruling Perinthalmanna, Thazhekode, and Pulamanthol, the UDF has majority in Vettathur, Aliparamba, and Elamkulam. It was a tie in Melattur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-faces-a-daunting-task-in-its-heartland/article34065256.ece
14 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||O.V. Vijayan awards to be given away today||The latest edition of the O.V. Vijayan Memorial Literary Awards will be given away on Sunday at a function to be held at O.V. Vijayan Memorial at Thasrak near here. Writers T. Padmanabhan, Subhash Chandran and Amal Raj have won last year’s awards instituted by the O.V. Vijayan Memorial Committee. T. Padmanabhan won the award for the best stories, Subhash Chandran for the best novel, and Amal Raj for the best young story writer. Kerala Sahitya Akademi president Vaisakhan will inaugurate the function. He will give away the award for the best novel to Mr. Subhash Chandran. Kerala Sahitya Akademi secretary K.P. Mohan will give away the award for the best story to Mr. Padmanabhan. Both awards will consist of a plaque, a citation and a cash prize of Rs. 25,000. Writer Mundoor Sethumadhavan will give away the award for the best young writer’s story to Mr. Amal Raj. The award will consist of a plaque, a citation and a cash prize of Rs. 10,000. O.V. Vijayan Memorial Committee chairman T.K. Narayanadas will preside over the function. A jury comprising T.K. Sankaranarayanan, P.R. Jayaseelan, T.K. Narayanadas and T.R. Ajayan chose Mr. Padmanabhan for the best story award considering his books titled Maraya and Ente Moonnamathe Novel . A jury comprising Asha Menon, C.P. Chitrabhanu, Raghunathan Parali and E. Jayachandran chose Mr. Subhash Chandran’s Samudra Sila for the best novel award. A jury comprising Mohandas Sreekrishnapuram, Rajesh Menon and Jyothibai Pariyadath selected Amal Raj’s Nagu Saguva Hadiyali for the best story by a young writer. An unpublished single story by writers below 40 years of age was considered for this award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ov-vijayan-awards-to-be-given-away-at-thasrak-today/article34065325.ece
14 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Gopinathan seeks probe into seat trading charge||Dissident Congress leader and former District Congress Committee (DCC) president A.V. Gopinathan has demanded that the party high command inquire into the allegations of “Assembly seat trading” in the district. Describing the allegations of seat trading raised from certain quarters as serious, Mr. Gopinathan said it was time to do the last rites of the party. He said several seats, including Malampuzha, were given in business deals. ‘Will work for Cong.’ However, he said that he would work for the Congress candidates in the district. He warned that if the leadership continued to ignore the emotions of the party workers, the United Democratic Front (UDF) would face a backlash. Stance on Monday Mr. Gopinathan said that he would declare his final stand on Monday afternoon. “I am not waiting for anyone. Yet I am confident that the Congress leadership would address my woes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-sought/article34065241.ece
14 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Appointment orders given to poll officials||The district election authority in Pathanathitta has begun the distribution of appointment orders to the officials assigned as presiding and polling officers. As many as 8,272 officers were selected for election duty during the first phase randomisation held on March 10. The appointment orders are being delivered through the respective village offices. The second-round randomisation for constituency-wise deployment of polling officials will take place on March 23. The final round at the booth level will be on April 3. The authorities have received 206 complaints regarding the model code violations in Pathanamthitta. Of this, all but six complaints that turned out to be fake are being followed up. Meanwhile, Swaroop Mannava, a 2011 batch IRS officer, took charge as the election expenditure observer in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointment-orders-given-to-poll-officials/article34065316.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State women’s panel in expansion mode||The Kerala State Women’s Commission (SWC) is entering its 25th year by expanding its operations outside Thiruvananthapuram through regional offices in other parts of the State. For the first time in its quarter of a century history, the commission, as part of the government policy prioritising women’s safety, has set up a regional office in Kozhikode, and plans to open yet another in Ernakulam before the end of the year. The Kozhikode office was inaugurated last month to coincide with the formal opening of the 25th anniversary celebrations of the commission. The regional office in Kozhikode will receive complaints from women from northern districts of the State such as Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode, and Malappuram. The Kerala Women’s Commission formally began functioning on March 14, 1996. First chairperson Poet Sugathakumari who died recently was the first chairperson. The commission, led by current chairperson M.C. Josephine, has disposed of 14,546 of the 27,288 cases registered with it in the 2016-20 period. Complaints are addressed through adalats and counselling. As many as 656 adalats have been held so far. The commission provides training to the 15-member jagratha samithis set up in all wards to take action on complaints received at the panchayat level. So far, 159 such trainings have been held. Family counselling to resolve disputes or that to avoid divorce between couples are provided by the commission. It also provides financial aid for conducting DNA testing in cases where paternity is unclear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-womens-panel-in-expansion-mode/article34065443.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A ‘red fort’ with traces of change||A ‘red fort’ for nearly four-and-a-half decades, Vamanapuram presents a daunting task for the United Democratic Front (UDF) as it contemplates wresting control of the constituency. While the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will look to retain its bastion, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) hopes to upset the apple cart by riding on an upsurge in its vote share in the predominantly agrarian region. Barring two-time MLA M. Kunjukrishna Pillai, who had won the seat for Congress in 1965 when the segment first went to the polling booths and in 1970, no other UDF candidate has been able to break through the Left citadel. While N. Vasudevan Pillai of CPI(M) emerged victorious in 1967 and 1977, veteran party leader Koliakode N. Krishnan Nair kept the red flag soaring high through four consecutive terms from 1980 to 1996. While Pirappancode Murali represented the constituency from 1996 and 2001, J. Arundhathi took over for a single term in 2006. Mr. Nair returned for yet another stint in 2011 when he defeated C. Mohanachandran of the Congress by 2,236 votes. Vamanapuram’s incumbent legislator D.K. Murali, former Venjaramoodu area secretary of the CPI(M), defeated Congress’s T. Sarathchandra Prasad by a handsome margin of 9,596 in 2016 Assembly polls. Agrarian economy Comprising the Nellanad, Pullampara, Vamanapuram, Anad, Kallara, Nanniyode, Panavoor, Pangode and Peringamala grama panchayats in Nedumangad taluk, the constituency is known for its vibrant agrarian economy. The LDF has maintained a steady vote-share by winning 46.51% and 46.56% of the total votes polled in 2011 and 2016 respectively. However, this fell steeply to 34.97% when A. Sampath lost to Adoor Prakash from the Attingal Parliament segment during the 2019 general elections. Attributing the reversal to a ‘wave’ that was visible across the State, the Left camp remained confident that its vote base remained intact. The CPI(M)-led front drew its confidence from its commanding show at the recent local body elections. While it won 14 out of 15 divisions in Vamanapuram block panchayat, the LDF won all of the three divisions, which come under the constituency, in Nedumangad block panchayat. Three out of four divisions that formed part of the Vamanapuram segment in the district panchayat were also won by the LDF. The NDA’s vote share doubled from 4.24% in 2011 to 9.87% when R.V. Nikhil of Bharat Dharma Jana Sena represented the coalition in 2016. BJP leader Sobha Surendran won 20.66% of the votes from areas under the constituency in 2019 polls. The constituency has an electorate of 1,97,127 voters including 92,265 males, 1,04,859 females, and three transgenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-red-fort-with-traces-of-change/article34065438.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State runs risk of rise in infections, local outbreaks||The progressive decline in the State’s COVID-19 case graph and active case pool and the introduction of COVID-19 vaccination seem to have ushered in a sense of feeling that the pandemic is nearly over. A reflection of this can be seen in public behaviour as people have increasingly begun to shun masks and relax on the physical-distancing norms. However, the State is still very much at risk of a surge as a significant per cent of the population is still naive, public health experts warn. “The vaccination has brought a lot of reassurance to the people, but we are still a long way from herd immunity levels. The last Indian Council of Medical Research seroprevalence survey says only 11.6% of Kerala's population have been exposed to the virus. Even with the current vaccination drive, not more than 30% of the population would have achieved vaccine-derived or natural immunity. With a major election campaign round the corner, we should expect new infections and local outbreaks in many places,” says Rakhal Gaitonde, Professor at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology. Brazil case He points to the case of Brazil, where a major resurgence in cases (because of the SARS CoV2 variant P.1) happened in Manaus, where three quarters of the population have already been infected once with COVID-19. It is important that vaccination does not give a false sense of security to the people because vaccines only protect people from serious COVID disease and death, points out a senior public health expert. “People think that individual immunity will protect them, but as long as active infection is there in the community, even the vaccinated are at risk of contracting and transmitting the infection,” he says. U.K. case On Friday, the BBC reported about a new COVID-19 outbreak and one death in a care home at Sidmouth in the U.K., despite the fact that all inmates had received one shot of COVID-19 vaccine. Though a three-month COVID-19 genomic surveillance project with Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology has been initiated, the role of possible virus variants or local mutations in the State’s transmission dynamics is yet to be factored in. But real-time surveillance for an extended period is necessary, epidemiologists feel. For inexplicable reasons, the government refuses to use the vast resources at its many scientific institutions for the same. Too early to speculate It is too early to speculate about the end of the pandemic but it is important that the government undertake serial serosurvey across all districts to track the extent of the spread of infection and to find out vulnerable pockets in the community which are yet to be exposed to the virus, Dr. Gaitonde says. This will also give the indication on how long the epidemic would last in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-runs-risk-of-rise-in-infections-local-outbreaks/article34065336.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP to contest in 115 seats, rest for allies||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will contest 115 seats in the Assembly elections in Kerala. It will share the remaining 25 constituencies with National Democratic Alliance partners, primarily the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena. BJP State president K. Surendran said in New Delhi that the party has also concluded its candidate recommendation process. The BJP national leadership would examine the list of prospective contestants submitted by the party’s State unit and take a final call on Sunday. By some accounts, the BJP hoped to give stiff a battle to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam. It is playing its cards close to its chest. However, some quarters suggested that Mr. Surendran might contest from Manjeswaram. It would field a strong candidate in Nemom, currently held by BJP incumbent O. Rajagopal. The BJP parliamentary board would decide whether it would allow Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan to contest the polls. Some quarters said the party might give national executive committee member Sobha Surendran the ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-to-contest-in-115-seats-rest-for-allies/article34065285.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A hashtag to care for birds and animals||As the sun beats down mercilessly and heat threatens to sap every bit of energy from the body, the Women and Child Development Department has launched a hashtag Thanalekam, in Malayalam, to underline the importance of sparing a thought for birds and animals. The hashtag campaign urges the public to keep water for birds and animals so that they can remain hydrated in the sweltering heat. The hashtag is a bid by the Women and Child Development Department to get children enrolled in its 33,115 anganwadis and members of the adolescent clubs in the anganwadis to put out water on the premises of their houses, their compounds, or terraces for birds and animals to drink. The campaign is also an attempt to get children in touch with nature by nurturing concern for various forms of life. The campaign, with the tagline ‘Muttathoru Vellathotti,’ is posted on social media accounts of the department, authorities have said. Posting thus in social media accounts will help sharing of comments and photographs that carry the hashtag Thanalekam. It will also help more people to join the campaign.  The campaign is also an attempt to get children in touch with nature by nurturing concern for various forms of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-hashtag-to-care-for-birds-and-animals/article34065442.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Row over student intake in govt. schools||The State government has asserted that 6.8 lakh students have newly joined public schools in the State from 2017 onwards. In a statement here on Saturday, Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath said 1.57 lakh students joined government and aided schools in 2017. The next year, the figure shows a total of about 1.96 lakh students. In 2019-20 and 2020-21, this came to 1.64 lakh and 1.77 lakh, respectively, taking the total in the four years from 2017 to 6.8 lakh. The statement said that with around 4 lakh students clearing the SSLC examinations each year and nearly 2.5 lakh students taking admission to Class 1 next year, the total strength was not what determined the number of students joining public schools. Instead, the number of students in a class in excess of the number promoted from the lower grade was the number of new students as per the Statistics wing in the Directorate of General Education. Assuming a difference of 1.5 lakh students between the total count in Class 1 and Class 10 each year, only an increase in students above 1.5 lakh would be seen as an increase. The statement claimed that for the first time in 25 years, there was increase in the total number of students by 32,349 in 2018-19. The next two years, this was 27,183 and 50,556, respectively. The figures for the number of students newly joining schools were also being published by the Director of General Education for each year. This was not the total strength of students but the number of new students. The statement alleged a deliberate bid to rake up a controversy. However, the Save Education Committee, in a statement, again alleged a government bid to inflate the number of students in public schools. As per the latest statistics uploaded on Sametham portal for 2020-21, the total student strength in government and aided schools was 33,77,594. As compared to the total strength in 2015-16, this was only an increase of 9,862. Compared to 2018-19, it was 50,556 more. However, these numbers could not show an increase of 6.8 lakh, Save Education Committee said.  Government reiterates that 6.8 lakh students have newly joined public schools in the State since 2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-student-intake-in-govt-schools/article34065286.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Observers urge Collector to install CCTVs at check-posts||The expenditure observers appointed by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in the district for the Assembly polls held discussions with District Collector Navjot Khosa on Saturday. They have asked the Collector to install CCTVs at all border check-posts in the district as part of keeping a close watch on election expenses. The ECI has appointed four expenditure observers for the 14 Assembly segments in the district. Sangeeta Yadav is the observer for Varkala, Attingal and Chirayinkeezhu. Prem Prakash Meena will monitor election expenditures in Nedumangad, Vamanapuram and Aruvikkara. Dinesh Badgujar will monitor the election expenditures in Kazhakuttam, Vattiyurkavu, Thiruvananthapuram and Nemom constituencies. Laxman Singh Gurjar has been posted as observer for Parassala, Kattakada, Kovalam and Neyyattinkara. The observers assessed the arrangements for preventing the inflow of money, liquor and narcotics through the border areas. District Police Chief (Rural) P. K. Madhu, District Development Commissioner Vinay Goyal, Deputy Collector (Election) T. R. Ahammed Kabeer, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/observers-urge-collector-to-install-cctvs-at-check-posts/article34065441.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bharat Bhavan kick-starts 75th Independence Day celebrations||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Saturday inaugurated the screening of the docu-fiction ‘Smarippin Bharathiyare’, kick-starting the Bharat Bhavan’s year-long celebration of the 75th Independence day. The Bharat Bhavan conceived the documentary in association with the Culture Department, the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, Kerala Folklore Akademi, and the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi. The 45-minute documentary touches upon the salt satyagraha in Payyannur, Pazhassi Raja’s life and martyrdom, and Veluthampi Dalava’s Kundara proclamation. Bharat Bhavan member secretary Pramod Payyannur scripted and directed the docu-fiction. The celebrations for the 75th Independence day titled ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ under the aegis of the Central and State governments has begun 75 weeks before the Independence Day on August 15 this year. The docufiction will be screened in venues across the State as part of the celebrations of the Culture Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparations-start-for-i-day-celebrations/article34065230.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Give a vote to waste-free poll||5,426 tonnes. That’s roughly the volume of waste that Kerala will have to deal with if the Assembly elections are not held in a ‘green and clean’ environment. This disturbing projection has been included in ‘Harithachatta Palanam: Samshayangalum Marupadikalum’, a handbook on green protocol prepared by the Suchitwa Mission and the Haritha Keralam Mission for the 2021 Assembly polls. The handbook offers a break-up: banners, posters and hoardings alone will account for 2,250 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste, and flags and festoons, another 980 tonnes. Plastic bottles will add 1,050 tonnes. Unchecked use of disposable cups and plates, banned plastic sachets and other plastic products would add 1,146 tonnes more to the pile. Govt. order The State government issued orders on March 4 for ensuring an environment-friendly election process. “Detailed guidelines have been prepared in consultation with the Health Department for the collection and safe disposal of biomedical waste generated during the elections,” Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena says. The handbook advises candidates to replace flex boards and hoardings with cloth or natural materials such as screwpine and grass mats and bamboo. Flags and festoons can be created from paper and cloth, but cloth with plastic content should be avoided, it notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/give-a-vote-to-waste-free-poll/article34065254.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poster design contest for Earth Hour||The State unit of the WWF-India will conduct a poster design competition as part of Earth Hour that will be observed in digital mode. The broad theme of the contest is “We Need a New Deal for People and the Planet” with focus on addressing degrading forests, mountains, rivers, coasts, wetlands, vanishing plant and animal species, and tackling natural calamities and climate change. Slogans The posters, made using watercolour, should be on A3 size chart paper and should have catchy slogans. The posters should be scanned in high resolution. The winning posters will be shared on social media and newsletters. Slogans can be in English or Malayalam. The entries by email with contact details should be forwarded toasivakumar@ wwfindia.netby March 20. Details can be had from A.K. Sivakumar, Senior Education Officer, on 9447386978.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poster-design-contest-for-earth-hour/article34065225.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||162 fresh cases in capital||The capital district’s active COVID-19 caseload continued its fall as it reached 1,941 on Saturday. As many as 191 people recovered from the illness, even as 162 fresh cases were reported. The district administration placed 1,196 people under quarantine during the last 24 hours, while 1,251 others have been permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation. There were currently 15,630 people who were quarantined in their houses and 42 in various institutions. The death toll in Thiruvananthapuram district stood at 856 as on Friday. Three deaths—those of a 66-year-old woman and two men aged 67 and 48 years—were reported on the day. Vaccination A total of 1,82,385 vaccine doses were administered in the district until Friday. These included 31,702 people who have received both doses and 1,50,683 people who have only got the first jab thus far. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 54 people for violating pandemic norms. These included 20 people who have been booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Thirty people were fined Rs. 15,000 for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/162-fresh-cases-in-capital/article34065445.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LBS admissions: trial allotment list out||The LBS Centre for Science and Technology has published the trial allotment list for admissions to its Diploma in Pharmacy, Health Inspector and Paramedical courses during the 2021-22 academic year. The list is available on the websitewww. lbscentre. kerala. gov.in. Further details can be obtained by contacting 0471 2560363 or 0471 2560363.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lbs-admissions-trial-allotment-list-out/article34065327.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,035 new cases in State||The State on Saturday reported 2,035 new cases of COVID-19 when 58,344 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 10,89,478 cases. The test positivity rate on the day was 3.49%. With 3,256 recoveries being reported, the active case pool dropped again to reach 30,939. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 10,53,859. The addition of 12 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list took the cumulative death toll till to 4,381. Thrissur reported three deaths, while one death each was reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod The number of critically ill patients who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals has dropped to 504, according to reports, with 167 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Of the 2,035 new cases, 1,820 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections, through the contact with other infected persons. These include infections reported in 13 health-care workers. In 48 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 255 cases, followed by Ernakulam 232, Kollam 224, Kannur 205, Malappuram 173, Kottayam 168, Thiruvananthapuram 162, Thrissur 153, Alappuzha 133, Kasaragod 84, Palakkad 80, Pathanamthitta 70, Wayanad 53 and Idukki 43. Foreign travellers One more person from South Africa and another from Brazil who reached Kerala in the past 24 hours have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. With this, a total of 103 persons who reached from abroad since mid-December have tested positive. They include 99 persons from the U.K., three from South Africa and one from Brazil. Official reports said that 89 of them have since tested negative. So far, 11 persons have tested positive for the virus variant B.1.1.7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2035-new-cases-in-state/article34065334.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Time ripe to wrest back lost seats: Baby||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby has said that the recent exit of several Congress leaders, P.C. Chacko being the latest, was a reflection of the growing disillusionment among the workers of that party towards the policies of its leadership. The scenario had provided the Left an opportunity to convince Congress supporters, and even its workers, to adopt an idealistic approach in politics, he added. “We must not hesitate to campaign in booths that are regarded as Congress bastions. The time is ripe for us to wrest from our rivals constituencies we lost,” he said, while addressing a Left Democratic Front (LDF) convention in Kovalam, a constituency that the CPI(M)-led coalition had lost five years ago when M. Vincent of the Congress defeated the then incumbent MLA Jameela Prakasam of the Janata Dal (Secular) [JD(S)]. JD(S) has fielded its national general secretary and four-time Kovalam MLA A. Neelalohithadasan Nadar in the segment this time. Listing positives Mr. Baby said the LDF government could mitigate the hardships faced by the public during the COVID-19 outbreak. The State extended free treatment to each COVID-19 patient and ensured that every section received free food kits during the lockdown period, in contrast to any BJP or Congress-ruled State, he said. “This compassionate attitude was evident when the government expanded the scope of the social security pension to bring over 59 lakh people under the ambit, a significant increase from the 34 lakh who received assistance during the previous United Democratic Front (UDF) regime. The LDF has now announced that it will increase the monthly pension from Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 2,000 soon after returning to power,” he said. Capital’s airport Citing the State’s opposition towards the Centre’s decision to hand over the management of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the Adani group, Mr. Baby said the LDF was not against collaborating with private entities. However, the airport should ideally function under government control, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-ripe-to-wrest-back-lost-segments-baby/article34065317.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested||The Vellarada police on Saturday arrested Sanju of Koothali for allegedly possessing one-and-a-half kg of ganja. The police have intensified surveillance to rein in drug and liquor smuggling in the run-up to the Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested/article34065446.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI names candidates for four more seats||The CPI has released the name of contestants for four constituencies. They are J. Chinchu Rani (Chadayamangalam), R. Sajilal (Haripad), M. T. Nixon (Paravur) and C. C. Mukundan (Nattika). The CPI is contesting in 25 seats. On February 9, the CPI State executive council had announced the first list of candidates. At least 12 sitting MLAs, including Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan and Deputy Speaker V. Sasi, figure on the first list. The CPI had excluded Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar, Forest Minister K. Raju and Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman. They had contested the Assembly elections thrice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-names-candidates-for-four-more-seats/article34065283.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest watcher injured in Kottoor||A forest watcher sustained serious injuries after being attacked by a captive elephant at the elephant rehabilitation centre in Kottoor on Saturday. Habeeb, the forest employee, was flung by 28-year-old pachyderm Harikrishnan using its trunk when the employee was escorting the animal for the daily parade at the rehabilitation centre around 10.30 a.m. The incident occurred close to the area where visitors gather to witness the display of elephants. Having sustained head and leg injuries, Habeeb was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-watcher-injured-in-kottoor/article34065447.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PM opens global Ayurveda fest||Ayurveda and traditional medicine have gained more importance globally after the COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. Inaugurating the 4th Global Ayurveda Virtual Festival on Friday, the Prime Minister said Ayurveda was inextricably linked with Indian culture and nature. Ayurveda can be described as a comprehensive health system for human beings. People are realising the benefits of Ayurveda, Mr. Modi said. The eight-day Global Ayurveda Festival is being attended by scientists from more than 25 countries. Union Minister for Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju, who is also in charge of the Ministry of AYUSH, and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan were the chief guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-opens-global-ayurveda-fest/article34065331.ece
14 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest 1||The Thiruvallam police arrested a history-sheeter with alleged possession of 8 kg of ganja. The accused, identified as Muhammed Shanavas, 34, of Muttada, was apprehended by the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF). The youth, who is accused to have been supplying the contraband to small-scale retailers in the racket, was caught from a house in Muttakkad where he allegedly hid the seized stash of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrest-1/article34065439.ece
14 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fronts swear by development plans to woo voters||A tough battle is on the cards in Irinjalakuda. A predominantly Christian belt, Irinjalakuda has stood with both the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front. It had sent LDF Independent Lonappan Nambadan to the Assembly for four consecutive terms from 1982. However, UDF’s Thomas Unniyadan had won from the constituency in 2001, 2006, and 2011. In the 2016 election, K.U. Arunan of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) defeated Mr. Unniyadan by 2,711 votes. But T.N. Prathapan of the Congress had secured a margin of 11,390 votes in the constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the last local body elections, while the Irinjalakuda municipality stood with the UDF, the block panchayat and the grama panchayats favoured the LDF. While the UDF is fielding Mr. Unniyadan (Kerala Congress Joseph faction) for the sixth time, the LDF is fielding R. Bindu, wife of Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. The National Democratic Alliance is likely to field former Director Genral of Police Jacob Thomas. “I had the luck to represent Irinjalakuda 15 years consecutively, which was the golden period of its development,” said Mr. Unniyadan. “In that period, Irinjalakada became the first constituency in the country to electrify entire houses. For the first time in the State, the entire school students in the constituency became computer literate. I could conduct many cultural events. The taluk hospital became a general hospital. Many drinking water projects, reconstruction of bridges and the biggest court complex in the State... the list is long,” he said. “But Irinjalakuda lost the development pace in the past five years. Even the CPI(M) refused to give chance for the sitting MLA, who failed on the development front,” Mr. Unniyadan said. Prof. Bindu, who was born and brought up in Irinjalakdua, has deep roots in the constituency. “I studied here in school and college. My father was also a political leader here. I am familiar with the people and know the pulse of the constituency. There is a favourable political wave for the LDF in the constituency due to the care and development provided by the LDF in the past five years,” Prof. Bindu, Principal in-charge of Sree Kerala Varma College here, said. Prof. Bindu is a former Mayor of Thrissur and central executive committee member of the All India Democratic Women’s Association. Drinking water shortage is a serious issue plaguing the constituency. Irinjalakuda being a culturally rich area, more cultural institutions should come up here. Another focus will be to develop Irinjalakuda as an education hub, Prof Bindu detailed about her plans for the constituency. Dr. Bindu has already applied for voluntary retirement from her job at Sree Kerala Varma college. BJP candidate The plot will get thicker when Mr. Thomas too comes to the constituency as the BJP candidate. The constituency consists of Irinjalakuda municipality and Aloor, Karalam, Kattur, Muriyad, Padiyur, Poomangalam, and Velukkara grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-swear-by-development-plans-to-woo-voters/article34065252.ece
14 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||153 more test positive in Thrissur||A total of 153 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 436 people recovered from the infection. There are 2,442 active cases in the district and 59 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 1,01,441 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 98,298 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 151 people contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 27 people are above the age of 60 and two are below the age of 10. In all, 1,868 people are under home care. On Saturday, 54 people were admitted to hospitals. A total of 5,306 samples were collected for testing on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/153-more-test-positive-in-thrissur/article34065404.ece
14 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Footballer Liston dead||Former footballer of the Kerala Police C.A. Liston died here on Saturday. He was 54. He was Assistant Commander in the Kerala Police. One of the main players in the golden time of the Kerala Police, Liston was fondly called ‘bullet’ by his colleagues and friends due to his powerful strikes.  Santosh trophy team He was a member of the State Santosh trophy team in 1988. He played many national tournaments. He is survived by his wife and four children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/footballer-liston-dead/article34065236.ece
14 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Conditional nod for Kodungalloor Bharani||The District Collector has given conditional permission for the Bharani festival of the Sree Kurumba Bhagavathy temple, Kodungalloor, which will be celebrated on March 18. Rituals of the festivals can be conducted by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. The representatives of oracles have promised to take steps to control the number of devotees coming from other districts for the Bharani on March 18. The Cochin Devaswom Board will deploy sufficient volunteers to control the crowd. There will be restrictions on the number of groups of oracles. Darshan will be restricted from 4 a.m. to 9 p.m. People above the age of 60 and children below the age of 10 will not be allowed to the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conditional-nod-for-kodungalloor-bharani/article34065330.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In a maestro’s memory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-a-maestros-memory/article34065324.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pressing for a win||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pressing-for-a-win/article34065321.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In memory of a master||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-memory-of-a-master/article34065449.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Learning the ropes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/learning-the-ropes/article34065240.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Many a step ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-a-step-ahead/article34065260.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Thick of action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thick-of-action/article34065407.ece
14 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU’s UG exams from March 17||The SKU’s undergraduate regular and supplementary examinations for the third and fifth semester students (2020-21) have been scheduled to be held from March 17 to 27 in all its affiliated government and private degree colleges. Directorate of Examinations Director Chinta Sudhakar in a release on Saturday said that the SKU was all set to conduct examinations in a smooth manner following all COVID-19 protocols at centres. The Director said that principals/students can download hall tickets from the jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in portal from Sunday onwards. While the fifth semester exams will be conducted from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m., the third semester exams will be held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. In all, 44,000 students are likely to take the exams at 65 centres in the district. Mr. Sudhakar said in view of the increasing number of COVID19 cases, students must wear masks and use sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skus-ug-exams-from-march-17/article34064883.ece
14 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ward volunteer done to death||A 24-year-old ward volunteer, identified as Boya Srikanth, was allegedly stabbed to death with a crowbar by unknown persons at Shivarampeta village in Kuderu Mandal of the district, while he was sleeping in his fields to guard the groundnut crop. According to the Kuderu police, some villagers, who happened to pass that way in the morning, saw Srikanth in a pool of blood and informed the family members and the police. The police has registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ward-volunteer-done-to-death/article34065396.ece
14 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. woodcutters clash with task force men||The Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) seized 20 red sanders logs, a car and a stock of provisions from a group of smuggling operatives at Bhupal Colony in Karakambadi on the outskirts of Tirupati on Saturday morning. According to the task force officials, a patrol party had spotted the movement of a large batch of smuggling operatives (woodcutters) at the foothills between Timminadupalem and Bhupal Colony on Friday night. After a hot pursuit, the woodcutters allegedly resorted to stone pelting at the combing force, which advanced forward with firearms. Finding themselves cornered, the operatives abandoned the logs and fled into the thickets under the cover of darkness. After a thorough search, Sub-Inspector M. Vasu and the team seized the logs, a car left nearby for transporting the logs, and some provisions. Task Force Deputy SPs V.Giridhar, D. Murali Dhar and K. Venkataiah inspected the spot. A case was registered, and additional forces pressed into action to flush out the operatives from the Seshachalam forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-woodcutters-clash-with-task-force-men/article34064925.ece
14 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for counting of votes in Guntur||Arrangements are in place for the counting of votes in the Guntur Municipal Corporation on Sunday. District Collector Vivek Yadav has said that counting will commence at 8 a.m. and the results are expected to be out by afternoon. Two counting centres have been arranged for the purpose, one at M.B.T.S. Govt. Polytechnic College, Nallapadu, and the other at Loyola Public School, Nallapadu. The district administration has set up 34 counting rooms and three counting halls. The administration has arranged 584 counting supervisors for the corporation. . JMJ College is the counting venue for Tenali (38 wards), Chundu Ranganayakulu ZP High School for Chilakaluripet (35 wards), Municipal High School for Repalle (24 wards), Holy Family English Medium School for Sattenapalli (27 wards), and Loyola High School for Vinukonda (25 wards).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-today/article34064884.ece
14 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety lapses led to blast at pharma unit||The explosion of a 3,000-kg reactor at the production wing of Tyche Industries Limited on March 11 was caused due to lack of safety mechanisms and a risk assessment failure, officials said. Two supervisers were killed and four workers severely injured in the blast that occurred at the pharmaceutical firm which is located on the outskirts of Kakinada. The four injured workers are still battling for life at a private hospital. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Inspector of Factories (Kakinada) V. Suresh said there were several safety lapses at the pharma unit. “The incident indicates lack of safety systems at the pharma unit. Inadequate calculation of the capacity of the reactor is also a prime reason behind its explosion, due to heavy pressure beyond its capacity. The size of the safety system installed in the unit is much lower than the actual requirement,” Mr. Suresh explained. Referring to the preliminary investigation, Mr. Suresh observed that the staff dealing with the reactor operations had failed to calculate the scale of risk. “The Tyche management has been directed to shut down the unit until further orders from the Directorate of Factories,” Mr. Suresh said. “The State government is preparing to order a technical probe into the incident soon,” he added. Report awaited Kakinada DSP V. Bheema Rao told The Hindu that their probe into the incident will be speeded up. “The case has been registered against the Tyche Industries Limited management under Sector 304 A on the grounds of causing death by negligence. The investigation into the case will be speeded up based on the technical report to be submitted by the Directorate of Factories,” he said. The management of Tyche Industries is yet to respond over the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-lapses-led-to-reactor-blast-at-pharma-unit/article34065384.ece
14 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coast Guard to celebrate 75 years of Independence||The Indian Coast Guard has commenced the two-week celebrations as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, touring coastal villages to mark 75 years of independence, with the fisherfolk community on the Kakinada coast. The celebrations were launched on Friday and will conclude on March 21 in East Godavari district. Indian Coast Guard (Kakinada) Assistant Commandant Surendra Lakra and A.P. Marine Police have already covered three fisherfolk villages — Chinna Valasala, Ch. B.V. Palem and Ramannapalem on the Kakinada coast — where they are celebrating with the locals and explained to them the glory of independence. “We have prepared a plan to conduct various events for the fisherfolk as part of the two-week celebrations. The events include a motorcycle rally and a medical camp. A large number of people are joining in the celebrations from each village,” Asst. Commandant Lakra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coast-guard-to-celebrate-75-years-of-independence/article34064886.ece
14 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. urged to fill vacant librarian posts||Members of the Godavari Librarians Association led by its Secretary K. Saibaba on Saturday met Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu here, urging him to take steps for the recruitment of librarians in the State. In an interaction with Mr. Kannababu, the librarians said that the State government did not fill up the vacancies of the posts in any government educational institution and government libraries since 2008. They also reminded that a recruitment drive issued in recent years was halted due to legal battle over the notification. In an official release, Mr. Saibaba has said that Mr. Kannababu promised to bring the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-govt-urged-to-fill-vacant-librarian-posts/article34065423.ece
14 March 2021||KOLLETIKOTA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Kolletikota temple decked up for jatara||Scores of devotees are expected to attend the annual 15-day jatara mahotsavams at the Sri Peddintlamma Thalli temple located on the shores of Kolleru lake in Kolletikota village, beginning March 14 (Sunday). During the jatara, attended by a large number of devotees from Bhimavaram, Eluru, Palakol, Akiveedu, Undi, Atapaka, Gudivada, Kaikaluru, Narsapuram, Kalidindi, Razole and Elamamchili every year, villagers perform pujas to the lake, prepare ‘bonam’ and offer the same to the deity. Boats arranged Boats will be made available from Alapadu, Pedda Kottada, Pandiripalli, Penchikalamarru, Vadlakadi Tippa and other lake-bed hamlets for the convenience of pilgrims to reach the temple, located on an island in the middle of the lake. The temple management erected pandals, arranged queue lines and arranged for provision of drinking water, dress changing rooms, toilets and other facilities for the devotees. A team of archakas, headed by the temple priest, will begin the utsavams by performing special pujas to the deity in the early hours on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kolletikota-temple-decked-up-for-jatara/article34064893.ece
14 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. will stop VSP sale if voted to power: Chinta||The Congress party on coming to power at the Centre will scrap the Narendra Modi government’s decision to sell Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, said party working committee member Chinta Mohan. The VSP had come into being following the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s decision in deference to the popular demand of the people of the State, he noted during his whistle-stop campaign for the coming Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll in Venkatagiri Assembly segment on Saturday. The “indiscriminate privatisation” of public sector units mooted by Niti Aayog would go against the national interest, he opined. The party if voted to power in the next elections would also annul the NDA Government’s decision to sell public sector financial institutions to private firms. Nationalisation of banks done during the then Indira Gandhi regime was dear to the Congress party as it brought the financial institutions within the reach of common people, he said. The Congress party would also revive the NTPC-BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) plant at Mannavaram to create job opportunities for the youth in and around Venkatagiri, he promised while addressing a meeting at Dakkalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-will-stop-vsp-sale-if-voted-to-power-chinta/article34064887.ece
14 March 2021||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests staged outside co-op society at Nuzvid||Several people who had deposited money with the Amaravathi Mutually Aided Cooperative Society, Nuzvid, staged a protest outside the society’s office here on Saturday, demanding that their money be repaid. The depositors, who had applied for repayment of their savings, later lodged a complaint with the Nuzvid police. Following the directions of DSP B. Srinivasulu, police registered a case and launched a search for the society chairman, directors and the members. “We are trying to find out how much money has been deposited in the society and how much has been misused. Police are trying to contact the depositors as well as the society members. The situation at the society’s office is under control,” said Nuzvid CI M.V. Narayana. The case is under investigation, the DSP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/depositors-stage-protest-in-front-of-amaravathi-society/article34064822.ece
14 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stir for Ramayapatnam port to be intensified||Leaders of the Opposition parties on Saturday resolved to step up agitation to press for a Rs. 25,000 crore public sector port at Ramayapatnam to spur economic growth in the backward district of Prakasam. After Union Minister for ports Mansukh Mandaviya, in a reply to a question in the Parliament, expressed inability to fund a non-major port(NMP) at Ramayapatnam, leaders at a roundtable convened by Prakasam District Development Forum(PDDF) president Ch. Ranga Rao exhorted the YSR Congress Party government to exert pressure on the Central government to take up the port, as is promised in the State Reorganisation Act, in Ramayapatnam in the wake of the latter expressing reservation over taking up the project at Dugarajapatnam in Nellore district.  Shipbuilding industry The leaders decided to go in a delegation to Amaravati also to press for location of a shipbuilding industry in the district, which had remained backward since its formation by clubbing together the most backward parts of Nellore, Kurnool and Guntur districts and mobilise people in and around Ramayapatnam, including Singarayakonda, for a protracted struggle. The Centre dilly-dallied on the public sector port project after Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd picked up stakes in Krishnapatnam Port Co Ltd(KPCL), alleged Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Sripathy Prakasam. CPI district president M.L. Narayana opined that people cutting across party-lines should be mobilised for an ‘Assembly Chalo’ agitation to highlight the injustice to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stir-for-ramayapatnam-port-to-be-intensified/article34064889.ece
14 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDA govt. ignoring State: Congress||Andhra Pradesh Mahila Congress State president Pedada Ramani Kumari on Saturday alleged that the Narendra Modi government, instead of striving to ensure the development of the fledgling State of Andhra Pradesh after its bifurcation, was instead adopting a stepmotherly attitude towards the State. Ms. Ramani Kumari charged that the Union government was using ‘brute power’ to go ahead with its plans of privatising the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant without regard for the sentiments of the people. In a press release, she extended her solidarity to Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath and other leaders who were agitating in New Delhi against the privatisation of the plant. “The then British government too never sold government properties. It used to give them out on lease if necessary. But this government is privatising each and every property of the public sector, which is absolutely unfair. Privatisation will have a cascading affect on thousands of families of North Andhra region,” said Ms. Ramana Kumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nda-govt-ignoring-state-congress/article34065425.ece
14 March 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for Council polls today||Stage is set for the polling of the East - West Godavari MLC (Teachers) Constituency in the East Godavari district, in which 9,702 are expected to exercise their franchise on Sunday. As many as 11 contestants are in the fray. District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said, “The voter slips have been distributed to 9,484 voters. The polling will be conducted in the 67 stations in the district.” The polling will be conducted between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. In the agency, the polling will be closed by 2 p.m. The ballot boxes will be shifted to the counting room on the JNTU-Kakinada campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-council-polls-today/article34065420.ece
14 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘India supplying COVID vaccine to over 75 countries’||India has emerged a global player by supplying vaccine (for COVID-19) to over 75 countries, Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal has said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi who strongly believes in ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ (the world as a single family) has showcased that India cares for the world as much as it cares for its own people. At present, India is supporting over 150 countries in the supply of medicines. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, Mr. Goyal said the country had displayed resilience and strength of 130 crore Indians fighting Coronavirus and recovering from it. The true spirit behind the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ was vividly reflective with the kind of support it (India) had been extending to the rest of world in fighting the pandemic. He, however, warned that COVID was not yet over and underlined the need to be cautious for some more time. “We have to maintain social distancing, wear face masks at all the times, maintain health protocols and protect our family, near and dear, till every individual in the country is vaccinated,” he said. Rail services In reply to a question, Mr. Goyal said railway services had been restored to a major extent in the country with 80% of the superfast express, mails and passenger trains hitting the tracks. The railways would continue to start more and more services wherever there was a passenger demand. As part of a massive development programme, the expansion of platform and pit line works had been completed at Tirupati enabling more trains reach the pilgrim city, he said. Mr. Goyal, who expressed his satisfaction over the COVID guidelines followed at the temple of Lord Venkateswara visited by tens of thousands of devotees everyday, complimented TTD authorities for their excellent adherence to health protocols. He extolled the State government for its initiatives in effectively countering the spread of the virus. Earlier, the Union Minister offered prayers at the hill temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/india-supplying-covid-vaccine-to-over-75-countries/article34065388.ece
14 March 2021||UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kumkies deployed to tackle stray wild jumbos||After a 20-day gruelling operation by kumkies (trained jumbos) in Puttur and Karveti Nagaram forest ranges, officials finally brought a lone elephant under control on Saturday, confining it to a red sanders plantation, 25 km from Puttur. However, two more elephants are still elusive, damaging crops and posing a threat to farmers in Nagari plains, 150 km from their habitat in Tamil Nadu. These three male elephants, known as “Bachelor’s Group”, strayed into Chittoor district from Pernambattu forests of Tamil Nadu in the last week of December last, and kept advancing towards the eastern side of the district. During the last one and half months, the jumbos had been giving sleepless nights to forest officials and farmers as well, crisscrossing the fields, hillocks and even moving close to the two National Highways to Chennai at Narayanavanam and Puttur mandals. In February, two farmers were critically injured near Narayanavanam, when two wild elephants attacked them. Last week, a youth was injured near Vedurukuppam of Karveti Nagaram range in an attack by the same duo. While two elephants are moving jointly, the third one, which was tackled on Saturday, took to frequently going on lonely jaunts. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East Wildlife) G.G. Narentheran said the two kumkies, brought from Kuppam range, helped in calming the lone elephant, which showed signs of becoming a rogue elephant, on Saturday. “This male jumbo, aged about 18 years, was driven to a red sanders plantation near Karveti Nagaram. Now under watch by the kumkies, the lone elephant is being fed with fodder and water. Our immediate target is to control the frenzied movement of this animal. We are seriously thinking of relocating it at Seshachalam hills, near Tirupati. For this, I am in touch with higher officials to get permission. As of now, we have named the lone elephant as Shiva,” the DFO said. More forces deployed Meanwhile, an additional force of forest watchers and elephant trackers was deployed in Puttur, Nagari, Karveti Nagaram, Vedurukuppam, and Narayanavanam mandals to watch the movement of the still elusive jumbo duo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kumkies-deployed-to-tackle-stray-wild-elephants-from-tamil-nadu/article34065399.ece
14 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stage set for Legislative Council elections today||All is set for the biennial elections to the A.P. Legislative Council for East-West Godavari and Krishna-Guntur Teachers’ Constituencies to be conducted on Sunday. Counting of votes will be taken up on March 17. In all, 30 candidates are in the fray in the two constituencies. In the East-West Godavari Teachers’ Constituency, 17,467 voters will exercise their franchise, while the number of electors in Krishna-Guntur constituency is 13,505. Elections will be conducted from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the polling stations located in the Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-affected areas of Yetapaka, Rampachodavaram, Kukunoor and Jangareddygudem. No phones, cameras Of the total 227 polling stations, 75 have been identified as critical. Elections in other areas will be conducted from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Voters should not carry mobile phones, cameras, or any type of digital equipment into the polling stations. They have to produce the Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Aadhaar or PAN card, driving licence, passport, or the degree or diploma certificates issued by the universities to exercise their franchise. Webcast and video recording of the polling process will be conducted. Voters have to follow COVID-19 protocols, according to the election authorities. As many as, 2,121 polling and 2,409 police personnel will be deployed for the elections. In all, 152 static surveillance teams and 159 flying squads will be deployed for peaceful conduct of polling. IAS officers I. Samuel Anand Kumar and K.V. Ramana will be the observers for the East-West Godavari and Krishna-Guntur constituencies respectively. Officials visited the polling stations in the districts on Saturday, and reviewed arrangements for the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stage-set-for-legislative-council-elections-today/article34065393.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue boy kidnapped in Tirupati||The One Town police reportedly rescued Sivam Kumar Sahu (6), who was allegedly abducted at Alipiri in Tirupati 14 days ago. According to One Town CI P. Venkateshwarlu, pilgrims who came to Sri Durga Malleswaraswamy Vaarla Devastanam observed Sahu moving alone at Seetammavari Padalu on Saturday morning. They handed over the boy to the traffic police, who were on duty at the spot. Police waited for the boy’s parents at the police station, and later tried in vain to trace the boy’s family members at the bus and railway stations. When they checked Sahu’s photo in the missing persons list with the State police, they grew suspicious and alerted the Tirupati police, who confirmed that the rescued boy was Sahu, who was abducted from Alipiri bus station on Februay 27. Following the directions of Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, the One Town police alerted Tirupati police and the boy’s parents. He has been kept in a shelter home. “We alerted the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) of Women Development and Child Welfare Department,” said West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Hanumantha Rao, adding that the boy would be handed over to his parents on Sunday. News of the boy’s rescue drew wide applause for the police on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-boy-kidnapped-in-tirupati/article34065395.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic polls: counting at Loyola College today||Counting of votes polled in the municipal elections held recently will be conducted in three rounds on the Andhra Loyola College (ALC) premises in the city on Sunday. The process will begin at 6 a.m. when officials will shift the ballot boxes from Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium premises to the college amid tight security. Postal ballots Initially, postal ballots will be counted, and regular ballots of polling booths in 23 municipal wards including 1,3,5,7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 37, 41, 43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53 and 57 will be counted. In the second round, ballots of 23 wards namely 2,4,6,8,10,17,19,21,24,26, 28, 30, 35 ,38, 39, 42, 44, 46, 49, 55, 58, 61 and 63 will be counted. The ballots of remaining 18 wards will be counted in the third round. Mobile phones restricted Contestants and their agents will be allowed at designated areas near the counting hall. No mobile phones and electronic devices will be allowed on the premises. ULBs counting Simultaneously, counting for six Urban Local Bodies including Machilipatnam, Pedana, Nuzvid, Vuyyuru, Nandigama and Tiruvuru will be conducted in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-polls-counting-at-loyola-college-today/article34065480.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accused tonsured Sivam to hide his identity, say officers||The One Town police, who rescued six-year-old Sivam Kumar Sahu, who was allegedly abducted by a person from Alipiri link bus station in Tirupati, are observing the CCTV footages at Sri Durga Malleswaraswamy Vaarla Devastanam and the neighbouring areas to identify the accused. Police suspect that the abductors travelled by bus or train to Vijayawada, and reached the temple area. They abandoned the boy at Seethammavari Padalu around 11 a.m, and escaped. Investigation officers are verifying the surveillance cameras in bus and railway stations too. “Sahu, who was seen calm, had lunch in the afternoon. He spoke in Hindi. When asked about the kidnappers, the boy was telling that he was brought to Vijayawada from Bengaluru. We suspect that the kidnappers gang might have taken the boy to Bengaluru,” said a police officer. The abductors tonsured the boy to hide his identity, the police said. “With the Alipiri police circulated the boy’s photo across Andhra Pradesh and the neighbouring States, and the photograph of Sahu published in some newspapers, the kidnappers might have tonsured the boy’s head to avoid identifying him,” an investigation officer said. “As the boy appeared cool and without any fear, we suspect that some known persons might have kidnapped Sahu, and the accused took care of the boy well. Due to fear and to prevent any further trouble, the kidnappers might have fled leaving the boy near the Kanaka Durga temple,” the officer said.  Chhattisgarh police alerted The One Town police, who confirmed that the rescued boy was Sahu (with the Alipiri police and his parents) spoke to the Chhattisgarh police (the native place of the boy). “We will hand over Sahu to his parents through Alipiri police, in the presence of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) members and the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department personnel, after verifying the Aadhar and ration cards and the family photos on Sunday,” said One Town Circle Inspector P. Venkateshwarlu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accused-tonsured-sivam-to-hide-his-identity-say-officers/article34065482.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||140 kg ganja worth Rs. 14 lakh seized, one arrested||Sleuths of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Ibrahimpatnam police on Saturday arrested a person and seized 140 kg of ganja worth about Rs. 14 lakh. The contraband was allegedly being smuggled from Paderu in Visakhapatnam Agency area to Delhi. The accused were running a godown in G. Konduru in Krishna district, and smuggling the contraband to other States, said SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Moka Sathi Babu. Police are trying to identify the kingpin of the racket in Paderu and the destination of the ganja stock. “We seized a car and took one person of G. Konduru into custody. Investigation is under progress,” the ASP said. In West Godavari In another raid, the team led by Jangareddygudem police arrested 11 persons for allegedly selling ganja at Tirumalapuram village in West Godavari district on Saturday. Raids conducted They seized 2 kg of the contraband and the accused would be produced in the court. Raids were being continued on the houses of the accused, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/140-kg-ganja-worth-rs-14-lakh-seized-one-arrested/article34064882.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tech. with skills, values important in education’||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday said the Jagan government was keen on ushering in technology-based education integrating skills and values to it. Speaking at the inaugural session of a five-day national workshop on “Data science and advanced computing”, organised by VIT-AP, the Minister said data science offered many career options such as data scientist, machine learning engineer, machine learning scientist, application architect, enterprise architect, data architect, infrastructure architect, data analyst, business intelligence developer and statistician. The Minister complimented the efforts of the university in conducting national and international workshops and conferences to give its students the exposure needed to gain an edge in the competitive job market today. Founder and Chancellor of VIT G. Viswanathan underscored the need to adopt new technologies and analytical approach in this data-driven world. He said the workshop would encourage the participants to explore new research directions and interact with experts from across the world. Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy lauded the School of Advanced Sciences in the University for organising the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tech-with-skills-values-important-in-education/article34065481.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay alert on counting day, Somu tells cadres||The subservience of officials to the YSRCP government was evident during the gram panchayat and municipal elections, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said on Saturday. “There is every possibility of manipulation of results during the counting of votes polled in the ULB elections on March 14,” Mr. Veerraju said while addressing State party office-bearers here. The unanimous elections witnessed in many gram panchayats and some municipalities were giving rise to suspicion, he said, and cautioned the BJP and JSP cadres to be alert on Sunday to ensure that the results of municipal elections were not tampered with. Referring to the attacks on Hindu temples, Mr. Veerraju said the BJP would soon take out a ‘rath yatra’ that had been foiled earlier this year. BJP national secretary Y. Satya Kumar, State party affairs co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar, and former State president Kanna Lakshminarayana and others were present. Later, addressing the media, MLC P.V.N. Madhav alleged that the ward and village volunteers had threatened the voters in the run-up to the panchayat and ULB elections. “The government will try to employ a similar tactics during the elections to the MPTCs and ZPTCs, but the BJP and JSP cadres will thwart such designs,” he said. Regarding the Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election, Mr. Madhav said his party would highlight various projects and institutions given by the Centre to the temple town. ‘No retrenchment in VSP’ Reacting to the protests against privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Mr. Madhav said the Central government would proceed with it through a consensual approach. “The VSP will neither be closed down nor its employees retrenched as is being widely campaigned,” he said. “Why is the State government looking for private partners to establish Kadapa steel plant if it is against privatisation?” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-cadres-asked-to-stay-alert-during-counting-of-votes/article34065391.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘70% of Nadu-Nedu works done’||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that 70% of the works in the first phase of the Nadu-Nedu programme have been completed in the district. Mr. Imtiaz reviewed the progress of the scheme with the mandal-level officials of the departments concerned on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz said that in the first phase, works pertaining to 1,153 schools had been taken up at a cost of Rs. 239 crore, and 70% of them were completed. He asked the officials to ensure that the remaining works were completed as per schedule by March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/70-of-nadu-nedu-works-done/article34065382.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PRSI focusing on skilling programmes||The executive committee meeting of the Amaravati chapter of Public Relations Society of India (PRSI) was held online on Saturday. It was presided over by Amaravati chapter executive chairman V.S.R. Naidu. Among other things, the meeting resolved to organise skilling programmes for students of journalism and mass communication, to bring on board a larger number of public relations professionals, mainly including eminent personalities in the field. The meeting also discussed ways to expand PRSI activities and to involve journalists and advertising executives in the process. PRSI national vice-president U.S. Sarma participated as chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prsi-focusing-on-skilling-programmes/article34065389.ece
14 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on English writing skills today||The English Language Teachers’ Association of India (ELTAI) is organising a webinar on ‘Developing Writing Skills in an ESL Context: Leveraging Technology’ on Sunday from 4.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Kashif Raza, Faculty Senator from Qatar University, will be the speaker, while Shabreen Sultana Shaik, convenor of the Guntur chapter of the ELTA, and joint secretary N. Shakeela will be the moderators. The event is open for participation to everybody. without any fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-english-writing-skills-today/article34064881.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKAHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) supports stir by bank, insurance staff||The CPI(M) district committee has extended total support to the strike proposed by the United Forum of Bank Employees (UFBU) on March 15 and 16 as also the strike by the employees of General Insurance on March 17 and by the LIC employees on March 18 to oppose privatisation. CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham said that the privatisation of banks will lead to stoppage of loans to the priority sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-supports-stir-by-bank-insurance-staff/article34065426.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials ramp up COVID-19 testing to prevent virus spread||The Health Department has increased testing at various places to prevent the possible spread of the coronavirus in the district, in the wake of the increase in COVID-19 cases in some parts of the State and a few other States in the country. During February, the district witnessed 268 cases. On an average, the number of cases reported per day was 9.5. Six persons died due to the virus. It may be noted that between February 28 and March 13, the total number of cases reported was190. On an average, 14 cases are being reported per day. Fortunately, no deaths were reported. ‘No need to panic’ District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) P Suryanarayana said that during February, the total number of tests conducted in the district on a daily basis was around 2,000. However as a precautionary measure, amid fears of the possible second wave, around 6,500 to 7,500 tests were being conducted every day in the district in March, he said.“Since we are conducting tests very extensively, there is a very slight increase in cases, may be more than five to 10. But positivity ratio is less than 0.2 %. There is no need to panic at all,” he said. According to the DMHO, among the positive cases being reported from the district, over 90 % of them are asymptomatic. Recently, four children from a couple of schools tested positive and all of them are asymptomatic. “We have traced and tested all primary and secondary contacts of the four students. The results are awaited. They are totally asymptomatic and all were quarantined,” he added.  20 new cases Meanwhile, the district reported 20 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of infections to 60,730, as on Saturday morning. The toll stands at 539 since no deaths were reported during the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin released on Saturday. The number of active cases is 94, with the recovery of 24 persons in the last one day. The number of discharges increased to 60,097.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-to-prevent-virus-spread/article34065486.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic polls: stage set for counting of votes||The district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the counting of votes, polled in the municipal elections, at Andhra University on March 14. The preparation at the counting rooms at the centres was completed on Saturday. District Collector V. Vinay Chand inspected the counting rooms along with Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner S. Nagalakshmi here on Saturday night. He discussed about the arrangements for the counting procedure. He asked the officials to conduct the counting as per the prescribed guidelines without fail and ensure transparency. It may be remembered that the district administration has separated the locations zone-wise. In north campus of the university, counting for zones 2,3,4 and 6 will be done, while in the South campus, the counting for zones 1,5,7 and 8 will be performed. The officials have allotted 98 rooms on the AU campus for the counting process of 98 wards of GVMC. Videographers will film the counting procedure at all rooms. An exclusive command control centre has been set up. The overall counting is expected to take at least 12 hours. Tight security has been arranged at the counting centre. The traffic police have arranged for parking of vehicles at various places to ensure free flow of traffic. Meanwhile, Narsipatnam Sub Collector N Mourya said that all arrangements were made at the Government Degree College at Narsipatnam, where the counting of votes polled for the Narsipatnam municipality would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-polls-stage-set-for-counting-of-votes/article34065488.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials interact with fishermen in State||Seven teams comprising personnel from the Indian Navy, Coast Guard District Headquarters 6, Coastal Security Police (AP) and representatives of the Fisheries Department jointly interacted with fishermen in the coastal districts of the State on March 12, as part of the nationwide campaign to kick-start the celebrations of 75th Anniversary of India’s Independence. The teams interacted with the fishermen and their families in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-interact-with-fishermen-in-state/article34065485.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Magisterial inquiry into death of prisoners||A magisterial inquiry will be conducted into the circumstances that led to the death of two prisoners at the Revenue Divisional Officer’s Office at the Collectorate at 11 a.m. on March 20. In one case, Batti Satyababu (63) of Digarapalli village, G.Madugula mandal, Visakhapatnam district, had died while undergoing treatment. at the King George Hospital (KGH) at around 9.05 a.m. on October 15. In another case, Urukutu Venkatesh (38) of Vedullanarava village of Sabbavaram mandal in Visakhapatnam died while undergoing treatment at the KGH at about 7.45 a.m. on August 9, 2020, according to a statement issued by Revenue Divisional Officer K. Penchala Kishore on Saturday. All the interest persons may attend the inquiry at the given date and time, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/magisterial-probe-into-death-of-2-prisoners-on-march-20/article34065400.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three persons arrested with 64 kg ganja||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), along with the Chodavaram police, conducted a raid and arrested three persons while they were allegedly transporting as much as 64 kg ganja in a car near Chodavaram in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday morning. The seized ganja is valued at about Rs. 1.64 lakh in the Agency area of the district, but it could be to the tune of Rs. 7 lakh in other States. Hid in car boot According to the officials, in order to escape police attention, the accused hid the ganja in the boot of the car. It was learnt that the accused were allegedly trying to shift the ganja to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-persons-arrested-with-64-kg-ganja/article34065427.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination for retired railway staff, dependents||Retired railway employees and dependents of serving and retired railway employees, aged 60 years and above, and those in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities, can avail of COVID-19 vaccination at the Divisional Railway Hospital in the city. The Divisional Railway Hospital has been registered as COVID Vaccination Centre and the vaccination programme was started from March 1. Waltair Division has decided to provide the vaccine as per the Ministry of Health and Family welfare guidelines, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. The retired railway employees have to register their names at the Divisional Railway Hospital between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. from Monday to Friday, except on government holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-for-retired-railway-staff-dependents/article34065483.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF Raising Day celebrated||A walk and run event was organised by the 198 BN of the CRPF in Visakhapatnam on the 82nd Raising Day of the CRPF. The CRPF is the largest paramilitary force to have been deployed to ensure internal security and law and order across the country. The CRPF achievements include counter-insurgency operations, anti-naxalite operations and law and order duties. An event was organised at RK Beach, to improve awareness among the people to remain healthy and fit. Nawal Kishore Chowdary, 21/C and S. Selva Kumar, 21/C of 198 BN, Visakhapatnam, addressed the gathering on the role and importance of the CRPF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crpf-raising-day-celebrated/article34065220.ece
14 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seminar organised on bank audits||A seminar on bank branch audit was organised by the Visakhapatnam branch of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India(ICAI) so as to update about latest changes in Statutory Bank Audits to its members on Saturday. M.P. Thakur, Deputy General Manager, SBI, who participated as the chief guest, addressed the members on the importance of statutory audits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seminar-organised-on-bank-audits/article34065484.ece
14 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rethink decision on divesting in VSP, says Narayana Murthy||Noted actor, director and producer R. Narayana Murthy has urged the Union government to protect the interests of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and farmers as the new agriculture Acts and privatisation policies have turned out to be bane of their lives. “Privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), banks and other public sector undertakings will deprive the SCs and STs of the benefit of reservation,” Mr. Narayana Murthy, who was here on Saturday to participate in a few programmes, told The Hindu . Referring to the decision to privatise VSP, he said, “Its establishment was the result of the supreme sacrifice of 32 persons and resignation of 67 MLAs.” “Along with many high school students, I too had participated in the agitation during 1966-67 seeking establishment of VSP,” he recalled. The Union government should rethink and respect the sentiments of the people, he added. “The M.N. Dastur and Company had recommended allocation of captive mines to the VSP, the absence of which is the reason for the plant incurring losses,” the actor observed. ‘Repeal farm Acts’ Mr. Narayanamurthy, who is working on the film titled ‘Rytanna’ that focusses on farmers’ issues, urged the Union government to repeal the new Farm Acts. “The government should implement the M.S. Swaminathan Commission recommendations to protect the interests of the farmers,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rethink-decision-on-divesting-in-vsp-says-narayana-murthy/article34065386.ece
14 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counting process will be recorded: Collector||As many as 77 tables were set up to count votes polled in the Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation elections, apart from Paravatipuram, Bobbili, Saluru and Nellimarla civic bodies, according to Vizianagaram District Collector M. Hari Jawaharalal. He said that the counting would begin at 8 a.m. on Sunday after shifting of ballot boxes to the respective counting centres from strongrooms. He reviewed the counting arrangements in all places. “As many as 90 supervisors and 207 counting assistants were trained in counting. Entire counting process will be recorded and monitored to ensure transparency. Agents of all the parties should cooperate with the officials and staff to complete the process successfully,” said Dr. Hari Jawaharlal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counting-process-will-be-recorded-collector/article34065422.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||An eyesore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-eyesore/article34065489.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-spirit/article34064895.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eco concern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eco-concern/article34065402.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||An eyesore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-eyesore/article34065429.ece
14 March 2021||ERRAVALLI (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Village residents gone, now houses too are disappearing||The only inhabitants of this once-bustling village appear to be the stray dogs roaming around the empty streets. Erravalli in Kondapaka mandal of Siddipet district will get submerged under Mallannasagar, a part of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP). The village is completely deserted but for five families. Two women, one young and the other elderly, are in a heated argument with Ramulu, Sarpanch Balamani’s husband, alleging injustice over payment of compensation. “We left the village about two decades ago and have been trying to make a living in Hyderabad. I was married to a man from this village and we belong here. How can I become ineligible?” asked P. Padma, wife of Srinivasachary. They are daily labourers and unable to get work as there are only five families left in the village. “We do not have enough food and had to skip dinner last night. I had to go to my mother’s house at Pragnapur and borrow 10 kg rice to sustain ourselves,” she explained. A few metres away from their house, on the other side of the road, a building is being demolished. It seems, people who left the village engaged labourers to demolish the house to recover the steel and wood (like doors and windows), which can be used at the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony coming up at Mutrajpally, where oustees from seven villages are being accommodated. “We are not getting any work here and got hired recently to demolish the house. These are the same houses which were once full of life and now, they are empty shells. It breaks our hearts to bring down these structures. We can feel the pain,” said Perla Ganesh, standing on the roof of an empty house that will soon be brought down. A bustling village once, with many fighting for compensation under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act- 2013 (LA Act- 2013), Erravalli is almost deserted now. It has lost its sheen and will never come back to life again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/village-residents-gone-now-houses-too-are-disappearing/article34065205.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Election for two Graduates’ constituencies today||The stage is set for election to two of the three Graduates’ constituencies of the Legislative Council spread over 76 Assembly constituencies in six districts of the State on Sunday. The two Graduates’ constituencies represent two clusters of erstwhile districts, Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahabubnagar and Khammam - Warangal - Nalgonda, where polling will be held from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The counting of votes will be taken up on Wednesday in Hyderabad and Nalgonda respectively though the distribution of poll material to staff was decentralised in individual districts. The election for the third Graduates’ constituency in the district representing Karimnagar - Nizamabad - Adilabad and Medak was held a few years ago when Congress candidate T. Jeevan Reddy won. The TRS and BJP are vying to retain their seats in the two constituencies but both parties face stiff challenge from rivals. The contest in Hyderabad - Rangareddy - Mahabubnagar was mainly between former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vanidevi of TRS and the incumbent MLC N. Ramchander Rao of BJP. Prof. K. Nageswar, who is backed by the CPI, G. Chinna Reddy of Congress and L. Ramana of TDP are also in the fray. There are 93 contesting candidates here, including nearly 80 Independents. In Khammam - Warangal - Nalgonda, the sitting MLC of TRS Palla Rajeswara Reddy was facing G. Premender Reddy of BJP and Telangana Jana Samiti president M. Kodandaram. They were up against a former MLC Ramulu Naik of Congress, Ms. Ranirudrama Devi of Yuva Telangana Party and Mr. Jayasaradhi Reddy of CPI. A former TV journalist Chintapandu Naveen Kumar, who is better known as Teenmaar Mallanna, the name with which he was identified while performing a satirical political programme on a TV channel, was also a strong contender. All the parties and contestants made a last ditch effort to reach out to voters on Saturday. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, who was deeply involved in the campaign for TRS in Rangareddy district, was said to have held a marathon teleconference with party in-charges of the district. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar offered prayers at Bhadrakali temple in Warangal. The parties had hired a number of function halls to accommodate their workers involved in the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/election-for-two-graduates-constituencies-today/article34065202.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID safety norms effected in Telangana border districts||Telangana Health teams in districts bordering neighbouring States are taking COVID-19 sample collection kits to people’s doorstep. Other measures such as fever survey and home isolation are being enforced to contain the resurgence of the virus. District Medical and Health Officers (DMHO) in Kamareddy, Adilabad, and other districts said they have set up check posts, and are sending medical teams to villages as well as testing contacts of coronavirus-positive patients. Health Minister Eatala Rajender directed officials on Friday to stay alert as COVID cases are seeing a spurt in neighbouring States. Health officials use ICU admission of COVID-19 patients as a yardstick to measure the resurgence. ICU admissions in government and private hospitals has been hovering between 340 and 360 a day from March 1 to 12. Surge in two States Telangana, a land-locked State, shares its border with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Of the four neighbouring States, cases are surging in Maharashtra and Karnataka. Instructions on preventing spread of the virus were issued to DMHOs in Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Nirmal, Adilabad, Asifabad, Mancherial, Jayashankar Bhupalapally and Jagtial. The mantra of tracking, testing and isolating is being followed just like it was done around the same time last year. P. Chandra Shekar, DMHO of Kamareddy, which shares border with Maharashtra, said that they formed check posts at the State border. Temperature of those coming from the neighbouring States is checked. If it is high, a Rapid Antigen Test is performed. If it is normal, they are allowed to proceed after sharing the address they are headed. “Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs) are informed and they track the people for a week to 10 days,” he said. The DMHOs have been instructed to also ramp up testing. From March 1 to 12, a maximum of 4,1000 samples collected across the State have been tested daily. The new direction is to increase it to 50,000 a day. While people getting down at railway stations and bus stops in Kamareddy are being tested on a random basis, regardless of symptoms, ANMs and ASHAs in Adilabad have been directed to conduct fever surveys through home-to-home visits. The health staff collect 10 samples from each village.  Since people are not coming to Primary Health Centres to undergo the tests, Health teams are sent to villages where positive cases are detected. Precautionary measures in the district were activated from February. “The main target for testing are primary contacts of COVID-positive persons. Thereafter, tests are conducted on others too even if they are not a contact of a positive case and do not show any symptoms. This could lead to detection of more cases, but spread of the virus can be contained,” Adilabad DMHO Narender Rathod said. Though Jagtial is not a border district, Health teams there are on alert since people from there keep migrating to Mumbai and Dubai for work, said DMHO P. Sridhar. He added that those coming from Maharashtra have to be in isolation for 14 days. ANMs and ASHAs keep track of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-safety-norms-effected-in-telangana-border-districts/article34065175.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only 26.5% sewage treated in Telangana: CPCB||Sewage treatment in Telangana scarcely meets the requirements, going by a recent technical report prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). As per the National Inventory of Sewage Treatment Plants-2021, wide gap prevails between the amount of sewage generated and that being treated in the State. For an estimated sewage generation of 2660 million litres per day (MLD) in the State, only 706 MLD is being actually treated, as per the report, which amounts to 26.5%. While the installed capacity of sewage treatment plants (STPs) is 901 MLD across the State, only 842 MLD is operational. Of the operational capacity, the actual utilisation is only 706 MLD. All the operational STPs are not fully compliant with the norms, as apparent from the water quality parameters. Of the 842 MLD, only 637 MLD capacity has been found to be compliant. A total 24 MLD capacity is non-compliant and 35 MLD is under construction. Of the total installed capacity in 37 STPs, Amberpet treatment plant alone constitutes 339 MLD, which is found to be compliant though its actual utilisation is only 300 MLD. The STP at Nagole on river Musi constitutes 172 MLD more, which is only partially compliant, with Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) shooting past the stipulated limits. Of the two STPs on the Musi at Attapur with the capacities of 23 MLD and 51 MLD respectively, only the latter is fully compliant. The STP on Khajaguda lake too is only partially compliant, while two STPs in Pragathi Nagar Lake, and Krishnakanth Park respectively are non-operational. Much of the total capacity exists within the city limits, with only 164 MLD installed outside the city encompassing Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts. Citing nation-wide statistics, the report said a total of 72,368 MLD of sewage is generated across various urban centres, while installed treatment capacity is only 31,841 which amounts to about 44%. Of the installed capacity, only 26,869 MLD is operationalised, and 20,235 MLD actually utilised. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Karnatana are the top five states which have installed significant STP facilities, contributing 60.5% or 19,250 MLD of the total capacity of the country, the report said. Together with Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab,Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan they contribute close to 86% of the total installed capacity. Strengthening the sewerage system, focus on operation and maintenance of treatment facilities, utilisation of treated sewage for non-potable purposes such as horticulture, irrigation, fire fighting, industrial cooling, toilet flushing, and others, besides providing treated sewage to industrial clusters and zones are some of the suggestions put forth by the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-265-sewage-treated-in-telangana-cpcb/article34065194.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIMIM likely to contest West Bengal polls in last phases||After the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen won five seats in the recent Bihar polls, party president Asaduddin Owaisi had announced his intentions of fighting the upcoming West Bengal Assembly polls in constituencies that have a sizeable Muslim population. But of late, Mr Owaisi has been tight-lipped about his plans. Meet with cleric The Hyderabad parliamentarian had met Furfura Sharif cleric Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui in January and expressed his support to him. But after with the cleric floated his own party – the India Secular Front - and allied with the Congress-Left combine, the AIMIM has been guarded in its response, and announcements with respect to the upcoming Assembly polls. However, it is now learned that a chunk of the seats the AIMIM is likely to contest will be in the last three phases of the eight-phase West Bengal election. These constituencies are those where there is a sizeable Muslim population, and the chances of the party’s win are favourable. Gound reports “For the past few weeks, party MLA Jafar Hussain Meraj, Bihar legislators and (Mehdipatnam) corporator Majid Hussain, and others have taken stock of the situation there. The party studied the situation in six or seven districts such as Murshidabad and Malda. The party has all ground reports and is looking to fielding candidates in constituencies which will go to the polls in the last three phases. It is likely that the TMC (Trinamool Congress) will not be affected here,” said a source aware of the development in the party, adding that the ‘scenario seems to have changed after the ‘attack’ on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Marginal players The source said that the party is of the opinion that the Congress and Left are marginal players and that the electoral fight is between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the TMC. “We will announce our candidates at the right time,” a senior party functionary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aimim-likely-to-contest-west-bengal-polls-in-last-phases/article34065217.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||An MP caused my downfall: Nowhera||Heera gold scam accused, who allegedly cheated over 1.70 lakh investors of Rs. 5,600 crore, accused a prominent Member of Parliament from Telangana, of causing her downfall in the multi-crore business. She alleged that the MP had lodged the first complaint against her in 2012 with Hyderabad city police. “Since then many of his followers lodged several complaints against me at various police stations across the country with an aim to bring down my profit-making business,” Ms. Nowhera said while addressing a press conference here on Saturday, for the first time after she was released on bail in January. The founder of Heera Group was arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police in New Delhi on October 15, 2018, and since then she had been behind bars at various prisons in southern States. Incidentally, Ms. Shaik is also the founder of the Mahila Empowerment Party which contested 2018 Assembly elections in Karnataka. “The MP and his men were unable to digest the fact that a woman was successful in both business and political life and conspired to crumble it by misusing their power with the help of various government agencies,” she said. Ms. Nowhera, who promised to return crores of rupees to her investors, and resume her businesses before Ramzan (May 12), alleged that some of the prime properties, including one lakh square yards of land parcel at Tolichowki, which was attached by various government agencies, including Enforcement Directorate, was encroached upon by associates of the MP, where they had come up with a seven-storey structure. ‘Threats and blackmail’ “It all started when his men started threatening me and tried to blackmail me with an attempt to make money. When I refused their demands, they started harassing me and lodging complaints,” she said. She assured all the investors of returning their money, whoever wanted to take it back, as and when Hyderabad police handed over the company’s seized data centre. The Supreme Court gave two weeks to Hyderabad police and one week was already over, Ms. Nowhera said. The multi-crore businesswoman, who was behind bars for two years and five months, including eight months of police custody, said that all her business models were legal and she was paying an income tax of more than Rs. 100 crore per year, besides other taxes. “It was doing g well till the day of my arrest. The MP and his alleged nexus with police is solely responsible for the downfall, which left thousands of my staff unemployed,” she said. In January she was granted bail by the Supreme Court, which directed her to repay the investors and get arrested again. ‘29 FIRs’ “A total of 29 FIRs were booked against me across the country, and if you check the profile of the complainants, they all are linked to that politician, who accused me of running an Rs. 50,000 crore illegal business,” Ms. Nowhera said. She demanded that the government book the MP and his associates for trying to ‘break’ the Indian economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-mp-caused-my-downfall-nowhera/article34065190.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS cadre celebrate Kavitha’s birthday||Birthday of MLC K. Kavitha, who turned 44 on Saturday, was celebrated by her followers, members of Talangana Jagruthi, the cultural organisation headed by her, and cadres of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) across the State. A rangoli artist from Maharashtra, Shailesh Kulkarni, has arranged (drawn) a 60-feet rangoli of Ms. Kavitha on the premises of Ravindra Bharathi here. A team of about 6 rangoli artists led by Mr. Kulkarni spent about 20 hours to draw it with cost of about Rs. 1 lakh. It was arranged at the behest of TRS youth wing leader from Nizamabad, Pabba Sai Prasad. A large number of visitors, particularly the followers of Ms. Kavitha and TRS cadres, took photographs at the rangoli. At the Telangana Jagruthi office in Ashoknagar, a cake was cut by Home Minister Md. Mahamood Ali. Along the Musheerabad MLA M. Gopal, Sports Authority Chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy, party leader G. Devi Prasad Rao also released a special song on Ms. Kavitha. Blood donation A blood donation camp was organised there where 150 Jagruthi and TRS activists donated blood. Besides, bicycles were distributed to 30 girl students and scooters were given to six physically challenged persons on the occasion. Activists of Jagruthi presented a machine used in the automobile workshop run by one Y. Adilaxmi, a woman mechanic at Sujathanagar in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. The machine was ordered from Coimbatore. Her birthday witnessed grand celebrations with TRS leaders cutting cakes, planting saplings, distributing food and saris. Ms. Kavita was hailed as the woman and the daughter of Telangana who brought fame to the floral festival Bathukamma, world wide by her followers during the celebrations. Home Minister Mahmood Ali , Musheerabad MLA Muta Gopal, SATS Chairman Allipuram Venkateshwar Reddy and senior TRS leaders participated At the celebrations organised by Telangana Jagruthi Chapter, 30 bicycles and six three-wheeler scooters were distributed to girls and specially abled people. Ms. Kavitha herself, planted saplings at Pragathi Bhavan along with her mother Shobhamma and MP Santosh Joginapally as part of her birthday celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-cadre-celebrate-kavithas-birthday/article34065210.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Little girl’s birthday wish is a TRS win! KTR turns emotional||A little girl from Karimnagar made TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao emotional on Sunday when he wanted to surprise the girl on her birthday by personally calling her on the phone. When the Minister offered her a gift on her birthday and sought her choice, she simply floored him saying “a win for Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) in the MLC elections” would be her best gift. An overwhelmed Minister thanked her and promised to meet her personally during his next visit to the town. He also sent a cake and some gifts to the little girl through the party leaders there. The girl, Nabila Mohammed, is the daughter of a TRS activist Khaja Nazar Hussain, who was in the city for the last few days in the party’s campaign in support of the candidates in the Graduate MLC elections to be held on Sunday. Partyman’s commitment During a teleconference with the party activists, Mr. KTR was informed about Hussain’s commitment for the party as he did not even attend his uncle’s last rites during the campaign period. He was in the city for the last 20 days and despite his wife expecting, he preferred to stay in Hyderabad. Mr. KTR, during a conversation with him, praised his work for the party. During the conversation, Hussain revealed that it was his daughter’s birthday as well and the Minister immediately called up the girl to personally wish her. While wishing her the best, Mr. KTR asked whether she wanted any gift from him and the little girl made him emotional seeking a win for the TRS candidates. The Minister said the party had the blessings of such little children and also committed workers like Mr. Hussain. “They are the strength of the party,” Mr. KTR said, while assuring that the party would stand by the cadre and their families in their tough times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/little-girls-birthday-wish-is-a-trs-win-ktr-turns-emotional/article34065219.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kendra Sahitya Akademi award for Nikhileshwar||Five decades since he began writing poetry, questioning society and its systems, Nikhileshwar, born as Kumbam Yadava Reddy, has been honoured by the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award for his anthology, Agniswaasa. “I feel honoured that my collection of poems written between 2015-17 has been chosen for the award. The anthology is a commentary on the contradictions in the society that have been created over the past 5-6 years,” said Nikhileshwar, who then read out lines from one of his poems: “ Prajalu naadi nokki pedatunna palakulu, Badi kantey ee roju gudi matrame nadavadi sootram.” Roughly translated, the lines mean: “The rulers who are suppressing the pulse of the people are prioritising temples over schools as their guiding principle”. Born in Veeravalli near Bhongir, the poet was among six writers who changed their names in 1965 as part of a literary movement known as Digambara. He changed his name to Nikhileshwar. “This school of thought challenged the established systems as they were oppressive and against the laws of nature. The poets felt that human growth is not possible under the existing system. They wanted to re-establish systems allowing human fulfilment in nature,” said Harikrishna Mamidi, poet and director of Language and Culture department of Telangana. Over the past five decades, Nikhileshwar has been a voice of the oppressed, and was even sent to prison during Emergency under Maintenance of Internal Security Act (a precursor to Unlawful Activities Prevention Act). Migrating to the city from their village, Nikhileswar was brought up by his mother Kumbam Narsamma who started working in Vazir Sultan Tobacco. “I taught English at Keshav Memorial High School for 30 years and kept writing poetry. This recognition has come as a welcome surprise for me,” said the poet who lives in Nallakunta in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nikhileshwar-named-for-kendra-sahitya-akademi-award/article34065181.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||US DFC announces support for city-based vaccine maker||The U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has said it will assist vaccine maker Biological E scale up to produce at least one billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by 2022, including Johnson & Johnson vaccines. “It is hard to conceive of an investment with a greater developmental impact than using our financial tools to increase the capacity of vaccine manufacturing to help developing countries in Asia and around the world respond to COVID-19 and other diseases,” DFC COO David Marchick said in a statement. It seeks to invest $5-500 million on each eligible project, pertaining to COVID vaccines, through a range of financial tools, which includes equity and debt financing, political risk insurance, and technical development. Coinciding with the first Quad Summit, in which leaders from the U.S., Australia, India, and Japan participated, the announcement is bound to help Biological E consolidate its position as a leader among vaccine makers. It forayed into vaccine manufacturing nearly six decades ago and supplied to more than 100 countries. Biological E is a woman-run and woman-operated business, advancing DFC’s 2X Women’s Initiative to promote global gender equity. The vaccines Biological E plans to produce with the assistance of DFC’s financing complement existing efforts to vaccinate as many people in the world as possible in the shortest amount of time, the statement said. A spokesperson of Biological E said the company would wait for a formal communication and more details before commenting on the development. The firm had, in August, announced separate agreements with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (a Janssen Pharmaceutical Company of Johnson & Johnson) and Baylor College of Medicine for COVID-19 vaccines. In December, it said it has got into an exclusive license agreement for a COVID-19 vaccine technology with Ohio State Innovation Foundation. Biological E is also working with the Indian Council of Medical Research. When the twin partnerships were announced, BE managing director Mahima Datla had said “given the magnitude of the pandemic, our ability to mount an effective response will be predicated on the ability to supply the vaccine globally and in significant quantities. This is best achieved through collaboration”. The USFDA had last month accorded emergency use authorisation to the Janssen COVID vaccine, the third such. Hyderabad to fore The DFC announcement is set to enhance the focus on Hyderabad’s vaccine manufacturing capabilities. Known as the vaccine capital of the world, it produces one-third of the global vaccines or an estimated 6 billion doses a year. Besides a number of established players like Bharat Biotech, whose Covaxin is one of the two COVID-19 vaccines approved by India and used in the immunisation programme since mid-January, Biological E, Indian Immunologicals, Sanofi firm Shanta Biotechnics, traditional pharma companies like Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories, Aurobindo Pharma and Hetero Group have forayed, through different partnerships to market, develop and manufacture vaccines.  It is hard to conceive of an investment with a greater developmental impact than using our financial tools to increase the capacity of vaccine manufacturing to help developing countries. David Marchick, COO, Development Finance Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/us-dfc-announces-support-for-city-based-vaccine-maker/article34065178.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||216 virus cases detected in TS||A surge in COVID-19 cases was noticeable as the State recorded 216 cases on Friday, which is the highest since January 23. More than 200 people with coronavirus were detected in a day till that day. The cases started to decline thereafter. In February, the highest positive cases detected were 189, on February 25. The State Health department examined 34,482 people on Friday and two more COVID-19 patients have died. Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Friday directed officials to test 50,000 samples in a day. Currently, from March 1-12, a maximum of around 41,000 samples were put to test. With increase in tests, more cases might be recorded. The new 216 cases include 52 from Greater Hyderabad, 19 from Rangareddy, 18 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 11 from Karimnagar. No cases were recorded in Suryapet, Narayanpet, Mulugu, and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. From March 2 last year to March 12 this year, a total of 91,49,467 samples were put to test and 3,00,933 persons were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 1,918 are active while 2,97,363 have recovered, and 1,652 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-216-cases-covid-tally-touches-new-high-since-jan/article34065173.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP complaint to Union Minister over ‘fake news’||The State Bharatiya Janata Party has requested Union Minister for IT and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad to constitute an independent team of experts to investigate into the matter of “spreading fake news against BJP and its leaders in Telangana”, particularly by media convenors of TRS and Congress, and unravel the conspiracy to book the culprits. Letter to Minister In a two-page detailed letter addressed to the Union Minister on Saturday, general secretary of T-BJP D. Pradeep Kumar also sought the Ministry’s intervention in directing the police and all other officials concerned to initiate immediate probe into the matter and take action against those responsible. He explained in the letter that during campaigning for the two Graduates’ constituencies, pieces of fake news were posted on social media in which it was stated that State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar had accumulated properties to the tune of Rs. 600 crore. The posts were made from the profile of “Spirit of TS”, “Voice of Telangana”, and “Ponnam Prabhakar Yuvasena”. “The false information was wilfully circulated on social media with an intention to malign Mr. Sanjay Kumar. Besides, host of other fake news items were created with morphed logos of a few popular Telugu television news channels and newspapers. An edited and false video was uploaded by Twitter handles of two TRS leaders M. Krishank and Jagan P. The fake videos were cleverly crafted to create a wrong impression of Mr. Sanjay Kumar,” the BJP general secretary wrote. ‘No probe yet’ He also mentioned that complaints were lodged with the police but no investigation was taken. An independent probe by experts would also serve as a test case to pre-empt such tactics in future, he said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-complaint-to-union-minister-over-fake-news/article34065199.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held for trying to smuggle gold||A passenger who tried smuggling 627 grams of gold paste was detained by the Hyderabad Customs at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad on Saturday. The accused passenger, who arrived from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight no. G9458 at the airport, had concealed the gold paste in his specially designed slippers, the officials said When the passenger was processed, the officials extracted 594 grams valued at Rs. 27.4 lakh from him, and the accused passenger was taken into custody for further questioning. On Friday the Customs officials booked cases against four passengers who arrived at the airport from Sharjah by IndiGo 6E-1406 for smuggling gold, the officials said. “The gold cut pieces weighing 471 grams worth Rs. 20.67 lakh were hidden in the mouth of the passengers,” the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-held-for-trying-to-smuggle-gold/article34065191.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rare sculpture of Kalyani Chalukya prince discovered||A distinctive sculpture of a Kalyani Chalukya prince was recently discovered at a Lord Shiva’s temple at Kalleda village in Telangana’s Warangal (Rural) district. Kalledavillage is widely known for two historical temples dedicated to Lord Vishnu and Shiva, which were founded during the Kalyani Chalukya period (late 11th century A.D) with typical architectural features . While conducting a detailed exploration of the Shiva shrine in the village, D.Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist, Temple Survey Project (Southern Region) Archaeological Survey of India, Chennai, had stumbled upon a sculpture of a royal personality at the entrance. Royal figure Narrating the significance of this sculpture to The Hindu , Mr.Babu said that the most surprising aspect of the shrine is that it possesses a very rare remarkable and so far not discovered sculptural representation of a royal figure at its entrance. “The figure stands ceremoniously and his posture heightens his princely stature. His right hand carries a spear while left hand holds a pouch,” he said. The most distinguishing feature of the discovered sculpture was the jewelled royal turban on the head. “This probably reflects a peculiar practice of Kalyani Chalukya rulers. The prince wears rich stringed necklaces around his neck,decorative amulets,wristlets, ear-rings, as well as a belly band,” he said. Lower garment According to Mr. Babu, the prince in the sculpture wears a smart lower garment. “The legs are not visible, as they are covered by soil. It is made out of granite stone. Though very badly damaged due to ravages of time the sculpture has not lost its original charm,” he said. The archaeologist further interpreted that the princely figure in this sculpture might be the Kumara Tailapa, the younger brother of Bhulokamalla and son of sovereign Kalyani Chalukya king Vikramaditya-IV. Vikramaditya appointed him as chief of Kandurunadu. “As representative of the king, he used to visit many places even in the provinces of other chiefs who were subordinates under the control of his father. Consequently, he might have visited the ancient Kalleda village and adorned the Shiva and Kesava temples which were built during the rule of Vikramaditya by one of his local chiefs,” Mr. Babu noted, adding that honouring the rajakumara (prince), an unknown provincial chief carved the sculpture and placed it on the temple premises. Unforgettable link After the demise of Vikramaditya-IV, his royal heir Kumara Tailapa was defeated by Kakati Prola-II around 1137 A.D. and driven out of his Kandurunadu appendage. However, Kumara Tailapa’s association as a regal member of Kalyani Chalukya dynasty with the Telangana provinces is unforgettable, the archaeologist said. “This discovery will surely strengthen the cultural life of Telangana during the medieval times,” Mr.Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rare-sculpture-of-kalyani-chalukya-prince-discovered-in-warangal-rural/article34065184.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vote for people with clean record: parties||Political parties called upon graduates and professionals to reject candidates who tried to buy their vote through money or other means and ensure that people with good credentials are sent to the Legislature. Party representatives also accused each other of mud-slinging, either charging with corrupt methods or spreading misinformation. AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju in a statement here alleged that the TRS was resorting to massive illegal and unethical election practices by dispensing huge amounts of money and liquor. He claimed that the ruling party leaders were trying to influence voters by distributing Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 for each vote. He said educated voters should not succumb to the pressures of the ruling party and those taking money don’t have the right to question the government on filling up vacancies or provide better employment opportunities. Senior BJP leader Gudur Narayana Reddy said intellectuals should elect their own voices by casting votes to candidates who can question the government and keep the undemocratic practices in check. In a statement here, he said BJP candidates have a clean record in public life and have been involved in raising their voice on people’s issues for long. He pointed out that BJP candidates Ramachandra Rao and Premendar Reddy were not only fighters of the cause of the people but they are also good lawyers who can argue and talk about the issues of the people in the house of elders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vote-for-people-with-clean-record-parties/article34065204.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two from Jharkhand held in bank fraud||Two persons from Jharkhand, who were involved in various bank fraud cases, were arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crime police. The arrested accused are Govind Mondal and Manoj Das from Dhanbad and Jamtara, respectively. In May last police received a complaint from a resident of Troop Bazar stating that he received a call from an unknown number asking him to activate KYC details via link which he sent through a message. He opened the link and gave his details – his phone number and his UPI pin -- and added Rs. 1 (one rupee) as directed by the caller, who claimed to be a bank employee. “Again, he received another call wherein the telecaller asked him to change his UPI pin or else he might lose all the amount from his account. Then the complainant suspected it as fraud and he didn’t change his UPI,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. A fews days later, when the victim checked his messages, he got a text that Rs. 93,477 had been debited from his account in four instalments. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and police launched a probe. In another case, a complaint was lodged in the same month by a resident of Murad Nagar stating that he received a phone call stating that his ATM card was blocked. The complainant informed that his SBI account had Rs. 1000 and then the caller asked for another bank card details. “Believing him as a bank employee, he had informed his HDFC debit card number, CVV number and OTP which he received. After that, he received a message that Rs. 45,490 was debited from his HDFC account,” Mr. Mohanty said. He then contacted the caller who assured him of refund using GooglePay or PhonePe and asked him to download QS App. “The victim had opened the PhonePe app and entered the amount and clicked on Pay to get a refund. After that, received another message from the bank stating Rs. 45,000 were debited from his account,” the officer. Soon, he realised that it was a fraud call and that the caller had cheated him of Rs. 89,490 and lodged a complaint. Mr. Mohanty said the accused colluded with their associates to get bank account details to receive money on commission basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-in-bank-fraud-case/article34065214.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man honey-trapped, cheated of Rs. 2 lakh||A man from Malakpet approached Hyderabad Cyber Crime police on Saturday stating that a woman cheated him of Rs. 2 lakh after a sleazy chat and ‘naked’ video call. The victim informed the police that a few days ago he got a Facebook friend request from a woman and they started chatting after he accepted it. During their conversation, she asked him for his WhatsApp number, which he shared. “Soon, she makes a video call to him and appears in a nude state and asks him to strip. He gets excited and removes all his clothes to develop a ‘conversation’ with the woman,” an officer said. During the process, she recorded his entire act using a screen recording application, uploaded the video on YouTube and sent him a link, demanding money to take it down from the internet. He got panicky and paid Rs. 50,000 to the woman in four or five instalments. A few days later, he got another call from a man stating to be a police officer from the Delhi Crime branch informing him of his obscene video chat with the woman, who lodged a complaint against him. The officer demanded Rs. 1.50 lakh to convince the woman to withdraw the case and the victim paid the money, police said. “Even that was a fraud call,” they said. “When the woman started demanding more money, he approached us,” the officer said. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-honey-trapped-cheated-of-rs-2-lakh/article34065215.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bus driver booked for drunk driving||A private bus driver was booked by the Narayanaguda traffic police for driving under the influence of alcohol. Inspector B Chandra Mohan said that on Friday night while conducting an enforcement drive at YMCA circle, Narayanaguda, they stopped a Volvo Bus. “When subjected to breathe analyser test, the driver, G Govardhanagiri’s (51), BAC level was 47mg /100ml that has exceeded the permissible BAC level of 35 mg /100 ml as mentioned in Section 185 (a) MV Act,” the officer said. The bus, belonging to Sadiq Travel of Anantapur, was proceeding to Hindupur from Hyderabad with five passengers. A case was registered and the vehicle was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bus-driver-booked-for-drunk-driving/article34065212.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for transporting liquor to Andhra Pradesh||Two youngsters who were illegally transporting liquor to Andhra Pradesh from Hyderabad were arrested by Hayathnagar police here on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, the police intercepted a car and auto of the accused persons near Koheda village on the outer ring road, and seized 600 liquor bottles (136 litres), worth Rs. 6 lakh. Ramavath Damoder (26), driver from Nalgonda, and Ramavath Hari (22), auto driver from Hasthinapuram, were illegally transporting the liquor to AP as prices were high when compared to Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-transporting-liquor-to-andhra-pradesh/article34065213.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Railway terminal to be temporarily shifted||The South Central Railway has announced that some trains will originate or terminate from the Kachiguda railway station instead of Secunderabad railway station from March 15 to 24 to facilitate construction and commissioning of Automatic Coach Wash Plant at Secunderabad. Affected trains The trains to depart from Kachiguda instead of Secunderabad from March 17 to March 24 are train No. 02704 Secunderabad - Howarah special (Falaknuma Express), train No. 02787 Secunderabad - Danapur special and train No. 07064 Secunderabad - Manmad special (Ajanta Express). The trains to arrive at Kachiguda are train No. 02703 Howrah - Secunderabad special (Falaknuma Express) scheduled to depart Howrah from March 16 to 23 will arrive at Kachiguda instead of Secunderabad from March 17 to March 24. Train No. 02788 Danapur - Secunderabad special scheduled to depart from Danapur from March 15 to 23 will arrive at Kachiguda from March 16 to March 24. Train No. 07063 Manmad - Secunderabad special (Ajanta Express) scheduled to depart from Manmad from March 16 to March 23 will arrive at Kachiguda from March 17 to March 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/railway-terminal-to-be-temporarily-shifted/article34065179.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine given to 13k seniors||The first dose of COVID-19 vaccine was administered to 20,392 people on Friday aged 60 years and above as well as those in the 45-59 year age group with co-morbidities. Of them, 13,437 beneficiaries were senior citizens. Apart from them, 895 healthcare workers and 800 frontline Workers also took the first jab while 12,997 were given the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-given-to-13k-seniors/article34065433.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine given to 13,000-plus senior citizens||The first dose of COVID-19 vaccine was administered to 20,392 people on Friday aged 60 years and above as well as those in the 45-59 year age group with co-morbidities. Of them, 13,437 beneficiaries were senior citizens. Apart from them, 895 healthcare workers and 800 frontline Workers also took the first jab while 12,997 were given the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-given-to-13000-plus-senior-citizens/article34065176.ece
14 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Those behind Bhainsa riots won’t be spared’||Minister for Forests, Environment and Endowments A. Indrakaran Reddy stated that the government would not spare those behind the riots in Mahagaon village and Bhainsa town in Nirmal district recently. The Minister, along with District Collector Musharraf Ali Faruqui, SP Vishnu Warrior, Mudhol MLA G. Vittal Reddy and other local leaders visited Bhainsa and Nirmal on Saturday and went round the riot-hit areas including the shops gutted in Bhainsa and consoled the affected families. He assured the victims that the government would extended all necessary help. Speaking to media persons later, the Minister said he was deeply pained at the situation the people of Bhainsa were in following the riots, as the normal life had been thrown out of gear. Daily-wagers, middle-class and petty vendors were being put to a lot of hardship. The Minister observed that such incidents would impact the development of the town and the surrounding villages. He felt that there was a need to work for normalisation of the situation, it was the responsibility of all, irrespective of political affiliations, to prevent recurrence of such riots in future. He, however, alleged that some parties were trying to make political gains out of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/those-behind-riots-wont-be-spared-says-indrakaran/article34065198.ece
14 March 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSPSC mail ID spoofed||Telangana State Public Service Commission secretary A Vani Prasad lodged a complaint with Hyderabad Cyber Crime police stating that some cyber fraudsters spoofed the commission’s mail ID and sent a mail to Twitter to verify the handle. Police said that the fraudster sent the mail with seven official accounts of Telangana State Public Service Commission, which were already verified and another unverified handle link. “The Twitter people suspected the mail to be a fake, and sent it to the director of Telangana Digital Media, who in turn alerted the TSPSC officials to verify the email id,” the officer said. The officials checked their mail ID outbox and found that no such mail was sent to Twitter from them to verify ‘TRteam_Official’ handle. Based on the complaint, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tspsc-mail-id-spoofed/article34065192.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sub-registrar offices closed today||The sub-registrar offices in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Khammam and Warangal districts will remain closed on Sunday in view of the Legislative Council elections, though they were earlier asked to be kept open for registration of non-agricultural properties on all days of March, except Holi, as there was a spurt in registration activity because the financial year was coming to an end. The government in a release clarified that registration of agricultural transactions will be done through advance slot booking using Dharani portal in Tahsil offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sub-registrar-offices-closed-today/article34065200.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Degrees awarded to 228 students of VJIM||Vignana Jyothi Institute of Management (VJIM) hosted its 26th convocation at its Bachupally campus where 228 students received their degrees. Shalini Lal, CEO UNQBE and Infinite OD, was the chief guest on the occasion and gave away gold medals and prizes to students who excelled in exams. The P. Punnaiah Gold Medal in Marketing was awarded to Kommi Divya Supraja and the Second Merit award in Marketing was presented to Boddu Shreya. The First Merit Award in HR went to Kampa Gopi and the Second Merit Award was conferred on V. Veda Srujana. In Business Analytics, Kommi Divya Supraja topped followed by M. Harshita Reddy. Alumni Gold Medal for the Best Summer Internship was awarded to Swati Hiware.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/degrees-awarded-to-228-students-of-vjim/article34065434.ece
14 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed in road accident||A 32-year-old man was killed in a road accident on Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway at Shamshabad here on Saturday. The victim, Rakesh Kumar (32), a medical counsellor from Uppal, hailed from Mahabubnagar district. According to Shamshabad police, the accident took place around 11 a.m. near Gudigandal village in Shamshabad mandal of Rangareddy district. “To avoid hitting a slow moving vehicle in the same direction, the victim suddenly applied brakes, as a result he lost control and rammed a median,” police said.  He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-road-accident/article34065211.ece
14 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Battle among 71 candidates||Over 1.29 lakh voters in the old undivided Khammam district are expected to exercise their franchise in the high-stakes Legislative Council election to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates constituency on Sunday. The constituency is witnessing a keen electoral battle among a total of 71 candidates including the TRS’s sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, the Congress party’s S Ramulu Naik, the CPI-CPI (M)’s Jayasaradhi Reddy, the TJS’s M. Kodandaram, the BJP’s G Premender Reddy, the TIP’s Cheruku Sudhakar, the YTP’s G Rani Rudrama and the AAP’s N Tirumala Rao besides independent contestants including Teenmar Mallanna. Meanwhile, elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure smooth conduct of the MLC election in as many as 127 polling stations in Khammam district and 62 in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Sunday. In Khammam district, around 750 police personnel will oversee the security arrangements to prevent untoward incidents. Mobile teams and flying squads have been constituted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/battle-among-71-candidates/article34065207.ece
14 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Video on ‘cash’ goes viral||A video clip, purportedly showing an elected representative of the ruling TRS allegedly assuring to pay money to voters during a meeting held two days ago in Wyra, surfaced on social media on Saturday, a day ahead of the MLC election slated for Sunday. The video created a flutter in political circles. The leader, who allegedly made the “off-the-record” comment, retracted his remark saying he meant meeting the “expenses” incurred by the party cadre during the just concluded election campaign. A section of the ruling party leaders termed the circulation “politically motivated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/video-on-cash-goes-viral/article34065208.ece
14 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Returning Officer reviews arrangements for MLC polls||District Collector and Returning Officer of the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency elections Prashant J. Patil said on Saturday that all measures have been put in place for polling on Sunday. Of the total 5,05,565 registered graduates in the composite constituency spread in 12 districts of undivided Warangal, Khammam and Nalgonda districts, 90,826 from Nalgonda would exercise their franchise. In all, there will be 731 polling stations, and polling in Nalgonda district will be carried out from 130 polling stations, which will be supervised by the respective presiding officer, assistant presiding officer and other electoral staff. For strict application of model code of conduct, 31 flying squads, 12 videography units, and micro observers will be on duty. Arrangements such as appointment of 17 nodal officers and another 46 sector and route officials in Nalgonda have been made for smooth conduct of proceedings. During the review meeting on Saturday, the Returning Officer gave final instructions to polling officials at the distribution centre set up at N.G. College. Mr. Patil also asked all polling staff and voters to compulsorily adhere to all COVID norms. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said that foolproof arrangements have been made for the polling day. About 1,100 police officials will be on duty in Nalgonda. Following distribution of polling material, EO and Principal Secretary (Youth Services) Sabyasachi Ghosh reviewed the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-arrangements-in-place-for-mlc-polls/article34065196.ece
14 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||As part of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officials participated in a plantation drive at the government high school at Kandi mandal headquarters town on Saturday. Later, they handed over cash prize and bags to about 150 students. Chief Commissioner, Hyderabad Zone, Mallika Arya, N. Sridhar, M. Murali Krishna, P. Jayadev, Tarun Kanthi Basu and headmaster K. Vijay Kumar participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34065222.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Divine spectacle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/divine-spectacle/article34065187.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two youth die after bike hits road divider||A 20-year-old youth and his friend died after their bike allegedly hit a road divider in Dwarka here on Saturday. The police said that the deceased have been identified as Sumit and Vikas. A PCR call was received around 6 a.m. about the accident. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that an information was received from DDU Hospital that Sumit, a resident of Najafgarh, was brought dead. Vikas’s brother Vinit said that Sumit had come to their house. Later, they went to drop Sumit at Dwarka junction. Vikas was riding the motorcycle. Vikas died during treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-youth-die-after-bike-hits-road-divider/article34065064.ece
14 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Ruckus in Odisha Assembly for second consecutive day||The Odisha Assembly witnessed unruly scenes for the second consecutive day on Saturday with both the Opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress, and the ruling Biju Janata Dal members coming face to face with each other over the alleged non-procurement of paddy in the State. The House was adjourned till Monday. While the BJP and the Congress wanted a concrete assurance from the government over paddy procurement from all farmers, the BJD members demanded that Subash Panigrahi, the BJP MLA who tried to consume sanitiser over the issue on Friday, tender an apology. Both the Opposition and Treasury Bench members rushed to the well of the House shouting slogans in favour of their demands. “As long as all paddy stocks are not procured in mandis across the State, we will not let the House function normally. The government has betrayed farmers,” charged senior Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. Mr. Bahinipati, however, took strong exceptions to the Ministers rushing to the well of the House saying it was against the convention of the Assembly. BJD MLA Pratap Deb said the BJP member’s bid to consume sanitiser had set a bad precedent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ruckus-in-odisha-assembly-for-second-consecutive-day/article34065088.ece
14 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha may promote students to next class||With the number of COVID-19 cases showing an upward trend in some parts of the country, the Odisha government is contemplating to promote all students from Classes 1 to 8 to the next higher classes this year. If promoted, it will be the second consecutive class promotions for students without physically appearing for their examinations. Last year, the State government had shut down schools due to the pandemic while the students were in the middle of the examinations. School and Mass Education Minister Samir Ranjan Das expressed apprehension that there is remote chance of conducting physical classes for Classes 1 to 8 this year in view of the resurgence of COVID-19 cases in the country. “We had to promote everyone though students had attended their respective classes. This year, students could not attend classes. And there is little chance of opening schools for them. However, the Chief Minister will take a final decision regarding class promotions,” said Mr. Dash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-may-promote-students-to-next-class/article34065089.ece
14 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab AAP chief holds meetings to bolster stir||Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann on Saturday held three public meetings in Mansa district to garner support for the party’s ‘Kisan Mahasammelan’ on March 21 aimed at strengthening the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new agri laws. Mr. Mann, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Lok Sabha MP from Sangrur, said Delhi Chief Minister and the party national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will come to Punjab for the event. During his meetings at Ulakh, Makha and Kharak Singh Wala villages, Mr. Mann appealed to the people to attend the event at Baghapurana in Moga district in large numbers to show the nation that the farmers’ agitation is still strong. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema held a roadshow at Ajnala in Amritsar district to galvanise support for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-aap-chief-holds-meetings-to-bolster-stir/article34065375.ece
14 March 2021||CUTTACK,||Orissa HC asks DMs to report after surprise jail visits||Adjudicating on a 15-year-old writ petition and after receiving a recent report submitted by the amicus curiae in the matter, the Orissa High Court has expressed shock and concern over the precarious conditions prevailing in various jails of the State. A Bench headed by Chief Justice S. Muralidhar has directed all District Magistrates to make surprise visits to the jails in their respective jurisdictions and submit reports detailing conditions, overcrowding, food, accommodation and recreation of inmates. Next hearing on April 27 “Preferably, these visits should be unannounced,” stated an order passed by the High Court, fixing April 27 for the next hearing. The State government, in the meantime, has been asked to arrange at least one medical visit to each jail and submit a report on it. The High Court has also sought cooperation from the Odisha State Legal Aid Services Authority and the High Court Legal Aid Services Authority for the execution of jail reforms in the State as suggested by the Supreme Court in its judgments passed in 2016 and 2017. Based on amicus curiae Gautam Mishra’s report of at least five deaths of inmates in Odisha jails during the last five years, the High Court has asked the government to inform it separately as to what action has been taken in each of these custodial deaths. The government will also inform the court by the next date about the instructions it has issued with regard to discontinuance of handcuffing of prisoners in jails or while bringing them to the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/orissa-hc-asks-dms-to-report-after-surprise-jail-visits/article34065092.ece
14 March 2021||Dehradun/ New Delhi,||Dehradun Shatabdi bogie catches fire||One bogie of the Dehradun-bound Shatabdi Express caught fire on Saturday, but no casualty was reported, the police said. The train’s bogie caught fire near Kasro railway station when it was coming from Delhi, Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar said, adding no one was killed or injured in the incident. Mr. Kumar said all passengers were evacuated from the coach which was separated from the train. Railway officials in New Delhi said the fire broke out in coach C5 of the train due to a short circuit. “A total of 35 passengers in the coach were shifted ,” the Railways officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dehradun-shatabdi-bogie-catches-fire/article34065377.ece
14 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||SP won’t ally with national parties in future elections, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Saturday that it was the farmers who saved the economy during the pandemic. He was addressing a kisan panchayat organised by the SP and the Mahan Dal in Kasganj. Announcing that the SP will not ally with national parties in future elections, he appealed to the audience to maintain a distance with other parties as well. “We will work with the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Mahan Dal,” he said. ‘BJP dividing people’ Mr. Yadav said the region was the cradle of the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb (composite culture), but the BJP was trying to divide people in the name of religion. “Every time elections come close, they scheme to divide people. We can see the BJP is fighting Bengal elections in the name of Hindu-Muslim. They don’t make development an election agenda because development unites people.” Earlier, Mr. Yadav reiterated, “During the pandemic, we followed the government’s advice to cover our mouth and nose, but I want to ask what was the compulsion that forced the government to cover its eyes and ears that it is not being able to respond to the pain of farmers.” He said the government promised to double the income of the farmers, the PM promised that MSP would stay, but “I want to ask has anybody in the panchayat been able to sell his paddy at the MSP this season?” The government, he said, tried to discredit the movement. “No government has insulted the farmers as much as this one.” Raising the issue of unemployment and inflation, he urged the farmers and the youth to vote out the government. “This is the only way in a democracy. As soon as you dethrone them, the farm laws would be repealed,” he said. Mr. Yadav said his party’s members were farmers first, members of a political party later. “We still look after our farms, tend to our cattle. It seems these laws have been made by those who don’t practise agriculture,” he alleged. Enumerating the achievements of the SP government in building roads, distributing laptops and making the police efficient, Mr. Yadav said, “It is true we are backward but our work is better than the so-called forward people.” He also took on the Centre and the State governments for demonetisation, the plight of migrants during the pandemic and the increase in corruption at the tehsil level. “I want to ask why the BJP government is not distributing laptops among the youth… A true Yogi is one who understands the pain of his people. Has our CM responded to your concerns...He practised the policy of ‘ thok do ’,” commented Mr. Yadav, taking at dig at CM Adityanath. “He is busy inaugurating projects that were started during the SP rule. His biggest achievement is changing names of cities and projects,” he added. The panchayat was also addressed by Keshav Dev Maurya, national president of the Mahan Dal, which claims support of Maurya, Shakya, and Kushwaha communities among the OBCs in the region. Cross FIRs lodged In a related development, two FIRs were registered by the Moradabad police on Saturday in connection with the alleged assault on journalists after the press conference of Mr. Yadav in a city hotel on Thursday. Amit Anand, ASP Moradabad, said one FIR was registered by the Journalists’ Association of Moradabad against Mr. Yadav and 20 unnamed SP workers for the alleged manhandling of some journalists. The FIR said Mr. Yadav provoked his security guards and party workers to assault journalists after they asked him uncomfortable questions. It caused injuries to some scribes. A cross FIR was registered by the SP district president against two journalists. Mr. Yadav, who was in Moradabad for a cycle rally in support of senior party leader Azam Khan, denied the charges and said it was an attempt to malign the image of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sp-wont-ally-with-national-parties-in-future-elections-says-akhilesh/article34065094.ece
14 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Infighting back in Rajasthan Cong.||Eight months after the rebellion by former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, the discontent simmering in the ruling Congress in Rajasthan has come to the fore through three MLAs from the eastern parts of the State. The legislators of the ‘Pilot camp’ have alleged discrimination in the Assembly proceedings and their constituencies being ignored. Sapotra MLA Ramesh Meena, sacked as the Food and Civil Supplies Minister during the political crisis in July last year, Dausa MLA Murari Lal Meena and Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki have alleged that the State government was trying to suppress the voice of legislators representing the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minority communities. Seating arrangement Mr. Ramesh Meena, who had an argument with Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi earlier this week over the allotment of a seat without a microphone in the House, said here on Saturday that he would not hesitate to resign if things did not improve. He said he had sought an appointment with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to discuss certain issues with him. The three Congress MLAs, who along with 15 other legislators had extended support to Mr. Pilot during the political turmoil, said their constituencies had received a “raw deal” in the three consecutive State budgets since 2019 and the Ministers were not responding to their requests for development works in their respective regions. Mr. Meena said he was not seeking a Ministerial post but only wanted to be treated with dignity as a Congress worker. “If I am not allowed to speak in the House, a message goes across in Sapotra that I am unable to raise the issues faced by the people in my constituency.” Mr. Solanki claimed that only a selected few were allowed to speak in the Assembly and most of the MLAs belonging to the SC/ST communities had been allotted seats without microphones. “The legislators of these communities are weakened and ignored,” he said. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, considered a loyalist of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, has reportedly left for New Delhi to meet AICC general secretary in-charge of the State Ajay Maken and apprise him of the situation. In the temporary seating arrangement made in the Assembly as per the COVID-19 guidelines, Mr. Pilot was seated in the back rows during the previous session. However, he has been brought to the front row during the ongoing budget session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/infighting-back-in-rajasthan-cong/article34065090.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai,||SSS to protest on March 19 seeking waiver of power bills||The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS), an ally of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has decided to hit the streets on March 19 demanding a waiver of domestic electricity bills charged during the lockdown. Power consumers had claimed that inflated bills were issued for the first three months after the lockdown was imposed in the State. Several demonstrations have been held against overcharging by the State Power Department. Agitation today Raju Shetti, SSS leader and two-time former MP from Hatkanangale, said supporters of his organisation would burn the effigies of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Power Minister Nitin Raut on Sunday to protest the government’s move to cut the power connections of defaulters. Mr. Pawar during the budget session had said the connections would not be cut, but went on to reverse the decision. Mr. Raut, while announcing strict collection of dues from defaulters, said his department was facing debt of over Rs. 69,000 crore and he could not allow power firms to run into losses. Mr. Shetti, who is believed to be among the 12 names recommended to the Maharashtra Governor to be nominated to the Legislative Council, said, “Is there any coordination between the ministers? One minister says the government will not force people to pay bills, while another says the State treasury has no money. What is going on? Why are people being left to suffer?” Mr. Shetti said the lockdown snuffed out livelihoods, destroyed families and made many bankrupt. “We have been telling the government to waive electricity bills for those three months. But this government is not ready to listen. We have decided to launch a State-wide agitation to push for our demand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sss-to-protest-on-march-19-seeking-waiver-of-power-bills/article34065300.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai,||Rs. 110-crore corruption case: HC sets aside ruling discharging govt. officers||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed a sessions court order discharging four public servants from charges of cheating in an over Rs. 110-crore corruption case. A single judge Bench of Justice Rohit Deo was hearing a plea filed by the Maharashtra government against the order passed by the additional sessions judge. The sessions court relied on Section 17A (investigation of offences relatable to recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of official functions or duties) of the Prevention of Corruption Act while discharging the accused under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment) of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of the Act. The government had conducted an open inquiry into allegations of irregularities by the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation in execution of work related to the Ghodazari canal. The probe prima facie found that the four accused abused their office to help the bidder, M/s. Hindustan Construction Company, make wrongful gain at the State exchequer’s expense. The prosecutor argued that the four accused misused and abused their office with the intention of facilitating the contractor to secure work valued at Rs. 110,09,39,255 crore, hence it was not necessary to seek the government’s approval. The court held, “The order [of the sessions court] is manifestly erroneous and liable to be quashed for reasons spelt hereinafter. The expression ‘discharge of his official functions or duties’ reflects the legislative intent that the protection envisaged is not a blanket protection. The legislative intent is certainly not to set the clock back to invalidate investigation or inquiry which is undertaken, much less an investigation that is complete, prior to the coming into force of Section 17A.” The order read, “The intent is to protect an honest and responsible public servant if the recommendation made, or decision taken is in discharge of his official functions or duties. As a necessary corollary, previous approval is required only if the recommendation made, or decision taken is directly concerned with the official functions or duties of the public servant.” The Bench has directed the sessions court to decide on the discharge applications afresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-110-crore-corruption-case-hc-sets-aside-ruling-discharging-govt-officers/article34065304.ece
14 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Free heart surgeries give 85 children new lease of life||At least 85 children with congenital heart disease got a new lease of life amid the COVID-19 pandemic owing to funds of Rs. 2.17 crore raised by the Rotary Club of Bombay Airport. The free paediatric heart surgeries were performed at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Centre for Child Heart Care in Kharghar. Among the children were nine-month-old Vidhit Tayde from Akola and one-year-old Jyothirmaya Dhar from Odisha. While Vidhit braved the rain and endured an 18-hour bike journey, Jyothirmaya travelled three days by train with his parents to reach the hospital in Kharghar. Vidhit’s parents learnt about his condition when he was four months old. However, his surgery scheduled for March 2020 was postponed to July owing to the lockdown. “There was no means of transport. A taxi driver backed out due to rising COVID-19 cases in Mumbai. I was three months pregnant, but my husband asked me to stay strong and we travelled by bike,” Sadiksha Tayde, Vidhit’s mother, said. The couple had no raincoat and the motorbike did not have a headlight. So they used plastic sheets to shield the rain and the mobile phone’s torchlight to navigate roads at night. At Pune, they rested for two hours at a friend’s house, then resumed their journey and reached the hospital on July 17. After a seven-day quarantine, the surgery was performed. “When hospital authorities learnt that we planned to return by bike, Dr. Satish Pawar arranged a car for us,” Ms. Tayde said. Sanjay Kumar Dhar, Jyothirmaya’s father who worked as a farmer in Baleshwar, said, “He developed multiple holes in his heart during lockdown. He cried for at least 10 hours a day and his body turned blue. When train services resumed, a railway agent helped me buy tickets from Bhubaneswar. During the journey, they had to explain their plight to co-passengers who scolded them for travelling with a child amid a pandemic. ‘Lockdown struggles’ Dr. Rashmi Prabhatha, head of department, paediatric cardiac surgery, at the hospital, said, “Children with congenital heart disease faced a lot of struggle to reach us during lockdown. It was also mandatory for families to get tested for COVID-19. In emergencies, we directly performed surgery by following all protocols.” Dr. Prabhatha said Dhar, who weighed only 7 kg, had a hole in his heart that blocked the path that carried impure blood for purification. She said, “We cleared the block through surgery and the baby recovered.” C. Sreenivas, chairman, Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust, said 85 surgeries have been performed so far using the funds raised by the Rotary Club of Bombay Airport. “We will perform another 65 surgeries by May 2021. Around 750 surgeries and interventions are planned this year. From next year, this number would be around 1,800 to 2,000.” ‘Integrated approach’ Mr. Sreenivas said congenital heart disease is a national burden and an integrated approach is needed for early diagnosis and cure. “Affordability and accessibility are huge challenges that families face while trying to find care for their little ones,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/free-heart-surgeries-give-85-children-new-lease-of-life/article34065303.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Tightrope walk: AAP trying to win Hindu votes, be inclusive||Political experts said that the ‘Deshbhakti budget’ presented by the Aam Aadmi Party government earlier this week, and party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s comment that they have been striving to build “Ram Rajya” in Delhi for the last six years, is an attempt to counter the challenges posed by the BJP. They added that other parties have also been forced to adopt this stance. “All of us worship Lord Ram. Personally, I worship Lord Hanuman who was a devotee of Lord Rama. Hence, I am a devotee of both. Lord Rama was the emperor of Ayodhya. During his rule, people were content as they had access to all basic facilities. This was called the ‘Ram Rajya’… we have been constantly striving to establish this model of ‘Ram Rajya’ in Delhi for the past six years,” Mr. Kejriwal said in the Delhi Assembly on March 10. While experts said that renewed national hopes may be a reason why the AAP is going heavy on nationalism, they added that the government should have given priority to unemployment and education in the budget, rather than ‘deshbhakti’. Political analyst Neerja Chowdhury said AAP has taken a leaf out of the “BJP’s narrative”, which is “underlining patriotism and nationalism”. “The AAP is using these symbols to identify itself with the concerns and sentiments of Hindu voters who are conscious of their Hindu identity. Even the Congress is doing temple-hopping, but they have not been able to connect with the people,” she said. Ms. Chowdhury said that while winning over such Hindus, the AAP has to also send signals to Muslims that “we are not against you” and that is going to be a “tightrope walk”. Opposition boxed-in “The BJP narrative has boxed-in the Opposition. The BJP has made a narrative that secularism is equal to minority appeasement. The BJP can take a stronger stance as they do not want the Muslim vote, but other parties have to strike a balance,” she added. Praveen Rai, a political analyst who works with the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, said that all secular parties have been termed “anti-Hindu” by the BJP and the people are buying that narrative. “Every party is trying to come out of that image. The AAP has been doing work and now they are weaving in nationalistic and pro-Hindu narrative into their development story,” he said. Referring to Mr. Kejriwal’s comments that Ram Rajya was based on 10 principles, including people’s right to food and good education, Ms. Chowdhury said that the AAP is trying to “hijack” Lord Ram from the BJP and make the name more “inclusive” and redefine it. “The BJP has used Lord Ram as a divisive tool. What the AAP is trying to say is that Ram Rajya does not mean demeaning or lynching a community,” she said. “But Muslims can ask, ‘Why Ram Rajya and not our symbols?’ There is no answer to it. So, it is not completely inclusive,” she added. Arun Kumar, former professor of economics at JNU, said the 2021-22 budget was “political” in terms of the language used, and the government is projecting it like that. “After the pandemic, the government should have given priority to unemployment and public school,” he said, adding that setting aside Rs. 45 crore for installing National Flags should have been “low priority”. “The money could have been used to take care of the poor. But due to the BJP, all political parties are under pressure and the spectrum has shifted almost completely to the right,” he said. Mr. Rai said that during the last Delhi Assembly election, the AAP won with a huge majority because of their popular policies. But the BJP, by “raising communal issues”, was able to increase their vote share “considerably” [by 6%], though it did not translate into seats. ‘Policies not enough’ “The AAP understood after the election that schemes and policies might not be enough to win elections in the future. Mr. Kejriwal even went to a Hanuman Mandir after the victory,” he added. But Mr. Rai said that the AAP has been moving away from the Muslims. “The AAP is certainly going to use more Hindu symbols. Till now they are not anti-Muslim. So far it is not dangerous, but they will have to engage with the Muslims and make them comfortable,” Ms. Chowdhury said. When asked whether the strategy will work for AAP, Mr. Rai said: “In all practical terms, it is going to work for them. The BJP is doing work and clubbing it with Hindutva, which is working for them. The AAP is trying to occupy the space of a weakening Congress. In 2029, the BJP may very well face a challenge from a new Hindu party — the AAP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tightrope-walk-aap-trying-to-win-hindu-votes-be-inclusive/article34065084.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports over 400 new cases for third day in a row||Delhi witnessed 419 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,43,289, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday. This was the third consecutive day when there were more than 400 cases. Three deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,939. A total of 74,326 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,30,143 people have recovered and there are 2,207 active cases. The number of active cases has shown an increase over the last two weeks. A total of 39,853 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city on Saturday, said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of them, 20,275 were aged 60 and above and 3,685 were between 45 and 59 years. The rest were healthcare and front-line workers, data stated  Felicitation Health Minister Satyendar Jain, meanwhile on Saturday, felicitated “corona warriors” of Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-reports-over-400-new-cases-for-third-day-in-a-row/article34065078.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||CM gives Rs. 1-crore compensation to family of deceased ‘corona warrior’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday provided financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore to the family of COVID warrior Rakesh Jain, a lab technician at Hindu Rao Hospital. Jain, who would have retired in 2022, contracted COVID-19 on June 17 last year and succumbed to it the next day. Mr. Kejriwal commended Jain for continuing to serve the people till his last breath. “Mr. Jain got infected while on duty. He was shifted to Metro Hospital, but died later. He was a martyr who served the people of Delhi till his last breath,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Mr. Jain was a resident of Delhi and had joined service in 1988. He is survived by his mother Madan Shri Jain, wife Sangeeta Jain and two children. “The Delhi government salutes such front-line workers who have served people relentlessly. Today, on behalf of the Delhi government, I have handed over a cheque of Rs. 1 crore to his family members,” he also said.  Mr. Jain’s elder son is pursuing his graduation and looking for a job, which will be provided by the Delhi government, the Chief Minister assured the family. “I want to assure the family that the Delhi government will stand beside them in future as well,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-gives-rs-1-crore-compensation-to-family-of-deceased-corona-warrior/article34065082.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches over 100 properties||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 55.57 crore, including over 100 immovable properties, in connection with a case of cheating hundreds of investors across Jharkhand on the pretext of allocating to them houses and land parcels. While 98 immovable properties are located in Ranchi, three commercial shops are in Raipur. Fixed deposits in the name of Sanjeevani Buildcon Private Limited, its director Jayant Dayal Nandy and his wife Anita Dayal Nandy; another director Shyam Kishore Gupta; and Ranjana Shrivastav, wife of company director Prakash Prasad Lala, have also been attached. The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation, which has filed a charge sheet against Sanjeevani Buildcon and others. According to the ED, the company and its directors got ‘misleading’ advertisements published to lure people into investing in their schemes for purported allotment of constructed houses and land parcels. The directors had opened a large number of bank accounts to launder the funds, as alleged. Personal accounts “A large part of the proceeds was also withdrawn in cash by the accused persons for depositing the same in their personal accounts, which was further projected as untainted,” said the agency. The ED added that it had earlier attached assets worth Rs. 3.10 crore held in the name of the company and its directors. The competent authority under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act has confirmed the previous attachment order. The ED had also arrested one of the directors, Shyam Kishore Gupta, and subsequently filed a chargesheet against either persons/entities on March 12, 2020. A look-out circular has also been issued against Jayant Dayal Nandy, who is said to be the mastermind behind the scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ed-attaches-over-100-properties/article34065091.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality panel folds 5 months after formation||The Commission on Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, under the Central government, has become “non-functional” within five months of its constitution, according to authorities. “The commission was formed through an Ordinance in October. A Bill has to be introduced in the Lok Sabha during the next session, within six weeks of its commencement. But this was not done and the commission has become non-functional from yesterday,” K.J. Ramesh, a member of the commission, said. Mr. Ramesh said that the matter is pending with the Cabinet and the commission can be functional once the procedural formalities are done.  The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram, meanwhile, continued in ‘poor’ category on Saturday and Noida’s was in ‘moderate’ level, said CPCB data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/air-quality-panel-folds-5-months-after-formation/article34065086.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for cheating, posing as MLA||A Dehradun resident has been arrested for allegedly cheating people by posing as a local Member of the Legislative Assembly, Member of Parliament and even Chief Minister, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said that a complaint was received from a Delhi-based man who alleged that he got a call from a person who introduced himself as an MLA. As demanded by him, he transferred a sum of Rs. 6 lakh for his party. Later on, he got to know that no such call was made from the MLA office concerned. A case was registered and with the help of technical surveillance, the accused was traced. The accused has been identified as Bhalinder Pal Singh, (30). He was arrested from Mumbai. He also owns a footwear shop, Ms. Goel said. The police said that he has been previously involved in other cheating cases registered in Chattisgarh and Punjab. “Singh revealed that he used to help his father with his business but they sustained losses due to former’s lack of professionalism. Thereafter, he shifted to Mumbai and got involved in criminal activities,” Ms. Goel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-held-for-cheating-posing-as-mla/article34065075.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. trying to enlist 750 EV charging stations’||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Saturday said that the AAP government is in advance talks with several electric vehicle fleet operators to open up their captive charging stations – a move that will add 750 such facilities for public use in Delhi by June. At present, there are 72 electric vehicle charging stations operational in the city. All buildings, such as malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, office spaces, hotels, restaurants, hospitals, will soon have to set aside at least 5% of their total parking capacity for EVs along with suitable slow EV chargers. This will also add an estimated 10,000 chargers in Delhi by December, the Minister said. The government has already floated a tender to build 100 public charging stations with 500 charging points at prominent locations. These will be operational by December, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-govt-trying-to-enlist-750-ev-charging-stations/article34065080.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police quiz Tehseen Akhtar in Tihar jail||Delhi Police Special Cell on Saturday visited Tihar jail to question Tehseen Akhtar alias Monu, the head of Indian Mujahideen, in connection with a phone recovered from his barrack. Sources said that the mobile phone was used for creating a Telegram channel used by Jaish-ul-Hind, a group which claimed responsibility for parking an SUV with gelatin sticks near business mogul Mukesh Ambani’s house in Mumbai on February 25. The group has also claimed responsibility for low-intensity attack near Israel Embassy in January. Akhtar was arrested in 2014 and is curreny in jail no. 8. Sources said that further questioning will depend on Akhtar’s interrogation. Sources said that four alleged terrorists, including those lodged in Mumbai prisons, are suspected to have been involved in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-quiz-tehseen-in-tihar-jail/article34065085.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bidhuri launches PM Wani WiFi scheme in south Delhi||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Saturday launched the PM Wani WiFi scheme from Hari Nagar ward in south Delhi, under which residents of the area would get free internet through hotspots. Mr. Bidhuri said around 10 lakh hotspots would be created in the country. Many will be inaugurated in the coming days in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bidhuri-launches-pm-wani-wifi-scheme-in-south-delhi/article34065076.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||Clear Saturday in Delhi, Sunday to be similar||It was a clear Saturday in Dellhi and the maximum temperature settled at 31.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season’s average, the Met office said. The sky is expected to remain clear on Sunday and the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle around 32 and 15 degrees respectively.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/clear-saturday-in-delhi-sunday-to-be-similar/article34065079.ece
14 March 2021||Pune/Mumbai,||NCP worker’s murder: scribe on the run held in Hyderabad||A journalist, who was on the run for the last three months in connection with the murder of a woman NCP worker in Ahmednagar, was arrested from a hotel in Hyderabad on Saturday. Bal Bothe, who worked for a Marathi daily, will beproduced in a court in Ahmednagar, the police said. NCP worker Rekha Jare (39), who headed Yashaswini Mahila Brigade, was killed at Jategaon Phata in Parner tehsil by two unidentified people on November 30 last year. Mr. Bothe is accused of hatching a conspiracy to kill Jare as he feared she would lodge a complaint against him over some issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncp-workers-murder-scribe-on-the-run-held-in-hyderabad/article34065298.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Outpouring of love||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/outpouring-of-love/article34065306.ece
14 March 2021||London,||China defying Hong Kong joint treaty: U.K.||China is no longer compliant with Hong Kong’s joint declaration after Beijing announced sweeping changes to the region’s electoral system, Britain said on Saturday. “The U.K. now considers Beijing to be in a state of ongoing non-compliance with the Sino-British Joint Declaration,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. The treaty was signed before Britain handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997 and was designed to allay fears about its future under Beijing’s rule. It guarantees the financial hub special status, including a high degree of autonomy to manage its own affairs and the right to freedom of speech. Stifling criticism But British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said that Beijing’s decision “to impose radical changes to restrict participation in Hong Kong’s electoral system” was a “further clear breach” of the agreement. “This is part of a pattern designed to harass and stifle all voices critical of China’s policies and is the third breach of the Joint Declaration in less than nine months,” he said. “I must now report that the U.K. considers Beijing to be in a state of ongoing non-compliance with the Joint Declaration,” he added, further ramping up tensions between the two nations. Britain has been a strong critic of China’s crackdown on pro-democracy campaigners in Hong Kong, and angered Beijing by announcing a visa scheme offering millions of its residents a pathway to U.K.’s citizenship. The system went live in January as the city’s former colonial master opened its doors to those wanting to escape China’s crackdown on dissent. ‘Growing gulf’ Beijing has acted decisively to dismantle Hong Kong’s democratic pillars after massive protests there in 2019. China’s rubber-stamp Parliament on Thursday voted to give Beijing the power to veto candidates as it moves to ensure that only “patriots” run the city. Mr. Raab said the latest move was a “demonstration of the growing gulf between Beijing’s promises and its actions”. “The U.K. will continue to stand up for the people of Hong Kong,” he added. “China must act in accordance with its legal obligations and respect fundamental rights and freedoms in Hong Kong.” The new election rules sparked international condemnation. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken called it “a direct attack on autonomy promised to people in Hong Kong under the Sino-British Joint Declaration”. Meanwhile, the G7’s top diplomats said they “call on China and the Hong Kong authorities to restore confidence in Hong Kong’s political institutions and end the unwarranted oppression of those who promote democratic values”. The European Union warned China it could take “additional steps” as it condemned the vote. “The National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China adopted a decision that will have a significant impact on democratic accountability and political pluralism in Hong Kong,” EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said. Brussels has previously decided to limit exports of equipment that could be used for surveillance in Hong Kong and EU Foreign Ministers have discussed the possibility of broader sanctions if the situation worsens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-defying-hong-kong-joint-treaty-uk/article34064798.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From zenith to nadir||Nowhere has a public fall from grace been steeper in recent times than that of Andrew Cuomo, the embattled Governor of New York State. In the spring of 2020, Mr. Cuomo was hailed as a hero, who had waged an uncompromising battle against the COVID-19pandemic, which ravaged his State. His breakout leadership qualities propelled him onto the national stage of Democratic Party heavyweights, and whispers abounded regarding his potential as a future presidential candidate. Yet hardly could even the man at the centre of this unparalleled public administration victory through a lethal pandemic imagined how sharply his prospects would have slumped into a morass of disrepute. His problems began to mount on questions related to the pandemic itself, when research by an Albany think tank revealed that the Cuomo administration had downplayed and deflected questions on fatalities within New York’s nursing-home system. One of his aides, Melissa DeRosa, admitted to State Democrats last month that the Cuomo administration “froze” as the tragedy of thousands of senior citizens dying of COVID-19 mounted across New York, and in part that was driven by the fear that President Donald Trump would turn their perceived failure into “political football”. Experts observed that the spike in deaths in this niche demographic might have happened due to inadequate restrictions on nursing home staff, an honest if costly mistake that it might have been better to admit to. Yet Mr. Cuomo apparently could not back down from his high-power press briefings to strike such a sombre note. Harassment allegations Matters worsened for the Governor when sexual harassment allegations began to emerge from multiple women, suggesting a pattern of alleged abuse of his official position. Not only does the list of accusers include former junior colleagues, it also includes at least one member of the media. In each case, the allegations are of some form of inappropriate contact in a public or private setting, and several allegations suggest that the very office of the Governor became a toxic and chauvinist environment for women colleagues. Anger against Mr. Cuomo has mounted since more women came forward with accounts of alleged harassment since last month, and the Governor would only acknowledge that some of his behaviour toward his staff may have been “insensitive” but that his comments to the women concerned had “been misinterpreted as an unwanted flirtation”. The seriousness of the situation facing Mr. Cuomo is measured by the fact that it is not Republicans who have jumped into the fray and started calling for his resignation — rather it his own Democratic colleagues who appear to have lost faith in his ability to carry on as a viable leader bearing their collective mantle. Over the weekend, Mr. Cuomo lost the support of two of the two Senators from his State who are arguably also the country’s most powerful Democrats — Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand. Under pressure Embattled and now entirely isolated in clinging on to power, Mr. Cuomo will have to cooperate with the ongoing inquiry opened into the allegations against him — a process that his office agreed to only under immense pressure from outside. Even worse for him, on March 11, the New York State Assembly announced it would open an impeachment investigation against him, bringing together multiple allegations of wrongdoing that he faces. Mr. Cuomo’s descent from pandemic hero to public embarrassment is more startling given his antecedents and broader political credentials. His father, Mario Cuomo, was a three-term Governor of New York, who attained a measure of fame for taking on the Reagan administration in 1984 in a rousing speech at the Democratic National Convention. Mr. Cuomo’s younger brother, Chris Cuomo, is an award-winning television journalist with CNN. If there is one thing that the political crisis surrounding Mr. Cuomo relieves, it is that no one, not even the most exalted in the pantheon of Democratic Party leaders, is beyond the pale when it comes to the standards of governance that the people of the country expect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/from-zenith-to-nadir/article34064793.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The surprise successor||For Tirath Singh Rawat, the new Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, his election to the top job by the BJP Legislature Party in the hill State was a bittersweet moment. Four years ago, he was on the other side of the aisle. In 2017, when candidates were being selected for the Assembly polls in the State, Mr. Rawat found himself out in the cold, despite being a senior leader and a former State unit chief between 2013 and 2016. Being overlooked for ticket was a slight to Mr. Rawat, but he held his peace, didn’t speak out against the party and accepted the decision. His return as Chief Minister is a sweet victory for him. Those who know Mr. Rawat swear by his low profile, his lack of an entourage and his habit (rare among even local-level politicians) of picking his own calls. On the face of it, his election looks the typical Narendra Modi-Amit Shah move of rewarding loyalty, but a close examination of Mr. Rawat’s rise reveals that his quiet demeanour and community identity as a Thakur from Pauri district, a traditional talent pool for the Chief Ministers of the State, may also have played a role. Born on April 9, 1964 at Sinro village in Pauri, Mr. Rawat did his early education in Pauri. He entered active student politics through the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) when he was in college. In 1992, he was elected the students’ union president of the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University. RSS pracharak Mr. Rawat had earlier worked as an RSS pracharak from 1983 to 1988, and held various positions in the ABVP and the Uttar Pradesh unit of the BJP’s youth wing, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. His Master’s degree in Sociology and diploma in journalism were geared to a future career in public life. Nobody quite knows when Mr. Rawat came into the orbit of the other big BJP leader from the Pauri area, former Union Minister and Chief Minister B.C. Khanduri, but he was quickly elected to the Legislative Council of the undivided Uttar Pradesh in 1997. When the new State of Uttarakhand was formed in 2000, Mr. Rawat was appointed Education Minister in the Nityanand Swami government. Then began his win-some, lose-some streak in the Uttarkhand Assembly. In the 2002 election, the BJP came a cropper and Mr. Rawat failed to win the seat of Chaubatta Khal in Pauri, but in 2007, he was back in the State Assembly, only to lose again in the 2012 election. Till then, Mr. Rawat was like any other mid-level State leader of the BJP, but in 2013, he fought for the position of State party chief with the encouragement of Mr. Khanduri, against Trivendra Singh Rawat, the man he replaced as Chief Minister on Tuesday. He won the race and took the reins of the State unit of the BJP. But Mr. Trivendra Singh was backed by another party heavyweight, B.S. Koshiyari. The face-off created powerful rivals for Mr. Rawat within the party. The payback was the denial of ticket in the 2017 Assembly election which, some say, was engineered by Mr. Trivendra Singh. Mr. Rawat retreated quietly to Delhi, and was appointed Himachal Pradesh in-charge and a national secretary of the BJP. He also fought and won the Lok Sabha seat of Pauri in 2019, once held by his mentor Mr. Khanduri, as a consolation for the loss of space in State politics. In Delhi, he built bridges with then party chief Amit Shah, being his constant companion when he launched tours in areas where the BJP was organisationally weak as part of what was called the “vistarak (expansion) programme” in 2016-17. Party loyalty That close proximity, and unquestioned party loyalty may have come handy when the BJP leadership sought a replacement for Mr. Trivendra Singh, who faced corruption allegations and protests from within the party and the Parivar. When Mr. Trivendra Singh resigned, as asked by party bosses in Delhi, the only thing certain was that his successor would be a fellow Thakur leader from Pauri. Mr. Tirath Singh Rawattrumped all big names in the fray and was chosen as Uttarakhand’s ninth Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-surprise-successor/article34064803.ece
14 March 2021||La Paz,||Bolivia’s former President Anez arrested in ‘coup’ probe||Bolivia’s former interim President Jeanine Anez was arrested on Saturday on terrorism and sedition charges over what the government claims was a coup attempt against her predecessor and political rival Evo Morales. Police were also rounding up former Ministers who backed the conservative politician’s caretaker government, which was in place for a year after Mr. Morales fled the country in November 2019 amid disputed elections, media reports said. The arrests came months after Mr. Morales returned to Bolivia from exile on the back of a fresh election victory in October 2020 for the leftist Movement for Socialism (MAS) party he founded. Both the presidency and congress are now under the control of MAS. “I inform the Bolivian people that Mrs. Jeanine Anez has already been apprehended and is currently in the hands of the police,” government minister Carlos Eduardo del Castillo wrote on Twitter and Facebook. Mr. Castillo congratulated the police for their “great work” in the “historic task of giving justice” to the Bolivian people. Bolivia’s public prosecutor issued an arrest warrant on Friday for the conservative politician and others on charges of terrorism, sedition and conspiracy. Ms. Anez tweeted a copy of the warrant with the response: “The political persecution has begun.” She added the government was accusing her “of having participated in a coup d’etat that never happened. In the early hours of Saturday, Bolivian television showed images of Ms. Anez, not handcuffed, arriving at La Paz’s El Alto airport, accompanied by Mr. Castillo and several police officers. In brief remarks to the press, she denounced her arrest as “illegal.” It was not immediately known where she was taken. Ms. Anez’s former Energy Minister Rodrigo Guzman and his justice counterpart Alvaro Coimbra were detained on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bolivias-former-president-anez-arrested-in-coup-probe/article34064795.ece
14 March 2021||Washington,||U.S. court removes Xiaomi from blacklist||A U.S. judge on Friday ordered Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi to be temporarily removed from a government blacklist that barred American investment in the company. Six days before Donald Trump left office last year, his administration cemented its trade war legacy against Beijing with a series of announcements targeting Chinese firms, including Xiaomi, state oil giant CNOOC, and social media darling TikTok. Xiaomi was one of nine firms classified by the Pentagon as “Communist Chinese military companies”. But U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras in Washington ruled on Friday that the Departments of Defense and Treasury “have not made the case that the national security interests at stake here are compelling”. In an appeal filed in January against the blacklisting, Xiaomi — which overtook Apple last year to become the world’s third-largest smartphone manufacturer — said Washington’s moves were “incorrect” and had “deprived the company of legal due process.” Judge Contreras’s decision came the same day U.S. regulators listed Huawei and ZTE among Chinese telecom gear firms deemed a threat to national security, signalling that a hoped-for softening of relations is not on the cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-court-removes-xiaomi-from-blacklist/article34064804.ece
14 March 2021||Kano,||Nigeria steps up search for 39 students||Nigerian security forces stepped up efforts on Saturday to rescue dozens of students who were abducted from their hostels in Kaduna state, police said. Gunmen stormed the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation in Mando on Thursday and took 39 students away while the military rescued 180 after a fierce battle. “A combined team of police, Army and other security forces are in a frantic search for the kidnapped students,” police spokesman Mohammadu Jalinge said. “We are combing the surrounding forests and bushes with a view to freeing the hostages. Very soon, it will be over for the bandits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigeria-steps-up-search-for-39-students/article34064801.ece
14 March 2021||Herat,||Car bomb kills eight, wounds 47, in western Afghanistan||A powerful car bomb targeting a police headquarters in Afghanistan’s Herat province killed at least eight persons and injured 54 others, authorities said on Saturday, as the United Nations condemned attacks on civilians in the country.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/car-bomb-kills-eight-wounds-47-in-western-afghanistan/article34064796.ece
14 March 2021||San Francisco,||Netflix may be moving to stop users sharing passwords||Streaming giant Netflix is testing a way to crack down on password sharing with people living elsewhere. Netflix offers to verify who is trying to log into an account by sending a code via text message or email to the subscriber to confirm the user lives with them.AfP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/netflix-may-be-moving-to-stop-users-sharing-passwords/article34064800.ece
14 March 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Focus on growth than inflation’||Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian said on Saturday that the country requires growth at this juncture, even with economic trade-offs, as it aspires to increase its dominance and self- reliance in the global economy. Dr. Subramanian’s comment comes ahead of the revision of policy framework and inflation targets for the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by the RBI Governor by March 31. Inflation target review It would be the first review for the Reserve Bank of India since it was tasked with a mandated inflation target of 4% with a 2% deviation in either direction in June 2016, when it adopted a flexible inflation targeting model. “At this juncture we must focus on growth and when it comes to pressures for trade-offs, we must be leaning on growth,” Dr. Subramanian said at a virtual annual regional meeting of the CII, Eastern Region.  ‘Shun profiteering’ Speaking about realising ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, the CEA said the private sector had to get back to “Shubh Labh” (ethical profit) and refrain from profiteering. He gave examples from healthcare studies for Auyushman Bharat where it was found that the rates of the private sector hospitals were 6-7 times higher than those run by the government and that readmission rates in them were also higher. Dr. Subramanian also called for a change in the mindset on how to increase the pie of government taxes instead of seeking its reduction across sectors. He said the cycle of private sector investment would begin though there was a lag and to support it, government spending in capex was necessary. The government had already begun it and it would trigger private investment, the CEA added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/focus-on-growth-than-inflation/article34064758.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India can become global AI, data hub, enabling jobs’||There’s a huge opportunity to position India as a global hub for data and artificial intelligence (AI), enabling investment, jobs and innovation, says Anant Maheshwari , president, Microsoft India. Excerpts:  How prepared are enterprises today in a pandemic-stricken marketplace? Across every industry and sector, we’ve seen years’ worth of digital transformation happen over the last few months. Technology is helping organisations to innovate and stay open in the most constrained and the most difficult of circumstances. The pandemic has accelerated two mega trends that will likely continue well into the future. The first is cloud-led data and AI innovation. Data and AI are helping transform core areas like healthcare, citizen services, MSME, agriculture and manufacturing, with speed and scale. The second is the absolute need to create a trusted and secure ecosystem to drive this innovation. A strong partnership between the government and industry will be vital to build a responsible tech ecosystem grounded in trust and strong ethical principles. Why are enterprises increasingly talking about investing in trust, security? Trust in technology has perhaps never been more important. With most of the world connecting remotely, cybersecurity today is a strategic priority for every organisation to protect their data, while ensuring the privacy, security and digital safety of their workforce. Since the start of the pandemic, there’s been an exponential rise in cyberattacks, targeting individuals, organisations and often, critical first responders like hospitals and public health authorities. With cybercriminals and nation-State attackers becoming more sophisticated, a strong industry collaboration is required for sharing threat intelligence and protecting against cyberattacks. It will need multiple parts but perhaps most important, it must start with the recognition that governments and the tech sector will need to act together. Security and privacy need to be at the heart of how developers in organisations and governments build and deliver products and services. It calls for a collective responsibility. Is Microsoft’s new approach seeing enough traction? Much of our growth in the last year has been driven by our New, New, New approach: new customers, new solutions with existing customers and new business models. We continue to explore new business models and partnerships which enable us to get the benefits of technology to every part of the country. Start-ups and SMBs are crucial to India’s economic recovery and supporting them in this period of change has been a core area of focus for us. Can you take us through Microsoft’s skilling initiatives for India? Jobs of tomorrow will increasingly be technology enabled, therefore making digital skilling critical for India’s growth. Data and AI are playing a central role in the country’s digital transformation and economic recovery. We have a huge opportunity to make India a data and AI hub of the world. What will be central to leveraging this opportunity is creating a talent pool that is ready for a data and AI world. We are working closely with the government, industry and civil society in India to address this gap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-can-become-global-ai-data-hub-enabling-jobs/article34064752.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||No adverse findings against firm, staff: Franklin Templeton||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, which closed six schemes in April 2020, has said that so far there had been no adverse findings against the fund house or its employees or management. This comes following reports of markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) issuing show-cause notices to the fund house and its officials with regard to the fund house’s practices around risk management, inter-scheme transfers and personal transactions by employees and management, among others. “We have submitted detailed responses to show-cause notices issued by SEBI,” Sanjay Sapre, President, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt. Ltd., said in a letter to investors. “We cannot go into details of our responses, but we believe that we acted in compliance with applicable regulations and rules and that we have strong defences to the allegation,” he added. With respect to the accusations regarding personal transactions of employees and management, the fund house said it took such matters seriously. Personal redemptions by certain individuals before the winding-up decision are under review and those individuals have cooperated fully with that process and submitted detailed responses to SEBI, which are under consideration, Mr. Sapre said in the letter on Friday. He further said “the schemes under winding-up continue to have significant investment from employees and management of Franklin Templeton”. He said these issues remained under regulatory review, and “we are constrained from commenting on specific details at this juncture, but can confirm that to date, there have been no adverse findings against Franklin Templeton, its employees or management”.   The letter comes after reports of SEBI’s show-cause notices to the fund house on its practices||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-adverse-findings-against-firm-staff-franklin-templeton/article34064763.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Draft e-com policy moots safeguards against data misuse||The government plans to lay down principles for usage of data for the development of any industry, where such norms do not already exist, and put in place adequate safeguards to prevent misuse and access of data by unauthorised persons, according to a draft national e-commerce policy. The government is in the process of developing regulations for personal and non-personal data, the policy, which is under discussion, said. The draft stated that sharing of data for industrial development would be encouraged and regulations for data would be provided for the sharing mechanism.  According to the draft, the government acknowledges the importance of data as an asset and needs to use data emanating from India for ‘Indian entities first’. An inter-ministerial meeting, under the chairmanship of a top official of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, was held on Saturday to deliberate upon this draft. For free and informed choice, it said that e-commerce operators would have to ensure that algorithms used by them were not biased and that no discrimination due to digitally induced biases was prevalent. “Consumers have a right to be made aware of all relevant details about the goods and services offered for sale including country of origin, value addition in India, and any other such information which may be necessary for making an informed decision at the pre-purchase stage,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/draft-e-com-policy-moots-safeguards-against-data-misuse/article34064760.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,||SPIC to switch over to natural gas as feedstock||Over the next 12 months, Southern Petrochemicals Industries Corporation Ltd. (SPIC) will switch over to fully using natural gas, from naphtha, as feedstock to produce urea, said a top official. “We will be one of the last few firms in Tamil Nadu to fully move towards natural gas,” Ashwin Muthiah, chairman, SPIC, and AM International told The Hindu.  “On Saturday, our Thoothukudi plant started receiving assured supply of natural gas through IOC’s recently-inaugurated Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi gas pipeline,” he added. According to him, SPIC would be one of the anchor customers to benefit from the pipeline.“Switching over to natural gas has three main advantages,” said Manish Nagpal, CEO, Fertilizers. “Due to cheaper gas, the need for working capital will come down and maintenance cost gets reduced as the plant needs to be shut only for 10-15 days against the usual 30-35 days. SPIC had spent about Rs. 500 crore on feedstock conversion and dedicated pipeline among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spic-to-switch-over-to-natural-gas-as-feedstock/article34064756.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India fintech valuation may reach $160 billion’||India’s financial technology firms are poised to become three times as valuable in the next five years, reaching a valuation of $150-160 billion by 2025, according to a report. The report unveiled on Saturday details the findings from the study that Boston Consulting Group (BCG) and FICCI undertook to size the value-creation potential and identify imperatives for India’s fintech growth. “India is strongly poised to realise a fintech sector valuation of $150-160 billion by 2025, translating to an incremental value-creation potential of approximately $100 billion. It is estimated that to meet this ambition, India’s fintech sector will need investments of $20-25 billion over the next five years,” said the report. India has more than 2,100 fintech firms, of which 67% have been set up over the last 5 years alone. The valuation of the industry is estimated at $50-60 billion. The industry’s growth has been undeterred by the pandemic, as it has seen the emergence of three new Unicorns and five new Soonicorns ($500 million+ valuation) since January 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-fintech-valuation-may-reach-160-billion/article34064762.ece
14 March 2021||Chennai,||New ED takes charge at Union Bank||Nitesh Ranjan has taken charge as ED of the Union Bank of India. He had started his career with the Food Corporation of India before moving to Andhra Bank. He holds a a post-graduate degree in economics and has completed a leadership development programme from IIM-Bangalore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-ed-takes-charge-at-union-bank/article34064754.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai the city of joy||Mumbai City FC secured its maiden Indian Super League crown with a come-from-behind 2-1 win over ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) at the Fatorda Stadium, Goa, on Saturday. Bipin Singh’s 90th-minute winner gave Sergio Lobera his first ISL title as head coach and added the trophy to the league winners’ shield to complete a grand double. The contest looked like it would slip into extra-time, but Mumbai’s uncharacteristic, but effective, long ball tactic did the trick for the second time during the match. Centre-backs Sandesh Jhingan and Tiri, under pressure from Bartholomew Ogbeche, decided to leave the ball for custodian Arindam Bhattacharja. But the goalie, already outside the box, decided to chest instead of heading it. Ogbeche stole the ball, floored two ATKMB defenders and passed it to Bipin to do the rest. For ATKMB boss Antonio Habas, it was a first defeat in three finals and he would be gutted with the result, especially after the way his side started. His wards came out pressing with great energy, even as Mumbai was content launching hopeful long balls. Going ahead Javi Hernandez’s free-kick crashed off the crossbar before Habas’ side deservedly took the lead in the 18th minute. Roy Krishna robbed Ahmed Jahouh of the ball and it neatly fell to David Williams who drove it straight through custodian Amrinder Singh. But just before the half-hour mark, the game turned when Tiri’s attempt to clear a long ball from Jahouh, while running backwards, ended up in his own net. The half ended on a sombre note when Amey Ranawade had to leave the pitch in an ambulance. After a bad collision with ATKMB’s Subhasish Bose, the Mumbai right-back fell head first, leaving both sets of players and coaching staff teary-eyed and worried. On 58 minutes, Boumous missed a golden chance to put his side ahead, sending the ball soaring over from six yards out with both the goal and goalkeeper at his mercy. But it did not prove costly.  The result:   Mumbai City FC 2 (Tiri 29-og, Bipin 90) bt ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Williams 18).   Special awards: Golden boot: Igor Angulo; Golden glove: Arindam Bhattacharja; Golden ball: Roy Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-the-city-of-joy/article34064913.ece
14 March 2021||Leeds,||Chelsea frustrated by Leeds||Chelsea missed a chance to cement its place in the Premier League’s top four as Leeds held it to a frustrating 0-0 draw on Saturday. Thomas Tuchel’s side had plenty of chances but couldn’t deliver the knockout blow in a hard-fought clash at Elland Road. In the Bundesliga, Bayern Munich cruised to a 3-1 win away to Werder Bremen.  The results: Premier League: Leeds 0 drew with Chelsea 0.   LaLiga: Alavez 1 (Joselu 36-pen) drew with Cadiz 1 (Fernandez 84-pen).   Serie A: Sassuolo 3 (Locatelli 4, Duricic 51, Traore 81) bt Verona 2 (Lazovic 43, Dimarco 79).   Bundesliga: Wolfsburg 5 (Mustafi 31-og, Weghorst 51, Baku 58, Brekalo 64, Philipp 79) bt Schalke 0.   Werder Bremen 1 (Fulkrug 85) lost to Bayern Munich 3 (Goretzka 22, Gnabry 35, Lewandowski 67).   Union Berlin 2 (Kruse 48-pen, Trimmel 67) bt Cologne 1 (Duda 45+2); Mainz 1 (Qualson 84) bt Freiburg 0.   Friday: Premier League: Newcastle 1 (Lascelles 90+4) drew with Aston Villa 1 (Clark 86-og).   LaLiga: Levante 1 (Roger 18) bt Valencia 0.   Serie A: Lazio 3 (Milinkovic-Savic 14, Luis Alberto 39, Caicedo 84) bt Crotone 2 (Nwankano 29, 50-pen); Atalanta 3 (Pasalic 53, 72 Muriel 55) bt Spezia 1 (Piccoli 81).   Bundesliga: Augsburg 3 (Vargas 52, Richter 76, Hahn 89) bt Borussia M’Gladbach 1 (Neuhaus 68).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-frustrated-by-leeds/article34064917.ece
14 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||What next for Kohli’s men after hiccup?||The contradictions began even before a ball was bowled. A day after India skipper Virat Kohli had stated that Rohit Sharma and K.L. Rahul would be the first-choice opening pair, the team management decided to rest Rohit for the first T20 on Friday. Did Rohit need the rest, given that the preceding third and fourth Tests lasted only five days in total, and the team had a five-day break before the T20s commenced? Rohit’s replacement Shikhar Dhawan, not one to look a gift horse in the mouth, took guard. A scratchy four off 12 balls was all that the left-hander could manage. At the same media interaction in which the Rohit-Rahul combination was given the thumbs up, Kohli spoke about a desire to play baggage-free cricket by taking the attack to the opposition even if a few wickets were lost. “The kind of players we have added into the squad is to give our batting line-up more depth, and not play in a similar pattern that we have in the past,” Kohli had explained, referring to the inclusion of aggressive batsmen like Suryakumar Yadav, Ishan Kishan and Rahul Tewatia. Once again, there was a surprise in store: none of the three were picked in the eleven. The middle-order — Kohli, Rishabh Pant, Shreyas Iyer and Hardik Pandya — had a familiar feel to it, and the innings progressed in the ‘similar pattern’ of the past that Kohli had hoped to avoid. At 20 for three, Pant and Shreyas looked to safely repair the damage, and this cautious approach continued when Pandya came in. That Shardul Thakur — a useful bat, but not quite a consistently explosive finisher — was slotted at No. 7 did not fit with the baggage-free demands placed on the middle-order. Shreyas, in his clever 48-ball 67, proved that it is more prudent to assess the situation and play to your strengths rather than follow rigid team orders. On a slow pitch, Shreyas relied on traditional qualities like timing, technique and placement to get the runs. The promised no-holds-barred approach was missing from Team India, which crawled to an inadequate 124 for seven. More mixed messaging came from Kohli during the post-match presentation. The skipper explained that the pitch was actually not conducive to big shots, and that only Shreyas took the time to judge the demands of the tricky surface.  Apart from fixing the team tactics heading into the second T20 here on Sunday, Kohli must also find some runs. The 32-year-old ventured into the unknown — given the high standards he has set for himself — falling to a second consecutive international duck on Friday. As pacer Jofra Archer pointed out after England’s win, getting Kohli out early dampens the mood in the Indian camp. It is left to Kohli to lift the spirits of the home team, both with the bat and as a strategist.  The squads (from): India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Yuzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Rahul Tewatia, Rahul Chahar, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini and Shardul Thakur.   England: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley and Mark Wood.   Match starts at 7 p.m.   That’s something I have been doing in the nets, bowling to batsmen with the new ball Adil Rashid England leg-spinner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/what-next-for-kohlis-men-after-hiccup/article34064897.ece
14 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Must-win game for Indian women||Despite the largely predictable pattern of teams winning the toss winning the match, it has been a fascinating series so far, between India and South Africa women. While the Proteas look to have mastered the situation to take a 2-1 lead in the five-ODI series, the Indian team has given many hints that it can play a lot better than what it has done so far. Lizelle Lee made light of chasing a target of 249, with a hurricane unbeaten 132 in tough windy conditions which ended in an anti-climactic rain. the Indian team is bound to step up its response to match wits. Getting into rhythm “Playing more matches will help us get into our rhythm. On tracks not assisting spin, even our experienced spinners have very little space to try their variations,” said captain Mithali after the defeat in the third match. About the need to reduce the dot-ball percentage in the innings, Mithali said everything depended on the situation, whether it was time “to develop momentum or try and build a partnership”. Despite the consistently strong performance of Jhulan Goswami the Indian bowling looks to have lost its sting in admirable batting conditions against a determined opponent. With the constant talk about preparing for the World Cup next year, India is getting many sharp lessons which would help it develop into a strong unit.  Match starts at 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/must-win-game-for-indian-women/article34064911.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shaw-led Mumbai faces spirited UP||If Mumbai begins as an overwhelming favourite to beat Uttar Pradesh and claim its fourth Vijay Hazare (50-over) title, skipper Prithvi Shaw’s irrepressible form is a big reason. Shaw, with a record aggregate of 754 runs so far, could break the 800-run mark in Sunday’s final at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground. In fact, looking at his run of four centuries — including three in excess of 150 — he could even be expected to go past the 900-run mark. UP, finalist to Railways in the 2004-05 season, will also have to deal with the form of Shaw’s opening partner Yashasvi Jaiswal (179 runs) and former captain Aditya Tare (181). In addition, experienced medium-pacer Dhawal Kulkarni and leg-spinner Prashant Solanki (14 wickets each) have caused maximum damage this season. Under a young captain in Karan Sharma, UP is a fairly inexperienced side. But its journey to the final has been inspiring. The way the side rallied from 66 for four to outplay host Delhi was commendable. Though its top-order has disappointed in the knockout phase, Karan, Akshdeep Nath and Upendra Yadav have rescued the team by displaying fine temperament. Left-arm spinner Shivam Sharma (20 wickets) could still hold the key for UP but it will be interesting to see how the medium-pacers Yash Dayal, Shivam Mavi and Aaqib Khan deal with Shaw early on in the innings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shaw-led-mumbai-faces-spirited-up/article34064765.ece
14 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Miracle and Juliette primed to complete hat-tricks||Miracle, who is in rousing form, should score a hat-trick in the Poonawalla Breeders Multi-Million (PBMM) (Gr.1), while Juliette, who has won well in her last two starts, maintains her winning form and is also poised for a hat-trick in the Darashaw Indian St. Leger (Gr.1), the two stellar attractions of the season to be run here on Sunday (March 14) afternoon. Rails will be placed 3 metres wide from 1200m upto the winning post. An amount of Rs. 50,000 will be added to the Win Pool of all the races of the day.  HONG KONG JOCKEY CLUB TROPHY (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 1.30 p.m.: 1. Perfect Perfecto (7) Neeraj 59.5, 2. Super Girl (4) T.S. Jodha 59, 3. Daring Eagle (1) Nazil 57.5, 4. Dawnstar (6) S. Kamble 56.5, 5. Little More (2) Kaviraj 56.5, 6. Isinit (9) Nadeem 56, 7. Suited Aces (3) A. Prakash 55.5, 8. Grey Falcon (8) Aniket 55 and 9. Dowsabel (5) Merchant 54.5.  1. SUPER GIRL, 2. PERFECT PERFECTO, 3. DOWSABEL   KUMAR R DALAL GOLD TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward, 2.00: 1. Bronx (4) Chouhan 61, 2. Lightning Bolt (2) Trevor 57, 3. Trouvaille (5) Neeraj 54.5, 4. Magistero (3) Bhawani 53 and 5. Truly Epic (1) C.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. LIGHTNING BOLT,   2. TROUVAILLE   HONG KONG JOCKEY CLUB TROPHY (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 2.30: 1. Count The Wins (7) Raghuveer 59.5, 2. Noble King (3) Trevor 59.5, 3. Waverunner (6) Ayyar 59.5, 4. Big Magic (1) Akshay 59, 5. Desert Fire (2) J. Chinoy 59, 6. Flower Power (9) Kaviraj 57.5, 7. Kardashian (4) Merchant 56.5, 8. Divija (8) C.S. Jodha 53 and 9. Thea’s Pet (5) Nazil 50.  1. NOBLE KING,   2. DESERT FIRE,   3. DIVIJA   ISN’T SHE SPECIAL PLATE (2,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.00: 1. Brazos (6) Parmar 59.5, 2. Chutzpah (11) Neeraj 59.5, 3. Mandeville (7) Chouhan 59.5, 4. Multistarrer (10) Sandesh 59, 5. Melisandre (8) C.S. Jodha 58, 6. Dalasan (5) S. Nayak 57.5, 7. Memorable Moments (2) Dashrath 57.5, 8. Silver Storm (9) A. Imran Khan 57.5, 9. Aadhya (1) Zeeshan 57, 10. Mythical Power (4) Kaviraj 55 and 11. Walk The Talk (3) Nazil 53.  1. MANDEVILLE, 2. MELISANDRE, 3. BRAZOS   FLORRIE & FREDDY SOPHER GOLD TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.30: 1. Highland Lass (1) Kaviraj 59.5, 2. Aegon (2) Trevor 58, 3. Exotic Queen (9) Dashrath 55, 4. Joaquin (—) (—) 54.5, 5. Menilly (3) Sandesh 54.5, 6. Memorable Memories (5) Neeraj 53.5, 7. Belenus (7) Ayyar 53, 8. Ms Boss (4) T.S. Jodha 52.5 and 9. Slam Dunk (8) S. Amit 49.5.  1. MENILLY, 2. MEMORABLE MEMORIES, 3. AEGON   INTERVALVE POONAWALLA LTD TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Above The Law (13) V. Jodha 56, 2. Alastair (8) Chouhan 56, 3. Constant Variable (2) Nirmal 56, 4. Excellent Star (14) T.S. Jodha 56, 5. Multiencyrpted (3) Parmar 56, 6. Raffaello (1) Akshay Kumar 56, 7. Scottish Scholar (10) Merchant 56, 8. Sky Storm (6) Dashrath 56, 9. Sonic Dash (4) C.S. Jodha 56, 10. The Mentalist (5) Ajinkya 56, 11. Whistle Blower (9) Nazil 56, 12. Camille (7) J. Chinoy 54.5, 13. Petronia (11) Zervan 54.5 and 14. River Song (12) Trevor 54.5.  1. PETRONIA, 2. RIVER SONG,   3. ALASTAIR   POONAWALLA BREEDERS’ MULTI-MILLION (Gr. 1) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.45: 1. Ascoval (4) Trevor 56, 2. Infinite N Beyond (6) Sandesh 56, 3. Knight In Hooves (7) Suraj Narredu 56, 4. Sentinel (10) Bhawani 56, 5. Spinoza (9) Akshay Kumar 56, 6. Succession (1) T.S. Jodha 56, 7. Supreme Runner (11) A. Imran Khan 56, 8. The Awakening (2) C.S. Jodha 56, 9. Allamanda (13) Neeraj 54.5, 10. Dragoness (3) Srinath 54.5, 11. Miracle (5) Chouhan 54.5, 12. Queen O’ War (8) Parmar 54.5 and 13. Scruples (12) Zervan 54.5.  1. MIRACLE, 2. SPINOZA,   3. ASCOVAL   DARASHAW INDIAN ST. LEGER (Gr. 1) (2,800m), (Terms) Maiden, 5-y-o only, 5.30: 1. Daddy’s Pride (4) T.S. Jodha 57, 2. Sir Supremo (3) Akshay Kumar 57, 3. Wizard Of Stocks (5) Neeraj 57, 4. Anjeze (1) Trevor 55.5, 5. Juliette (6) Sandesh 55.5 and 6. Parisian (2) Chouhan 55.5.  1. JULIETTE, 2. PARISIAN   DR GOOLAM E VAHANVATI TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 6.00: 1. Dreams (6) Trevor 61.5, 2. Divine Hunt (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Mereneith (Late Antarctica) (8) Shubham 58.5, 4. Mighty Warrior (2) Bhawani 58, 5. Classicus (1) T.S. Jodha 57, 6. White River (4) C.S. Jodha 56.5, 7. Black Cherry (11) J. Chinoy 55.5, 8. Auroden (3) Zeeshan 55, 9. Miss Scarlett (10) Sandesh 54, 10. Scotland (5) Raghuveer 51.5 and 11. Genau (7) Peter 49.5.  1. DREAMS, 2. DIVINE HUNT,   3. BLACK CHERRY  Day’s Best: PETRONIA  Jackpot: (i) 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4; (ii) 6, 7 & 8; (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala: All races. Super jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-and-juliette-primed-to-complete-hat-tricks/article34064961.ece
14 March 2021||BENGALURU:,||Scintillating Lass claims Governor’s Trophy||S. Attaollahi-trained Scintillating Lass (Srinath up) won the Governor’s Trophy, the chief event of the races held here on Saturday (Mar 13). The winner is owned by Mr. Daulat Chhabria & Sarainaga Racing Pvt. Ltd.  1. GOOD-BYE PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 20: AZEEMKI PRINCESS (H.M. Akshay) 1, Song And Dance (Rayan) 2, Sizzler (Darshan) 3 and Je Ne Sais Quoi (B. Nayak) 4. Lnk, 3 and Nk. 1m, 28.58s. Rs. 82 (w), 26, 18 and 31 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 78, FP: 425, Q: 226, Trinella: 2,480 and 1,240, Exacta: 16,800 and 7,200. Favourite: Altair. Owner: Mr. Syed Muheeb. Trainer: Mahmood Khan.  2. CHAMPION JOCKEY TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only: RULE OF ENGAGEMENT (J.H. Arul) 1, Ocean Dunes (Trevor) 2, Impeccable (Srinath) 3 and Orleans (Akshay K) 4. 5, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 13.63s. Rs. 19 (w), 12, 14 and 20 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 44, FP: 118, Q: 66, Trinella: 289 and 178, Exacta: 1,993 and 712. Favourite: Rule Of Engagement. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Mr. Gautam Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  3. PREMIUM SPIRIT PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): OWN LEGACY (Trevor) 1, Mitsuro (Darshan) 2, Ohanna (R. Marshall) 3 and War Chieftain (Akshay K) 4. Not run: Imperial Blue. 4-3/4, Nk and 1. 1m, 26.77s. Rs. 16 (w), 13, 16 and 13 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 35, FP: 57, Q: 42, Trinella: 182 and 79, Exacta: 254 and 85. Favourite: Own Legacy. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: S. Ganapathy.  4. CHAMPION TRAINER TROPHY (1,600m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only: ROYAL BLOSSOM (Antony) 1, Almanach (Trevor) 2, Southernaristocrat (Srinath) 3 and Dream Chaser (Kiran Rai) 4. Not run: Arlette. 5-1/4, 3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 39.28s. Rs. 17 (w), 13, 12 and 22 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 49, FP: 49, Q: 22, Trinella: 147 and 92, Exacta: 1,553 and 1,815. Favourite: Royal Blossom. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  5. LEADING STUD TROPHY (1,400m), rated 30 to 50: GRIFFIN (Salman Khan) 1, Katana (Trevor) 2, Twinkle Feet (Arshad) 3 and Classic Charm (Darshan) 4. Not run: Mountain Lion. Shd, Nose and 1/2. 1m, 26.10s. Rs. 186 (w), 31, 12 and 14 (p), SHP: 41, THP: 45, FP: 783, Q: 374, Trinella: 1,922 and 2,882, Exacta: 15,831 and 6,785. Favourite: See My Heels. Owner: Mr. Mohd Javeed Ghatala. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  6. LEADING OWNER TROPHY (1,400m), rated 60 & above: MALWA (Akshay K) 1, Alexandre Dumas (Sai Kiran) 2, Velocidad (Trevor) 3 and Set To Win (Sai Kumar) 4. 3-3/4, 1 and Nk. 1m, 25.35s. Rs. 50 (w), 18, 29 and 13 (p), SHP: 92, THP: 52, FP: 611, Q: 207, Trinella: 965 and 341, Exacta: 3,706 and 1,588. Favourite: Velocidad. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra, Mrs. Rina Mahindra & M/S. Deciding Factor LLP. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  7. GOVERNOR’S TROPHY (1,600m), 3-y-o, (Terms): SCINTILLATING LASS (Srinath) 1, Chashni (Trevor) 2, Soloist (Akshay K) 3 and Silvarius (Antony) 4. Not run: Teresita. 3/4, 5-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 39.76s. Rs. 18 (w), 12 and 15 (p), SHP: 25, THP: 25, FP: 57, Q: 20, Trinella: 39 and 19 (p), Exacta: 54 and 22. Favourite: Scintillating Lass. Owners: Mr. Daulat Chhabria & Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  8. CHAMPION JOCKEY TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only: MYSTIC EYE (Zervan) 1, Copper Sunrise (Antony) 2, Flamingo Road (Akshay K) 3 and Capable (S. Saqlain) 4. Not run: Belli Deepa. 1, 1-3/4 and 4-3/4. 1m, 13.76s. Rs. 45 (w), 16, 13 and 20 (p), SHP: 42, THP: 48, FP: 125, Q: 50, Trinella: 248 and 135, Exacta: 4,349 and 3,355. Favourite: Copper Sunrise. Owner: Mr. Chitturi Krishna Kannaiah. Trainer: Kishan Thomas.  9. SEABISCUIT SALVER (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: STRIKING MEMORY (S. Saqlain) 1, Happy Dancing (Md. Aliyar) 2, Adela (Chethan G) 3 and Another Rainbow (H.M. Akshay) 4. 1-1/2, Lnk and 3/4. 1m, 27.56s. Rs. 35 (w), 17, 40 and 20 (p), SHP: 138, THP: 56, FP: 557, Q: 407, Trinella: 4,218 and 1,162, Exacta: 47,863 and 20,513. Favourite: Marco Polo. Owner: Mr. H.K. Lakshman Gowda. Trainer: V. Lokanath. Jackpot: Rs. 70,310 (seven tkts.); Runner-up: 7,273 (29 tkts.); Treble (i): 212 (28 tkts.); (ii): 7,091 (one tkt.); (iii): 353 (51 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scintillating-lass-claims-governors-trophy/article34064766.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Former State footballer Liston passes away||Former Kerala and Kerala Police striker C.A. Liston passed away in Thrissur on Friday following a heart attack. He was 53 and serving as assistant director, IPRTC, Thrissur. He is survived by wife and two children. Liston, who joined Kerala Police in 1988, was a key member of the team that won the Federation Cup twice in the 1990s. He, along with I.M. Vijayan and C.V. Pappachan, formed a formidable strike-force. Coach Chathunni discovered Liston’s potential during a camp in Thrissur. He was a key member of the Calicut team that won the all-India inter-university title for three consecutive years. He represented Kerala in the Santosh Trophy for five straight seasons and the Indian u-22 team during the tour of Maldives in 1990. His finest moment came in 1991 when he scored the winner against Mahindra in the Federation Cup at Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-state-footballer-liston-passes-away/article34065307.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Two Olympic probables failed dope tests’||Two athletes, who are in contention for the Olympics, have failed dope tests conducted at the Indian GP in Patiala last month, the National Anti Doping Agency’s Director General Navin Agarwal revealed on Saturday. “I can’t comment about the names but yes, we had collected samples during the GP in Patiala. There are a couple of positive cases but I can’t say anything beyond that,” said Agarwal. As of now, the two athletes have not been handed a provisional suspension but have to appear before NADA’s Anti-Doping Disciplinary Panel to prove that the banned substance was inadvertently taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-olympic-probables-failed-dope-tests/article34064898.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four Indian paddlers eye Olympic qualification||Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Manika Batra and Sutirtha Mukherjee will be eyeing qualification for the Tokyo Olympics from the World Singles qualification tournament beginning in Doha on Sunday. There are four spots available for men and five for women. For men, in stage 1, there are three qualifying spots. Entries will be split into three groups. Knockout matches will be played from the round of 32 and the winner from each group will attain qualification. In stage 2, where the runner-up and the losing semifinalists from all three groups form a nine-player field, the winner takes the remaining qualifying spot. For women, the field will be divided into four knockout groups and the group-winner will qualify. In stage 2, the runner-up from four groups will battle it out for the final qualifying berth. Should things not go India’s way in this tournament, their qualification will depend on how they perform in the Asian Olympic qualification tournament from March 18-20. In the singles events, Sharath (ranked 32nd) and Sathiyan (37th) are the top two seeds, while Manika (63rd) and Sutirtha (95th) are seeded two and four among women. Indications are that these world rankings could play a big role in qualification. In any case, the Indians are virtually assured of grabbing the lone South Asian quota in both sections. In mixed doubles, Sharath and Manika are seeded second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-indian-paddlers-eye-olympic-spots/article34064967.ece
14 March 2021||Sakhir,||Verstappen shines, Hamilton loses way||Max Verstappen laid down an early marker ahead of the world championship on the opening day of pre-season Formula One testing in Bahrain on Friday while Lewis Hamilton suffered a nightmare start as a sandstorm swept across the Sakhir track. Verstappen, long regarded as the heir apparent to seven-time world champion Hamilton, clocked a best time of 1min 30.674sec in the Red Bull. The Dutchman also piled up an eye-watering 139 laps. Hamilton was only 10th fastest in 1:32.912 although his 42 laps dwarfed the six managed by Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas, the slowest man on the track in 1:36.850. Bottas, runner-up to Hamilton in 2020, even finished behind Haas rookies Nikita Mazepin and Mick Schumacher. The season will start with the Bahrain Grand Prix on March 28. The top three on Friday was filled out by Lando Norris in a McLaren in 1:30.889 and Esteban Ocon, who clocked a best of 1:31.146 from 129 laps for Alpine, the repackaged Renault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-shines-hamilton-loses-way/article34064915.ece
14 March 2021||NORTH POINT (Antigua),||Windies ease to series win||A 192-run opening stand between Evin Lewis and Shai Hope and cool finishing by Nicholas Pooran steered the West Indies to a five-wicket win over Sri Lanka in the second ODI on Friday. The West Indies also earned a winning 2-0 lead in the three-match series. Lewis made 103 and Hope 84 as the West Indies overtook Sri Lanka’s 273 for eight with two balls to spare.   The scores:   Sri Lanka 273/8 in 50 overs (D. Gunathilaka 96, D. Chandimal 71, W. Hasaranga 47, J. Mohammed three for 47) lost to West Indies 274/5 in 49.4 overs (E. Lewis 103, S. Hope 84, N. Pooran 35 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/windies-ease-to-series-win/article34064767.ece
14 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Niranjana and Arshi shine||Arshi Choudhary (70, 127b, 10x4, 1x6) and Niranjana (52 n.o. & 3/15) helped Tamil Nadu beat Himachal Pradesh by 94 runs in the BCCI senior women's one-dayer (Elite E) on Saturday.  The scores: Delhi 184 in 50 overs (Shweta Sehrawat 57, Vandana Chaturvedi 35, V. Chandu 3/23) lost to Karnataka 186/6 in 47.3 overs (S. Shubha 36, G. Divya 40, K. Rakshitha 35 n.o., Niki Prasad 25, Lalita Sharma 3/25).   Tamil Nadu 196/3 in 50 overs (Arshi Choudhary 70, L. Nethra 41, N. Niranjana 52 n.o.) bt Himachal 102 in 33.5 overs (Shivani Singh 29, N. Niranjana 3/15, K.N. Ramyashri 3/12, S.B. Keerthana 3/16).   Vidarbha 196 in 47.1 overs (Vaishnavi Khandkar 54, Bharti Fulmali 72) bt Meghalaya 50 in 19.1 overs (Nupur Kohale 3/5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/niranjana-and-arshi-shine/article34064899.ece
14 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Tribute to the power of sport: Nita||Football Sports Development Limited (FSDL) chairperson Nita Ambani on Saturday expressed her delight on delivering an “uninterrupted” and “successful” ISL despite the threat posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “Season 7 has been a tribute to the real power of sport, the true glory of football,” said Nita. “In spite of the global pandemic, despite the odds against us, the fear and uncertainty, this season of ISL has brought immense joy. I am proud of the fact that we were the first, the longest, and the most successful sports event to be held in India in these times.” “Aproximately 1600 people including footballers, support staff, club and League management and broadcast crew were housed in the strictest bio-bubble over a period of 6 months with close to 70,000 RT-PCR tests conducted by the League,” said Nita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tribute-to-the-power-of-sport-nita/article34065050.ece
14 March 2021||KOCHI:,||Upset win for Kerala United||Bujair Valiyattu scored twice and Nidhin Krishna netted one as the new side Kerala United FC upset defending champion Kerala Blasters (reserves) 3-1 in a Group-B match of the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football on Saturday. It was Kerala United’s second successive win while Blasters were playing their opener. Meanwhile, Royal Basco forced Kerala Police to a goalless draw in the Group-A match at Thrissur’s Corporation Stadium.  The results: Group-A (Thrissur): Royal Basco, Malappuram 0 drew with Kerala Police, Thiruvananthapuram 0.   Group-B (Kochi): Kerala United FC 3 (Nidhin Krishna 43, Bujair Valiyattu 45 & 89) bt Kerala Blasters FC 1 (Nijal Sudheesh 66) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/upset-win-for-kerala-united/article34065242.ece
14 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Kumar shines for East Bengal||Host East Bengal rode on A. Kumar’s brace to outplay CESC Club 6-1 in a premier division match of the Calcutta Hockey League here on Saturday. Calcutta Port Trust drew BNR Recreation Club 2-2 in another premier division contest.  The results: Premier division: East Bengal 6 (A. Kumar 2, Manpreet Singh, Harjit Singh, Surinder Singh, Ankush) bt CESC Club 1 (Amit Topno); Calcutta Port Trust 2 (Ajay Ekka, Silanand Bilung) drew with BNR Recreation Club 2 (Noyel Topno, Atanu Saha).   Placement round: Adibasis Club 2 (Bijoy Kusma, David Dodsay) drew with Calcutta Customs 2 (Mohammed Talib Khan, Mohammed Saif).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kumar-shines-for-east-bengal/article34065372.ece
14 March 2021||TIRUCHI:,||UCE-AU (Tiruchi) triumphs||UCE-AU (Tiruchi) scripted a 2-0 win over CARE GI to clinch the Anna University Zone-13 badminton title for women here on Saturday.  The results: Final: UCE-AU bt CARE GI 2-0. Third place: Saranathan CE bt GCE (Srirangam) 2-0. Semifinals: UCE-AU bt Saranathan 2-0; CARE bt GCE 2-0 .    Mathankumar’s 106 set up Seconds-B’s 100-run win over DCW in the Thoothukudi DCA first division league. Alagukarthiksankar’s 99 went in vain for DCW. In third division, Antony claimed six for 17 as Analmin Nagar registered a 112-run win over Thermal-A.  The scores: I div.: Seconds-B 301/7 in 50 overs (Mathankumar 106, Maradona 49, Vasanth 47, Balavignesh 45) bt DCW 201 in 28.3 overs (Alagukarthiksankar 99, J. Raj 33, S. Muralikannan 3/41).   II div.: United SC 137 in 38.2 overs (Sankar 31, Senthil 3/17) lost to Thirumurugan 139/4 in 18.4 overs (Senthil 95).   III div.: Analmin Nagar 189 in 37.1 overs (Vinoth 39, Rahul 31) bt Thermal-A 77 in 25.4 overs (Antony 6/17).   Pearl City 207/9 in 40 overs (Ramesh 73, Manline 32, Thirukarthikraja 3/28, Vishnu 3/32) lost to LASA 208/7 in 37 overs (Gowtham 50 n.o., Venkitesh 30, Babu 3/31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uce-au-tiruchi-triumphs/article34065022.ece
14 March 2021||GURUGRAM:,||Rishika bags title||Qualifier Rishika Sunkara beat third seed Sai Samhitha 7-5, 2-6, 6-2 in the final of the Haryana Open Rs. 5,00,000 AITA women’s tennis tournament at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, here on Saturday. Apart from the prize money, there was a bonus of the return air tickets for two anywhere in the country by Indigo, for the singles and doubles champions. Rishika had won her last singles title in the domestic circuit, in Coimbatore in September 2018. Rishika had earlier won the doubles title with Yubarani Banerjee.     Fifth seed Marianna Zakarlyuk of Ukraine downed second seed Miriam Bianca Bulgaru 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-4 to set up a title clash against third seed Laura Pigossi of Brazil in the KPIT $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Saturday. In the doubles final, Rutuja Bhosale and Emily Webley-Smith defeated second seeds Miriam and Riya Bhatia 6-2, 7-5. It was the 15th doubles title in the professional circuit for Rutuja and her second with Emily.  The results:   Singles (semifinals): Laura Pigossi (Bra) bt Emily Webley-Smith (GBR) 6-1, 6-1; Marianna Zakarlyuk (Ukr) bt Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Emily Webley-Smith (GBR) & Rutuja Bhosale bt Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) & Riya Bhatia 6-2, 7-5 .      USA’s Zane Khan put himself in line for another title as he defeated sixth seed Eric Vanshelboim of Ukraine 6-1, 6-4 in the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Saturday. The 19-year-old Zane will play third seed Aidan Mchugh of Britain, who fought for two hours and 45 minutes to overcome Marco Brugnerotto of Italy 6-3, 4-6, 7-5.  The results:   Singles (semifinals): Aidan Mchugh (GBR) bt Marco Brugnerotto (Ita) 6-3, 4-6, 7-5; Zane Khan (USA) bt Eric Vansherlboim (Ukr) 6-1, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Luca Castelnuovo (Sui) & Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) bt Jonathan Binding & Henry Patten (GBR) 2-6, 7-5, [11-9] .      Second seed Nikhil Niranjan and top seed Sanjana Sirimalla won the boys and girls titles respectively in the Om Farm ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament here on Saturday. Nikhil, a trainee of national coach Zeeshan Ali, defeated seventh seed Maanav Jain 7-6(5), 6-0. Sanjana bounced back from a slow start to outplay Lakshanya Vishwanath 4-6, 6-0, 6-0.  The results (finals):   Boys: Nikhil Niranjan (USA) bt Maanav Jain 7-6(5), 6-0.   Girls: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Lakshanya Vishwanath 4-6, 6-0, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rishika-bags-title/article34065049.ece
14 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Thiruvananthapuram wins title||Host Thiruvananthapuram won the overall title in the State junior boys freestyle wrestling championships on Saturday. It tallied 43 points while Palakkad finished second with 29.  The results (finals):   57kg: S.Sumesh (Pkd) bt Nabeel N. Rasool (Tvm); 61kg: P.R. Mohammed Salih (Pkd) bt S.J. Abhijith (Tvm); 65kg: R. Mohammed Siyas (Pkd) bt P. Muhammed Rifan (Mlp); 70kg: C. Muhammed Jasir Husain (Pkd) bt S. Akhiljith (Tvm); 74kg: Tony Babu (Ktm) bt B. Bijoy (Tvm); 79kg: Alan Raj (Knr) bt P.M. Prajin Sam (Tvm); 86kg: Y.R. Anojdas (Tvm) bt J.B. Jithin (Tvm); 92kg: T.M. Shahid (Pkd) bt Abin Mathew Vinod (Alp); 97kg: S.R. Sooraj (Tvm) bt K.V. Muhammed Anas (Pkd); 125kg: C.M. Munavar (Knr) bt Anshadhu (Alp) .    Afrab Rishab took three for 21 to star in Tuskers’ thrilling one-run win over Lions in the Kodak KCA President’s Cup T20 league on Thursday. Later, Royals, riding on Harikrishnan's 50 off 43 balls, beat Tigers by two wickets.  The scores: Tuskers 110/6 in 20 overs (Joffin Jose 37, Abhishek Mohan 2/18, P.K. Midhun 2/23) bt Lions 109 in 20 overs (Vinu Kumar 44, Afrad Rishab 3/21, C.O.T. Farzeen 2/22); Tigers 109/8 in 20 overs (Varun Nayanar 33, Sijomon 4/17) lost to Royals 110/8 in 19.3 overs (Harikrishnan 50, Fanoos 2/17, Athul Raveendran 2/23) .    Tarannum Pathan (3/42 and 31) helped Baroda beat Kerala by two wickets in the senior women’s one-day tourney at Indore on Saturday.  The scores: Kerala 194 in 47.3 overs (I.V. Drishya 30, S. Sajana 32, Tarannum Pathan 3/42, Kesha Patel 3/41) lost to Baroda 195/8 in 49.4 overs (Palak Patel 34, Amrita Joseph 54, Tarannum Pathan 31, Minnu Mani 3/33) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiruvananthapuram-wins-title/article34065308.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Surendhar’s six-for bests Lawrance’s century||M. Surendhar’s six for 39 was instrumental in Venkateswara recording a 50-run win over Book Sellers in a IV-D contest of the TNCA league recently. Lawrance D’Souza’s 126 went in vain for Book Sellers.  The scores:   IV-D: Venkateswara CC 329/5 in 50 overs (A. Md Shuaib 73, C. Akshath Pradeep 62, V. Shashank 46, Sajjad Hussain 41, V. Vignesh 35 n.o.) bt Book Sellers 279 in 46.3 overs (Lawrance D’Souza 126, M. Varun Kumar 58, M.R. Naveen 43, M. Surendhar 6/39) .      Viswajith’s unbeaten 103 set up Eleven Rising Stars’ 135-run win over Elite Kings in the first semifinal of the Dr. P.S. Sivanthi Aditanar Memorial under-11 inter-academy tournament recently.  The scores (semifinals):   Eleven Rising Stars 275/4 in 30 overs (Viswajith 103 n.o., P. Yatish 50 n.o., Tharun Kumar 43, Prajit Dewakar 39, Prajin Venkatesh 3/44) bt Elite Kings 140/8 in 30 overs (Yashwanth 74).   Cricket Drome 141 in 29 overs (Appurva Kumar 73, A.K. Nitin 3/19) lost to Elite Giants 148/5 in 19.4 overs (Mohammed 52 n.o.).    M. Sudershan’s four-wicket haul helped Mar Gregorious defeated Gojan by seven wickets in the semifinals of the ninth Thiruvallur DCA inter-collegiate T20 tournament.  The scores:   Gojan SB & T 96 in 17.2 overs (D. Manoj Kumar 38, M. Sudershan 4/16) lost to Mar Gregorious 100/3 in 14 overs (S. Surya 28).   DRBCCC Hindu College 155 in 19.5 overs (K. Padmanaban 51, R. Jayaprakash 3/23) bt L&G Ponneri 139 in 18.5 overs (A. Subash 38, I. Dhilip Rajan 31 n.o., G. Dhanish 4/29).       Ebinesh’s five for 11 was the highlight of CMR’s 58-run win over Reservoir Dogs in the final of the SSCA Cup.  The scores (final): CMR 153/9 in 24 overs (Prasad 59, Ashwin Ravichandran 3/18) bt Reservoir Dogs 95 in 18.2 overs (Arjun 43, Ebinesh 5/11, Ashavan Thiagarajan 3/15).    Kingstar CA’s Viswajith (five for 34) bowled his side to a 30-run win over Elite Dragons in the semifinals of the Nellai Nadar Ramachandraa Public School under-13 inter-academy tournament recently.  The scores (semifinals):   Elite Dinos 106 in 28.1 overs (Ashwath Raghavan 3/34) lost to CCA 108/2 in 13 overs (Abhinav 46, R. Rajath 33 n.o.).   Kingstar CA 224/7 in 30 overs (Aswatha Raman 62, Abhinav Sridhar 53) bt Elite Dragons 194/8 in 30 overs (Dariyo 63, Arya Ganesh 47, Viswajith 5/35).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/surendhars-six-for-bests-lawrances-century/article34064964.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Rethin and Sanya||Rethin Pranav and Sanya Masand emerged the boys’ and girls’ champions in the Sportle AITA under-18 CS-7 National-ranking tennis championship at the Topspin Tennis Academy.  The results (finals):   Boys: Rethin Pranav bt Akarsh V.Gaonkar 6-1, 6-1; Girls: Sanya Masand bt Samiksha Dabas 4-6, 6-2, 6-2 .      Double centuries from Srujan Nandan (280 n.o.) and Harshil (216 n.o.) set up Swastic Union CC (2)’s massive 418-run win over Bangalore SC in the KSCA (Group I) under-16 inter-club tournament.  The scores:   Friends Union CC (1) 291 in 44.1 overs (Pranav R. Babu 98, Dev Sinha 55, G. Thrishar 79, Sidvin Gowda 6/57) bt Cavaliers CC 198/8 in 50 overs (D.M. Jeevan 30, K.G. Pratham 25, Sidvin Gowda 72 n.o., Krupamanjunatha 25, Ayushman Chakraborty 3/20).   Vultures CC 269/5 in 50 overs (Shatak Gunjal 80, C.R. Kumarswamy 116, K. Ambresh 3/45) bt Friends Union CC (2) 115 in 34.2 overs (S. Vishnu Viran 33, Ansh Aima 5/29, K.P. Karthikeya 3/22).   Swastic Union CC (2) 572/1 in 50 overs (M.B. Shivam 41, Srujan Nandan 280 n.o., Harshil 216 n.o.) bt Bangalore SC 154/4 in 50 overs (Ishaan Singh 25, S. Daivik 25).   Jupiter CA 71 in 29.5 overs (Mahesh Kumar Bangera 3/16, Sharan 3/16) lost to Jolly Cricketers 72/1 in 16.0 overs (R.V. Rohit 40 n.o.).   Cambridge CC 159 in 40 overs (Raghuveer Rajpurohit 43, Nishchinth Parmashwar 26, Darun L.Reddy 25, Abhinv Shah 4/28, Archit Rode 3/10) lost to Coles CC 160/4 in 42 overs (Atharv Malviya 25, Srey Rithwik Kabalu 43, Archit Rode 43).   Herons CC 279/6 in 50 overs (J. Akshay 26, S. Monish 109 n.o., K.V. Sutej Simha 29, Chethan Prem 50 n.o.) bt Modern CC 113 in 39.2 overs (Syed Adnan 32, Leonel Andre Prabhakar 26, D. Vishwanath 4/23, Ronith Iyengar 3/5).   The Bangalore Cricketers 45 in 21.4 overs (Shikhar Shetty 3/9, Siddhanth Navale 3/13) lost to Bangalore Occasionals 49/1 in 3.4 overs (Malhar Naik 26 n.o.).   Whirlwind Cricketers 233/9 in 50 overs (Kiran David Johnson 30, D. Pradhyan 55 n.o., M. Malateesh 52, D.K. Hrishikesh 35 n.o., Anand Arun Pillai 3/35, Rohan R. Revankar 4/52) bt Jawans CC 217 in 44 overs (S. Aditya 28, Ujwal S.Gowda 29, Lakshan 52, Raj Kumar 3/43, M. Malateesh 3/39).   Chintamani SA 180 in 46.3 overs (Adoksh Vishwanath 36, Gaurav Raj Urs Ganesh 45, Aryan Varma 25, K. Krishna Kapil 4/30, Arhaan Khan Jamadar 3/20) bt Young Lions Club 175/8 in 50 overs (Aditya Ayyappan 26, Aarav Balaji 56, A.G. Adithya 58, Arjun Reddy 3/19).   Visweswarapuram CC (1) 207 in 49.4 overs (A.S. Shrawan 45, Pragyan Hota 49, A.P. Bhaveesh 48, Dev Sinha 3/36) lost to Friends Union CC (1) 208/3 in 41.3 overs (Aarush Mehrotra 102, Dev Sinha 65 n.o.).   Sir Syed Cricketers 218 in 42.3 overs (Samith Prabhu 93, C. Tarun 5/36) bt Mount Joy CC 146 in 39.2 overs (Sohan Reddy 47, Tejas Reddy 29, Deepak Neeralagi 5/39).   RVCE 168 in 44.5 overs (Madhava S.Dharwadkar 32, Vinod Kumar 55, Arjun S.Kumar 4/49, Pranav Abhijit Bhattad 3/31) lost to Vijaya CC 172/3 in 31.3 overs (Samit Dravid 74 n.o., A. Yuvraj 54).   Hammonds CC 280/3 in 50 overs (Arnav Mishra 36, Aryan Bharadwaj 74, S. Vinay Radha 103 n.o., Jay Dipen Raja 37 n.o.) bt Wilson Garden CC 117 in 37.5 overs (Srinivas Bhargav 33, Aryan Bharadwaj 4/21, Nischal Kumbhat 3/12).   BUCC (1) 104 in 39.5 overs (Vedant Kini 25, Aarya N. Muddu 3/19) lost to Neptune CC 106 for no loss in 13.4 overs (Yash Jadhav 61 n.o., Tanav Prasad 33 n.o.).   Hanumanthanaagar CC 120 in 48 overs (Puneeth Yadhukumar 32, Ronith Iyengar 3/22) lost to Herons CC 124/6 in 28.4 overs (J. Akshay 51).   Malleswaram Gymkhana 284/7 in 50 overs (Hari Rajiv 95, Bhuvan Vishwanth 56, M.P. Samarth 59 n.o., Adithya Pavalur 3/64) lost to Rajajinagar Cricketers 285/6 in 46.5 overs (Shrutan V.Shetty 35, Dhwaneet Rao 31, R. Vivek 87, Vismai Bahuguna 29).   South End SC 157 in 36 overs (M.P. Samarth 4/45) lost to Malleswaram Gymkhana 159/6 in 34.1 overs (Bhuvan Vishwanth 29, M.P. Samarth 48 n.o., Sujay S. Kulkarni 3/52).   Young Lions Club 59 in 22.3 overs (U. Dhanush Gowda 3/23, L. Vibaansh 4/14) lost to Jawahar SC 60/2 in 23 overs.   Sir Syed Cricketers 195 in 40.2 overs (Veeraj Haveri 55, Rahul Bellad 28, Aaron Nair 4/30) bt Visweswarampuram CC (1) 192 in 48.3 overs (A.S. Shrawan 29, Pragyan Hota 56, Huzaifa M.Bagi 55 n.o., Rahul Bellad 4/40).   Visweswarapuram CC (2) 143 in 40.5 overs (Sarthul Srivastava 26, Arya Prasad 3/17) lost to Hammonds CC 146/2 in 27.5 overs (Arnav Mishra 75 n.o.).   BUCC (1) 126 in 45.5 overs (Tanish R.Shah 34, R. Aditya 29 n.o.) lost to Jawahar SC (1) 127/1 in 28.2 overs (S.U. Karthik 78 n.o.)   Bangalore Occasionals 241/9 in 50 overs (A. Siddharth 27, Aaryan Santosh 51, R. Shishir 55, Arnav Gokhale 26 n.o., Shashank Kiran 4/34) bt Rajajinagar Cricketers 147 in 45 overs (V. Akash 75, M.K. Ruthvik 27, Arnav Gokhale 3/21, Siddhanth Navale 3/28).     FC Deccan edged out Bangalore Independents 2-1 in the BDFA men’s super division football league here on Saturday.  The results:   Saturday: BDFA men’s super division: FC Deccan 2 (Arvind Kumar 47, E. Sajeesh 58) bt Bangalore Independents FC 1 (Hemanth Kumar 25); Bangalore Eagles FC 5 (Niyas 11, Cletus Paul 26, 57, 69, S, Seenu 85) bt Income Tax FC 0.   Friday: BDFA men’s super division: Kickstart FC 2 (Sudheer Kotikela 55, Magesh Selva 87) bt ASC & Center FC 0; Young Challengers FC 3 (Nihal Colaco 24, 32, Ankith 62) drew with MEG & Center FC 3 (Regan Singh 16, Rahul Ramakrishna 48, Imanaakuna 61).   KSFA women’s super division: Maatru Prathistana 2 (Jyothi 20, 48) bt Parikrma 1 (Shobana Selvan 33).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rethin-and-sanya/article34064901.ece
14 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Advani cruises past Damani, bags title||Pankaj Advani defeated Brijesh Damani 6-1 (72-13, 67-71, 61-39, 78(78)-00, 90(55)-34, 53-32, 83-48) in the final to clinch the Bangalore Snooker Academy all-India open championship on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advani-cruises-past-damani-bags-title/article34064903.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: IV division, championship match, Sumangali Homes vs Park Town RC (Southern Railway); relegation playoff, Vigneswara CC vs YMA (St. Bede’s ‘B’); Jubilee vs Fox Trotters (St. Bede’s ‘A’).   V div., relegation playoff, Shivaji CC vs HSBC RC (MIT), 9.30 a.m.   TDCA league, I div., Standard vs Ambattur (9.30 a.m.), Gojan; II div., Ebenezer CA vs Thiruvallur (1 p.m.), OCF ground; III div., SS CA vs WABCO Ind RC (1 p.m.), Hindu ‘A’; 16th Lucas TVS-TDCA Trophy, Group-B, Delphi TVS vs India Japan Lighting (8 a.m.), Hindu ‘A’.   KDCA league, I div., Jai CC vs Little Hearts Academy (12.30 p.m.); II div., Mani Memorial vs Vijay (7.30 a.m.), Dhanish Ahamed Engg. College, Padappai.   DCAC league, Gopalakrishnan Memorial vs Seshadri Memorial (7.30 a.m.); GE &TD vs Prahlad C C(11 a.m.); SRI (Tbm) vs Garnet, Agni Engg. College   Young Talents Grand Sports Trophy under-14 tournament, Kabilan CA, Perumbakkam, 8 a.m. & 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34064965.ece
14 March 2021||Ponte Vedra,||Lahiri exits early again, veteran Westwood leads at the Players Championship||Anirban Lahiri’s second round par-72, coupled with a 78 on Thursday, was not enough to make the cut in the Players Championship here on Friday. Lee Westwood was in the lead with a nine-under 235.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lahiri-exits-early-again-veteran-westwood-leads-at-the-players-championship/article34065023.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 07:52 IST,||Sudoku — March 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-14-2021/article34065518.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Auto driver’s survival strategy||During a telephonic call, A. Muthukumar sounded elated. He explained the cause to this writer: A house-warming ceremony was in this own. Not his own, but one where he would serve as a caterer. When the lockdown was on him, 43-year-old Muthukumar became a driver-cum-caterer, following a long stint in the financial-services sector. Muthukumar is impressed and thankful for the way his catering business has shaped up over the last few months. Before the pandemic began, Muthukumar lost his job of 14 years with a financial services company in Chennai. He tried to start his own business but that did not take off. After mulling over whether to run a cab or an auto service, he chose the latter. It was a bumpy ride in the beginning. “Twenty days after I brought home an autorickshaw, lockdown came into force and I could not drive the three-wheeler,” says Muthukumar, a resident of Kolathur. An opportunity came from an unexpected quarter. Migrants from Orissa living next door to Muthukumar sought his help in meeting their daily needs and the family obliged by serving them food until they left for their hometown. Word soon spread around the neighbourhood about the family’s cooking and thus was born Maniammal Catering. Muthukumar now does both – rides the auto and also does home delivery of food, the latter has been fetching him a reasonably good income. With a regular clientèle of senior citizens and bachelors ordering food from him, “I deliver lunch to 20 people a day; this apart I get orders for special occasions.” Over the last nine months, Catering Muthu, as he is known, has expanded the scope of his business through technology. “I have registered with Zomato and also tied up with Dunzo,” says Muthukumar, who has a food licence, and even expanded his kitchen by 120 sq ft to cater to his growing customer base. “Initially, I was helped by my wife and son. Now, I have two of my relatives helping us whenever we have a big requirement to meet,” he says. Muthukumar hopes this good run continues, and plans to open a restaurant.  I deliver lunch to 20 people a day; this apart I get orders for special occasions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auto-drivers-survival-strategy/article34064627.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Anna University’s device engineers change in a hamlet||A fashion industry is built around the retina. In squares, rectangles, pentagonals and so on. Just inches away, the ear languishes in relative obscurity. Hearing aids only rarely become faddish. On closer scrutiny, this argument is specious. In any given population, those requiring a hearing aid would be outnumbered googolplex times by those in need of spectacles. The disparity is unmistakable when the scene shifts to underprivileged communities. Pardon the pun: Eye camps come out of ears. However, in these communities, many may be living with degrees of hearing loss when they do not have to. Launched during the lockdown, a pilot project involving an indigenously-designed “soft audiometer” from Anna University is an illustration. Rotary Club of Madras Temple City; MERF Institute of Speech and Hearing (MERF-ISH; in association with Madras ENT Research Foundation) and the National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation Development (NHHID) at Anna University run this pilot at Chinnambedu village, a half-an-hour drive from Red Hills. It addresses the twin barriers — accessibility and affordability — to treating hearing disabilities. The tech part NHHID, sustained by the Science & Technology Department, Government of India, has created a software-based audiometer with protocols from MERF-ISH. Prof. S. Muttan, Head of the Department, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Anna University and coordinator, NHHID, explains: “Ten years ago, my research student Rajkumar and I began working on a soft audiometer for early detection of hearing defects. We noticed two barriers to early detection — accessibility and affordability. Accessibility is the point of care, which means the service should be accessible from wherever and at whatever time.” The soft audiometer is being promoted as a cost-effective alternative to the regular hardware-based audiometer. It carries out the same function: Plotting the audiogram of the right and left ear, he explains. “We looked at the PC, and through its sound blaster card, we developed a similar procedure. In software form, this tool can be loaded into a standalone system — a PC or a mobile. This way, anyone can test their ears for hearing defects. We wanted to validate our work, and so we worked with Madras Medical College back then. Four years ago, we found a good partner in MERF Research Foundation. Being an audiologist, Ranjith Rajeswaran provided testing protocols for the software and validated and authenticated it,” elaborates Muttan. “There are two versions of the soft audiometer — a professional version that will be used by audiologists. The other one is for the general public, which can be used by anybody across the globe, as it would be web-based, and available on the cloud.” Says Ranjith, director. MERF-ISH, “The version for the general public needs more machine learning and data, and so, we are launching only the professional version now. This version was used for the project at Chinnambedu.” The social part Ranjith recalls that when he approached Rotary Club of Madras Temple City with the vision of tackling hearing problems in underprivileged communities, the Club wanted to know how it could be a part of it. “I told them that I need a village first,” he discloses. Chinnambedu was a straight choice as the Club’s social activities were already on steam there. With around 360 families, Chinnambedu is actually a hamlet, now adopted under what is called “Hearing For Life” programme helmed together by these organisations “The screening began by the end of November in 2020. We went in person, wearing proper PPE suits, and knocked on the doors of the families in the village; we surveyed 320 families. The soft audiometer enables us do the testing via the cloud. Before that, we had to figure out who needed to be tested. In the second stage, we took the equipment (the hardware-based audiometers) and the software and set up testing stations, and fixed appointments, and got the testing done. Seventy-two persons were diagnosed with differing levels and forms of hearing impairment,” says Ranjith. “Out of them, 52 have been diagnosed so far. Some required just medical management. Some others, hearing aids. A few require surgery.” He continues: “Rotary Club of Temple City had donated 60 hearing aids, some of which we used at Chinnambedu. A mould based on the beneficiary’s ear canal has to made, and fitted to the hearing aid. The process of creating the mould takes two to three weeks. We brought the material required to create the mould.” Ranjith explains that for creating a mould, the actuals would come up to Rs. 150 — having it done in the market would soak up Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 — and so only the actuals were being charged, and this was sponsored by the Rotary Club. Ranjith continues: “We would ask those requiring surgery to go to the nearby ENT hospital. If they cannot afford that, we would talk to ENT specialists at MMC or Kilpauk Medical College or MERF Research Foundation and have the surgeries done for them. Some of the children may require a cochlear implant. In the Tamil Nadu health system, there is a free cochlear implant programme.” On the cloud  On what next for Chinnambedu, Ranjith says: “We will be rolling out a self-sustaining model. At the end of March, we would visit the village to see if a hearing testing booth can be set up.” Periodically, a small team will head to Chinnambedu to do the testing at the booth, and the results will be relayed via the cloud to specialists in Chennai. Ranjith adds: “The idea is that nobody in Chinnambedu who has a hearing defect has to live with it.”   The screening began by the end of November 2020. We went in person, wearing proper PPE suits, and knocked on the doors of the families in the village; we surveyed 320 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/anna-universitys-device-engineers-change-in-a-hamlet/article34064637.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Get the location right||To the neighbour, a celebrity is just a presence across the fence — unless the latter has a fortification around them. The Common Pochard ( Aythya ferina) may come across as an uncommon winter visitor, and may even be called rarer than hen’s teeth around Chennai.   The simile’s validity depends on the location the filter has been set to. In certain areas, the picture improves. On the outskirts of South Chennai, which includes section of OMR-ECR and Tambaram regions, access to lakes, estuarine systems and backwaters raises hopes of Common Pochard sightings. It also includes lakes between Chennai and Chengalpet, as well as those in the Kacheepuram region. eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan points out that in the Cheyyur region on East Coast Road — the Odiyur backwaters and a section of the Mudhaliarkuppam backwaters — a flock of 40 birds can be expected at the best of times. “I have seen a flock of around 10 Common Pochards at Siruthavur lake, when it was filled to the brim,” says birder Sundaravel Palanivelu. “During a trip to Odiyur, I counted around 50 birds, but the flock would have been much bigger, as the birds were at a considerable distance, hogging the deeper sections.” A diving duck found in freshwater and brackish water lakes, the Common Pochard is concentrated around the middle sections. So, usually, photographic records of the Common Pochard would be long-shots of Common Pochards bobbing around in deeper waters. “Generally, pochards would fly in flocks neither small nor big — usually, in a flock of 20 to 40 birds,” says Vikas. Another diving duck — Tufted Duck (earlier called Tufted Porchard) — can be a “presence around the fence” depending on the location. “Tufted Duck ( Aythya fuligula) is a regular occurrence now at Thaiyur lake, as illustrated by records of the past few years. The species keeps to a small flock, usually just 4 to 5 birds. It has been been recorded at places like Manimangelam Lake on the way to Padappai; and Kattur Lake, near Kelambakkam; and Siruthavur Lake, near Thiruporur, ” says Vikas.   With the Red Crested Pochard, the “hen’s-teeth” metaphor fits like a glove. Says Vikas, “The Red-crested Pochard is essentially a wintering bird of North India. During winter, you would get hundreds of them at places like Ghajoldoba in West Bengal. However, as it comes south, it becomes scarcer. Pulicat has the best record in this region. Around Shar Road you find the Red-crested Pochard. Every wintering season, you will get to see the Red-crested Pochard at Kudri tank in Sriharikota — in a flock of around 30 to 40.” Otherwise, sightings are extremely uncommon. In February 2019, birder Rama Neelamegam and Vikas documented the sighting of a female Red Crested Pochard at Nathapettai lake in Kancheepuram. (‘Migrant Watch' is a column about birds that visit Chennai during the migratory season)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/get-the-location-right/article34064641.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From masks to music||A room at Greater Chennai Corporation’s shelter for women with disabilities has undergone a sea change. The monotonic hum of sewing machines has given way to a symphony of traditional music instruments. A group of women at the Better World Shelter for Women with Disabilities practise playing these instruments and rehearse plays at what is called ‘the tailoring room’. Last year, these women would work on the sewing machines to turn out masks. Now, they run ‘Bul Bul Tara’, a cultural troupe that seeks to highlight social issues through theatre and music. Currently, Madan is teaching them how to play the percussion-instrument parai; and Srijith Sundaram is conducting theatre classes for them. Either working or studying, these women found the pandemic snatch away their source of livelihood, and they had to reinvent themselves. The mask project They turned to making masks. R. Shanthi, a tailor with loco-motor disability and a resident of the shelter, was the only person who knew to use a sewing machine. When she got an order from a customer, a Corporation employee, to make masks, she roped in others from the hostel to help her. Those who did not know how to sew attended to tasks that were tertiary but still significant — cutting the material, attaching the strings and packing them. Due to a shortage of masks in Chennai during the initial days of the pandemic, orders kept pouring in. “My earnings from making masks during the lockdown was higher than at other times when I would stitch blouses and other clothes,” says Shanthi. With a slowdown in the demand for masks, the women began to participate in the Corporation’s COVID-19 intervention programmes undertaken at different neighbourhoods. They would collect data, go from door to door to carry out temperature checks and conduct awareness programmes about checking the spread of the virus. Matilda Foneca had turned to mask-making, having lost her job as a telephone operator at a restaurant. “I was making masks and once that work dried up, I was enlisted by the Greater Chennai Corporation for its outreach work, which required me to collect data from various households and key it into an Excel sheet,” says Matilda, a wheelchair-bound basketball player. Along with Kavitha and Manimegalai, she would create awareness about mask-wearing. “We were assigned the Virugambakkam area to spread the message and that is also when we realised that we were good at engaging with people,” says Matilda. The intervention programmes for the Corporation fetched her Rs. 13,000. Social change Srijith Sundaram, a theatre personality who runs the group Kattiyakari, is their trainer. “We use theatre and other traditional art forms to empower them and make them understand social justice and rights,” says Srijith, adding that he uses his students’ inputs to improvise theatre. “As part of the training, a few of them went to Kancheepuram where a young woman died after falling into a septic tank, as her office did not have a toilet. In the future, the group would enact plays to send across a social message,” says Srijith. Aiswarya Rao, director of the Centre and a paediatrician, says, “One project led to another and they have adapted very well to the new challenges,” says Dr Aiswarya, who has been mentoring the women. In the mask-making project, a factory-like protocol was being followed on how tasks were assigned to them, based on each other’s strengths, recalls Aiswarya. The fact that some of these women are wheelchair-bound basketball players helps them meet the demands of theatrical performances. Recently, the shelter added another feature to its cap: The State Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently-Abled sanctioned an entrepreneurship and livelihood project for it. “We have signed an MoU with Better World Shelter for Women with Disabilities where the unit will be training other women from the district in various aspects of running a small enterprise,” says Johny Tom Varghese, State Commissioner and director of Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently-Abled.   One project led to another and they have adapted very well to the new challenges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-masks-to-music/article34064629.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Making elections accessible||Elections after elections, orthopedically-challenged K. Selvi would crawl to the polling booth at a government school in Vadakkarai near Red Hills. At the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the polling booth became a little less inaccessible, as it offered her a wheelchair. However, without a volunteer to push the wheelchair, Selvi’s sister ended up doing it, while holding her eight-month-old baby. At the 2019 LS polls, 36-year-old K. Alamelu crawled towards the booth, only to discover her name was not on the voters’ list. No wheelchair. No volunteers to push the chair. Over all of these, the polling officials were not helpful. She returned home without casting her vote. The visually-impaired have their litany of problems. Aruna Devi, honorary member, Society for the Rights of All Women with Disabilities (in Alwarpet) underlines how party symbols are not found on Braille-enabled ballot paper. “The Braille–enabled ballot paper has the serial number, party name and the contesting candidate’s name, but not the party symbol. The symbol has the quickest recall, especially among the unlettered,” says Aruna, emphasising that this remains a long-standing request. S. Vanaja, president of Visually-Impaired Women’s Association (in Kundrathur) says the Braille-enabled ballot paper should be well-embossed. “In the 2019 LS elections, I felt the Braille-enabled ballot paper to be a bit blunt and I had difficulty identifying the party I wanted to vote for,” says Vanaja, a resident of Amnjikarai. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, member, Disability Rights Alliance, India, says those unlettered in Braille would seek someone else’s support, which in turn compromises voting privacy. An alternative ensuring privacy should be found, says Vaishnavi. The deaf and deaf-mute see the need for a sign language specialist. “As having a sign language specialist at every booth is impractical, a pre-recorded video of a sign language specialist explaining the steps in casting the vote could be arranged, in both Tamil and English,” says public relations officer, The Association for The Deaf. D. Gnana Bharathi, president, Spinal Injured Persons Association, underscores the need for ramps meeting standards prescribed by Election Commission of India (ECI). According to ECI’s website, the inclination ratio of a ramp should be 1:10 and not more than 1:14. An evenly-levelled ground for easy movement of the wheelchair is another necessity. Gnana Bharathi points out how well-meaning bystanders can cause harm when they push the wheelchairs unsafely causing the wheelchair-bound to fall. Hence the need for well-trained volunteers. Conveyance arrangements should be made for the differently-abled, says Vaishnavi Jayakumar, adding that the vehicles should be accessible and user-friendly. More awareness campaigns to instil confidence in voters who are differently-abled, are required, especially in rural areas, points out K. Raghuraman, Karna Vidya Foundation (in Guindy) which works with the differently-abled. Smitha Sadasivan, an accessibility consultant with ECI, that ECI’s rules indicate a dedicated parking lot for persons with disability. In a queue, the differently-abled get priority. ECI should ensure these rules are followed. Vaishnavi suggests ECI conduct demonstrations for first-time voters who are differently-abled.  The Braille–enabled ballot paper has the serial number, party name and the contesting candidate’s name, but not the party symbol||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/making-elections-accessible/article34064633.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Old age homes enquire about vaccination on the premises||In Chennai, many old age homes have been enquiring if the vaccination could be carried out on their premises. For two reasons, there would be bed-ridden seniors. Two, the home would not want to expose their residents to Coronavirus by getting them to leave their safe insulated moorings. There are also similar enquiries from bed-ridden individual seniors. Dr. Alby John Varghese, Joint Commissioner — Health (in-charge), Greater Chennai Corporation, says the state government has written to the Centre for relaxation in certain cases and is waiting for approval. “Currently, it is not allowed, and we are not doing it and neither would we recommend the vaccine being administered at home,” says Dr. Alby. Some old-age homes, he says, if they have a hospital-like set-up probably can administer the jab. Akshaya Trust, which has centres at Mudichur, Pallikarnai and Valasaravakkam, contacted many health care facilities about this possibility. The vaccines were administered to the residents of the Mudichur home on the premises. “An Amma Clinic is located close to our facility and they readily obliged. It was helpful for us as we did not have to organise any transport. But the jab was not administered to around 12 of them who are bed-ridden,” says G. Gopalan, trustee, Akshaya Trust. The centre has 65 senior citizens staying with them with a 94-year-old being the senior-most. “For our other centres, a private hospital had arranged for a vehicle that would pick up the residents. Some of the residents found the exercise tiresome, given the travel, and overall, the whole process from travel to vaccination and back took nearly five hours,” says Gopalan. Vishranthi Old Age Home at Palavakkam has also been waiting to see if any agency would agrees to administer the vaccine at their facility. Geriatrician Dr. V.S. Natarajan says he has been advising seniors contacting him regarding vaccine administration to go to the hospital. “It is possible to administer the COVID vaccine at home but the government has not given permission yet. One is supposed to be under observation for 30 minutes after receiving the shot and in case of any adverse effects, a hospital-like set-up is better-equipped to handle such a situation,” says Dr. Natarajan. At a recent meeting, HelpAge India asked its elderly members to consult their regular doctor before taking the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/old-age-homes-enquire-about-vaccination-on-the-premises/article34064644.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||TNSCB tenement undergoes transformation||Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur, with its Tamil Nadu Slum Clerance Board (TNSCB) tenement, had many suppurating wounds that had to heal. Garbage pile-ups larded with leftovers that would draw stray animals. Patches strewn with liquor bottles and food packets. The playground behind the tenement was overrun with vegetation. Further, there was water wastage, with residents of the tenement being careless about how they used the motors. The water would overflow and get mixed with the garbage making the place messy, thereby creating an ideal environment for mosquitoes. Rajiv Gandhi Nagar seems to have put all of these things behind its back, and is wearing a new look now. This change for the better was brought about by two residents — Archana Hari from Kalakshetra Colony in Besant Nagar and Jayanthi Prem Chander from Valmiki Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur. They started the exercise three months ago by roping in children from the tenement. “The TNSCB tenement has 128 flats. People were in the habit of discarding the waste through windows turning the place messy and unhygienic. We wanted to try giving the TNSCB colony a facelift. The children were part of the clean-up. The compound wall of the playground was scrapped, whitewashed, and painted. Paintings on road safety and cartoon characters came up on the walls of a community hall; following this, Kabaddi and a few other games were played. Classes on Bharatanatyam, yoga, and value education are being held. There are also plans to conduct painting classes for children. Some children have kept potted plants, and are raising a vegetable garden. Saplings of bittergourds, broccoli, chillies, pumpkins, and tomatoes are being grown,” says Jayanthi. Further, Jayanthi and Archana took up the issue of four non-functional drinking water sumps with CMSWSSB (which had installed them) and the Chief Minister’s Cell and got them repaired. They take efforts to improve the community hall on the premises. Once renovated, tuitions for children will be conducted there. Besides, there are plans to form an eco-club for the tenement’s children.  They started the exercise three months ago by roping in children from the community||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tnscb-tenement-undergoes-transformation/article34064613.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Outdoor gym at park||Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar Association has set up an outdoor gym and a pebble walkway at its park in Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar, Neelankarai on East Coast Road. According to a press release, the fitness facility is meant to be used by people across age groups. The Association’s park is more than 30 years old. It has a walkway, a children’s play area, a badminton court, and a tennis court, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/outdoor-gym-at-park/article34064597.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Restore decades-old public well’||I request the Zone 12 office of Greater Chennai Corporation to restore a decades-old public well at Eswaran Kovil Street in Alandur. Diesel from an underground tank situated on the premises of a commercial establishment on nearby Grand Southern Trunk Road seeps into the well. Necessary steps should be taken to arrest the seepage. A public well on Sowri Street in Alandur has now disappeared without a trace. These two wells were catering to residents of Guindy and Alandur. We hope to salvage the one on Eswaran Kovil Street. At present, residents receive drinking water under Veeranam and Palar water schemes. We depend on groundwater for other purposes. It is difficult to construct a well due to space constraints. Hence, we would like to restore and conserve the one that is available. D. Sadhashivam is a resident of Guindy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/restore-decades-old-public-well/article34064607.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Pavement work strays from plan, say residents||On July 29, 2020, at a meeting between Kalakshetra Colony residents and Corporation’s Bus Route Roads Department officials, it was decided that the area between the footpath and the carriageway on both sides of Tiger Varadachari Road at Kalakshetra Colony would be laid with saucer-tiles (the ones with holes) for the many advantages they bring. With the provision, there would be smooth passage of rainwater before towards recharge wells. Besides that, saucer tiles can be easily removed for cleaning, and so there would be no damage to underground cables. If any cable work has to be carried out, saucer tiles can be removed, the cable can be laid and the tiles can be put back in place. These saucer tiles should be fitted using sand, and not concrete mix. But, to residents’ dismay, the saucer tiles are being fitted with concrete. This will undo the benefits of having a saucer tiles. “Concreting saucer tiles will result in water stagnation during rains. Citing this problem, Greater Chennai Corporation will construct stormwater drains which is unnecessary in a locality with its sandy soil and natural aquifer system,” says Shanthi Krishnan, a member of Kalakshetra Colony Welfare Association (KCWA). In this respect, members of Kalakshetra Colony Welfare Association are trying to contact the officials at GCC’s Bus Routes Road Department (BRRD) . But no one is responding, say residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pavement-work-strays-from-plan-say-residents/article34064615.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Weaving a livelihood||Restarting an old hobby not only brought out the artiste in S. Sathya, but also helped her family ride out a difficult phase. In April last year, Sholinganallur resident Sathya lost her job as a nursery worker. With her son Pughazhendhi’s mobile, she watched online tutorials on basket-weaving, a skill she had picked up at school and she was learning all over again. In no time, she learnt how to make customised wire baskets in three to four days. The bag-making skills helped her make ends meet. “I would have sold 40 bags in five months and earned around Rs. 6,000 which is not bad considering my limited networking skills,” says Sathya, who also works as a cook. Many of her orders were facilitated through Meera Rajagopalan, resident of a gated community in Sholinganallur. “Meera madam has been shipping the orders for me and I know some have even gone to Coimbatore, Mumbai and a few other cities,” she says. Sathya is clear she cannot go back to working in the garden as her health does not permit her to do so and is keen to explore more opportunities with her new-found skill. Her baskets are priced from Rs. 200 onwards. Sathya can be contacted at 9841592480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/weaving-a-livelihood/article34064631.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents’ associations on 200 Feet Radial Road form federation||Federation of Radial Road Residents’ Associations (FORRRA), a body of residents’ associations on 200 Feet Radial Road (Pallavarm-Thoraipakkam Road) has been formed. The Federation was created to take up various issues on the radial road such as supply of CMWSSB water, provision of underground sewage drains; road safety, lake cleaning, solid waste management, and marshland conservation. Gated communities on the radial road having 60 and more flats can become a member of the Federation, says a press release. At present, residents’ associations of five gated communities constitute the Federation: Sarvam Apartment Owners Welfare Association, Ramaniam Ocean Dew Owners Welfare Association, Jones Sigiriya Apartments Owners Association, Tranquil Acres Owners Association Phase 1 and Tranquil Acres Owners Association Phase 2. “The Federation will be registered with the Registrar of Societies soon. During the COVID -19 lockdown, FORRRA organised webinars on topical issues including cyber crime, Meta learning and coping with the new normal. As part of Women’s Day celebrations, FORRRA conducted online competitions. They included singing, dancing and cooking,” says B. Vijayalakshmi, FORRRA president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-associations-on-200-feet-radial-road-form-federation/article34064599.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Create a park under Kathipara grade-separator’||On behalf of the senior-citizens residing at Alandur, I request the State Highways Department to develop a park in the area under the Kathipara grade-separator. There is no park in Alandur; and so, children play on the roads; and senior-citizens cannot go for walks. The area under the grade-separator is being misused with dumping of construction debris and other waste. It is also a haven for tipplers. If a park is developed, it will prove to be a boon for Alandur residents. L. N. Haricharan is a resident of Alandur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/create-a-park-under-kathipara-grade-separator/article34064603.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Footpath out of bounds for pedestrians’||The footpath on Besant Nagar Second Avenue is being misused by many eateries. They find the pavement convenient for washing vessels and the dirty water spills on to the road. Further, their customers throw the leftovers on the road. Vehicles are being parked along the footpath. All of these factors force pedestrians to walk on the road. P. Chandrasekhar is a resident of Besant Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-out-of-bounds-for-pedestrians/article34064605.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In the market||This soft audiometer is being readied for the market. S. Muttan, coordinator, National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation Development (NHHID) Anna University points out talks with potential vendors for commercialisation of the product are under way. “Anna University, Madras ENT Research Foundation and the vendor would hold equal shares in it,” explains Muttan. “The soft audiometer will be available on the cloud for people to access it from anywhere, in a pay-per-service model.” To a question, Muttan underlines that it will be used for community-service initiatives such as the one under way at Chinnambedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/in-the-market/article34064638.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Stella Maris students bag first prize at SRM’s painting contest||The Department of Visual Communication at SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Ramapuram, organised a Women’s Day Painting Competition on 8 March 2021, and the event drew participants from many colleges across Chennai. The event was inaugurated by C. Sundar, principal and Asokan, Vice-Principal – Academics, College of Science and Humanities. The paintings were adjudged by artist and designer Thangamani. Sarangi instrumentalist Manonmani addressed the gathering, and also gave an enthralling performance, a press release says. In the inter-college category, the first place and second place were bagged by fine arts students, Stella Maris College of Higher Education; and the third place went to visual communication students, Vels Institute of Science & Technology. In the intra-college category, the first place was bagged by computer science students, SRM Easwari Engineering College and and the second place by visual communication students, SRM Institute of Science & Technology, Ramapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stella-maris-students-bag-first-prize-at-srms-painting-contest/article34064594.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Worskhops on making bags||TANSTIA (Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association) in association with Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom, Germany, is conducting is conducting various skill development workshops. It includes, making paper plates, areca leaf plates, cotton bags, sanitary napkins, and many more. Futher there will be sessions on laundry and dry-cleaning and baking and confectioneries. Workshops will end on March 20. For details, call 97890 60133.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/worskhops-on-making-bags/article34064604.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Waste being dumped at plot with unfinished building’||A building in a private property on Rajiv Garden Main Road at Mettukuppam in Okkiyam Thoraipakkam, that has been left unfinished has become a haven for anti-social elements; and become an open trash yard where waste is dumped and people relieve themselves. We have taken up the issue with the Greater Chennai Corporation and elected representatives, but nothing has been done so far. N. Sukumaran is a resident of Okkiyam Thoraipakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/waste-being-dumped-at-plot-with-unfinished-building/article34064609.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Blood donation camp today||Ilam Vizhudhugal Trust, managed by the 1989-1991 S.S.L.C batch of PS Higher Secondary School (Main), Mylapore, is conducting a blood donation camp on March 14 at Vaaniyar Mandapam (opposite Kapaleeswarar Temple), East Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: From 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. According to a press release, the camp is held for the benefit of patients at Government Kasthurbha Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children (Gosha Hospital), Triplicane. For details, call 9884655547 / 9677286440.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/blood-donation-camp-today/article34064592.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Artworks on Instagram||Aarthi Aravind, a human resource professional, is also an art enthusiast. She has worked on various forms of art, including acrylics, doodling, watercolors and mandala; and is now practising digital art as well. Mandala is her forte . She has also done a couple of commissioned wall murals. Now, she has started to sell her works, which are available on her Instagram page @aarthilokare. She can be reached at aarthi.lokare1993@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/artworks-on-instagram/article34064598.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Crafts sale ends today||Gravity Event Affairs is organising Desikala, a sale of handicraft and handloom products at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Handwoven saris from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa are available. Various types of jewellery and home décor are also part of the collection, says a press release. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. The sale ends on March 14. For details, call 9884446747 / 9940064558.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/crafts-sale-ends-today/article34064601.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Job fair on March 20||HELP TRUST, a non profit organisation working for the physically challenged people, is organising Women’s Day celebration on March 20 at CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf in Santhome; from 9 a.m. onwards. Public can either book a stall or participate in events. A job fair for the differently-abled will also be held at the venue. For details, call 9003212907/ 9884510906.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/job-fair-on-march-20/article34064616.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Stint for students in product development||National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation Development (NHHID) was established at Anna University in 2011, with funding from the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India “to address problems relating to indigenisation of medical devices”. “For the last 30 years I am working in the area of biomedical engineering, and the biggest problem we have been facing is that we develop good prototypes, but lack the manufacturing facilities to bring it to standards required by industries. There is a huge last-mile dis-connectivity, which Anna University seeks to bridge through NNHID. The laboratory prototypes should see the light. The good gadgets we develop should reach the market, having been reshaped into products,” says S. Muttan, head of the department, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Anna University and coordinator, NHHID. “Around 10 years ago, the Department of Science and Technology sanctioned Rs. 15 crore and we developed an antibiogram scope, a device that can identify the right antibiotic for UTI, in as just six hours,”explains Muttan. “We have developed 10 products, five of which are in the market. A few more are in the pipeline.” NHHID takes a multi-disciplinary approach to developing these instruments, marshalling resources from various departments. Muttan also points out that NNHID has collaborated with institutions such as IIT-Madras; Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; Christian Medical College Vellore and Tanuvas Veterinary College, for various projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stint-for-students-in-product-development/article34064634.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Pochards from the 1980s||V. Santharam, ornithologist and director, Institute of Bird Studies, Rishi Valley, reminisces about how considerably less uncommon pochards would be around Madras during the wintering season In the 1980s and early-1990s, we used to see all the three — Common Pochard, Red-crested Pochard, Tufted Duck — regularly in certain waterbodies around Madras. There was also a fourth one, the White-eyed Pochard, very uncommon, which was found in Chembarambakkam. “To see these species of diving ducks, you have to go to reservoirs where there is a lot of depth. They would be found in Sriperumbudur tank. Tufted Duck was fairly common at Chembarambakkam lake. “Chengelpet lake used to have a fairly good number of Common Pochards and Red-crested Pochards. The Madurantagam would not have so much Red-crested Pochards as Tufted Ducks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pochards-from-the-1980s/article34064642.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on mushroom cultivation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre, Guindy, is conducting a workshop on mushroom cultivation on March 17. Another session on soil and water quality assessment and management technologies will be held on March 19. For registration and further details, call 044 – 2225 0511/ 044-2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-mushroom-cultivation/article34064618.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Old age homes enquire about vaccination on the premises||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/old-age-homes-enquire-about-vaccination-on-the-premises/article34064620.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From masks to music||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-masks-to-music/article34064624.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||University’s device engineers change in a hamlet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/universitys-device-engineers-change-in-a-hamlet/article34064622.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Auto driver’s survival strategy||During a telephonic call, A. Muthukumar sounded elated. He explained the cause to this writer: A house-warming ceremony was in this own. Not his own, but one where he would serve as a caterer. When the lockdown was on him, 43-year-old Muthukumar became a driver-cum-caterer, following a long stint in the financial-services sector. Muthukumar is impressed and thankful for the way his catering business has shaped up over the last few months. Before the pandemic began, Muthukumar lost his job of 14 years with a financial services company in Chennai. He tried to start his own business but that did not take off. After mulling over whether to run a cab or an auto service, he chose the latter. It was a bumpy ride in the beginning. “Twenty days after I brought home an autorickshaw, lockdown came into force and I could not drive the three-wheeler,” says Muthukumar, a resident of Kolathur. An opportunity came from an unexpected quarter. Migrants from Orissa living next door to Muthukumar sought his help in meeting their daily needs and the family obliged by serving them food until they left for their hometown. Word soon spread around the neighbourhood about the family’s cooking and thus was born Maniammal Catering. Muthukumar now does both – rides the auto and also does home delivery of food, the latter has been fetching him a reasonably good income. With a regular clientèle of senior citizens and bachelors ordering food from him, “I deliver lunch to 20 people a day; this apart I get orders for special occasions.” Over the last nine months, Catering Muthu, as he is known, has expanded the scope of his business through technology. “I have registered with Zomato and also tied up with Dunzo,” says Muthukumar, who has a food licence, and even expanded his kitchen by 120 sq ft to cater to his growing customer base. “Initially, I was helped by my wife and son. Now, I have two of my relatives helping us whenever we have a big requirement to meet,” he says. Muthukumar hopes this good run continues, and plans to open a restaurant.  I deliver lunch to 20 people a day; this apart I get orders for special occasions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/auto-drivers-survival-strategy/article34064664.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Anna University’s device engineers change in a hamlet||A fashion industry is built around the retina. In squares, rectangles, pentagonals and so on. Just inches away, the ear languishes in relative obscurity. Hearing aids only rarely become faddish. On closer scrutiny, this argument is specious. In any given population, those requiring a hearing aid would be outnumbered googolplex times by those in need of spectacles. The disparity is unmistakable when the scene shifts to underprivileged communities. Pardon the pun: Eye camps come out of ears. However, in these communities, many may be living with degrees of hearing loss when they do not have to. Launched during the lockdown, a pilot project involving an indigenously-designed “soft audiometer” from Anna University is an illustration. Rotary Club of Madras Temple City; MERF Institute of Speech and Hearing (MERF-ISH; in association with Madras ENT Research Foundation) and the National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation Development (NHHID) at Anna University run this pilot at Chinnambedu village, a half-an-hour drive from Red Hills. It addresses the twin barriers — accessibility and affordability — to treating hearing disabilities. The tech part NHHID, sustained by the Science & Technology Department, Government of India, has created a software-based audiometer with protocols from MERF-ISH. Prof. S. Muttan, Head of the Department, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Anna University and coordinator, NHHID, explains: “Ten years ago, my research student Rajkumar and I began working on a soft audiometer for early detection of hearing defects. We noticed two barriers to early detection — accessibility and affordability. Accessibility is the point of care, which means the service should be accessible from wherever and at whatever time.” The soft audiometer is being promoted as a cost-effective alternative to the regular hardware-based audiometer. It carries out the same function: Plotting the audiogram of the right and left ear, he explains. “We looked at the PC, and through its sound blaster card, we developed a similar procedure. In software form, this tool can be loaded into a standalone system — a PC or a mobile. This way, anyone can test their ears for hearing defects. We wanted to validate our work, and so we worked with Madras Medical College back then. Four years ago, we found a good partner in MERF Research Foundation. Being an audiologist, Ranjith Rajeswaran provided testing protocols for the software and validated and authenticated it,” elaborates Muttan. “There are two versions of the soft audiometer — a professional version that will be used by audiologists. The other one is for the general public, which can be used by anybody across the globe, as it would be web-based, and available on the cloud.” Says Ranjith, director. MERF-ISH, “The version for the general public needs more machine learning and data, and so, we are launching only the professional version now. This version was used for the project at Chinnambedu.” The social part Ranjith recalls that when he approached Rotary Club of Madras Temple City with the vision of tackling hearing problems in underprivileged communities, the Club wanted to know how it could be a part of it. “I told them that I need a village first,” he discloses. Chinnambedu was a straight choice as the Club’s social activities were already on steam there. With around 360 families, Chinnambedu is actually a hamlet, now adopted under what is called “Hearing For Life” programme helmed together by these organisations “The screening began by the end of November in 2020. We went in person, wearing proper PPE suits, and knocked on the doors of the families in the village; we surveyed 320 families. The soft audiometer enables us do the testing via the cloud. Before that, we had to figure out who needed to be tested. In the second stage, we took the equipment (the hardware-based audiometers) and the software and set up testing stations, and fixed appointments, and got the testing done. Seventy-two persons were diagnosed with differing levels and forms of hearing impairment,” says Ranjith. “Out of them, 52 have been diagnosed so far. Some required just medical management. Some others, hearing aids. A few require surgery.” He continues: “Rotary Club of Temple City had donated 60 hearing aids, some of which we used at Chinnambedu. A mould based on the beneficiary’s ear canal has to made, and fitted to the hearing aid. The process of creating the mould takes two to three weeks. We brought the material required to create the mould.” Ranjith explains that for creating a mould, the actuals would come up to Rs. 150 — having it done in the market would soak up Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 — and so only the actuals were being charged, and this was sponsored by the Rotary Club. Ranjith continues: “We would ask those requiring surgery to go to the nearby ENT hospital. If they cannot afford that, we would talk to ENT specialists at MMC or Kilpauk Medical College or MERF Research Foundation and have the surgeries done for them. Some of the children may require a cochlear implant. In the Tamil Nadu health system, there is a free cochlear implant programme.” On the cloud  On what next for Chinnambedu, Ranjith says: “We will be rolling out a self-sustaining model. At the end of March, we would visit the village to see if a hearing testing booth can be set up.” Periodically, a small team will head to Chinnambedu to do the testing at the booth, and the results will be relayed via the cloud to specialists in Chennai. Ranjith adds: “The idea is that nobody in Chinnambedu who has a hearing defect has to live with it.”   The screening began by the end of November 2020. We went in person, wearing proper PPE suits, and knocked on the doors of the families in the village; we surveyed 320 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/anna-universitys-device-engineers-change-in-a-hamlet/article34064669.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From masks to music||A room at Greater Chennai Corporation’s shelter for women with disabilities has undergone a sea change. The monotonic hum of sewing machines has given way to a symphony of traditional music instruments. A group of women at the Better World Shelter for Women with Disabilities practise playing these instruments and rehearse plays at what is called ‘the tailoring room’. Last year, these women would work on the sewing machines to turn out masks. Now, they run ‘Bul Bul Tara’, a cultural troupe that seeks to highlight social issues through theatre and music. Currently, Madan is teaching them how to play the percussion-instrument parai; and Srijith Sundaram is conducting theatre classes for them. Either working or studying, these women found the pandemic snatch away their source of livelihood, and they had to reinvent themselves. The mask project They turned to making masks. R. Shanthi, a tailor with loco-motor disability and a resident of the shelter, was the only person who knew to use a sewing machine. When she got an order from a customer, a Corporation employee, to make masks, she roped in others from the hostel to help her. Those who did not know how to sew attended to tasks that were tertiary but still significant — cutting the material, attaching the strings and packing them. Due to a shortage of masks in Chennai during the initial days of the pandemic, orders kept pouring in. “My earnings from making masks during the lockdown was higher than at other times when I would stitch blouses and other clothes,” says Shanthi. With a slowdown in the demand for masks, the women began to participate in the Corporation’s COVID-19 intervention programmes undertaken at different neighbourhoods. They would collect data, go from door to door to carry out temperature checks and conduct awareness programmes about checking the spread of the virus. Matilda Foneca had turned to mask-making, having lost her job as a telephone operator at a restaurant. “I was making masks and once that work dried up, I was enlisted by the Greater Chennai Corporation for its outreach work, which required me to collect data from various households and key it into an Excel sheet,” says Matilda, a wheelchair-bound basketball player. Along with Kavitha and Manimegalai, she would create awareness about mask-wearing. “We were assigned the Virugambakkam area to spread the message and that is also when we realised that we were good at engaging with people,” says Matilda. The intervention programmes for the Corporation fetched her Rs. 13,000. Social change Srijith Sundaram, a theatre personality who runs the group Kattiyakari, is their trainer. “We use theatre and other traditional art forms to empower them and make them understand social justice and rights,” says Srijith, adding that he uses his students’ inputs to improvise theatre. “As part of the training, a few of them went to Kancheepuram where a young woman died after falling into a septic tank, as her office did not have a toilet. In the future, the group would enact plays to send across a social message,” says Srijith. Aiswarya Rao, director of the Centre and a paediatrician, says, “One project led to another and they have adapted very well to the new challenges,” says Dr Aiswarya, who has been mentoring the women. In the mask-making project, a factory-like protocol was being followed on how tasks were assigned to them, based on each other’s strengths, recalls Aiswarya. The fact that some of these women are wheelchair-bound basketball players helps them meet the demands of theatrical performances. Recently, the shelter added another feature to its cap: The State Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently-Abled sanctioned an entrepreneurship and livelihood project for it. “We have signed an MoU with Better World Shelter for Women with Disabilities where the unit will be training other women from the district in various aspects of running a small enterprise,” says Johny Tom Varghese, State Commissioner and director of Commissionerate for the Welfare of the Differently-Abled.   One project led to another and they have adapted very well to the new challenges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-masks-to-music/article34064666.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Making elections accessible||Elections after elections, orthopedically-challenged K. Selvi would crawl to the polling booth at a government school in Vadakkarai near Red Hills. At the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the polling booth became a little less inaccessible, as it offered her a wheelchair. However, without a volunteer to push the wheelchair, Selvi’s sister ended up doing it, while holding her eight-month-old baby. At the 2019 LS polls, 36-year-old K. Alamelu crawled towards the booth, only to discover her name was not on the voters’ list. No wheelchair. No volunteers to push the chair. Over all of these, the polling officials were not helpful. She returned home without casting her vote. The visually-impaired have their litany of problems. Aruna Devi, honorary member, Society for the Rights of All Women with Disabilities (in Alwarpet) underlines how party symbols are not found on Braille-enabled ballot paper. “The Braille–enabled ballot paper has the serial number, party name and the contesting candidate’s name, but not the party symbol. The symbol has the quickest recall, especially among the unlettered,” says Aruna, emphasising that this remains a long-standing request. S. Vanaja, president of Visually-Impaired Women’s Association (in Kundrathur) says the Braille-enabled ballot paper should be well-embossed. “In the 2019 LS elections, I felt the Braille-enabled ballot paper to be a bit blunt and I had difficulty identifying the party I wanted to vote for,” says Vanaja, a resident of Amnjikarai. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, member, Disability Rights Alliance, India, says those unlettered in Braille would seek someone else’s support, which in turn compromises voting privacy. An alternative ensuring privacy should be found, says Vaishnavi. The deaf and deaf-mute see the need for a sign language specialist. “As having a sign language specialist at every booth is impractical, a pre-recorded video of a sign language specialist explaining the steps in casting the vote could be arranged, in both Tamil and English,” says public relations officer, The Association for The Deaf. D. Gnana Bharathi, president, Spinal Injured Persons Association, underscores the need for ramps meeting standards prescribed by Election Commission of India (ECI). According to ECI’s website, the inclination ratio of a ramp should be 1:10 and not more than 1:14. An evenly-levelled ground for easy movement of the wheelchair is another necessity. Gnana Bharathi points out how well-meaning bystanders can cause harm when they push the wheelchairs unsafely causing the wheelchair-bound to fall. Hence the need for well-trained volunteers. Conveyance arrangements should be made for the differently-abled, says Vaishnavi Jayakumar, adding that the vehicles should be accessible and user-friendly. More awareness campaigns to instil confidence in voters who are differently-abled, are required, especially in rural areas, points out K. Raghuraman, Karna Vidya Foundation (in Guindy) which works with the differently-abled. Smitha Sadasivan, an accessibility consultant with ECI, that ECI’s rules indicate a dedicated parking lot for persons with disability. In a queue, the differently-abled get priority. ECI should ensure these rules are followed. Vaishnavi suggests ECI conduct demonstrations for first-time voters who are differently-abled.  The Braille–enabled ballot paper has the serial number, party name and the contesting candidate’s name, but not the party symbol||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/making-elections-accessible/article34064668.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Citizens’ group creates awareness about elections||Citizens Group Chitlapakkam Rising is running a series of videos to drive home the necessity of voting, and the care with which people have to elect candidates. While the first of three released videos has a group of children from Chitlapakkam urging people to head to the polling booth and exercise their franchise on April 6, the other two dwell on how informed choices should be made. “In these two videos, two Chitlapakkam residents talk about the oncoming elections. One of the two sounds indifferent about the elections, planning a tour by taking leave on Monday (as many companies have declared election day — Tuesday — as a holiday; and the preceding Friday is Good Friday, a government holiday). The other one is going to stay in the city and cast his vote,” says Sunil Jayaram, a volunteer of Chitlapakkam Rising. “We have taken this initiative as voter turnout from southern Chennai has been comparatively poor in the previous elections.” The videos also dwells on other truths, obvious but are still ignored often. “The responsible citizen talks about why voters should go through election manifestos and know the profiles of the contesting candidates. People are also asked to refuse freebies, ” says Sunil. The fourth video, yet to be released, will focus on what Chitlapakkam residents need in terms of solid waste management, underground sewage system, piped drinking water supply, maintenance of parks and waterbodies, road safety, and small bus services. Sunil adds, “The fifth video will provide a briefing on the candidates contesting from the Tambaram constituency.”  The responsible citizen talks about why voters should go through election manifestos and know the profiles of the contesting candidates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/citizens-group-creates-awareness-about-elections/article34064654.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Mend the road’||Parts of Babu Nagar First Main Road in Medavakkam seem to be caked with mud, illustrating what residents would be undergoing. Due to successive infrastructural works, the road has not been allowed to "recover" to wholeness. “On March 9, an ambulance carrying a deceased person was not able to pass through Babu Nagar First Main Road beyond a point as it was not in a motorable condition. Thereafter, the deceased had to be carried by people to the house. It is eight months since work on laying underground electricity cables got completed on this road. However, it has not been relaid yet,” says A. Sathik, a resident of Babu Nagar A couple of years ago, the stretch was dug up by private telecom operators to lay utility cables. While laying the cables, the underground drinking water pipelines were damaged, resulting in erratic water supply. The road ensures connectivity to Medavakkam – Mambakkam Main Road and Velachery Main Road. During the monsoon, motoring down the road can be nightmarish. The surface gets filled with water. In December, while negotiating the road, a woman motorcylist rode into the dug-up surface and fell off her vehicle, recall residents. “We have taken up this issue with the Medavakkam Village Panchayat, Chengalpet District Collectorate and St. Thomas Mount Panchayat Union, but no action has been taken so far,” says a resident. A Chengalpet District Collectorate official has assured that necessary steps would be taken to mend the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mend-the-road/article34064659.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Seniors from Nanganallur raise a Wall of Kindness||The next time you visit the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital remember to take toiletries and clothes along with you. There is a Wall of Kindness waiting out there to be stocked up on these things. Your gesture would benefit many poor patients visiting the hospital. Initiated by the Nanganallur chapter of People’s Awareness Forum, it is called ‘Nalam Seya Virumbu’ and was opened on March 8. Three towers at the general hospital have a rack stacked with various items that many patients may need during their stay in a hospital. Apart from the contributions from the general public, many retired employees of BSNL have contributed towards towards establishing this wall, says a release. Items found in the racks include lungi , towels, plastic mugs, tooth brushes and tubes of mouth paste. These items were handed over to Dr. E. Theranirajan, dean of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. V. Latha and S. Anuradha, who are project in-charge of Nalam Seya Virumbu, have appealed to people to contribute and keep the initiative going. Anuradha says visitors can donate the items at the office of the dean or hand them to one of the members of the Forum. “We plan to replenish the Wall of Kindness once a month and each of us is driving the initiative through the community around us. I have circulated messages in the WhatsApp groups I am part of,” says Anuradha, a resident of Rajakilpakkam who retired from BSNL. The members would also keep track of the wall. “A staff nurse is in-charge of the wall and a register is also kept next to it for people to make a note of what they are taking from the wall,” says Anuradha. For details, contact 9444220774/9443884588||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/seniors-from-nanganallur-raise-a-wall-of-kindness/article34064662.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Old age homes enquire about vaccination on the premises||In Chennai, many old age homes have been enquiring if the vaccination could be carried out on their premises. For two reasons, there would be bed-ridden seniors. Two, the home would not want to expose their residents to Coronavirus by getting them to leave their safe insulated moorings. There are also similar enquiries from bed-ridden individual seniors. Dr. Alby John Varghese, Joint Commissioner — Health (in-charge), Greater Chennai Corporation, says the state government has written to the Centre for relaxation in certain cases and is waiting for approval. “Currently, it is not allowed, and we are not doing it and neither would we recommend the vaccine being administered at home,” says Dr. Alby. Some old-age homes, he says, if they have a hospital-like set-up probably can administer the jab. Akshaya Trust, which has centres at Mudichur, Pallikarnai and Valasaravakkam, contacted many health care facilities about this possibility. The vaccines were administered to the residents of the Mudichur home on the premises. “An Amma Clinic is located close to our facility and they readily obliged. It was helpful for us as we did not have to organise any transport. But the jab was not administered to around 12 of them who are bed-ridden,” says G. Gopalan, trustee, Akshaya Trust. The centre has 65 senior citizens staying with them with a 94-year-old being the senior-most. “For our other centres, a private hospital had arranged for a vehicle that would pick up the residents. Some of the residents found the exercise tiresome, given the travel, and overall, the whole process from travel to vaccination and back took nearly five hours,” says Gopalan. Vishranthi Old Age Home at Palavakkam has also been waiting to see if any agency would agrees to administer the vaccine at their facility. Geriatrician Dr. V.S. Natarajan says he has been advising seniors contacting him regarding vaccine administration to go to the hospital. “It is possible to administer the COVID vaccine at home but the government has not given permission yet. One is supposed to be under observation for 30 minutes after receiving the shot and in case of any adverse effects, a hospital-like set-up is better-equipped to handle such a situation,” says Dr. Natarajan. At a recent meeting, HelpAge India asked its elderly members to consult their regular doctor before taking the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/old-age-homes-enquire-about-vaccination-on-the-premises/article34064671.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Crafts sale ends today||Gravity Event Affairs is organising Desikala, a sale of handicraft and handloom products at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Handwoven saris from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa are available. Various types of jewellery and home décor are also part of the collection, says a press release. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. The sale ends on March 14. For details, call 9884446747 / 9940064558.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/crafts-sale-ends-today/article34064648.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘MTC should resume S3 service’||I request the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) to resume its small bus service, S3, which was plying on the Chromepet-Madambakkam route. Three buses were dedicated for this route. The frequency of service was once in 20 minutes. When the cut-and-cover stormwater drain work began in Chitlapakkam in October 2018, MTC brought down the number of buses to two, citing poor patronage. Gradually, the entire service was stopped without seeking any feedback from the public. Now it is close to three years since the service was withdrawn. In this respect, Pradeep Karthik Avenue Residents Welfare Association has made many representations to MTC and the Chief Minister’s Cell. Dayanand Krishnan is a resident of Chitlapakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-should-resume-s3-service/article34064650.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Teachers de-stress through badminton||To beat the stress caused by the pandemic, Madras Christian College in Tambaram organised a badminton tournament for staff from various city colleges. Twenty five teams in the men’s category and 12 in the women’s category participated, says a press release from the college . The rolling shield in the men’s category was won by MCC represented by James Zachariah, head, Department of Physical Education and D. Armstrong Doss, head, Department of Business Administration. The women's championship was won by B. Meena, vice-principal and Ravita Bhatia, associate professor, Department of Hindi from Patrician College, the release says. The bursar of the college Cyrus Kallupurackal distributed the trophies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teachers-de-stress-through-badminton/article34064655.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Women’s Day fete at Sri Sarvamangala Nagar||Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Association, Chitlapakkam celebrated International Women’s Day on the evening of 7 March with COVID-19 restrictions in place. On the occasion, Deepa Narendra Kumar, a resident, was felicitated on her posting as Deputy Collector (trainee), Kancheepuram Collectorate. V. Jacob Robert Wilson, Assistant Engineer O/M, TNEB, Nehru Nagar, was honoured for his “extraordinary service, timely response, rapport with welfare Associations and public at large” by presenting him with Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Award for the year 2020. Former Member of Parliament C. Rajendran, former Chitlapakkam S.G. Town Panchayat President R. Mohan; and P. Viswanathan, Convenor, Co-ordination Committee of Welfare Associations of Chitlapakkam were present on the occasion. Around 140 prizes were given to winners and participants in the sports meet held in 2019-2020 by the invitees and office-bearers of the Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/womens-day-fete-at-sri-sarvamangala-nagar/article34064646.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Weaving a livelihood||Restarting an old hobby not only brought out the artiste in S. Sathya, but also helped her family ride out a difficult phase. In April last year, Sholinganallur resident Sathya lost her job as a nursery worker. With her son Pughazhendhi’s mobile, she watched online tutorials on basket-weaving, a skill she had picked up at school and she was learning all over again. In no time, she learnt how to make customised wire baskets in three to four days. The bag-making skills helped her make ends meet. “I would have sold 40 bags in five months and earned around Rs. 6,000 which is not bad considering my limited networking skills,” says Sathya, who also works as a cook. Many of her orders were facilitated through Meera Rajagopalan, resident of a gated community in Sholinganallur. “Meera madam has been shipping the orders for me and I know some have even gone to Coimbatore, Mumbai and a few other cities,” she says. Sathya is clear she cannot go back to working in the garden as her health does not permit her to do so and is keen to explore more opportunities with her new-found skill. Her baskets are priced from Rs. 200 onwards. Sathya can be contacted at 9841592480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/weaving-a-livelihood/article34064667.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Fix that huge crater at Tambaram railway station’||It is happy to note that at the Tambaram railway station has undergone a renovation. The side grills on the foot-over bridge have been given a fresh coat of paint. New signboards indicating the platform numbers are in place. The floor near the ticket counter at the eastern entrance has been newly laid with paver blocks; and there are signboards indicating cafeteria, escalator, rest room and ticket counter. But the condition of the area where passengers alight from vehicles is pathetic; a big crater (near the cafeteria) is posing a safety risk. This crater is getting wider, and occupying a major portion of the lane. This needs to be fixed at the earliest. R V Baskaran is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fix-that-huge-crater-at-tambaram-railway-station/article34064651.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34064656.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In the market||This soft audiometer is being readied for the market. S. Muttan, coordinator, National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation Development (NHHID) Anna University points out talks with potential vendors for commercialisation of the product are under way. “Anna University, Madras ENT Research Foundation and the vendor would hold equal shares in it,” explains Muttan. “The soft audiometer will be available on the cloud for people to access it from anywhere, in a pay-per-service model.” To a question, Muttan underlines that it will be used for community-service initiatives such as the one under way at Chinnambedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/in-the-market/article34064670.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Check unauthorised extraction of groundwater’||For the past three years, Neela Nagar Residents Welfare Association along with representations from Babu Nagar and Vimala Nagar residents have been taking up the issue of groundwater extraction by a few water treatment plants operating in the locality. We have raised this issue with Kanchipuram Collectorate, at Grama Sabha meetings, and with the Chief Minister’s Cell. However, nothing has been done to put an end to this. These units claim that they buy water from elsewhere and only treatment is done at Neela Nagar, but we have noticed that groundwater is being extracted from the location. Ambigai Balan is president of Neela Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/check-unauthorised-extraction-of-groundwater/article34064649.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Anna University’s device engineers change in a hamlet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/anna-universitys-device-engineers-change-in-a-hamlet/article34064663.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Cloud kitchen||I was first introduced to Oliver Twist as a 10-year-old up in the air aboard a British Airways flight in the late 1980s. The genial flight attendant (or air hostess as they were called in those politically incorrect days!) with twinkling blue eyes likened me to the Dickensian character as she gently set down a second helping of one of the evening’s main courses on to my tray. Just moments before, I had said to her, “Please ma’am, I want some more,” as I polished off a rather scrumptious portion of beef wellington. I had never experienced anything as complexly constructed before. Succulent slabs of moist, pink meat anointed with an earthy-tasting mushroom duxelle, cloaked in a gossamer thin crêpe, then further ensconced in a buttery puff pastry and finally baked to golden perfection. Like some sort of culinary equivalent of a nesting Russian matryoshka doll. Flights of fancy Hard as it may be to comprehend, but the eclectic selection of food served aboard flights in the late 80s and early 90s is what set me on my current path as a food writer. With a great premium placed on the importance of world travel by my parents, my sister and I were taken along for the ride almost everywhere they jetted off to. Be it our annual summer vacations in Europe or Mum’s impromptu business trips to South East Asia, we happily tagged along. Making serendipitous discoveries along the course. First tryst In fact, many epoch-making firsts in the realm of my food oeuvres — like my introduction to smoked salmon aboard Singapore Airlines — took place in tightly-packed economy class flights. But not always! I remember my first tryst with salty beluga caviar toned down by the creamy unctuousness of a grated boiled egg. It was served as an hors d’oeuvre aboard an Air France business class flight to Bangkok, followed by a divine duck à l’orange for mains. Mum had somehow managed to charm the check-in staff, securing us an upgrade to the coveted ‘Le Club’, which was what the airline’s business class cabin was then called. All this, as we tried not to asphyxiate on noxious cigarette smoke. Yes, unfortunately we were also privy to an era when smoking on board a flight was very much de rigueur. This was also the time when travelling out of a major airline hub like Bombay meant the opportunity to fly with and enjoy the edible delicacies aboard a mind-bogglingly large number of international airlines. This was way before the Middle East ‘usurped’ my home city’s position as a mid-way refuelling stop for long-haul flights between the east and the west. Nutty bites Speaking of airlines making pit stops in Bombay, I loved flying with Al Italia. One was almost always guaranteed of chowing down on a nice pasta meal. Plump ricotta cheese-stuffed ravioli, pillowy soft potato gnocchi, and good old spaghetti were the holy trinity that got me hooked onto Italian food. I clearly remember being coaxed into trying a spinach and egg breakfast frittata by the tiny Italian nonna (grandmother) seated next to me. This, after I had ‘ordered’ a fried egg in lieu from the amused flight attendant who explained to me that they unfortunately didn’t have the right equipment on board to meet my à la minute demands. I loved the intensely savoury taste and texture of the fluffy frittata so much that I promptly came back home and tried to replicate it following a recipe in my great-aunt’s old cookbook. Till today, that frittata remains one of my most successfully cooked dishes ever. As a teenager, on a trip to Kenya aboard the country’s national airline, I chanced upon the glorious taste of the macadamia nut. I remember it served alongside a tiny glass of the typically African marula fruit liqueur called Amarula that I sneaked in a sip of whenever mum wasn’t paying attention. Today, as I sit at my desk writing this piece, travel-bereft and rather despondent, it is the vicarious tastes of my childhood spent indulging in exotic mile-high meals, that make me once again feel like Oliver Twist. Wanting... nay, demanding some more, please.  The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  Many epoch-making firsts in the realm of my food oeuvres — like my introduction to smoked salmon aboard Singapore Airlines — took place in tightly-packed economy class cabins||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cloud-kitchen/article34064675.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Conversations across cultures||The politics of translation has been brilliantly excavated in recent decades by theorists ranging from Walter Benjamin to Gayatri Spivak. More quantitative studies also exist, indicating how translation flows in certain directions: for instance, from English to other languages, sometimes even from one language to another via the medium of English. These are highly unequal flows in a world of great inequalities. A handful of languages, with English as the first of the first, determines these flows. However, one area that has not been examined as much is the selection of texts to be translated within English. It has gone almost without notice that, as a rule, the texts translated into English percolate through the metropolitan publishing arenas of the U.K. and the U.S. This is obvious enough when one looks at the majority of bhasha texts translated into English in India: most of them, published solely in India, are not picked up for publication or critical notice globally. However, those bhasha texts that are translated primarily for a major Western publisher find themselves automatically published — to much critical notice — in South Asia. I am not talking of quality here, but of flow. Restricted view Even more one-sided is the translation of languages from outside India for the reading public in India. This is solely through the agency of Western publishers. It afflicts even other major European languages like, say, German or French. As a rule, a German, Spanish or French book is commissioned for translation by a U.K. or U.S. house, published for a British and American readership, and then, sometimes, reprinted in India or Pakistan or Bangladesh. This is a ‘commonwealth’, ‘postcolonial’ and ‘Third World’ scenario: U.K. or U.S. publishers commission almost all the English translations from other ‘national’ languages that are then reprinted in India, Nigeria or the Caribbeans. This channel again consolidates the agency and clout of the imperial centres of cultural and economic commerce: it is American and British publishers who decide what is to be translated, and how. Their considerations determine how it is to be presented and annotated. If, as they say, every translated book is a window into another culture, then it is British and American publishers who mostly determine which windows into Germany, Korea or Brazil might be opened to an Indian or Nigerian reader. Does this window face South or North? Is this window to the right of that particular house of culture or to its left? The Indian or Nigerian reader has her view of even Germany, Korea and Brazil shaped by ex-colonial or neo-imperial centres of economic and cultural commerce. Against the tide Given this, it is surprising that the work of Kolkata-based Seagull Books has gone largely unremarked not just globally, but even in India. Because Seagull Books has been vigorously rowing against this tide. I have always known Seagull as one of the few Indian publishers who commission and produce beautiful translations from Indian languages. Most of my acquaintance, for instance, with the works of Mahasweta Devi, who never really got her due globally despite brave efforts by Spivak and others, came through accomplished translations contracted and published by Seagull Books. This is a tradition that Seagull has continued: most recently with Nabarun Bhattacharya’s Sahitya Akademi Prize-winning novella Herbert in a new translation by Sunandini Banerjee. One was also aware that Seagull Books published the occasional translations from other world languages, but what is important is that these translations are not reprints of U.K. or U.S. editions, as is the case with almost all other translations into English published in the developing world. While some individual translators in these nations do try their hand at direct translation, these remain mostly unpublished or are haphazardly published. Professional translations, of the sort that Seagull Books publishes, tend to be reprints from the U.K. and the U.S. In fact, to the best of my knowledge, Seagull Books is possibly the only Third World publisher with such a serious list of directly contracted translations from other world languages into English. Even more important, it does not publish translations for a South Asian readership alone; there are others doing that. Seagull is distinctive because it selects and commissions translations directly, and then publishes and markets them for both the South Asian and the global market. This totally reverses the usual flow of literature. Impressive list The Seagull list is impressive. Its recent publications contain, for instance, Hélène Cixous’s We Defy Augury , translated from the French by Beverley Bie Brahic, and Elfriede Jelinek’s On the Royal Road , translated from the German by Gitta Honegger. Cixous is one of the most acclaimed French writers today, once described by Jacques Derrida as “the greatest writer in the French language”. The Austrian Nobel laureate Jelinek’s play, On the Royal Road , was published just after Donald Trump won the U.S. presidential election in 2016. In this drama, we meet a “king,” blinded by himself, who has made a fortune with real estate, golf courses and casinos, who suddenly comes to rule the United States. Wanting to know Then there are novels like The Parasite by the Indonesia-based Hungarian writer, Ferenc Barnás, translated by Paul Olchváry, and the The Book of Sleep by Haytham El Wardany, translated from the Arabic by Robin Moger. While The Parasite puts a dystopian finger on the pulse of our age by narrating a man who is essentially a parasite, The Book of Sleep combines poetry and philosophy with storytelling to explore sleep — not as unproductive but as essential to ‘action’ — all of it against the backdrop of the 2013 Spring protests in Egypt. “My concern was not to create a literary product in the conventional sense, but to try and use literature as a methodology for thinking,” El Wardany has been quoted as explaining. That quotation is probably a good summary of what Seagull Books is doing with this brave — and, to my mind, revolutionary — selection of translations. The books selected are varied: plays, novels, stories, philosophical essays. While they definitely lean towards the progressive side of the literary spectrum, they are not limited to any fixed ideological slant. What unites them is exactly this: all of them use literature as a “methodology for thinking”. Naveen Kishore, publisher, Seagull Books, is fully aware of this. Commenting about his project, he says: “[They are] conversations across cultures. Intense, investigative, probing. Wanting to know. You cannot simply call it an encounter or an interview. It appears to take on the shape of a conversation amongst equals. The scales tip again, and you find yourself an acolyte one moment and a teacher the next. Sometimes both, in an extremely delicate moment of clarity. What tremendous freedom. What tremendous responsibility.” Kishore says that Seagull Books has in the last 15 years acquired some 600 international titles and their world rights. These are significant books by major writers, including Nobel laureates. But these are not the kind of books to be found on the bestseller shelves of airport bookshops. And that is another very good reason to check them out. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  If, as they say, every translated book is a window into another culture, then it is British and American publishers who mostly determine which windows into Germany, Korea or Brazil might be opened to an Indian or Nigerian reader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/conversations-across-cultures/article34064713.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The curious case of Audrey Truschke||A little over five years ago, Audrey Truschke was on the verge of releasing her first book, Culture of Encounters , which examined the cultural and literary interactions between Hindus, Jains and their Mughal patrons. It was a topic I wanted to know more about, and I reached out to Truschke for an interview. Like most junior academics just starting out, she was eager to get her work in front of a wider audience. As far as I know, it was one of her very first interviews. I forgot all about it until a few years later when I stumbled on an Internet clip of her fulminating about India’s ruling party and its leader Narendra Modi. This was a very different Audrey Truschke from the person I remembered. In the interim, she had published a controversial book on Aurangzeb that was largely seen as an unconvincing attempt to rationalise the atrocities attributed to him by a number of Indian and Western historians. As a foreigner, one has to be prepared for backlash when one takes a highly provocative stance in the hotbed of warring ideologies that is present-day India. It seems Truschke was counting on just that to propel her from academic obscurity to speaking engagements at prestigious forums in India. ‘Her own reading’ From her online activities, it would appear that Truschke relishes taking on people of faith. In one tweet, Truschke referred to Rama as a “misogynist” and used a slur after the word. When asked to justify this claim, she cited a translation of the Ramayana by Robert Goldman. When Prof. Goldman was contacted, he said: “I find it extremely disturbing but perhaps not unexpected to learn that AT (Audrey Trushcke) has used such inappropriate language and passed it off as coming from Valmiki. Neither the great poet nor we used such a vulgar diction and certainly Sita would never have used such language to her husband even in the midst of emotional distress. Nowhere in our translation of the passage do we use words you mention AT as using… she is in no way quoting our translation but giving her own reading of the passage in her own highly inappropriate language.” About Aurangzeb, Truschke’s main thesis can be boiled down to this passage from her book, an argument she repeats often: “It is not difficult to identify specific actions taken by Aurangzeb that fail to meet modern democratic, egalitarian, and human rights standards. Aurangzeb ruled in a pre-modern world of kingdoms and empires, and his ideas about violence, state authority, and everything else were conditioned by the time.” It is this very premise, however, that is flawed (or falsified) as Girish Shahane pointed out in a critique published in Scroll : “The problem with the actions specified above is not just that they seem abhorrent to modern individuals, but that they undercut the liberal policies of previous Mughal rulers, something Truschke herself admits. Bringing up modern morality is a red herring, because the namazi , as his eldest brother Dara Shikoh contemptuously called him, was a bigot not just by our standards but by those of his predecessors and peers.” Instead of responding with reasoned argument, Truschke trotted out a litany of the “mean tweets” and hate mail she has received. While these can be harsh, they are in no way a licence to tar all critics with the same brush. I too have been subjected to threats when I published a series of trenchant articles critical of Hindutva politics, but I would be wary of using the toxic utterances of Internet trolls to deflect from genuine shortcomings in my work or, worse, label everyone who disagreed with me as an irredeemable bigot. Her latest work, The Language of History , is simply old wine in a new bottle. She aims to establish that modern-day tensions between Hindus and Muslims are not grounded in historical reality and that the present should not be seen through the lens of the past. It is no doubt a noble endeavour to attempt to defuse sectarian tensions in South Asia, but Truschke goes about it in a ham-fisted and even malicious way. How is it possible to bring about amity between two communities riven by centuries of conflict by sprinkling salt on festering wounds? Prejudice again True to form, she targets the Kashmiri Pandit community, tarring them with shop-worn tropes such as “Brahminical privilege”. It’s hard to see how privilege can be invoked when demagogues such as Sikander Butshikan destroyed Hindu temples, imposed the Jaziya tax for non-Muslim subjects, banned art, entertainment, music, poetry and dance, and administered numerous other humiliations well documented by subsequent historians. One saw this prejudice again not so long ago when Pandits were driven out of the Valley en masse. The main problem with Truschke’s work lies not in its elisions and omissions but the implications it has for the entire body of Western scholarship on India. A number of renowned academics writing about pre-modern India have come under attack by nativists and political actors for not toeing the Hindutva line. Irresponsible and non-reflexive scholarship only reinforces right-wing prejudices about Western Indology. I am reminded of what Philip Lutgendorf, former head of American Institute of Indian Studies, said to me in an earlier interview, published in these pages: “Like most U.S.-based academic scholars who work on various aspects of South Asian culture, I don’t much care for the term ‘Indology’, which smacks of the ‘orientalist’ pretension that a Western scholar can ‘master’ all-around, expedient knowledge of another civilisation.” Indeed, book smarts can only take us so far. White scholars with ambitions of being the “voice” for India in the West would be well advised to cultivate a sense of humility and a genuine desire to learn — outside of the classroom. As the English poet Alexander Pope wrote, “A little learning is a dangerous thing.” The cultural critic, author and filmmaker likes to hang out with his cats, toucan and pet iguana.  Instead of responding with reasoned argument, Truschke trots out a litany of the “mean tweets” and hate mail she has received||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-curious-case-of-audrey-truschke/article34064679.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Regulation a bit OTT||Soon after the recent legal trouble that Amazon Prime Video series Tandav found itself in — including an FIR against the company’s India head Aparna Purohit — industry observers expected an apologetic official statement. But they perhaps didn’t expect it to be quite what it finally was. It read: “Amazon Prime Video again deeply regrets that viewers considered certain scenes to be objectionable in the recently launched fictional series Tandav . This was never our intention, and the scenes that were objected to were removed or edited when they were brought to our attention. We respect our viewers’ diverse beliefs and apologise unconditionally to anyone who felt hurt by these scenes.” Hot on the heels of Amazon Prime’s statement, the government made its big play: the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021. This is a new set of regulations for social media and OTT (over-the-top) platforms, bringing Netflix, Hotstar and Co. under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB), citing powers given to the government by Section 87 of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. The three major prongs of the regulation are age-based content classification (the five categories being Universal, 7+, 13+, 16+ and Adult), parental locks for content marked 13+, and finally a three-tier grievance addressing mechanism. The first tier is an internal Grievance Officer for each OTT platform, who must address user complaints within 15 days. Complaints that are not resolved within 15 days (or are deemed to be handled unsatisfactorily) can be referred to the second tier, a self-regulatory body, representing various digital news publishers and OTT platforms, headed by a retired Supreme Court or High Court judge. The third tier is the MIB itself, which will form an inter-departmental committee to ensure that OTT platforms adhere to these guidelines. This committee will have the power to take down objectionable content and even take suo motu cognisance of any issue pertaining to an OTT release.  ‘Soft-touch’ regulation  The government referred to the rules as “soft-touch regulatory architecture”. A couple of days after the announcement, the Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, Prakash Javadekar, held a meeting with representatives of Netflix, Hotstar, Amazon Prime Video, Voot, ZEE5, AltBalaji and so on, where he answered queries about the guidelines. According to Bengaluru-based lawyer and independent researcher Divij Joshi, the ‘soft-touch’ appellation is largely accurate. “In my opinion it is a kind of softer intervention where the government is able to monitor these platforms more closely and regulate their functioning through legal and informal mechanisms,” he says. This view is backed by the fact that pre-censorship of all new films or shows — along the lines of what theatrical releases have to subject themselves to via the Central Board of Film Certification — would have been undoubtedly harsher, and time-consuming. However, Joshi adds that the government has underlined its power to block objectionable content. “The guidelines claim to be ‘self-regulatory’, but they feed into a regulatory system that can substantially expand the government’s power to censor content,” says Joshi. “This is done by tying the guidelines to the [IT Act’s] Section 69A requirement to block content.” The regulations thus give the government overriding powers to step in. It is useful to remember that the government has been attempting to regulate this space for many years now. Defending the new guidelines, both Javadekar and Minister for Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad cited Supreme Court judgments over the past three-four years that spoke of the unregulated nature of the OTT and streaming industry. The fact that the regulations have finally been rolled out now may have something to do with a post-Covid world where even marquee Bollywood stars like Akshay Kumar were forced to release their movies online (as Kumar did with Laxmii last year). The number of online-only premieres has exploded, and even big global studios are releasing their movies online simultaneously (the recent Wonder Woman 1984 , for example). Basically, the growing influence and industry share of OTT platforms may well have hastened the rollout of the new guidelines. Push vs. pull One of the government’s stated objectives for these guidelines is to “level the playing field” between TV/ film producers and OTT platforms; the former were, and are, subject to a broadcaster’s code, after all. But by doing so, the distinction between ‘pull’ and ‘push’ content has been ignored to an extent— ‘push’ content like TV or radio refers to situations where the channels decide who watches what and for how long. OTT platforms, however, are ‘pull’ content providers; users ‘pull’ content off an online marketplace depending on what they want to watch. OTT programmes are watched in private spaces, and come with disclaimers and maturity ratings. External regulations seem unwarranted. “Having restrictions on the OTT space makes no sense,” says director Vishnuvardhan, who has worked in both the Tamil and the Hindi film industries (he’s the director of Shershaah , an upcoming Karan Johar production). “If there’s something truly objectionable in some story, I can understand [restrictions]. But at some level, I feel that entities such as a censor board are against the rights of an artist.” He says that OTT platforms had two major advantages up until now. “First, the kind of storytelling that OTT platforms gave you the opportunity for; you could go to any extremes to tell your story. Second, the extended runtime for a series (as opposed to a theatrical film) gave you more of a chance to explore the story, to explore character.” This freedom has paid rich dividends — producing some of the finest cinema and series of recent years, such as Sacred Games, Scam 1992, Bulbbul and Paatal Lok , to name just a few. And the digital platform has done what Indian cinema could not do for decades — it has mainstreamed regional cinema, with the best of Malayalam, Tamil, Marathi and Bengali cinema getting unprecedented exposure. All this can only enrich viewership experience, but such unfettered creativity will now come under pressure due to the new rules. As Vishnuvardhan explains, as movies typically involve hundreds of people working on a daily basis across several months, filmmakers will end up making the compromises necessary for the project’s unfettered release. “It is a massively collaborative medium, so many people’s hard work and livelihoods are tied up with it.” Nipped in the bud Moving forward, these last few years may well be remembered as a rare unregulated time for OTT platforms. Indeed, the early years of the OTT boom were marked by a certain creative freedom that might prove increasingly elusive. And it wasn’t that long ago either: actor Vivaan Shah remembers a simpler 2018 when he was filming the ‘millennial comedy’ series Only For Singles . “It was a fairly uncomplicated show,” Shah recalls. “Entertainment was its primary objective, it didn’t have too many artistic points to prove.” Only For Singles had a liberal sprinkling of risqué humour as well as cuss words. “I often joke that abuse is a kind of ad lib technique for actors,” says Shah. “Cuss words often add that extra punch you’re looking for in the line — or they can simply give you an extra half-second to think about what you’re going to say.” Now, though, the actor fears for the fate of even relatively light-hearted fare like Only For Singles , in the name of weeding out “objectionable content”. Shah, of course, was also part of the cast for the Mira Nair series A Suitable Boy , which was released in India by Netflix last year. The show ran into all manner of controversies — a temple kissing scene featuring a Muslim character was leapt upon by Hindu nationalists. Actor Sadaf Jafar was arrested and allegedly beaten up by the UP Police after her participation in a Lucknow protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Clearly, the fear of government censure has never been higher. In the case of Tandav , actor Mohammad Zeeshan Ayyub was admonished by the Supreme Court for “accepting the script”, saying “you cannot hurt religious sentiments” (Ayyub had pleaded that as an actor, he cannot be held liable for allegedly offensive statements spoken by his onscreen character). “I can see the difference, even in a relatively short interval, between the time I filmed Only For Singles , and the time A Suitable Boy was released,” says Shah. “Actors, writers, directors — for them the artistic freedom that the OTT platforms gave them was a huge thing. These new guidelines will hurt the smaller guys, the independent creators the most. Politically conscious art does not materialise just like that: an entire industry has to grow and develop across decades for some people to find their voices. But we have set ourselves back by many years now.” It might get worse. The Supreme Court, while protecting Amazon Prime’s Purohit from arrest, made an astonishing departure to say that the new rules were only guidelines and lacked teeth, asking why there was no provision for punishment or fines. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta responded by agreeing to draft new regulations or even legislation to address this. For the apex court to press for the inclusion of punishment clauses goes against the ‘soft-touch monitoring’ that has been claimed for these regulations. Blunting the edges The new OTT guidelines ought to be seen in conjunction with the government’s other efforts to control critical narratives. So, while, say, English-language writers are not subject to the same level of scrutiny — mostly on account of the low sales figures this industry typically produces — they too are beginning to feel the pinch. Especially if they are on the eve of dabbling in the OTT industry themselves. Tanuj Solanki, whose short story collection Diwali in Muzaffarnagar won him a Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar (awarded to a writer under 35), has been in talks with multiple production houses over the last year or so; these filmmakers want to adapt his stories for OTT platforms. Solanki’s stories involve anti-Muslim violence, childhood sexual abuse, the uber-patriarchal Indian middle-class family, and a whole bunch of other potential red-button issues. “When I wrote the titular story in Diwali in Muzaffarnagar seven or eight years ago, I hadn’t really set out to write stuff that discussed politics in a very direct manner,” says Solanki. “But I knew that if I wanted to, I could. Today, even if I look at Facebook ‘memories,’ posts from two-three years ago, I find myself getting anxious sometimes, ‘Will I get into trouble for this?’ So yes, I do think that the OTT people adapting my stories… things are definitely tougher for them than they were for me.” Solanki is writing a crime novel these days and he’s positive that eventually his publishers will ask him to change the name of a character called Godse. “It doesn’t even matter whether the character is evil or a villain or whatever, just the name is enough for there to be a problem. I will be asked to change it for my own good.” And this, one feels, is the ultimate goal of moves like the new OTT guidelines — for creators to keep second-guessing themselves until their satirical and creative edges have been blunted and dissent is effectively killed ab initio . The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.  The growing influence and industry share of OTT platforms may well have hastened the rollout of the new guidelines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/regulation-a-bit-ott/article34064709.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Reflections of a nationalist||The Indian republic has had 13 vice-presidents since 1952 and only two, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan and Hamid Ansari, got two terms in office. Therefore, it would be natural and tempting to focus on Ansari’s vice-presidential years, but it needs to be kept in mind that the post of Vice-President is essentially an inconsequential office in terms of power and authority; to the extent, the Vice-President also doubles up as the chairman of the Rajya Sabha does allow the incumbent some wiggle room, but that too can be misleading. Of the 13 men, only one, Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, had some political heft but he too was to discover that parliamentary conventions and politicians’ conveniences ensure that a party man gets cordoned off from the power vortex. Civility and grace The other hat Ansari wore for many years was that of an Indian diplomat. He was a competent, loyal foot-soldier and at his joyful best when crossing swords with Pakistani counterparts at global forums. It would perhaps be most rewarding to read the book as the reflections of a nationalist Indian Muslim. Ansari acquaints readers with a different generation that valued civility, grace, erudition, and took pride in its love for scholarship, language and poetry. He anchors himself firmly in the nationalist milieu; early in the book we are informed that his father spurned Mohammed Ali Jinnah’s invitation, on the eve of August 14, 1947, to all senior Muslim officers to proceed to Pakistan. The senior Ansari expressed his inability “to change my country.” The Ansari family was only one of the two at the senior level to stay back in India. A choice was made: India was home. Modernist at heart This confidence in the new, free India was justified when Ansari made it to the elite Indian Foreign Service. A meritocracy was at work. The new arrangements were fair, in letter and spirit, and being a Muslim attracted no discrimination nor endowed any advantage. He locates himself unapologetically in the modernist milieu. He fell for — then married — a young “cigarette-smoking and sherry-sipping” woman. He did not defer to traditionalists and conservatives. There is not an obscurantist bone in this doubly cosmopolitan man, who is just as much at ease in any western environs as he is well-versed in the civilisational richness of the global Islamic world. Consequently, he never allowed himself to get inveigled in the intrigues and pettiness that soon came to define the Muslim political crowd, especially when Muslim leaders and the masses got entangled with the exigencies of electoral politics. Nor was he unobservant of the unhealthy tendencies creeping upon Muslim society and its institutions. For precisely this reason his reflections on the state of the Indian Muslims command our attention and respect.  Ansari acknowledges that from the very beginning the Indian Muslims have lived under “a shadow of physical and psychological insecurity” because they were made “to carry, unfairly, the burden of political events and compromises that resulted from the Partition.” And, as the Sachar Committee Report would record, they remain on “the margins of structures of political, economic and social relevance.” Islam and nationalism Given our own constitutional commitments, Ansari wants to underline “the imperative to recognise pluralism and secularism as the normative principles of politics” along with “an unflinching adherence to principles of equality and equal treatment.” He is not reticent about reflecting on the unresolved and unsettled equation between Islam and nationalism. A ‘successful synthesis of Islam and nationalism’ is very much feasible, because, as he argues, invoking Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad, “...nationality is not synonymous with religious community since the two are in the shape of concentric circles that do not collide...” Nor, for him, is there any fundamental incompatibility between Islam and democracy in the Asian Muslim world. Yet, as he puts it, there is global dimension to the followers of Islam. The Muslim communities all over, including India, do subscribe “to an emotional bond of ‘Muslim-ness.’ The sentiment is amorphous as well as real; it is usually taken for granted but gets evoked at times of stress when protection physical or emotional, is perceived to be required.” Ansari also tackles the ticklish issue of the majority-minorities syndrome in a democratic society. He argues for a need to move beyond ‘assimilation’ and ‘tolerance’. Both are inadequate from the minority perspective. While ‘tolerance’ does prohibit discrimination, it does not endorse diversity, and, therefore, leaves room for the problematic ‘other.’ And, of course, ‘assimilation’ simply boils down to absorption of the minority personality in the larger, majority crowd. He comes across as a rare breed in these vulgar times. Instead of stridency, Ansari contextualises the many ‘accidents’ of his life with subtlety and sensitivity. With enormous reasonableness he enjoins us to ponder on the matrix of ‘accommodation’ and ‘acceptance’ intersecting with temptations of majoritarian politics. Perhaps it is this very gentleness in reminding us of our obligations to the social contract inherent in the Constitution that Prime Minister Narendra Modi mocked on the occasion of Hamid Ansari’s last day as Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. Neither leopard is willing to change his spots.  The reviewer is a senior journalist based in Delhi.  By Many a Happy Accident: Recollections of a Life M. Hamid Ansari Rupa  Rs. 595    As a diplomat, he was competent, a loyal foot­soldier and at his joyful best when crossing swords with Pakistani counterparts at global forums||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reflections-of-a-nationalist/article34064726.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The gruelling exam season||It’s that time of the year when youngsters are preparing hard for examinations. And as in any year, the pressure is mounting. Our education system relies almost entirely on marks. A few reforms here and some fancy terms there have probably given it a kinder and more student-friendly facade. But the compelling dependence on marks continues unabated. Hence, a vulnerable adolescent unwittingly becomes a subject of the most intense and microscopic critique purely on the basis of the grades. Overzealous relatives, friends, the extended family and even mere acquaintances pose direct queries about a child’s exam score. And god forbid, if it does not match popular expectation, they embark on a long, unsolicited discourse and draw parallels with other students, leaving the already demoralised child in a depressed state. At the other end, we have parents of high-scoring students flaunting their wards’ marks card, trophy-like, on social media and gloating over their success as some kind of a personal achievement or well-executed project. I know of children who deactivate their social media accounts and switch off their phones on the eve of results. Under the present education system, children get way better marks than those who took their exams seven or eight years ago. There is a mad scramble for admission to elite colleges and coveted disciplines. The cut-off percentage stands at an incomprehensible 98 or 99 and in some cases, even 100. Not everyone is geared to handle this kind of sustained and ruthless competition. A few buckle under societal and parental pressure and choose the option of unfair means or worse still, self-harm. A couple of recent Bollywood films have tried to showcase this sad reality and sensitise the public to this mounting challenge. But the circus of marks continues, unrelenting and unforgiving as ever. Broader evaluation As a society, it is imperative that we move away from mark-centric accomplishments and evaluate a child for overall personality, skill set and emotional quotient. This is particularly true of the current academic session when education has gone almost entirely online. Not every student has had the means to access it easily. In these difficult times, our young hopefuls are already caught in a vortex of uncertainty and apprehension. Let us accept and embrace them for all the qualities they possess instead of slotting them into draconian stereotypes of high and low performers or “achievers” and “losers”. Let us be kind and realistic, let us help them blaze a trail through effort, emotion and experience. urmichakravorty@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-gruelling-exam-season/article34064707.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A thing of beauty||According to highly placed sources in the Union government, India not only respects dissent but also protects media freedom and human rights, both of which, the sources said, enjoy the heaviest protection in an erstwhile State in the northern part of India. The sources also confirmed that India upholds the fundamental rights of every one of its citizens, including the right of victimised Indians to have FIRs registered against them for whatever crime is committed against them. “Contrary to the international propaganda being disseminated by anti-India forces in collusion with their anti-national collaborators within our borders, the government of India is a staunch advocate of the right to dissent,” said a very senior official in the Ministry of Home Affairs, who did not wish to be identified or come on record or even share his phone number. He shared this information, which is classified as ‘top secret’ under the Official Secrets Act, through an intermediary from a parallel universe. Another top source close to the PMO disclosed that India, regardless of what its citizens might think, is the world’s largest democracy and will remain so even if it becomes a one-party dictatorship. When asked about certain remarks made by the Special Rapporteurs of the United Nations on India’s recent track record in protecting democratic rights, the source said, “We don’t give a rodent’s posterior what the U.N. says or what a random niece of an American vice-president tweets.” The Indian government’s official stand, he reiterated, “is that the frequent jailing of those who criticise the government poses no threat to democracy. Rather, the biggest threat to Indian democracy is from highly educated people and Foreign Destructive Ideology.” Fairer than fairness creams The highly placed source’s brother (HPS-B), who works for India’s leading pro-farmer, pro-worker, pro-poor crony capitalist, said the biggest strength of India’s democracy is its free and fair elections, which are freer than pigeon droppings and fairer than fairness creams. Elaborating further, he said Indian elections have two special ingredients that make India one hundred times more democratic than a country that actually has the word ‘democratic’ in its name — the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The two special ingredients are electoral bonds and EVM-with-VVPAT. According to HPS-B, who recently became a Canadian citizen (because you never know how things are going to go down in India), it is electoral bonds that protect Indian democracy from being usurped by the voting public. By empowering good-hearted crony capitalists to provide anonymous performance incentives to political parties before elections, electoral bonds ensure that government policies post-elections are what they should be rather than what the voting public wants. “This governance innovation is India’s unique contribution to the global heritage of democracy. The Indian government deserves the Nobel Prize for coming up with such a brilliant mechanism that effectively guarantees a peaceful yet relentless transfer of power and wealth from the 99% to the 1% regardless of which political party is in power,” he said. Reverse psychology EVMs-with-VVPAT, he explained, make Indian elections so safe, so secure, and so immune to hacking and tampering that there is no need for an independent expert to verify these claims, nor is there any need for tallying EVM votes with VVPAT slips. The VVPAT, he pointed out, is like the Constitution of India. “Just because it’s there doesn’t mean we should allow citizens to actually benefit from it.” On the issue of farmer protests, another highly placed source in the Agriculture Ministry, who has more than 20 years of experience as a highly placed source, said farmers were practising reverse psychology on the government. “Reverse psychology?” I said. “How does that work?” “These farmers at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border love the three farm laws so much that they are scared the government may never implement them. Have you ever felt that fear — when you think something is too good to be true?” he said. “That’s the sum total of the farmers’ fears about the farm laws. They think these laws are too good. So, it’s only to make sure we implement them that they are protesting AGAINST these farm laws. Do you see the reverse psychology at work here?” “Not really,” I said. “Look, now that the protests are out there, the government has no choice but to implement the farm laws. Not implementing them will make us look weak. It will look like the government changed its mind after listening to ordinary citizens. The last thing we want is for the masses to start imagining that they can have any say in how the people they chose to govern them, govern them.” “And the protesting farmers know this?” I said. “Absolutely,” he said. “In other words,” I said, “What you’re saying is that the farmers are protesting to make sure that their demands are not met?” “Exactly.” “By this logic, any dissent against government policies would become pointless, wouldn’t it?” “Of course!” the source smiled. “That is the beauty of Indian democracy.”  Another top source close to the PMO disclosed that India, regardless of what its citizens might think, is the world’s largest democracy and will remain so even if it becomes a one-party dictatorship||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-thing-of-beauty/article34064738.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A reformer’s childhood||Shyamchi Aai  has been a Marathi classic for the last 86 years, as famous as its author, Maharashtra’s beloved freedom fighter and social reformer, Sane Guruji. Most Marathi-speaking children must have read this book at home or in school. Puffin’s translation of Sane Guruji’s autobiography is the fourth English version of the classic. With Shanta Gokhale as the translator, it’s no surprise that it reads like it was originally written in English. Mother figure The book transports you to an enchanting world, where nature is part of life, where rushing streams have feelings, and tiger sightings are routine during night-time bullock-cart rides through the forest. There are achingly beautiful dusk scenes: the tinkling of cowbells, the strains of a cowherd’s flute and, always, a stream flowing in the distance. This is not an imaginary world. The book is about the author’s childhood in Palgad village in Konkan, which later became famous as Sane Guruji’s birthplace. One wonders whether it is still as beautiful. While the book is a reflection of the rural Konkan Brahmin lifestyle, at its core is the relationship between Shyam and his mother, a woman both deeply traditional and fiercely independent. For Shyam, she is no less than god. Whatever he is, he attributes to her. She teaches him to do what is right, be it helping her in her endless household chores or performing her rituals for her, even if it means braving ridicule. Brutal honesty The bond between Shyam and his mother is sometimes unbelievable. Which child tells his mother things like: “Are you disappointed in me?’’ or “When I see the love in your eyes, I feel strengthened”? The book is replete with such tear-filled conversations between mother and son. In her translator’s note, Gokhale writes that she had to underplay Shyam’s tears and use language less sentimental than Sane Guruji’s, keeping today’s young readers in mind. How will the 10-12-year-old of today react to Shyamchi Aai ? While today’s young reader may wonder why a treat is equated to “getting to drink lemon syrup every night”, the small, everyday events of Shyam’s childhood are relatable: the complex relationship between close schoolmates; the longing for home which must assail every teenage hostelite; the value of a father’s praise and the fear of his anger; the brief visits of a married sister. Shyam’s brutal honesty about his own childish wrongdoings will also echo with young readers. But what will a child of today make of some of the customs that marked the life of a poor village Brahmin more than a century ago? Some of these may still endure in India’s villages. Shyam recounts his family practising untouchability. His mother says social pressure forces her to do so, and Shyam reflects sadly on a country that has neither love nor pity. But where is the same angry condemnation of untouchability that there is of dowry, or of the suffering brought about by class differences? Endless preparations for pujas take up hours of Shyam’s childhood. While these entail joyous interactions with nature — collecting different varieties of leaves and flowers — there is again no questioning of the rituals by the grown-up Shyam. This is noteworthy, because it was Sane Guruji who led the campaign that resulted in the ancient Pandharpur temple opening its doors to Scheduled Castes. Indeed, Sane Guruji’s life was among the primary inspirations for Maharashtra’s Socialist stalwarts. However, it is for the overall story of a childhood spent in the lap of nature, nurtured by a compassionate woman who was not just the archetypal self-sacrificing housewife but also a fount of wisdom, that parents must make their children read this book today. The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist.  Shyamchi Aai Sane Guruji, trs Shanta Gokhale Puffin  Rs. 250    The book is about the author’s childhood in Palgad village in Konkan, which later became famous as Sane Guruji’s birthplace. One wonders whether it is still as beautiful||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-reformers-childhood/article34064715.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bofors to match-fixing, a police officer recounts life in service||Among the galaxy of top cops who carved a niche for themselves in the annals of the history of Indian police figures R.K. Raghavan, a former Indian Police Service officer. Not many police officers venture into writing an autobiography, unless they have been in the thick of action — cases that evoked national interest. His autobiography, A Road Well Travelled , makes for interesting reading not just for police officers but also the common man curious to know the truth and the intricacies that influence polity. A Tamil Nadu cadre officer of the 1963 batch, Raghavan has the unique distinction of having investigated the infamous Bofors case that led to Rajiv Gandhi’s defeat in the 1989 elections, the match-fixing case in 2000 that saw the ouster of Indian cricket captain Mohammad Azharuddin, and Ajay Jadeja, the fodder scam of Bihar’s Chief Minister Laloo Prasad among several others that drew the public ire. He was associated as Chairman with the Special Investigation Team probing the riots that rocked Gujarat in February 2002. The R.K. Raghavan Committee named after him came out with a set of regulations to curb ragging in educational institutions.  With such credentials under his sleeves, it was proper for him to come out with a book unravelling the truth and the pressures that he may have been subjected to while heading the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and later the SIT. Rajiv Gandhi assassination In his own words, he was “witness to some historic events, such as the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi” and he chose to come out with his first-hand information when goaded by friends and family. Starting as an IPS probationer, he rose to the highest enviable rank of Director, CBI after having been through the vicissitudes of life. Though the Sriperumbudur incident took place much later in his career as an IGP, he begins with the narration of events that led to the assassination. He was the first to lift and shift the badly mutilated body of Rajiv Gandhi after it had been identified by his shoes by Jayanthi Natarajan. Once Rajiv Gandhi’s body was handed over, Raghavan remained at the rostrum “to oversee the relief operations, as also to protect the scene from unruly elements.” His action paid rich dividends. It helped the Crime Branch of CID recover the camera that provided the crucial evidence leading to the arrest of the culprits. Though some of his own colleagues accused him of culpability for the incident, the Governor, Bhishma Narain Singh, appreciated his role and he came out unscathed. Passion for cricket In subsequent chapters he takes the readers through his days in Coimbatore, Mussoorie, Mount Abu (for training), Nagapattinam, his stint at the Intelligence Bureau in New Delhi, ‘an interlude in America’ at Temple University (Philadelphia) for a graduate programme in criminal justice, Tamil Nadu Vigilance and his CBI days in chronological order followed by his post-retirement life. Raghavan attributes the unravelling of the Bofors case to The Hindu whose Geneva correspondent Chitra Subramaniam with unstinted support of Frontline Editor N. Ram got hold of “350 documents that outlined the contours of the story as it unfolded.” He categorically states that “there was not the slightest evidence of any payment made directly to Rajiv Gandhi.” Over 30 pages devoted to the report on match-fixing and statements of top cricketers may interest cricket aficionados. A qualified umpire of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association league matches, his passion for the game helped him investigate the match-fixing scam.  The reviewer is Inspector General of Police (retd), CRPF.  A Road Well Travelled R.K. Raghavan Westland Books  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bofors-to-match-fixing-a-police-officer-recounts-life-in-service/article34064728.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on March 14, 1911, Akira Yoshizawa is considered to be the grandmaster of a certain craft. He has been credited with developing it from a craft into an art form. Often associated with Japanese culture, it has led to major innovations in engineering and technology, including designing space-saving furniture and solar panels on spacecraft. What art form is this? 2 From 1912 to 1948, artists could win medals in a particular global event for works of art inspired by sport, divided into five categories: architecture, literature, music, painting, and sculpture. They had to abolish the category because all those who took part were professional artists, and the event prided itself on the fact that only amateurs took part. What event was this? 3 The art and craft form of making this particular entity is believed to have started during the Qin Dynasty in China around 221–206 BC. The item was made from whale fat or extracts taken from insects and seed, wrapped in paper. What are these items, which were once a vital component in homes but are now considered a luxury as they are usually sold for their scents? 4 In 1790, Englishman Thomas Saint invented the first design for a hand crank-powered machine meant to be used on leather and canvas material. Since he could not successfully advertise or market his invention, he was unable to profit from it. When his patent drawings were found in 1874 and a replica was built, it worked well. What instrument is this that was finally patented in 1830 by French tailor Barthélemy Thimonnier? 5 This essential craft item was first manufactured in 1937 and became so popular that its name has become a generic trademark. People have started to refer to any brand of transparent polypropylene-based, pressure-sensitive tape by the name of the company. The original name is a tribute to the regenerated cellulose from which it was made. What is the name of this craft item? 6 Madhubani is a style of painting using natural pigments. In 2012 in Bihar, artists created colourful masterpieces that played a key role in conservation efforts. Started by Shashthi Nath Jha, these efforts led to Highway 52 in Madhubani district becoming a tourist attraction. On what were the artists depicting beautiful scenes from epics? 7 Dhokra is a type of lost-wax casting technique that has been used in India for more than 4,000 years. One of the oldest known finds of Dhokra art is from Mohenjo-daro and it shows a dancing girl. Similar objects have been found in China, Egypt and Central America. The process involves using a solid piece of wax to create a mould and casting the piece. What base material are these art works made from? 8 Moirang Phee is a textile fabric woven sequentially on both longitudinal edges of the fabric and oriented towards the centre of the cloth, with cotton or silk threads. In 2011, it became protected under the GI registration of a particular State. It’s known locally as ‘Yarongphi’, which represents the Pakhangba, a python god from the area. Which State is this? 9 One of the few places in India where the Juglans regia tree grows widely is the Kashmir region. Here, there is a wood carving craft industry that makes tables, jewellery boxes and various curios. The craft was given GI status in 2008. The edible seed of this tree is not actually a nut, but is usually considered one and has high amounts of DHA, which is good for the brain (and not because it looks like one). What tree is this? 10 Craft is an antidote to our increasingly screen-based lives, as using our hands to create takes us away from our devices and allows the mind and body to relax. Young people are turning to craft as a way to improve their mental wellbeing, and one of the most popular places to either find inspiration or showcase your work is a visual discovery engine founded in the U.S. in 2009. With more than a billion ideas floating around at any time, what service is this whose name is a portmanteau of two words that are essential to craft and art? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34064742.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bad feminist blues||Less than a week ago, International Women’s Day was upon us. Suddenly, women were everywhere. Or had they always been and I missed something? I have mixed feelings of the “on the one hand... but on the other hand” variety about this Women’s Day business. On the one hand, just in this one week, I have received offers from a spa, a home goods store, a make-up brand and a jewellery store. Capitalism’s takeover of my female self is complete. But this is a tired critique for what might be a growing willingness to at least take the idea of feminism seriously. Does it, however, risk tokenism for substantive change? Or what the fiery writer and thinker bell hooks terms “lifestyle feminism”, where one is free to wear one’s feminism like Jennifer Aniston wears pieces of flair, for those who remember Office Space . Take, for example, the new Levi’s advertisement with Deepika Padukone gyrating to Usha Uthup’s sexy bellow with the superbly catchy slogan, ‘When You Take a Step, We All Move’. Look at its seeming inclusivity. Many have pointed out that the sizes on Levi’s jeans for women do not go over 32 or 34 at the most; some rare ones give you a 38 waist possibility. Not to forget that the set on which Deepika “takes a step” seems to have been inspired sans credit by Sooni Taraporevala’s Yeh Ballet . Speaking of inclusivity and “all moving together”. Loud and clear On the other hand, I heard so many women’s voices and presence loud and clear over this and the preceding weeks. On my own campus, there were efforts by faculty, alumni and students to look seriously at what women might need to have fulfilling research careers. I sat in on a talk by the wonderful Dr. Rohini Godbole, particle physicist, Padma Shri awardee and science communicator, and heard first hand what might be pragmatically needed to better the proportion of women in STEM fields in India. The International Association of Women in Radio and Television (IAWRT) organised a fantastic panel session moderated by Paromita Vohra, featuring some of the original women of Indian national television. From Salma Sultan’s iconic rose (that men in the media objected to as distracting from “real” news) to Manju Singh turning producer at Amrita Pritam’s behest, I listened in to their stories to understand what it means for us that others “took a step”. This is not to deny that there will continue to be a backlash. From women being asked to go home from protest sites, continued universal accusations of bad character, to being offered marriage as a solution for sexual assault, not to mention the number of loud women jailed for sins, imagined and feared, the roots of patriarchy run deep and clingy and will not be addressed by one single day in a very long year among other long years. And yet, what can we take away from International Women’s Day? Hope, I suggest. Hope that the work is ongoing even as it is protracted and conflictual. Hope that Women’s Day will be a day for women of all stripes, shapes, sizes, sexualities and shades to find each other. Hope that as much as the feminist movement is predicated on equality, it must also contend with difference. If we are to find any sort of collectivity, it must be forged through amplification of women’s voices, experiences, and standpoints. Intersecting identities It must contend with intersectionality, the notion, propounded first by Kimberlé Crenshaw, that gender intersects with other categories of identity such as race, class and caste in particular ways to forge particular experiences of marginalisation and distress as much as privilege and opportunity. In other words, hope, despite the knowledge that it is absolutely not necessary that when you take a step, everyone will move. Instead I propose an inversion. When everyone moves, I move. The origins of International Women’s Day lie in the labour movements of North America and Europe during the early 20th century, and the gaining of suffrage by women in Soviet Russia in 1917. In other words, they are about the collective. And this collective is neither homogeneous nor agreeable. Hence, cacophony is bound to, and must, undergird all conversation. We are all, in Roxane Gay’s words, probably bad feminists. But if we move together and through difference, the future will have no choice but to be feminist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bad-feminist-blues/article34064750.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In a city by the sea||The past year has not been kind to Pakistan. The pandemic has crippled the country, leaving limited capacity to battle another contagion: bad PR. 2019 saw the launch of Sanam Maher’s A Woman Like Her and in 2020 we read Declan Walsh’s The Nine Lives of Pakistan . British freelance writer Samira Shackle’s newly released Karachi Vice: Life and Death in a Contested City completes a carnage trilogy, revealing the “sectarian and ethnic resentment mingling with politics and organized crime,” as she writes on the city of 20 million. Earnest portrait Maher’s sensitive prose captures both tense finger-pointing and the quieter atmospheric moments, while Walsh’s incisive profiles of talismanic figures reveal the complexity of nation forgers and dividers. But Shackle’s book, named after her 2015 Guardian article, takes a grassroots perspective, showcasing the metropolis’ every day citizens, with ambulance driver Safdar, school teacher Parveen, map researcher Siraj, village-dwelling Jannat, and memorably, the crime reporter Zille, “a small man, very thin, with hooded eyes and a sharp gaze, constantly reaching for one of his two phones, lighting a cigarette, surveying his surroundings, or leaning sideways as if to avoid being seen.” A shadowy figure, Shackle “saw him only in the dark” and “asked his age three times and received three different answers.” It is this earnestness that warms the reader to Shackle: “I moved to Karachi in the aftermath of riots, arriving to smashed shop windows and the smell of burning tyres,” she begins the book. Yet she mirrors her new city’s trajectory, initially with a “harsh beginning,” but “infused with a feeling of hope and possibility… This was the Karachi that my mother and grandmother had told me about: a cosmopolitan place full of energy and action.” Shackle strays from the “areas of Clifton and Defence, where most of my relatives and friends lived… a world away from the urban warfare of Lyari or Orangi.” Shackle paints Karachi more like Lagos than Mumbai, with the five characters surviving in a political nexus of corruption, gang warfare and psychological entrapment, staples of India’s crime web series. (“Karachi is far and away the world’s most dangerous megacity… in 2011, 202 murders occurred in Mumbai, India. Karachi had 1,723,” notes Taimur Khan in Foreign Policy ). But Shackle rarely unmasks their interiors, instead being descriptive — and not piercing — in details, even when faced with unconventional motivations (“Zille didn’t want money. All he cared about was contacts”). In extending many of her pieces into a book (previously profiling Safar for Vice and Bahria Town for The Guardian , amongst others), she has excluded a few of her finest country pieces, on the strategic port of Gwadar (for Guernica ), the revival of Pakistani cinema ( Emerge85 ), and western travel influencers ( The Guardian ). A gifted writer who has traversed the country from 2012 to 2019, a compilation of her work would seem to be more fitting.  Karachi Vice , a BBC Radio 4 Book of the Week, is reminiscent of her fellow Brit, Ramita Navai’s City of Lies: Love, Sex, Death, and the Search for Truth in Tehran (2014). It offers a rare perspective on the lives of others, many of whom whose dreams are as unfortunately far-ranging as their neighbourhood borders. Yet interestingly enough, they share an invisible barrier with the mixed-race, globe-trotting, Oxford-educated Shackle — setting their gaze beyond their immediate buildings, and into the horizon.  The reviewer is an HR consultant based in Toronto and Mumbai.  Karachi Vice: Life and Death in a Contested City Samira Shackle Granta Books  Rs. 463 (Kindle price)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-a-city-by-the-sea/article34064730.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Fish-fry and crumbs||Dear Agony Akka,  I am a 43-year-old marketing executive staying in three-storied apartment building. Myself, wife and two teenage children are living on first floor. Landlord is living in opposite flat. The second-floor flat has become vacant recently. Previous tenant Krishnan moved out because he lost job and could not pay rent. He was a wonderful man. We used to play rummy and drink rum on Fridays after sending our better halves to the temple, haha! Now, daily I am seeing our building owner, a perfect gentleman, struggling with undesirable tenants wanting flat. Sometimes they are non-veg people — how to tolerate smells, you tell me? Sometimes they are young woman wanting to live alone. How their parents are letting, I don’t know. Tomorrow if something happens, who will take blame? So only he is turning them all down. But during society meeting last week, ground-floor couple is criticising building owner like anything. Asking him to be more tolerant. You please tell me, is there limit to toleration or not? —Righteous As Hell   Dear RAH  First of all, the best place to live is in an independent bungalow. Nobody but family members plus your own garden means you don’t have to steal the neighbour’s flowers for puja and you also get a backdoor entry for cleaning persons. You are probably asking, then why am I living in an apartment complex? That’s because my two younger brothers and one sister insisted on selling the bungalow our father bequeathed and I had to comply. I had not realised that I was nursing snakes in my bosom. But let me not distract you with these images. Let’s see now. Perhaps your rummy-playing friend beats his wife? Maybe third-floor woman ill-treats her cook? You may or may not know these things, but it is not troubling you or your building owner. Why? I will tell you why. Because you are thinking that eating non-veg food or being single is the biggest crime of all. You must get rid of this silly idea. Take a deep breath and repeat after me: ‘Non-veg people are harmless. Single people are harmless.’ This is a powerful mantra. You must say it three times each during your morning and evening walks. Teach it to your building owner. It will calm him down and give peace of mind. I can see that your nose is troubling you a lot. I agree that the smell of fish being neutralised in hot mustard oil is very disturbing to untrained nasal cavities. But so is the smell of the Cooum on a hot summer’s day as it wafts into your car when you’re driving over Adyar Bridge. If you can live with periodic puffs of Cooum breath, you can live with occasional fish-fry fragrance too. Try it. It might be invigorating and give an extra bounce to your step. Who knows, maybe like tobacco smoke you can imbibe Omega-3 by breathing it into your pure veg lungs. O3 is good for cancer, arthritis and whatnot. As for single tenants, being unmarried hasn’t been declared illegal yet. Even the Supreme Court hasn’t complained of laws against singles “lacking teeth”. Being unmarried and living alone does not turn people into dangerous criminals and you must not be afraid. The worst they can do is party with friends. Horror of horrors, these might be friends of the opposite sex. They might even drink! But if you calm down and repeat that mantra I taught you, you will find that you, your family and the house owner will escape unscathed from this terrifying experience. — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fish-fry-and-crumbs/article34064740.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The easy way||North’s four diamond bid clearly showed a heart fit, as he would have bid differently earlier if he had a spade fit or a long diamond suit. Many declarers would have gone wrong on this deal by trying to ruff one or two minor suit cards in their hand. The 5-1 spade split would have wrecked the contract eventually. This is all a mirage, as this contract is a sure thing after a diamond lead, provided the trumps split no worse than 3-2. Can you see the winning line? Win the opening diamond lead in dummy and draw trumps in three rounds, ending in dummy. Then simply run the 10 of spades. This will lose to the jack, but declarer will have no trouble taking four spade tricks and eventually ruffing a club in dummy. Many top experts, proud of their skill in other areas of the game, have lamented their lack of inspiration on opening lead. A club lead would almost certainly have defeated this contract. Can you fault West for leading a diamond? We don’t think so. Inspiration on opening lead should be on all our wish lists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-easy-way/article34064745.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In heaven with a cup of steaming coffee||Ordering a cup of coffee in the U.S. is not easy. First, we have to choose the cup-size from tall, grande and venti. If we clear this round, we are asked for the type of milk from among full, half-n-half and skim. Next, the coffee-bean type has to be spelt out. And then, the preparation: cafe-au-lait, espresso or mocha. Finally, they ask for our name and now, it is their turn to stumble over our polysyllabic name. They cannot fit the name on the sides of the cup and their writing comes a full circle! There is an edginess to this entire episode as we wait for our name to be called out and get our cup of coffee. How much we long for the familiar environs back home and relish a cup of steaming coffee. Even without delving into when the romance with coffee began in the southern States of India, we can say that we have taken to the brew as fish to water. A cup of coffee is a must to kick-start the body each morning. The accessories are as important as the beverage. A Styrofoam or even porcelain cup won’t do. To be savoured, coffee has to be served in a pint-sized shiny, stainless-steel tumbler with a matching saucer. The tinkling sound of the vessel, the aroma of the fresh brew and its instant relish ensure we are in heaven. It is an experience to watch the art of coffee-making, be it in a wayside shack or your favourite restaurant. Milk is set on a low boil on one stove. The coffee-maker’s hands work in a flourish stirring the milk to a nice, creamy consistency. On the other side is the beaker with the decoction — deep-brown, viscous and with the perfect blend of coffee and chicory. The magician now gets into the act. He pulls out the stainless steel tumbler, adds a spoonful of sugar, a dash of decoction and tops the tumbler with frothy milk till it swells over the rim. And then, in an act defying gravity, the concoction is mixed with that deft horizontal flick of the beverage from the tumbler to be caught by the saucer and back again. There is a twinkle in his eye as he hands over the coffee. No questions asked. It is perfect, the way it is. On a long train journey, there is a different feel to drinking coffee. The moment the train comes to a halt, the station comes alive with hawkers advertising the beverage in their distinctive ways. Some intone “coffee-coffee-coffee” in a low, rhythmic baritone and others scream their throats off with high-pitched shrieks of “coffee-coffee”! For once, you settle for a paper cup. As you sit by the window and peer out, the countryside, the distant hills and the hot cup of coffee all intermingle to make it a delightful experience. In the southern States, after a relaxed siesta, you head out to the nearby restaurant and settle down at the table. The waiter comes by with a ready smile. “What is special for tiffin today,” you ask him. “Saar! Bonda, masala vadai, Bombay halwa, kesari.” “Perfect! Get me a plate of bonda and kesari. And yes, one cup of degree coffee!” shankar.ccpp@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-heaven-with-a-cup-of-steaming-coffee/article34064701.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Life in the metros||Dame luck smiled on me in 1958, the year I completed college in Madras and got employment in a research organisation in Bombay. The following 39 years saw me in Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi and Chennai. Bombay was the only city which received all hopefuls with open arms in those days. Within days, one would land some occupation ensuring a livelihood. In all the 15 years of my living in Bombay and Mumbai in two spells, the city never experienced a complete power supply breakdown and with the efficient bus transport, the two service providers earned the name BEST (Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking). We enjoyed bottled milk from Aarey Milk Company, the first dairy in the country. The dabbawalla s pioneered the on-the-dot, 100% correct delivery of food from home, rain or shine. The city train service connecting the western and eastern suburbs was punctual nearly always. Trams were operating till 1964. I enjoyed the ride in the double-decker tram to the library in South Bombay. Nobody had time to waste. The city went to sleep late to get up early. One never felt lonely on roads. Bombay fully deserved being called the financial capital of India. In 1971, however, I decided to continue higher studies in Calcutta. As the Naxalite movement targeted only the political activists, the city continued to be the safest among Indian cities for women and old people. The city welcomed refugees with open arms. Trams provided low-cost transport for the poor. In case of accidents, the victims were taken care immediately, bystander apathy was unknown. Vision of future is a cultural trait in Bengal. For theatre and music (especially Rabindra Sangeet), the city now called Kolkata is famous. A short second spell in Mumbai only made me yearn for Delhi for reasons of vast open spaces, parks and scope for fast private transportation for commuting to office. If one earned a living in Mumbai, in Delhi one lived a stress-free life. It was a bonus to get invited to concerts, music and dance performances. After Delhi, comes my home city Chennai, the cultural capital. The sea provides relief from the heat by means of land and sea breeze. The shoreline with a blue waterfront and the blue sky above relax body and mind. In a couple of shopping centres in the heart of the city, one gets practically everything one needs, for day-to-day as well as festive occasions. For nearly 45 days from December 1, those having an ear for music and an eye for dance can immerse in the ocean of performing arts. One can leave home after morning coffee and can hop from one venue to another. As a bonus, one gets religious discourse also. Chennai is rightly the place for the retired with frugal income and expenditure. It will be Utopian to dream of a city with the advantages of all the four metros. Smaller radial cities are becoming more attractive. So wise choice for the sunset years is waiting. lakshmibashyam@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/life-in-the-metros/article34064703.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to school||Schools all over India closed down by mid-March last year. They have now reopened for higher classes on the assumption that education of senior students, especially those preparing for their board exams, is more important. The thought is that a year of lost education at a younger class can be easily made up — not just officials but the public at large also seem to hold this true. We have as a society confused education with the process that certifies people as educated. Education is about learning and is fundamental to a society’s or nation’s progress. And the certification process of board exams and degrees is at best a necessary evil. When you forget for a moment about the certification process and look at the school system as a vehicle for learning, the mistakes we are making as a society become obvious. A year of learning at the age of five or six is much more critical than a year of learning at say, 15. Developing language, social and other skills are much more difficult as children grow older. Studies have also found that younger children forget much more of what they learn than older children during a break from studies. Therefore, the governments should have focused on resuming primary and middle school classes. Even from the point of view of safety, this would have been a good idea. Studies show that younger children are less susceptible to COVID-19. Further, even if infected, they are less likely to become seriously ill. Studies in the U.S. have also found that reopening of schools has not caused any major outbreaks (unlike colleges which do cause outbreaks). Pratham’s ASER survey provides details of the impact school closures have on education. Technology-driven education with videoconferencing and digital sharing of assignments is not reaching more than 20% of the schoolchildren. In my personal interactions with children who are receiving such education, they narrate the difficulties they face. With just an hour and a half of instruction typically, a patchy network connection and the challenges imposed by the medium itself, they find it difficult to understand what the teachers are teaching. This is a disruption of education of devastating proportions. While this is a problem for all children in India, it particularly affects the poor and widens the already vast disparity that exists between them and the privileged. Educated parents will find ways to continue engaging their children and stimulate their minds. Elite schools will find ways to engage the students through online classes, assignments, and a wide variety of online content. These are non-starters for the underprivileged as they do not have access to a smartphone or computer.  Social evils One of the spin-offs of compulsory free education for children is that many social evils such as child labour and child marriages are prevented. But these evils seem to be once again on the increase now. As the children are not in school, many of them are being engaged in informal labour. Children are once again working with their parents in household industries such as matchbox making. They are working in the neighbourhood mechanic shops and groceries. Girls are being engaged in household chores and taking care of the younger ones in the family. Minor girls are being married off. Our handling of education during this crisis has been wrong. We should have kept these above factors in mind while dealing with education. Even now, I would urge that the primary schools are opened immediately. Opening them doesn’t add much risk whereas closure entails an incalculable loss to society and is a disservice to the younger generation. rajaram@solnet.in  Continued closure of primary schools is a disservice to the younger generation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/back-to-school/article34064705.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Meghan tells all||In an explosive interview with Oprah, which was viewed by 17 million people, Meghan Markle revealed that she struggled with thoughts of suicide during life with the British royal family and that a member of the family had expressed “concerns about how dark [Archie’s] skin would be”. The queen, in a response, said that “the issues raised, particularly those of race, are concerning” although “some recollections may vary”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/meghan-tells-all/article34064683.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt toolkit||The Editors Guild of India expressed “shock and disbelief” at a media strategy report drafted by a Group of Ministers last year and revealed recently. The report includes suggestions such as “colour-coding” journalists based on their closeness to the government, “neutralising” those who set “false narratives”, and pushing “a mix of truth and untruth” in news. The Guild lambasted the Centre’s “increasingly draconian attitude” and “intention to muzzle any criticism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/govt-toolkit/article34064685.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Defiant Yangon||Protests continued in the face of an escalating crackdown in Myanmar, with more than 60 people killed and 2,000 detained. The military junta cancelled the licences of five media outlets, while police surrounded and arrested hundreds of protesters in Yangon. However, many policemen defied orders and were among more than 100 people who sought refuge in Mizoram. The U.N. Security Council condemned the violence but failed to denounce the coup, reportedly after several countries objected to tougher language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/defiant-yangon/article34064687.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Musical chiefs||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned following days of public speculation and the intervention of central leaders. He faced criticism within the BJP, for his leadership style and controversies such as his government’s move to take control of 51 Hindu shrines — provokingthe VHP to threaten protests — and setting up the Gairsain Commissionerate as a new division of the State. His successor, Tirath Singh Rawat, the MP for Garhwal and a former State BJP chief and education minister, was sworn in the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/musical-chiefs/article34064689.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Virus passport||China launched a digital health certificate for international travel that will show the user’s COVID-19 vaccination status and test results using encrypted QR codes. Available only to Chinese citizens, it’s being called the world’s first ‘virus passport’. However, it’s not yet compulsory and no agreements have been announced with other countries to recognise it. The U.S., E.U. and others are planning similar schemes. The WHO warned against making such certificates compulsory at present, citing vaccine inequity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/virus-passport/article34064691.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bus bribery||An investigation by three media houses found evidence that Swedish bus maker Scania had paid bribes to win contracts in seven Indian States between 2013 and 2016. The company confirmed it had found misconduct by ex-employees, including senior management, in its internal investigation. A report alleged that the firm had delivered a luxury bus to a company with connections to Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 , for use at his daughter’s wedding. Gadkari’s office denied the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bus-bribery/article34064693.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Justice for Floyd||Derek Chauvin was put on trial amid a tense atmosphere in Minneapolis, with thousands marching to commemorate George Floyd and thousands of troops on the streets. Lawyers started grilling potential jurors, dismissing some for their views. Chauvin, an ex-cop, faces murder and manslaughter charges for killing Floyd, an African-American man, by kneeling on his neck on May 25 last year, sparking the massive and worldwide Black Lives Matter protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/justice-for-floyd/article34064695.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Turn a Blind Eye||Jeffrey Archer  Pan Macmillan Rs. 450 DI William Warwick is tasked to go undercover and expose corruption in the Metropolitan Police. His team follows Detective Jerry Summers whose lifestyle appears to exceed his income. As a personal relationship develops with a team member, William realises that the corruption goes deep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/turn-a-blind-eye/article34064711.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Gilded Ones||Namina Forna  Usborne Publishing Ltd Rs. 499 In this fantasy series, 16-year-old Deka lives in Otera, a deeply patriarchal ancient kingdom where a woman’s worth is tied to her purity. Deka is an Alaki, a near-immortal with exceptional gifts. As such, she either has to fight for the Emperor, with others like her, or be destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-gilded-ones/article34064717.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Cursed Inheritance||Sutapa Basu  Readomania Rs. 250 Anahita Sarkar, who has grown up in London, is bequeathed a mansion in Kolkata. She travels to the city to dispose of her inheritance only to realise that it has dark secrets that pursue her. Can she turn the cursed inheritance into a blessing?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-cursed-inheritance/article34064719.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The City of Good Death||Priyanka Champaneri  Viking Rs. 599 As the manager of a death hostel in Kashi, Pramesh welcomes families bound for the funeral pyres. He is content till a dead man is pulled out of the river. This is Sagar, called Pramesh’s ‘twin’ back in the village. Sagar’s reemergence casts a shadow over the life Pramesh has built for his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-city-of-good-death/article34064721.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||All Roads Lead North: Nepal’s Turn to China||Amish Raj Mulmi  Context/Westland Books  Rs. 799 In the June 2020 territorial dispute over Kalapani, India was faced with an assertive Nepal, and blamed the latter’s deepening relations with China. This volume takes the long view on Nepal’s foreign relations, and how it is caught between two neighbourhood giants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/all-roads-lead-north-nepals-turn-to-china/article34064723.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Screen Time||Becca Caddy  HarperCollins  Rs. 499 Inbox zero or screen-free days? A technology journalist writes that a healthier balance can be struck with digital devices by understanding the ways in which phones affect lives and making small shifts to ensure technology is working for the user, not the other way around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/screen-time/article34064732.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Billions under Lockdown||Abantika Ghosh  Bloomsbury  Rs. 699 When the World Health Organization first declared COVID-19 a global pandemic in March 2020, there was a great deal of apprehension about how India would fare. Ghosh writes about India’s COVID-19 story, which lies somewhere between official statements and scientific hypotheses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/billions-under-lockdown/article34064734.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Interpreting Politics: Situated Knowledge, India, and the Rudolph Legacy||Edited by John Echeverri-Gent,   Kamal Sadiq  Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,695 In long careers, Lloyd and Susanne Rudolph’s scholarship produced insights about India’s politics. Writers pay tribute to the Rudolphs’ scholarship by examining its contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/interpreting-politics-situated-knowledge-india-and-the-rudolph-legacy/article34064736.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||sunday recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article34064681.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Will adenovirus antibodies reduce vector vaccine efficacy?||Unlike the mRNA vaccine platform used by Pfizer and Moderna, where vaccine efficacy reached 94% and 95%, respectively, the vector-based vaccine platform technology used by AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson have shown lower efficacy. While vaccine efficacy is 66% for Johnson & Johnson vaccine, AstraZeneca vaccine showed 55.1% efficacy when the second dose is administered less than six weeks after the first but 81.3% when the gap between the two doses is over 12 weeks. In contrast, Sputnik V has 91.6% efficacy. Pre-existing antibodies Is the relatively low efficacy of adenovirus-based vaccine in some people because of pre-existing antibodies? “Adenovirus-based vaccine platforms have been in development for decades. All through that time, the issue of whether pre-existing antibodies to the adenovirus vector will affect the development of antibodies against the new target the adenovirus is carrying as antigen has remained unclear. There are studies showing that there is a loss of potency if there are pre-existing antibodies, but there are also some other studies showing that there is no major potency loss,” immunologist Dr. Satyajit Rath, formerly with the National Institute of Immunology, Delhi says in an email to The Hindu.  Dr. Rath adds: “Pre-existing antibodies against adenoviruses will stop the adenovirus particles from getting into cells and making the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein.” The presence of pre-existing antibodies against adenovirus and those developed after first and second dose of the vaccine becomes particularly important when repeat vaccinations are needed, as in the case of boosters against variants or yearly vaccination.  “There is always a group with fair levels of pre-existing antibodies. Sooner or later, anti-adenoviral antibodies will inevitably form, complicating the situation for subsequent vaccinations. But nobody has planned and tested a continuously variable panel of adenoviruses as vaccine vectors for long-term boosting, I am afraid!” says Dr. Rath. Virologist Dr. V. Ravi, formerly with NIMHANS also says there is no data available on how the antibodies against adenovirus subtypes will affect the efficacy of vaccines, especially with boosters.  While high levels of neutralising antibodies against adenovirus subtype Ad5 have been seen in sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast Asia, neutralising antibodies against adenovirus subtype Ad26 were moderately common in the two regions. The amount of neutralising antibodies against subtype Ad26 was markedly lower than for Ad5, a 2011 study found. “If pre-existing immunity to a vector is high, you will expect low response to the cargo antigen. With a heavy dose of the vector that dampening effect can be overcome,” virologist Dr. Jacob John, formerly with CMC Vellore says in an email .  Dr. Rath agrees with Dr. John and says: “It is plausible that unless the anti-adenovirus antibodies are very efficient and are present at high levels, enough virus particles will get in to make the vaccine work well enough; 10-50 billion virus particles are injected into the muscle.” Clever design While Johnson & Johnson uses a single dose of Ad26 subtype, the Sputnik V vaccine uses a combination of Ad26 and Ad5 for the first and second dose, respectively. “That is a clever design,” says Dr. John about the use of two different subtypes for the first and second doses of Sputnik V. “Immunity against the first vector will not interfere with the second dose as it contains a different subtype,” says Dr. John. The AstraZeneca vaccine uses chimpanzee adenovirus. Antibodies against the chimpanzee adenovirus are not prominent in people anywhere in the world. What then is the reason for the low efficacy of the Oxford vaccine? “My guess is the antigen mass (potency) may be relatively low, perhaps adjusted for relatively low cost of production. That is perhaps the reason for a two-dose regimen,” says Dr. John. “Many issues are involved in determining how well a vaccine design will work. Exactly how the engineered virus was constructed is one factor, the actual number of virus particles given is another. It is not simply a matter of which adenovirus is used as the vector,” says Dr. Rath about the AstraZeneca vaccine. Effective combinations AstraZeneca vaccine is already being tested in combination with Pfizer and Sputnik V vaccines. “Is this to increase vaccine efficacy of the Oxford vaccine? “I think that these combinations are being tried for a variety of short-term goals – one is to try to overcome supply chain problems by mixing-and-matching, another is to keep giving a different adenovirus each time for as long as possible,” Dr. Rath says. Dr. John too feels that a heterologous vector as second or third dose may improve vaccine efficacy. But one can be sure only when data become available. “Let me venture to say that no matter which vector was used for first immunisation, further boosters can be given using an inactivated virus vaccine or an mRNA vaccine.” Dr. Krishna Ella, CEO of Bharat Biotech said during a press conference that people vaccinated with Covishield cannot be administered the same vaccine next year. Was he referring to antibodies that would have developed against adenovirus vector that would make repeat vaccination ineffective? “Dr. Ella might have been referring to a future third dose – which is unlikely to be useful as a booster dose because of immunity to the vector that will render the vector virus non-infectious, hence unable to deliver the cargo (spike protein) inside human cells. However, third or repeated periodic doses will be very effective using inactivated virus vaccine (Covaxin) or mRNA vaccine, which use non-immunogenic lipid vesicles,” says Dr. John. While using the same adenovirus subtypes for repeat vaccinations might result in reduced efficacy in the case of vector-based vaccines, the inactivated vaccines do not face this problem, as seen in the case of rabies and inactivated polio vaccine. “Theoretically, repeat doses with inactivated vaccines will raise the height of immune response with no chance of any reduction of efficacy. If three doses are taken, especially with at least four months interval between second and third doses, there may not be any need for annual boosting. We will have to obtain data to confirm if the theoretical conclusion is correct in real life,” says Dr. John.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/will-adenovirus-antibodies-reduce-vector-vaccine-efficacy/article34064863.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Optical monitoring of power line health||Researchers at IIT Madras have demonstrated that by using Raman thermometry on fibre optic cables, they can achieve monitoring of power transmission cables. Interestingly, they achieve this by using the optical fibres that are already embedded in the power cables for establishing optical communication. The work is part of a larger ongoing project on distributed fibre sensors and has been published recently in IEEE Sensors Journal.  Serendipity The seeds of the idea were sown about ten years back when Balaji Srinivasan of the Department of Electrical Engineering at IIT Madras was approached by a company that planned to implement overhead power lines across the country. The company wanted Prof. Srinivasan to certify that the glass fibre they were planning to include for communication purposes along with their power cables was indeed an optical fibre. Such optical fibres are traditionally incorporated in cables and buried underground. This could cost up to 80% of the total expense in setting up the communication system. The company had figured that they would save this cost byincorporating the optical fibres in a hollow tube intertwined with power lines and thereby save the cost of digging tunnels to accommodate them. It was during this certification process that Prof. Srinivasan got the idea that one or two of the unused fibres could be usedto keep tabs on the health of the power cables. This is based on the principle that any current flowing through a conductor would cause a temperature rise due to the Joule heating effect. Raman effect In the Raman effect, when light is scattered off an object, say a molecule, two bands are observed, with higher and lower frequency than the original light, called the Stokes and anti-Stokes bands, respectively. By studying the relative intensity of the two bands, it is possible to estimate the temperature of the object . “The anti-Stokes component of Raman scattering is strongly dependent on the temperature that the material is subjected to. Thus, by measuring the intensity of the anti-Stokes scattered light we can estimate the temperature. This is Raman thermometry,” says Prof. Srinivasan. He explains that the temperature measurement is performed in a distributed manner using an optical fibre. To achieve this, a pulse of light is launched into the optical fibre and the backscattered radiation is observed. “The time of flight of the backscattered radiation provides an estimate of the distance from which the light is backscattered,” he says. This can go up to tens of kilometre. This technique is married to Raman thermometry to get the results for actual measurements over tens of kilometres. Cost-effective solution Alternative methods of measuring the temperature of power cables include using a thermal camera to manually monitor their length, which is cumbersome. The present method devised by the team is both economical and provides real-time information. Optical fibre-embedded power cables are already available across the country, but none of them are presently used for power monitoring. “We are presently working with a leading Indian power transmission and distribution company for implementing this technology,” says Prof. Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/optical-monitoring-of-power-line-health/article34064858.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Martian ‘blueberries’ find a parallel on Earth||In 2004, NASA’s Mars exploration rover ‘Opportunity’ found several small spheres on the planet, informally named Martian blueberries. Opportunity’s spectrometers studied the mineralogy and noted they were made of iron oxide compounds called haematites. This caused excitement, as the presence of haematites suggests that there was water present on Mars. “The widely accepted formation mechanism of haematite concretion [hard solid mass] is precipitation from aqueous fluids. Haematite is known to form in oxidising environments, and based on our experience on Earth, we infer that water must have also played a crucial role in the formation of grey haematite on Mars,” explains Dwijesh Ray from the Planetary Sciences Division of Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad in an email to The Hindu. He has been studying haematite concretions in Kutch. His recent paper notes that the ‘blueberries’ in India and Mars share similar characteristics. Jhuran formation The team has been studying the Jhuran formation in Gujarat which is between 145 and 201 million years old. Detailed geochemistry and spectroscopic investigations of the haematite concretions in this area revealed that they resemble the ones on Mars. They have similar morphology – spherical, often doublet and triplet – and similar mineralogy – a mixture of haematite and goethite. The results were published in Planetary and Space Science . “The haematites on Mars not just show the presence of water, they also indicate that the planet had an atmosphere with oxygen as haematites need oxygen to stabilise. We do not know if the concentration was high enough to permit lifeforms, but there was indeed more oxygen than the present day scenario,” explains Saibal Gupta from the Department of Geology and Geophysics at IIT Kharagpur, one of the authors of the paper. About the age of the ‘blueberries’ on Mars, he explains: “The exact time correlation is not possible. Water is believed to have disappeared from Mars rocks about three billion years ago. Studies from the newly landed Perseverance rover may help find new clues and signs of life and other organic compounds, thus helping us paint a detailed picture of the history of Mars.” Martian analogue Several researchers have shown that the Kutch area is a potential Martian analogue locality. A 2016 paper argued that the occurrences of hydrous sulphate in the Matanumadh area of Kutch, resemble Martian surficial processes. It has been also argued that the transformation from the wet and humid to dry and arid environment on Mars is mimicked by the history of Kutch. Dr. Ray explains that there may be several other localities in Kutch that share a geologic history of the surface to near-surface processes that appear to besimilar to ancient Mars. “The concretions in the Jhuran Formation of Kutch represent another data point that reinforces the need to use the Kutch area for further analogue studies of the Martian surface ,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/martian-blueberries-find-a-parallel-on-earth/article34064855.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccine rollout: course correction in the face of resurgence||The recent rise in COVID 19 cases in six states, accounting for 85% of reported new cases, is disturbing. The concerned State Governments and the Union Ministry of Health need to seriously soul search and quickly arrive at a plan of action to quell the resurgence by vaccination. The resurgence is most likely due to: the general public throwing caution to the wind – discarding the disciplined use of masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing; and engaging in activities leading to mass gatherings – including weddings and funerals – that are conducive to spreading the virus. Opening up of transport services in general and suburban train services in Mumbai in particular, would have contributed to the resurgence. Regulatory agency authorised emergency use of two COVID-19 vaccines on January 3. On January 16, both were made available to healthcare professionals, the first priority, followed by those in essential services. From March 1, the second phase has begun when senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities are the next priority for vaccination; the Government is expanding the coverage in a phased manner. India’s COVID vaccination programme will be world’s second largest because we have the second largest population. However in the face of the resurgence of cases in six states, should there not be a change in strategy? The right goals Setting goals for wide vaccination coverage systematically is an administrative activity. Health management approach would have a different goal. Since health management has two arms, public health and healthcare, each would have its own goal – a healthcare goal and a public health goal. The healthcare goal is to mitigate adverse disease outcomes, the hierarchy is, for preventing: death; disease becoming severe to require intensive care; hospitalisation per se and finally, symptomatic disease. Here, need-based vaccine coverage has to begin on the basis of vulnerability to these outcomes – hence vaccination should be prioritised for oldest down to 65 years; all below 65 with co-morbidity – obesity, hypertension, chronic heart, lung, kidney or liver disease, people with malignancies whether or not on treatment, etc. The public health goal is to reduce the speed of coronavirus transmission, thereby reducing the community burden. For this vaccination drive should be targeted to the six states in which the speed of transmission is highest – Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. In these States, vaccination ought to be undertaken on war footing, even taking the help of the army. While vaccine-war progresses in these six States, other States should continue targeted healthcare vaccination of the elderly and the vulnerable. Economic impact To overcome the economic impact of the pandemic, civil administration should set up its own independent goals. Priority ought to be for step-wise and safe revival of all stalled activities in various systems – education, law and order, transport, sanitation and general administration. A systematic targeted vaccination plan and platform should be designed for this purpose in relevant locations. Economic revival demands the opening up of all industrial and agricultural activities, and India’s human personnel in these areas ought to be vaccinated systematically. The attempt to meet this demand by having vaccination centres working 24/7 is a step in the right direction, but more innovative steps need to be taken in order to reach the people in rural India. Countries like the U.S. have started using mobile vaccination centres and have established vaccination centres in supermarkets to rapidly cover the entire population. In India a similar approach, especially mobile vaccination units, can rapidly cover many villages. Even now it is not too late to define goals for public health, healthcare and the administrative segment and plan appropriate strategy and tactics to achieve their respective goals. The three should function in a well-oiled, co-ordinated and seamless manner to achieve their targets. The public, including healthcare professionals, apparently misunderstood that the vaccine roll-out was premature without stating its purpose or it was for political reasons – to showcase one of the world’s largest vaccination programmes by making it a well-orchestrated drill. But when unaccompanied by sharing of authentic and authoritative information, it led to wide-spread vaccine hesitancy. Public health programmes rely heavily on information-education-communication – after all if people understand that vaccination is for their own good and for the benefit of the entire nation, they will willingly cooperate. Education So, concurrently with planning the revised strategy, there should be a health education blitzkrieg about the benefits of the vaccination for the individual and for the community – so that people may knowingly and willingly participate in it. It can easily be accomplished since we are well-versed in vigorous campaigns for various purposes. If India demonstrates its ability to set-up this model, and execute the world’s second largest vaccination programme to perfection, it will be worthy of emulation in all countries of the world.  (T. Jacob John is retired professor of clinical virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore. M.S. Seshadri is retired professor of medicine (endocrinology), CMC and medical director of Thirumalai Medical Mission Hospital, Ranipet. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-course-correction-in-the-face-of-resurgence/article34064856.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Genetics of eye colour||Do genes determine our eye colour? Human eye colour ranges from black, brown to blue, green, and even red. Eye colour is primarily determined by melanin abundance within the iris pigment epithelium, which is greater in brown than in blue eyes. There are two forms of melanin – eumelanin and pheomelanin – and the ratio of the two within the iris as well as light absorption and scattering by extracellular components are additional factors that give irises their colour. Absolute melanin quantity and the eumelanin–pheomelanin ratio are higher in brown irises, while blue or green irises have very little of both pigments and relatively more pheomelanin. The researchers from King’s College London also found that eye colour in Asians with different shades of brown is genetically similar to eye colour in Europeans ranging from dark brown to light blue. Previously a dozen genes (mainly HERC2 and OCA2) were found to influence eye colour. The researchers have now identified 50 new genes for eye colour (Science Advances). Genetic analysis of nearly 0.2 million people across Europe and Asia helped the researchers to identify the new genes. The findings collectively explain over 53% of eye colour variation using common single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Overall, the study outcomes demonstrate that the genetic complexity of human eye colour considerably exceeds previous knowledge and expectations, highlighting eye colour as a genetically highly complex human trait, says a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/genetics-of-eye-colour/article34064857.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||New tech gives more teeth to crack cases||When Inspector Vijay Gahlawat joined the Delhi Police cyber cell in 2008, it comprised a small office in Malviya Nagar with two workstations and a team of around eight officers. Thirteen years later, the force’s cyber unit is running full throttle from its very own National Cyber Forensic Laboratory (NCFL) and catering to technical investigation requirements of cases from across the country. Mr. Gahlawat, now sitting in his swanky office at the Cyber Prevention Awareness Detection (CyPAD) Centre at the NCFL office in Dwarka, recalled how he was once the only officer available to do all the analysis. “At that time, there was less capability and little requirement. The only things needed were tracing email IDs, IP addresses and analysing call detail records. The CDR analysis meant asking service providers for details and then analysing it manually,” he recalled. Increase in workstations A major change came in 2011-12, when the number of workstations increased to around seven, and the office shifted to Mandir Marg, said Mr. Gahlawat. In 2015, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy joined the unit. Six years ago, there was no dedicated institutional mechanism to attend to cybercrimes or even a dedicated platform to report them. It was still under the Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi police, Mr. Roy said, adding: “Special units like Crime Branch and Special Cell had their own cyber cells but they only concentrated on their own needs. This cyber cell was taking care of headquarter-level requirements.” In 2019, CyPAD was inaugurated and was brought directly under the Special Cell while the Economic Offences Wing remained a separate unit. Change in platforms Mr. Roy, however, said the nature of complaints has mostly remained the same and only the platforms have changed. The two broad categories include: online harassment and online fraud. “In the last couple of years, the numbers of cases have increased under both heads, proportionally,” he said. Talking to The Hindu about how technology has grown over the years and is used in investigation, Mr. Roy explained that there are two aspects in a cybercrime investigation: digital footprint and money trail. The digital footprint, essentially involves investigating the platform used: the victim’s device and the suspect’s device. “When it comes to platforms like Facebook, Google, Twitter, Instagram, we have to ask them for information. The difficulty for any law enforcement agency is that most of these platforms are foreign-based private entities and it’s a challenge to get information, but since 2018, the government at the highest level is following up with these platforms to ensure that they respond to these agencies,” he said.  Talking about major changes, Mr. Roy said the institutional mechanism to investigate and report cybercrime has now been firmly established. Over the years, every district of the Capital has set up a separate cyber cell, apart from the CyPAD unit which constantly interacts with the district cyber cells. “There’s structure and manpower now. In 2015, we were only 53 officers and now we are over 450 officials, including CyPAD and district cyber cells,” he said. Mr. Roy said the online portal where complaints are lodged is tracked on an hourly basis and there is a dedicated team for it. It was only from 2018 that newest technologies have been actively acquired for the purpose of investigation. Listing a few, Mr. Roy said that memory forensics has advanced multifold in the last three years as Delhi Police can now extract deleted information from a device by using advanced version of tools. The police are currently using Encase, Forensic Tool Kit (FTK), Universal Forensic Extraction Device (UFED) among other tools that are able to copy, analyse, and extract deleted information from most devices. Citing an example, Mr. Gahlawat shared how the unit had been given a burnt and a damaged phone from a spot where a man was found murdered. “After deleted data from those phones were extracted, it turned out that the wife had killed the man,” he said. Phone data extraction With the current technology available with the police, data from over 40,000 types pf phone can be extracted, he said. Earlier, there was no way to extract deleted information, Mr. Roy said. “The FTK existed in 2008 as well but in a very primitive form,” Mr. Gahlawat said. Another technology the department is proud of is malware and spyware-detection tools such as FireEye, which enables them to detect if a system is being attacked for spying. “Previously, we did not have any technology to detect an infected or hacked system. This particular technology enables us to analyse the type of attack and where the information is being sent,” Mr. Roy said. Since 2020, a technology that is widely being used during investigations is video and photograph enhancement. It has proved to be a boon in probes related to last year’s communal riots. Currently, the force is using programmes called Amped Five and Kanescence for the purpose. Solving cases Giving an example, Mr. Gahlawat said that while investigating a kidnapping case, they managed to enhance a video grab from grainy CCTV footage to ascertain the number plate of a motorbike. “This helped the police trace the accused and rescue the child,” he said. At present, the Delhi police have 10 dedicated labs, including memory forensics, mobile forensics, cloud forensics, network forensics, crypto forensics, malware forensics, image and video enhancement, damaged device labs for mobile and laptops, and audio forensics where not only officials from the Information Technology cadre are working but also domain experts have been hired from outside the force. While the city police have come a long way from the “dark ages”, they still face some challenges, including retrieving encrypted data from locked devices and issue of privacy, which “enables service providers to wash their hands off when information is asked for”. Another major challenge is the increased use of Virtual Private Network, which makes it tough to track online activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-the-cutting-edge-of-cyber-forensics/article34065074.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bollywood bites||I’m super excited, dear friends. And that isn’t just because Mithun da has joined politics and declared that his top priority is going to be killing everyone with one bite like a cobra. It’s because my second most favourite actress in the universe, Priyanka Chopra, has announced that she’s opening an Indian restaurant in New York. Yippeee! While my excitement knows no bounds, as a bona fide fan, I’m a tad disappointed that the restaurant is called Sona . Why, PC? A bit lame, don’t you think, when you could have called it Dosai Girl ? Or Udipi Sri Jonasa Dosai Girl Vilas ? Or had an exclusive buffet-only restaurant called Quantity Co ? Or a vegan restaurant called Egsatwic ? Or a joint that served specialty naans called The Wheat Tiger ? Or a BBQ-style restaurant called Daddy’s Little Grill ? So many options. Anyway, the good news is that my watchman knows PC’s chef’s step-brother’s neighbour’s ex-wife. And she has shared some exciting news of what’s cooking (sorry for the cheap pun). Meaning, here’s a sneak peek of the exclusive Bollywood-themed menu of Sona . Shakti Kapoor’s Sick Kababs on a Nada, Twinkle Khanna’s Funnyboneless Chicken with Akki Roti, Alia Bhatt’s Silly Chicken Marinated in Ran Beer, Ekta Kapoor's Bahu Kurry with Killer Saas, S.S. Rajamouli’s Kattappam with SFX Stew, Suniel Shetty’s Expressionless Mussels Cooked on a Woodfire, and Hemaji’s Basanti Thayir Saadam with Lotus Seeds are some of the delicacies one can expect here. To be followed by Ranveer Singh’s Sequinned Strawberry Pista Blueberry Tomato Checkered Ice Cream with Simba Nuts on Steroids, Raju Hirani’s Saccharine Value Kulfi and Sanju Baba’s Cold Stoned Ice Cream in a variety of flavours for dessert. The bar will serve Sallu Bhai’s Blackbuck’s Fizz and Dharam Paaji’s signature cocktail, Canine Bloody Mary. Well, if my second most favourite actress is up to something, can my most favourite actress in the universe, nay, multiverse, be far behind? My readers are perfectly aware of who that is. It is she-who-teaches-stunts-to-Meryl Streep-and-accents-to-Tom Cruise. And could make Brando an offer he couldn’t refuse. News is that she — yes, her ! — isn’t going to let this go that easily. My sources tell me that she is planning her own restaurant right opposite PC’s. And that it might be called The Real Sona Not Like The Fake One Across The Road or Bharat Ka Sabse Greatest Most Fantastickest Jai Hind Restaurant of New York or If You Don’t Eat Here You’re Antinational Cafe or Tapsee Mukt Bistro . And her chef, apparently, is the guy who scored ten marks more than PC’s chef in catering college. And can deadlift 300 kg. And is also a qualified brain surgeon who just happens to prefer cooking sturgeon, so there. Rumour has it that while the restaurant will most likely be multicuisine, it won’t serve Mughlai. Or British. Or Italian. For obvious reasons. It also won’t serve Greek because Alexander lied and said he defeated Porus. It won’t serve West Indian because, well, Rihanna. Or Canadian, for that matter, because Trudeau is a closet farmer. In fact, it won’t serve anything grown by farmers. But there will be unlimited Patriotic Poori with Hrithik Masala, Low Cal Nepo-Free Salad tossed in KJojoba Oil and Chicken in a Bhasker. Come to think of it, why can’t we have more restaurants run by film actors, I say? And some South Indian ones, too. I, for one, would love to go to a restaurant run by T Rajendar. Where I could order a Coffee Not The Toffee made with a Decoction of the Solution in the Rejuvenation. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bollywood-bites/article34065288.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Write me a letter||A new book, Anything Can Be: Words of W isdom & L ove for our C hildren , goes where few venture these days: reviving the tradition of writing letters. Within its pages are missives written by 34 contributors, many of them well-known personalities — attorney Zia Mody, sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, actors Hema Malini, Boman Irani, Sameera Reddy Varde, Diana Hayden and the like — to their children and grandchildren about their dreams for them and a blueprint for the future. Intimate family photos work as cheerful companions to each letter.  Anything Can Be is an initiative by CRY, so many of the letters have also been written by mothers of children supported by the nonprofit. Proceeds from the hardbound, coffee table style book will go to CRY’s 1,000 Day Campaign to support maternal and infant health through the critical period of conception to 24 months.  Legacies and lessons  Put together by author Sathya Saran, the letters are woven with tales of family legacies and life lessons, brimming with ideals of gender equality, tolerance and compassion. Khan, for example, writes to his grandchildren, Abeer and Zohaan, about their long gharana tradition and how they are born into a family that “belongs to the world of sound”. He adds, “Sound and music have connected the world. I hope you continue the tradition when your time comes to do so.” Mody’s letter prods her grandchildren to “champion a specific cause as you grow up and spend time and money to make the necessary change happen”. Other letters speak of small and big struggles of families striving to afford a home and a decent education to ensure a better life for the next generation. Contributor Seema Ramesh Nirmal, the mother of a child supported by CRY who found it difficult to adjust to the bustle of city life when her family moved to a chawl in Mumbai from her village, shares in her letter to her children, Niraj and Dheeraj, wise words of advice. “City life is different; here one loses touch with roots with family. Distances and the demands of everyday life make every one of us isolated individuals. And I am worried it could do this to you. So my sons, remember the times and learnings you have had from your elders, your grandparents… Remember the visits to our village in Pratapgarh Zilla, and what you saw and learnt there.” Universal theme Though the letters have an intimate feel to them, they speak to an audience united by similar concerns for their children. Saran says it was a curious idea to curate a book full of letters at a time when “WhatsApp and abbreviations have taken over our lives”. While letters, unlike phone messages, last and can be read and reread… most people have forgotten the art of writing one, she states in her introduction to the book, adding, “Letters imply... a certain need to communicate, to reveal true feelings, and to say things that will stand the test of time and the scrutiny of others perhaps, besides the person the letter is written for.” The contributors, too, felt charmed by the romance of writing a letter to be part of a bigger, noble theme. “I agreed to do it in a heartbeat — it was such a novel and thoughtful idea,” says Mandira Bedi, whose letter to her son, Vir, offers him a road map, by way of gratitude and love. “Normally I am a WhatsApp, short and sweet kind of person. But this was an opportunity to express my feelings and what life has taught me in detail. It is something that will stay with my kids over time.” For the actor Irani, who writes letters regularly, it was an unusual experience to address one to his young grandchildren, Ziaan and Sysha. “It was unusual simply because one does not normally write to grandchildren who don’t read or write. So the letter, in many ways, is going to be retrospective when they finally get to read it. It was an emotional little moment. I do write letters very often to loved ones, to my sons, to my wife, to friends, but when this came up, it made me extremely emotional. I am grateful for this opportunity [to write a letter] that my grandchildren can read some years from now,” he concludes.  Published by Penguin   India, Anything Can Be: Words   of Wisdom & Love for our Childrenis available at Rs. 699.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/write-me-a-letter/article34065287.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Relooking the Mandal verdict and quota cap||The story so far: The Supreme Court, while considering the validity of the reservation for the Maratha community in Maharashtra on Monday, decided that it will hear all the States on the 50% limit on total reservation imposed by the court in the Indra Sawhney case (1992). This is because the 16% quota for Marathas would take the total reservation in Maharashtra beyond the limit of 50%. Over the years, several other States, including Tamil Nadu, have passed laws that allow reservation going beyond 60%. The court is also keen on hearing the views of the States on the 102nd Amendment of the Constitution, by which the National Commission for Backward Classes was given constitutional status. What are the quota-related issues on which the SC wants States’ views? The five-member Constitution Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan wants to decide whether the judgment in Indra Sawhney vs Union of India , known as the Mandal verdict, needs to be referred to a larger Bench or “requires a relook in the light of subsequent Constitutional amendments, judgments and changed social dynamics of society, etc.” This is because the earlier judgment had declared that reservation cannot exceed 50% in total. As Indra Sawhney was a decision by a nine-member Bench, a Bench of at least 11 judges will be needed to reconsider the question. Also, the court wants to consider whether the reservation for Marathas effected through a 2018 Act (the Socially Economically Backward Class Act), and amended in 2019, is covered by the “exceptional circumstances” mentioned in theIndra Sawhneyjudgment, which had said the 50% limit can be exceeded in “certain extraordinary situations” as a special case. This relaxation, it said, was meant for people inhabiting remote and far-flung areas who are away from the mainstream of national life and who may have “conditions peculiar to and characteristic to them”. The Bench will also examine whether the State government had made out a case warranting such an exception for Marathas based on the report of the Maharashtra State Backward Classes Commission headed by former Justice M.G. Gaikwad. Last September, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. Is there any other issue on the rights of States? One of the issues that cropped up in the debate over the Maratha reservation is the effect of the 102nd Constitution Amendment introduced in 2018. This amendment grants constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes and says the President would notify the lists of backward classes for all States in consultation with the Governors. This has raised apprehensions about whether the power of State governments to make inclusions and exclusions from the list of backward classes has been taken away. Therefore, the court has framed important questions: whether the 102nd Amendment deprives States of the power to make laws for socially and educationally backward classes and confer benefits on them, whether the newly introduced Article 342A of the Constitution abridges the State legislatures’ power to enact laws under Articles 15(4) and 16(4), which respectively deal with special provisions for other backward classes and reservation in employment, and whether all this affects the federal structure of the Constitution. Any judgment on the Maratha reservation issue would inevitably have to deal with three issues — the 50% ceiling on total reservation, the power of States to determine who its backward classes are and confer benefits on them, and the legislative competence of State legislatures regarding backward classes after the introduction of the 102nd Amendment. The court has decided that all States have a stake in the outcome, and therefore, it wants to hear their views. What do past judgments say on a ceiling for quotas? It was inM.R. Balaji vs State of Mysore(1962) that the Supreme Court first ruled that reservation, being a special provision for backward classes, should not normally exceed 50%. It held that the order earmarking 68% of seats in engineering, medical and other technical courses was a “fraud” on the Constitution. However, it added that it would not attempt to lay down in an inflexible manner what the proper percentage of reservation should be. “Speaking generally and in a broad way, a special provision should be less than 50%. The actual percentage must depend upon the relevant prevailing circumstances in each case,” it said. The presumption behind the 50% rule was that equality of opportunity was the norm, and any special provision for socially and educationally backward classes or reservation for backward classes in public employment was an exception. However, inState of Kerala vs. N.M. Thomas(1975), the majority of the Bench disagreed with the proposition. It said the special measures in favour of backward classes in Articles 15 and 16 were not exceptions to the rule. On the contrary, these were an emphatic way of ensuring equality of opportunity — to the point of even making reservations. Justice S.M. Fazal Ali wrote that in his opinion, the 50% norm inBalajiwas only a rule of caution and does not exhaust all categories. In Indra Sawhney , even though most judges agreed that reservation was not an exception to the equality norm, the court ultimately laid down the 50% limit. “Just as every power must be exercised reasonably and fairly, the power conferred by Clause (4) of Article 16 should also be exercised in a fair manner and within reasonable limit — and what is more reasonable than to say that reservation … shall not exceed 50% of the appointments or posts...?” Citing Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s opinion in the Constituent Assembly that reservation should be “confined to a minority of seats”, the Bench fixed the maximum permissible quota at 50%. At the same time, it said the strict rule could be relaxed in extraordinary situations given the country’s great diversity. How will a judgment in this case impact reservation? If the court, through a larger Bench, comes to the conclusion that the 50% ceiling is not a hard-and-fast rule and that it may be breached if a State’s backward class population is considered high, it would be a big boost for the affirmative action policies of various State governments. Not only would it enable the Maharashtra government to implement its quotas for Marathas to the extent of 16% reservation in education and jobs, but other States, such as Tamil Nadu, would also be able to preserve their present levels of reservations. For instance, Tamil Nadu has enacted a law to protect its 69% total reservation. As the Tamil Nadu law, which was subsequently included in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution (by which the Act would be beyond judicial review on the ground of violation of anyone’s fundamental rights) has been separately challenged before the Supreme Court, the removal of the ceiling would be a major victory for the State. The decisions would also have relevance to the legal challenge to the introduction of the 10% quota for the economically weaker sections among those who do not fall under any reservation category. By this move, the Centre has already exceeded the 50% limit, and at present, only 41% of seats or posts are meant for open competition in central employment and educational institutions. Further, the Bench is also likely to decide on the question of whether backward classes should also be classified and determined only by the Centre, just as the list of Scheduled Castes is made by the Union government. As of now, only the President, or the Central government, can make modifications in the list of Scheduled Castes in respect of any State or Union Territory in the country. And this can be done only through a Parliamentary law. Article 342A, introduced through the 102nd Amendment, is similarly worded — it says that the President notifies the Backward Classes for each State or Union Territory in consultation with the Governor in the case of a State. It also says State governments must consult the National Commission for Backward Classes on all matters of policy concerning socially and educationally backward classes.  The Supreme Court is also keen on hearing the views of the States on the 102nd Amendment of the Constitution, by which the National Commission for Backward Classes was given constitutional status||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/relooking-the-mandal-verdict-and-quota-cap/article34064789.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Retrospective laws and the Cairn tax dispute||The story so far: In December last year, a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands ruled against India in its long-running tax dispute with the U.K.-based oil and gas company Cairn Energy Plc and a subsidiary, Cairn UK Holdings Ltd. The tribunal ordered India to pay about $1.4 billion to the company. Following this, Cairn Energy has successfully moved courts in five countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom, to recognise its claim as per the arbitration award, according to PTI. The Netherlands, France, and Canada are the other three countries. Such a recognition by courts opens the door for Cairn Energy to seize assets of the Indian government in these jurisdictions by way of enforcing its claim, in case the latter doesn’t pay its dues.  What is the dispute about? The dispute started in early 2014 when Indian tax authorities started questioning Cairn Energy requesting information on the group’s reorganisation in the financial year 2006-07. This escalated, and by 2015, the authorities had sent the company a draft assessment order, assessing in the process that there was a principal tax amount of $1.6 billion that was due. The year in reference, 2006-07, was one in which big corporate changes and developments took place in Cairn Energy. It was the year in which it not only undertook a corporate reorganisation, but also floated an Indian subsidiary, Cairn India, which in early 2007 got listed on the Indian bourses. Through the corporate reorganisation process, Cairn Energy had transferred all of its India assets, which were until then held by nine subsidiaries in various countries, to the newly-formed Cairn India. But the tax authorities claimed that in the process of this reorganisation, Cairn Energy had made capital gains worth Rs. 24,500 crore. This, the department asserted, was the basis of the tax demand. In 2011, the U.K.-based Vedanta Resources bought a nearly 60% stake in Cairn India. In fact, four years after this, Cairn India received a tax notice for not withholding tax for the gains ascribed to its former parent company.  Is this case similar to Vodafone’s battle with the government of India? The Vodafone case in 2007 was triggered by Hong Kong’s Hutchinson Telecommunications’ sale of its stake in India’s Hutchinson Essar to Vodafone International Holdings, based out of the Netherlands. The Hong Kong firm made a capital gain on this, which the Indian tax authorities deemed fit to tax. They held that Vodafone should have withheld the tax, and therefore imposed a liability on it. The Supreme Court quashed the taxman’s demand, concluding that it did not agree that the sale of shares in this case “would amount to transfer of a capital asset within the meaning of Section 2(14) of the Indian Income Tax Act”. In the Union Budget of 2012, the Income Tax Act, 1961 was amended to make sure that even if a transfer of shares takes place outside India, such a transfer can be taxed if the value of those shares is based on assets in India. And this was applied retrospectively. The action against Cairn Energy was based on this move. India lost its arbitration case against Vodafone as well, with the government being asked to fork out aroundRs. 80 crore.  What happened after the tax claims in the Cairn Energy dispute? After receiving a draft assessment order from the tax authorities, Cairn UK Holdings Ltd. appealed before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. The tribunal, while providing the company relief from back-dated interest demands, however, upheld the main tax demand. The company had initiated proceedings of arbitration under the U.K.-India bilateral investment treaty. But during this time, according to a PTI report, “the government sold Cairn’s almost 5% holding in Vedanta Ltd” (the residual stake the firm owned after selling Cairn India), “seized dividends totalling Rs. 1,140 crore due to it from those shareholdings”, and “set off a Rs. 1,590-crore tax refund against the demand”.  What was the main argument of Cairn Energy during the arbitration? The claimants, Cairn Energy and Cairn UK Holdings, argued that till the amendment was made to tax retrospectively in 2012, there was no tax on indirect transfers (transfer by a non-resident of shares in non-Indian companies which indirectly held assets in India). They also said the government had approved the 2006 reorganisation. The application of the 2012 amendments, they alleged, constituted “manifest breaches” of the U.K.-India bilateral investment treaty.  What was India’s defence during the arbitration? India’s counter to the main charge of Cairn Energy was that its 2006 transactions were taxable irrespective of the 2012 amendments. It argued that “Indian law has long permitted taxation where a transaction has a strong economic nexus with India”. It said even if it is retrospective, it is “valid and binding applying the longstanding constitutional, legislative and legal framework in which the claimants have invested”.  What did the arbitration tribunal rule? The tribunal said the tax demand violated the U.K.-India bilateral investment treaty. The tribunal said India “failed to accord Cairn Energy’s investments fair and equitable treatment” under the bilateral protection pact it had with the United Kingdom. It also ordered India to compensate Cairn Energy and its subsidiary for “the total harm suffered” as a result of the breaches of the treaty.  What next? It has been reported in the media that India will appeal against the tribunal’s decision.  According to media reports, the tribunal said India ‘failed to accord Cairn Energy’s investments fair and equitable treatment’ under the bilateral protection pact it had with the U.K., and that India will appeal against the order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/retrospective-laws-and-the-cairn-tax-dispute/article34064785.ece
14 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘12 DU colleges are suffering due to administrative lapses’||Governing body representatives of 12 Delhi University colleges, fully funded by the city government, on Saturday alleged irregularities in management of funds meant for clearing pending salaries of employees. Their remarks come a day after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia set up an enquiry committee to look into alleged irregularities of funds in the 12 colleges. The representatives and chairpersons of the governing bodies said that teaching and non-teaching employees had not received salaries due to lapses on the part of the respective college administrations. “The government has regularly released grants but teaching and non-teaching staff had to suffer due to the administrative lapses. Often it was found that utilisation certificates (UC) were missing without which the grants for the next quarter cannot be released,” said Prabhanjan Jha, a member of the governing body at Aditi Mahavidyala. Despite claiming that the colleges had failed to submit UCs, the members said data on how many colleges had not submitted UCs was not available with them. “The situation implies financial irregularities and mismanagement of funds by the college authorities. We urge the Delhi government to order a high-level (CAG) inquiry,” said Pawan Sharma, a member of the governing body at Bhagini Nivedita College. Governing body chairman of Maharshi Valmiki College, Deepanshu Sharma, said that several colleges also sanctioned posts without the Delhi government’s approval which is in violation of relevant guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/12-du-colleges-are-suffering-due-to-administrative-lapses/article34065066.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for pushing woman from building, dumping body||A 35-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a woman by pushing her from the fourth floor and then carrying her body before dumping it at a junction in north west Delhi’s Shakurpur in the early hours of Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Usha Rangnani said the accused identified as Mukesh, a resident of Shakurpur, was arrested from Lucknow. An accomplice of Mukesh, identified as Jiten alias Kana, has also been arrested in connection with the case. The victim, identified as Reshmi (22), was a house help. During probe, it has been revealed that Mukesh was in the business of providing house helps. It has also been revealed that there was an argument between Mukesh and Reshmi over payment which led to the murder. The police received a call at 1.16 a.m. on Saturday stating that a woman had fallen from the fourth floor and a man had carried her on his shoulder before dumping her at a nearby junction. The police reached the spot and took the body to a hospital where the woman was declared brought dead. A murder case was registered and investigation was taken up. Ms. Rangnani said that CCTV footage was analysed and neighbours were interrogated after which it was revealed that Mukesh was seen leaving with his family, including a dog in a white car. She said that with the help of technical surveillance, it was found that Mukesh was on his way to Bihar via Lucknow after which Uttar Pradesh Police was informed and Mukesh was held near Lucknow.  It was found that Mukesh was on his way to Bihar via Lucknow after which U.P. Police was informed and Mukesh was held near Lucknow Usha Rangnani DCP (North-West)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-pushing-woman-off-building/article34065063.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU to reopen reading rooms, eating joints||As part of phased reopening, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday said that reading rooms at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Central Library and in various centres and schools, and two of the eating joints on the campus will be permitted to reopen. A notification dated March 12 issued by the university administration read, “The reopening of ground floor reading rooms inside the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Central Library is allowed in a phased manner. Librarian may devise standard operating preventive (SOP) measures such as mandatory wearing of the face mask and maintaining social distancing norms on library premises.” “NSS student volunteers may be engaged to create awareness in the campus, including library premises for maintaining social distancing and wearing masks to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the university campus,” the notice added. The university further said, “The Deans of the Schools or Chairpersons of the Special Centres are allowed to look into the reopening of reading rooms in their respective schools or centres as per the COVID-19 guidelines issued from time to time by the government and the university.” The notice added that only takeaway facility will be permitted at the dhabas .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-to-reopen-reading-rooms-eating-joints/article34065067.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for shooting friend over playing DJ||A 28-year-old man was arrested for allegedly shooting his friend during a birthday party in Najafgarh, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that accused identified as Naveen Kumar was arrested on Friday. Inebriated state During interrogation, Naveen allegedly told the police that “he had a small altercation with victim, Anuj Sharma, over a petty issue of playing DJ during the birthday celebrations. He was also in an inebriated state when he fired at Anuj”. On Wednesday night, a party was held to celebrate the victim’s brother birthday at farmhouse in Najafgarh. Nine empty rounds were recovered from the spot and the deceased was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. The police registered a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-shooting-friend-over-playing-dj/article34065069.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The electoral overhaul in Hong Kong||The story so far: The National People’s Congress (NPC) of China, the ceremonial legislature in Beijing, on March 11 approved what it called “a decision on improving Hong Kong’s electoral system”. This paves the way for sweeping changes in how Hong Kong, the Special Administrative Region (SAR) that has been ruled under the “one country, two systems” model since its return to China in 1997, chooses its leaders. Wang Chen, Vice-Chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, said the change was being passed to plug “clear loopholes and deficiencies which the anti-China, destabilising elements jumped on to take into their hands the power to administer the HKSAR”, in a reference to the 2019 pro-democracy protests that roiled the city. Hong Kong’s pro-democracy opposition groups have seen the change as another move that diminishes the space for dissent and erodes freedoms guaranteed previously under the terms of the 1997 handover. How does the new NPC amendment change Hong Kong’s political system? The NPC amendment essentially gives Beijing-appointed politicians greater power in running the HKSAR’s politics. Currently, 35 of the 70 members of Hong Kong’s Legislative Council are directly elected through “geographical constituencies”, while 35 are nominated from “functional constituencies” (referring to a range of special interest groups that are broadly pro-establishment). Now, the size of the Legislative Council will be expanded to 90, with the additional 20 members joining the 35 others who are nominated, thus reducing the share of directly elected representatives. The amendment also bestows greater power on a newly expanded Election Committee of 1,500 nominated members, up from 1,200 previously. The 300 new members will include Hong Kong’s representatives to the NPC (the legislature) and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (the upper house), who are chosen by Beijing. The committee, which has in the past been responsible for choosing Hong Kong’s Chief Executive, will now also choose the additional Legislative Council members. Perhaps the most controversial change is the setting up of a new “candidate qualification review committee”, which, the NPC said, “shall be responsible for reviewing and confirming” the qualifications of candidates for Election Committee members, the Chief Executive, and Legislative Council members. This committee can vet any candidate and disqualify them if it deems they are not “patriots”, as part of a new push by Beijing to ensure “the administration of Hong Kong by Hong Kong people with patriots as the main body”, an evolution of the post-1997 “administration of Hong Kong by Hong Kong people” idea. How will the “one country, two systems” model be impacted? Under the Basic Law — the Constitution that has governed Hong Kong since 1997 — the SAR is a part of China but enjoys “a high degree of autonomy” and “executive, legislative and independent judicial power”, except in foreign policy and defence. It also says “the socialist system and policies shall not be practised” in Hong Kong for 50 years. The amendment is the second major recent legislative change that has been seen by the opposition in Hong Kong as undermining this autonomy. In 2020, as a response to the 2019 protests, China passed a new national security law that lists penalties for “subversion”. Earlier this year, as many as 47 pro-democracy leaders were arrested under the new law after organising an informal primary election among pro-democracy parties. If Hong Kong’s pro-democracy parties are concerned about the “two systems” part of the formula, Beijing is now emphasising the importance of “one country”. Hong Kong’s Chief Executive, Carrie Lam, said on March 11 that ensuring political offices were filled by “patriots” was required to safeguard “national security and sovereignty” and to “solve the problem of the LegCo [Legislative Council] making everything political in recent years” and “internal rifts that have torn Hong Kong apart”. What lies ahead? With the national security law and the new electoral changes, the space for the pro-democracy opposition in Hong Kong has been drastically reduced. Hong Kong without a noisy opposition will mean a very different Hong Kong from what the past24years have seen. The city became a key gateway for foreign companies particularly because of its independent judicial system that distinguished it from the mainland. It still remains a key gateway for investment, even though in 2018 its GDP was surpassed by Shenzhen. Beijing’s bet is that China’s market may remain a big enough draw to allay broader concerns about the changes sweeping through the SAR. If the direction of its politics seems clear, its economic future appears less so.  Hong Kong’s Chief Executive, Carrie Lam, said on March 11 that ensuring political offices were filled by “patriots” was required to safeguard "national security and sovereignty”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-electoral-overhaul-in-hong-kong/article34064787.ece
14 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man in net for property dealer’s murder||A 28-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing a property dealer in Mohan Garden last year. The accused took pictures on his phone after murdering the man. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that the accused identified as Kamal Gehlot was arrested after a brief exchange of fire from Bakkarwala at 2 a.m. on Saturday. He sustained a leg injury in the incident, the police said, adding that a raiding team was ready following a tip-off. The police said that murder of property dealer Vikas Mehta was an act of revenge and also outcome of gang rivalry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-make-arrest-in-murder-case/article34065068.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Donate a Wall: Kerala’s success with Insta-ready walls continues. Over 17 days, artist Sachin Samson transformed the walls of this fisherman’s house in Kasaragod with a mural that showcases Chaavukara — a phenomenon where fishes and prawns throng during a specific season. The work is part of St+art India’s Donate a Wall programme, now ongoing in the State. @startindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34065289.ece
14 March 2021||March 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Grammy Awards: Singer Harry Styles, who will open the show, and K-pop stars BTS are among the artistes who will take the stage at music’s biggest night, hosted by comedian and talk show host, Trevor Noah. For audiences tired of virtual events (and that includes the technical glitches at the Golden Globes!), Grammy organisers promise a spectacular live show. March 15 (6.30 a.m. IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34065290.ece
