15 March 2021||New Delhi,||Centre likely to allow residents to fill their NPR details online||The Centre will allow residents to fill the National Population Register (NPR) form on their own, through the online mode, a month before the door-to-door enumeration by Census officials starts. After filling the form online, residents will get a reference code that they can mention to the field enumerator at the time of her or his visit, according to a senior government official. The details of the respondent would be displayed on a mobile application developed for conducting the Census exercise but no “biometrics or documents” would be collected. These details would then be stored in the system for future use. The first phase of the decennial Census exercise — the Houselisting and Housing Census — along with updating the NPR was scheduled to be held from April 1, 2020. It was postponed indefinitely due to the COVID-19 pandemic and is unlikely to be held this year. The second and main phase of Census — the population enumeration — was to be concluded by March 5 this year. As reported by The Hindu on January 21, 2020, residents were to be given an option to self enumerate only in the second phase. As per an annual report of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, the option will now be made available for updating the NPR also. The NPR earlier collated in 2010 and 2015 has an electronic database of more than 119 crore residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-likely-to-allow-residents-to-fill-their-npr-details-online/article34070160.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poll panel orders suspension of two IPS officers in Bengal||The Election Commission on Sunday ordered the suspension of two IPS officers for their failure to protect West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during an incident in Nandigram on March 10 that left her with injuries. Ms. Banerjee was campaigning for the Assembly election when she was allegedly pushed by unidentified people, leaving her with injuries on the leg. The EC met on Sunday to discuss the reports submitted to it by West Bengal Chief Secretary and special general observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dube on the incident, said a statement. After going through the reports, the EC ordered the removal and suspension of West Bengal Director, Security, Vivek Sahay and Purba Medinipur Superintendent of Police Pravin Prakash. Official transferred The Election Commission also transferred Purba Medinipur District Magistrate Vibhu Goel and appointed 2005 batch IAS officer Smita Pandey in his place. Regarding Mr. Sahay, the EC said: “The charges must be framed against him within a week for grossly failing in discharge of his primary duty as Director Security to protect the Z+ protectee.” The EC also ordered charges to be framed against Mr. Prakash for “major failure of bandobast” and replaced him with 2009 batch IPS officer Sunil Kumar Yadav. The EC said the Chief Secretary, in consultation with the Director General of Police, was authorised to post a Director Security and was required to inform the Commission of the posting by 1 p.m. on Monday. The EC also said the Chief Secretary and the DGP should identify other security officials who failed to prevent the incident and take action against them by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. The Commission asked the Chief Secretary to make sure the case was investigated in the next 15 days. The EC said Standard Operating Procedures regarding the security of star campaigners, including giving the detailed programmes in advance and taking the necessary permissions, should be “followed scrupulously”. “Any deviation from approved programme should only be permitted after necessary approval[s],” the Election Commission said. The Commission said Chief Electoral Officers of the poll-bound States and Union Territory would inform political parties and candidates to comply with security SoPs for star campaigners. The EC also appointed a second special police observer, former Punjab Director-General of Police (Intelligence) Anil Kumar Sharma for West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poll-panel-orders-suspension-of-two-ips-officers-in-bengal/article34070346.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Ruling AIADMK promises washing machines for all||Aiming for the third consecutive term, the AIADMK has promised ‘Amma washing machine’ for all, waiver of education loans, ‘Amma banking card’, ‘MGR green auto’ and ‘Amma housing scheme’, among other things, in its manifesto released on Sunday. The party said it would urge the Centre to reduce the fuel prices considerably. As announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the party promised a cash assistance of Rs. 1,500 to the women heads of families having ration cards, aimed at ensuring economic equality for women. The assistance would be credited to their bank accounts; if there was no woman in the ration card, the sum would be credited to the account of the man. It also reiterated former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s promise that a total prohibition on liquor would be implemented in phases. The manifesto, released at the party office by AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, who is the co-coordinator, featured announcements on 163 topics. It promised to expand the nutritious meal scheme to students of Class 9, 10, 11 and 12. It also promised to expand the breakfast scheme being implemented with private support. Fare subsidy A 50% subsidy in fare for women in city buses and extending the maternity leave from the existing nine months to a year were among the announcements aimed at the women voters. It also promised the supply of 200 ml of milk/milk powder to all school students and a Metro Rail project in Madurai. It promised to deliver ration supplies at the doorstep and give six gas cylinders to every ration card-holder a year, as announced by Mr. Palaniswami earlier. Farmers would get Rs. 7,500 in farm subsidy, all rice ration card-holders would get solar stoves. “If a family did not have a member in government service, one of its members would be given a government job,” the manifesto said. The social security assistance given to the elderly and women would be increased from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000. ‘Amma Seervarisai’ assistance would be given for the wedding of for poor couples, it said. All ration card-holders would get a free cable television connection. “The AIADMK will insist on a State-level exam, instead of a centralised exam, for recruiting employees and providing employment,” the manifesto said. The AIADMK, which ruled the State for the past 10 years, promised that it would insist that the Centre declare Tamil one of the administrative languages. It also promised to make Tamil a mandatory subject for students till Class 10. It promised to increase the age limit for joining the government service by two years and grant weekly off on a rotation-basis to police personnel. The manifesto promised that the reservation would be implemented in education and employment based on the recommendations of the commission constituted by the government to gather information on communities. Jayalalithaa’s death Mr. Palaniswami said late DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi and party president M.K. Stalin were responsible for the death of Ms. Jayalalithaa. At a press conference, he said, “The DMK is responsible for the death of Amma. God will definitely punish them. People know who is responsible for her death.” A defamatory campaign was being undertaken, he said. “The soul of Amma would definitely punish them. Amma was providing a good government to the people of Tamil Nadu. Though she was declared innocent at courts [in corruption cases], there was an appeal, and it caused her agony following which she left this world in a situation wherein she could not receive appropriate treatment,” he said. The public knew that Karunanidhi and Mr. Stalin were responsible for her death, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ruling-aiadmk-promises-washing-machines-for-all/article34070251.ece
15 March 2021||Vijayawada,||YSRCP makes a near clean sweep in civic polls in State||Close to two years after coming to power, the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) handed yet another crushing defeat to the TDP and the BJP-Jana Sena Party (JSP) alliance by winning all 11 municipal corporations and 69 out of 71 municipalities / Nagar Panchayats which went to polls on March 10. The elections for Macherla, (Guntur), Piduguralla (Guntur), Pulivendula (Kadapa) and Punganur (Chittoor) municipalities were unanimous and the counting of votes polled in Eluru Municipal Corporation had to be kept on hold due to a High Court order. Tadipatri in Anantapur and Mydukur in Kadapa are the only municipalities which the TDP won in the State amidst the pro-incumbency wave not witnessed in a long time while the JSP won a few divisions / wards more than its partner (BJP) in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and some municipalities. The YSRCP made a clean sweep of all municipalities in Srikakulam district (Ichapuram, Palasa - Kasibugga and Palakonda), Vizianagaram (Bobbili, Nellimarla, Parvathipuram and Salur), Visakhapatnam (Narsipatnam and Yalamanchili), East Godavari (Amalapuram, Gollaprolu, Mandapeta, Mummidivaram, Peddapuram, Pithapuram, Ramachandrapuram, Samalkot, Tuni and Yeleswaram), West Godavari (Narsapuram, Kovvur, Nidadavolu and Jangareddygudem), Krishna (Nandigama, Nuzvid, Pedana, Tiruvuru and Vuyyuru), Guntur (Chikaluripeta, Repalle, Sattenapalli, Tenali and Vinukonda), Prakasam (Addanki, Chimakurthy, Chirala, Giddalur, Kanigiri and Markapur), Nellore (Atmakur, Naidupeta, Sullurupeta and Venkatagiri) and Kurnool (Allagadda, Adoni, Atmakur, Gudur, Dhone, Nandikotkur, Nandyal and Yemmiganur). The corporations won by the YSRCP as per latest reports are Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Kadapa, Kurnool, Machilipatnam, Ongole, Tirupati and Vizianagaram. The YSRCP romped home with impressive tallies in GVMC and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) where neither the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant nor the proposal to shift the capital from Amaravati to the port city in the name of ‘Executive Capital’ helped the TDP or the BJP-JSP combine in putting up a reasonable performance. Speaking to media persons, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana said the slew of welfare schemes implemented by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy helped the YSRCP in stealing the march over its rivals .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/near-clean-sweep-by-ysrcp-in-municipal-polls/article34070078.ece
15 March 2021||Kolkata,||BJP will usher in real change: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the BJP government in West Bengal would bring in asal parivartan (real change). Mr. Shah participated in a roadshow in Kharagpur accompanied by State BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Kharagpur candidate actor Hiran Chatterjee. “I want to assure you that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP government in West Bengal will bring in asal parivartan [real change],” Mr. Shah said. He also raised the slogan “ Abki baar 200 paar [this time more than 200 seats]” and said that the crowd had given a clear idea about the mood of the people. Mr. Shah will address two rallies on Monday. The party on Sunday wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer demanding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s treatment history at the State-run SSKM hospital be made public. Ms. Banerjee was admitted to the hospital on March 10 after suffering injuries while campaigning in Nandigram. She was discharged on Friday. “We sincerely urge you to seek details from the hospital — SSKM — regarding diagnostic and treatment details of her injury and whether necessary SOPs and conventional medical guidelines have been followed,” a letter signed by four office-bearers of the BJP said. The letter said the injury should not be misused by the Chief Minister and the party in power to manipulate electors by peddling misinformation to “gain sympathy votes”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-will-usher-in-real-change-shah/article34070588.ece
15 March 2021||Pune,||At 16,620 cases, Maharashtra sees this year’s record single-day surge||In its highest single-day jump this year and the largest spike in nearly seven months, Maharashtra recorded 16,620 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday as its active case tally surged to 1,26,231. As opposed to this spike, just about half the number of patients (8,861) were discharged in the last 24 hours with the State’s recovery rate dipping to 92.21%. However, over one lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Fifty deaths pushed the fatality toll to 52,861. While the total case tally has reached 23,14,413, the cumulative recoveries stand at 21,34,072. “Of a total 1,75,16,885 laboratory samples tested thus far, 23,14,413 (with the case positivity increasing marginally to 13.21%) have returned positive with as many as 1,08,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune district reported another single-day high of more than 3,100 new cases — the highest in the State in any district — to take its total case tally to 4,39,562. Mumbai city, too, recorded a massive surge of 1,963 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,43,962 of whom 12,535 are active. Eleven fatalities took the city’s toll to 11,535.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-16620-cases-maharashtra-sees-this-years-record-single-day-surge/article34070654.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||India logs 25,320 new virus cases||India recorded 25,320 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, the biggest daily rise this year, taking the overall case tally to more than 1.13 crore. The active cases stood at 2,07,703. This is the fourth day in a row that the daily case count has surged over the 20,000-mark. Until March, cases had breached this mark only twice, in January. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh accounted for 87.73% of the new cases, with Maharashtra alone recording 15,602 new infections. With 161 new fatalities in the past 24 hours, the death toll in the country rose to 1,58,607, a notable spike considering an average of nearly 100 daily deaths since February. Most of the deaths were recorded in the States with the rising case load, with Maharashtra registering 88 fatalities, followed by Punjab (22) and Kerala (12).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-logs-25320-new-virus-cases/article34070161.ece
15 March 2021||NALGONDA,||Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ MLC poll sees 74% turnout||About 74% of the registered 5,05,565 graduate voters turned up to exercise their franchise for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ MLC polling, held across 12 districts in the composite constituency on Sunday. As per the tentative report published by office of the Returning Officer and District Collector Prashant J Patil, available to mediapersons at around 7.30 p.m., the polling recorded in the undivided districts was Warangal (75.42%), Khammam (74.5%) and Nalgonda (74.8%). Siddipet districtrecorded maximum 82.28%. The report released by Assistant Returning Officer in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, at around 7.45 p.m., declared its final polling percentage as 81.22. The district with 54 polling stations in 17 mandals witnessed at least 75% polling, except for two stations in Ramannapet (68.02% and 68.38%) and one in Choutuppal (72.50%). Three stations, two in Bibinagar and one in Valigonda crossed the 90% turnout, the maximum. The polling passed smoothly with no major disturbances reported. However, allegations were raised against the ruling TRS by Congress, BJP, the Left and other independent candidates. BJP and Congress leaders, showing widely circulated videos, alleged that TRS leaders distributed cash for votes in Suryapet, Bhuvanagiri and other areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/warangal-khammam-nalgonda-graduates-mlc-poll-sees-74-turnout/article34070716.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||We are ‘protectors’ of the Congress legacy: Sibal||The group of 23 Congress members (G-23), who had written to party chief Sonia Gandhi last August asking for reforms, were not “dissenters but protectors of the Congress legacy”, senior leader and a key member of the G-23, Kapil Sibal, said on Sunday. Referring to their public meeting in Jammu on February 27, Mr. Sibal said the leaders spoke about “strengthening the Congress” during the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-are-protectors-of-the-congress-legacy-sibal/article34070163.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Heavy turnout in polling for two Graduates’ MLC seats||Braving the sun and bucking the trend of poor response in the past, graduate voters thronged the polling stations in large numbers, as in general elections, to exercise their right to franchise in the polling held for two Graduates’ constituencies in the Legislative Council on Sunday. The polling was peaceful in all the 21 reorganised districts which make the erstwhile districts, except for a few complaints about attempts to influence the voters in different ways and means. The Election Commission has put the polling percentage tentatively at around 60% for Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency and about 74% for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency till 4 p.m. However, the percentage is expected go up further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-turnout-in-polling-for-two-graduates-mlc-seats/article34070467.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata returns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-returns/article34070187.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Theme park proposal ruffles feathers||In the new Budget, unveiled on March 8, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced a ‘theme park’ spread over 100 acres at Hesaraghatta. This has not gone down well with environmentalists and conservation activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/theme-park-proposal-ruffles-feathers/article34070184.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,||SIT intensifies search for woman, two others||The Special Investigation Team looking into the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has intensified the search to track the woman and two others, who are suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-intensifies-search-for-woman-two-others/article34070185.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC to resume physical hearings from today||After a year, the Delhi High Court from Monday will resume complete physical functioning, which was restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The High Court, however, will consider requests by parties to join the court proceedings through videoconferencing in “exceptional cases”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-to-resume-physical-hearings-from-today/article34070345.ece
15 March 2021||MANGALURU,||52 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 40 new cases on Sunday. With this, the active cases in the district went up to 259. In all, 31 patients were discharged on the day after treatment. Udupi district reported 12 new cases. The active cases in the district stood at 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/52-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34070634.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Portuguese, Kannada inscriptions found||Two inscriptions, one in Portuguese and another in Kannada, have been found on the technology wing campus of the College of Fisheries, at Hoigebazar, while the ground was being excavated for constructing a building. According to A. Senthil Vel, professor and dean, they were found two days ago and were noticed by Shreyash G. Bhandary, a BFSc student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/portuguese-kannada-inscriptions-found/article34070635.ece
15 March 2021||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||With the exception of Assam, the BJP will lose the Assembly elections in three States and a Union Territory, including the fiercely contested polls in West Bengal, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar said on Sunday. “While it is difficult to comment on the outcome at this juncture, the political trends nevertheless show that the BJP will retain power only in Assam and would be defeated in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. This trend will also prove to be the harbinger of changing political currents in the country,” Mr. Pawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article34070656.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC to resume physical hearings from today||After a year, the Delhi High Court from Monday will resume complete physical functioning, which was restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The High Court, however, will consider requests by parties to join the court proceedings through videoconferencing in “exceptional cases”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-to-resume-physical-hearings-from-today/article34070616.ece
15 March 2021||Belagavi,||Border controversy sparks tension again||Tensions at the border of Karnataka and Maharashtra are back again, this time with Kannada and Marathi groups targeting vehicles and shops belonging to other language groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/border-controversy-sparks-tension-again/article34070447.ece
15 March 2021||BENGALURU,||SIT intensifies search for woman, two others||The SIT that is looking into the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has intensified search operation to track the woman and two others, who are suspects in the issue that rocked the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-intensifies-search-for-woman-two-others/article34070448.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||T.N. records 759 new cases of COVID-19 CHENNAI||Tamil Nadu recorded 759 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the overall case tally to 8,59,726. Four more fatalities took the death toll to 12,547. Chennai accounted for 294 of the fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-759-new-cases-of-covid-19-chennai/article34070248.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,||BJP announces 17 candidates for poll||The BJP announced a list of 17 candidates on Sunday afternoon for the Assembly election to be held on April 6. The party had been allotted 20 seats by the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-releases-list-of-17-candidates/article34070249.ece
15 March 2021||Vijayawada,||14brief1||The State reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 298 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the highest single-day tally in the past two months. Nearly 75% of the total active cases were reported from five districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14brief1/article34070157.ece
15 March 2021||Visakhapatnam,||14brief2||People have supported the idea of making Visakhapatnam as the Executive capital , said YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14brief2/article34070158.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Congress, BJP announce candidates in Kerala||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have announced their list of candidates for the Assembly election in Kerala. The Congress will contest 92 of the 140 seats. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran announced the list of candidates for 86 constituencies. The names for Kalpetta, Nilambur, Vattiyurkavu, Kundara, Thavanur and Pattambi are pending AICC clearance. K. Muraleedharan, MP, will compete from the high-profile Nemom constituency in Thiruvananthapuram. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will contest from their home grounds in Puthuppally and Haripad, respectively. Mr. Ramachandran said the party wanted a standard-bearer to fight the BJP, primarily, and the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) in Nemom. Mr. Chandy and Mr. Chennithala had offered to take up the gauntlet. But the All India Congress Committee (AICC) decided otherwise and pushed Mr. Muraleedharan into the fight. Nearly 55% of the candidates were new faces. Forty-six candidates were between the ages of 25 and 50. The AICC has opted for a mix of experience and youth. It has factored in generational shifts, political changes and other factors. Film actor Dharmajan will contest from the reserved constituency of Balussery. 12 women nominees The BJP is contesting 115 seats. It has shared the remaining seats with the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) and the Kamaraj Congress, its main allies. The BJP’s list is speckled with technocrats, former law enforcers, celebrity actors, influencers and hardcore party persons. It has fielded 12 women candidates. Notably, the party has not announced the candidate for the Kazhakuttam seat. An insider said the BJP national leadership would decide whether Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan should contest from the Assembly segment. Metroman in Palakkad BJP State chief K. Surendran is contesting from Manjeshwaram in Kasaragod and Konni in Pathanamthitta. BJP national executive member Sobha Surendran did not figure in the list. Technocrat E. Sreedharan (Palakkad), Kummanam Rajasekharan (Nemom), Suresh Gopi (Thrissur), former ADGP Jacob Thomas (Irinjalakuda), P.K. Krishnadas (Kattakada), actor Krishnakumar (Thiruvananthapuram) and V.V. Rajesh (Vattiyoorkavu) are the other prominent names on the list. C.K. Padmanabhan will take on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Dharmadam constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-bjp-announce-candidates-in-kerala/article34070086.ece
15 March 2021||Kolkata,||4 MPs, actors in BJP’s Bengal list||Eminent economist Ashok Lahiri and Rajya Sabha member and journalist Swapan Dasgupta were among the 63 candidates the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced on Sunday for the third and fourth phase of West Bengal polls on April 6 and 10. Mr. Lahiri, member of the 15th Finance Commission, former Chief Economic Adviser to the government of India, and former Reader at the Delhi School of Economics, will be contesting from the Alipurduar constituency in north Bengal. He is the most surprising inclusion in the BJP’s list. Mr. Dasgupta will be contesting from the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in Hooghly district. The list included four MPs, including Mr. Dasgupta. Union Minister and Asansol Lok Sabha member Babul Supriyo will contest from the Tollygunj seat in south Kolkata, Hooghly Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee from Chunchura, and Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik from Dinhata. The Trinamool Congress has given nomination to only one MP. The BJP has also given ticket to dissident leaders from the Trinamool Congress who recently switched sides. Prominent among them is former Minister Rajib Banerjee, who will contest from Domjur in Howrah. Four-time Trinamool MLA from Singur, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, 88, will contest the same seat. Trinamool MLA from Diamond Harbour Dipak Halder, who quit the party a few weeks ago, has also been given ticket from the same seat. Former CPI(M) leader Rinku Naskar will contest from Jadavpur on BJP ticket and Manoj Oraon, who contested from Kumargram in 2016 as a candidate of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, will contest the same seat. The list includes a number of actors — Yash Dasgupta from Chanditala in Hooghly, Payel Sarkar from Behala Purba, Tanushree Chakraborty from Shyampukur in Howrah and Anjana Basu from Sonarpur Dakshin. Other well-known candidates are Indranil Khan, a medical practitioner, from Kasba, and Rantidev Sengupta, a senior journalist, from Howrah Dakshin. On March 6, the BJP announced its first list for 57 of the 60 seats for the first two phases on March 27 and April 1. Some leaders upset The BJP also faced some discontent after the announcement of the list. Sovan Chatterjee, former Kolkata Mayor and once a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, who was denied ticket from Behala Purba, is upset. Sources close to him said he might quit the BJP. The BJP district-level leadership in Alipurduar also said they have not heard about Mr. Lahiri. Party leaders in Singur started protesting against the candidature of Rabindranath Bhattacharya, while Rantidev Sengupta said he was not consulted before announcing his name and that he did not want to contest the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-mps-actors-in-bjps-bengal-list/article34070110.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||U.K. apprised of extremist groups||The Union Home Secretary held a meeting in January with his U.K. counterpart to “discuss anti-India activities of U.K-based pro-Khalistani extremist organisations” and the safety of the Indian High Commission in London, a senior government official said. Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla held a video conference on January 15 with Matthew John Rycroft, Permanent Secretary, Home Office of the U.K., where issues of mutual interest were discussed. Protest in London The meeting came almost a month after a large number of people protested outside the Indian High Commission in London in support of farmers in India who are opposing the three farm laws passed by the Parliament in September 2020. After the meeting with Mr. Bhalla, the U.K. Home Secretary posted on his Twitter page, “a very productive call today with my Indian counterpart, @BhallaAjay26 . Many opportunities for even closer cooperation on home affairs in the coming year.” There was no official statement from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) after the meeting. The Press Trust of India (PTI) in a report on December 7, 2020 said that the demonstration in London came after a group of 36 British MPs, led by British Sikh Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, wrote to the U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab regarding the impact on British Punjabis affected by the demonstrations by farmers in India. A spokesperson in the High Commission had said that the “gathering was led by anti-India separatists who had taken the opportunity of the protests in India to ostensibly back the farmers in India but use the opportunity to pursue their own anti-India agenda”. One of the persons who led the protest was identified as Paramjit Singh, who was designated a terrorist along with eight others under the amended Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), in July 2020. MHA notification The MHA notification said that the individuals were involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and from foreign soil. “They have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilising the country, by trying to revive militancy in Punjab through their anti-national activities and through their support to and involvement in the Khalistan Movement,” a statement issued by the MHA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-apprised-of-extremist-groups/article34070124.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Cong. can go to any lengths to win’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the Congress could go to any lengths to win elections, including aligning with minority-based parties in Assam, Kerala and West Bengal. Campaigning in Assam on Sunday for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates in Margherita and Nazira Assembly constituencies, Mr. Shah slammed the Congress for “cosying up” to the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), headed by perfume baron and Lok Sabha member Maulana Badruddin Ajmal. The Congress and the AIUDF are the main constituents of the 10-party Mahajot (grand alliance) that wants to “save Assam” by uprooting the BJP. “In Kerala, the Congress has aligned with the [Indian Union] Muslim League that worked to divide the country. In Assam, it has aligned with the AIUDF. And in West Bengal, it has forged an alliance with a new party by a cleric of Furfura Sharif Dargah. The Congress can go to any lengths to win elections,” Mr. Shah said at a rally in Margherita. “The elections are just days away and there are two options before you. One is the Modi and Sonowal-led combine of BJP-AGP (Asom Gana Parishad). The other is the Rahul Gandhi-led Congress-Ajmal combine. Tell me who can do well for Assam,” he said. “If you vote for Congress, it will go to Ajmal,” said Mr. Shah, promising to make “infiltration” a thing of the past if the BJP is re-elected. He also reminded the people of satra (Vaishnav monasteries) lands having been cleared of “infiltrators” during the BJP’s rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-can-go-to-any-lengths-to-win/article34070100.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel on air quality dissolved||Members who were part of the Commission for Air Quality Management said they were taken aback by the sudden dissolution of the body — constituted last October and via an ordinance — on Friday. The dissolution happened despite, The Hindu has learnt, the nodal Union Environment Ministry submitting the paper work to the Union Cabinet Secretariat, required to give legal backing to the commission. The body came into being in October on the back of an ordinance — a temporary measure — and the law requires that a formal Bill be presented to Parliament within six weeks of it reconvening — in this case — January 29 when the Budget Session began. Before a Bill is tabled in Parliament it needs to be approved by the Union Cabinet. However in spite of several Cabinet meetings since January, it wasn’t taken up for discussion due to which, the tenure of the body expired, without ever making it to Parliament. It is still technically possible to revive the body during the ongoing Parliament session.  The Hindu spoke to members of the commission who said “they were surprised” that they learnt of the dissolution of a functional body via newspaper reports. “We were discharging the duties we were supposed to. There is office space that some of us work out of in Delhi and another office was being readied. Staff has been hired and we were coordinating with States — as our mandate — in addressing pollution. That the body may be dissolved was nowhere near even the back of our minds,” a commission member said. Another person, aware of matters, said that the Bill — whose drafting was a “routine affair” — was even approved by Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar before perusal by the Union Cabinet. The commission was headed by M.M. Kutty, a former secretary in the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-on-air-quality-dissolved/article34070118.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We need much more interaction with the Congress leadership’||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal says the party’s ‘group of 23 letter writers (G-23)’, who wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi for a revamp of the organisation, are not dissenters but protectors of the Congress legacy. Edited excerpts:  Do you think it was right to have a show strength in Jammu when the Congress is in the middle of Assembly elections? Well, I think that this nomenclature of G-23 is something that has been coined by the press. There were only 23 signatories to that letter but the number of people supportive of our views are many, many more. We are not dissenters, we are protectors of the Congress legacy. We are not anti-anybody, we are pro-Congress. We believe that the Congress needs to be strengthened. And this is exactly what we said in Jammu, that we must all strengthen the Congress party together. Because that is the only national alternative that can stem the rot that has set in at the instance of this government. The great legacy of this country, which is reflected in the Constitution of India, is being destroyed. The government is dismantling all Constitutional structures. In fact, in my speech at Jammu [on February 27], I attacked the BJP, saying that the assets of this country are in the hands of just a few people. We are not dissenters, we are protectors of the Congress party and that is what we displayed in Jammu in the course of our speeches. Some of your colleagues said that statements by a few G-23 leaders only help the BJP. They also argue that the call for reforms is driven by personal considerations like, say, a Rajya Sabha seat or the role of the Leader of the Opposition. My term [in the Rajya Sabha] expires in 2022. So does Anand’s [Anand Sharma] term. Shashi [Tharoor] and Manish [Tewari] are Lok Sabha members. So their terms are until 2024. Many of the others are not members, either of the Rajya Sabha or the Lok Sabha. Where is the question of us being guided by personal desire because of Rajya Sabha seat. It is absurd because these issues were raised by us since 2019 and they have nothing to do with any dissent. Has G-23 now been reduced to G-8 because that is the number of people we saw in Jammu? Quite frankly, I think every Congress person desires that the party should be strengthened. That’s what the so called G-23 stood for. Where is the question of a G-23 or G-7 or a G-8? There is no such question as we are all part of the Congress party, except that some of us have reflected our concerns. I am sure that in times to come, all this will certainly be taken into account. I can assure you that there are many, many more who agree with us on these issues. It’s been a little over six months since that letter, asking for reforms, was given to Ms. Gandhi. There was a follow-up meeting as well in December. Have things changed in these six months? Well, the good thing that happened was that there was a decision that there will be an election to the office of the president and the Working Committee. And tentatively that date has been fixed in June. So we are happy that, at least, some forward movement is taking place but we need much more of interaction with the party leadership. Everybody is busy strengthening the party and hoping for a pleasant outcome for the Congress party in these elections, and therefore, there is not much dialogue taking place at this point. And rightly so. I am sure when the elections are over, this whole process will gain its own momentum. The Congress list of star campaigners came out for West Bengal and Assam but leaves out prominent names among the G-23. We are not stars, we are Congress workers. And the worker will do whatever he can do to ensure that the Congress party wins. Even if not assigned to us, we will play a positive, constructive role to ensure that the Congress gains in these States to the extent it can. Do you think it’s a reflection of the leadership’s mood because the Jammu meet didn’t go down well? I don’t want to attribute any motives to anybody. I think that the party has the discretion to decide who are stars and which are the stars who shine and which are the ones who have lost their lustre. Will G-23 decide its future move depending on how the Congress fares in these elections? We are not antithetical to what the party stands for. So there’s no question of a future strategy. All that we say is that the State that we are in today, we should work hard and embrace what the Congress stands for. Bring all the Opposition parties on one platform. Since the Congress is the only national party that can oppose the BJP, it should be at the centre of that platform, which is inclusive of all other Opposition leaders to fight the Modi government. But the question is, who is going to lead the Congress? Ms. Gandhi is functioning as an interim chief and Rahul Gandhi doesn’t seem to be keen on taking over the reins again. What’s your take? My take is very simple: there can be no party without a leader. When you go into an election [party elections], a leader within the Congress party will emerge. Will the G-23 put up a candidate from among the letter writers? Who am I to decide on these issues? Whoever the candidate is, at that point, Congressmen will decide whether or not to contest the election. It depends on who is standing. So, you will not field a candidate if Mr. Gandhi contests? I didn’t say any of that. Whether Mr. Gandhi stands or he doesn’t stand, that is not the issue. Anybody under the Congress constitution is entitled to stand. How are you looking at these Assembly elections? Unfortunately, in some of the States, we have not had a presence for many, many years. So, you can’t expect a tsunami in favour of the Congress. But with the alliances that we have, we hope to gain. In Kerala, we hope to win; in Assam, there is sufficient discontent with the Sonowal government. So that’s where we are. These are the big States where we can hope to form government on our own.  In Kerala, we hope to win; in Assam, there is sufficient discontent with the Sonowal government. So that’s where we are||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-need-much-more-interaction-with-the-congress-leadership/article34070120.ece
15 March 2021||Belagavi,||Border tension halts bus services||Tensions at the border of Karnataka and Maharashtra are back again, this time with Kannada and Marathi groups targeting vehicles and shops belonging to other language groups. There have been attempts by Marathi and Kannada groups at blackening of boards and stoning of vehicles in Belagavi and Kolhapur. The problem got complicated with the Shiv Sena openly supporting Marathi groups in Belagavi, while Kannada groups in Belagavi like Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, who are leading the protest, do not have any political party backing them directly. On Sunday, the State transport undertakings in Karnataka and Maharashtra stopped bus services between the States, as they were apprehensive of damage to their vehicles if violence escalated. Sometime ago, the hoisting of the Kannada flag on the premises of Belagavi civic body office had led to skirmishes between the two groups. Kannada organisations are now accusing Shiv Sena of trying to utilise the border dispute for political purposes of strengthening the party in Belagavi and Karnataka. The Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra recently released a book on the border dispute and re-released a 50-year-old video documentary on the subject. Uddhav Thackeray, Chief Minister, made statements that raked up the old border controversy. Kannada activists suspect this stems from Maharashtra’s politics where the Shiv Sena is trying to strengthen the party and it’s linguistic identity at the cost of other Marathi parties like the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti in Belagavi. Ashok Chandaragi, convenor of Kannada organisations in the district, argued that Mr. Thackeray was sending out signals that the Shiv Sena wants to be in Belagavi politics directly. “All these years, they were acting through outfits like the MES. But now they want to enter the fray directly,” he argued. Not very long ago, Mr. Thackeray had chided the MES leaders for infighting and accused them of being responsible for Marathi interests being harmed in Belagavi. “Mr. Thackeray wants to strengthen his party here, by directly backing the border issue,” Mr. Chandaragi said. Mehboob Makandar, another activist, held that the Shiv Sena was timing its activities just before the Belagavi City Corporation elections. However, the focus is not welfare of Marathi people, he said. “I have been part of Kannada agitations since the 1980s. But I have never seen any Maharashtra leader raise issues like education, health or employment or problems of farmers across the border. They speak only of a transfer of some land to Maharashtra,” Mr. Makandar said. Maharashtra leadership was quiet about the large number of government Marathi-medium schools in Karnataka and welfare measures like setting up of the Maratha development corporation, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/border-issue-to-the-fore-in-belagavi/article34070081.ece
15 March 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata leads rally on a wheelchair||Four days after she suffered leg injuries while campaigning in Nandigram, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday resumed her election campaign here on a wheelchair and said that an “injured tiger” is more dangerous. She led a rally from the Gandhi Statue on Mayo Road to the Hazra Crossing. Trinamool Congress leaders, including president of party youth wing, Abhishek Banerjee, along with thousands of supporters, joined the rally along the five-kilometre stretch in the heart of the city. Ms. Banerjee set the tone of the padyatra (march) by saying “Bhanga Pae Khela hobe [Game will be played with a broken leg]” . She was discharged from hospital on Friday and within 48 hours, she was back in the political campaign. ‘In pain’ Earlier in the day, she said on social media that she was “still in lot of pain” but would continue to fight boldly. “We will continue to fight boldly! I’m still in a lot of pain but I feel the pain of my people even more. In this fight to protect our revered land, we have suffered a lot and will suffer more but we will never bow down to cowardice.” Addressing her supporters at Hazra at the end of the rally, Ms. Banerjee said, “Have faith in me. I will go around the entire West Bengal on a wheelchair with a broken leg. Khela Hobe [Game is on]. Please keep in mind that an injured tiger is more dangerous.” The Trinamool Congress chairperson said more than the physical pain it is difficult to endure the pain of attack on democracy. “The evil forces should be defeated and conspiracy around Bengal should be foiled.” Her decision to resume campaigning also assumes significance as the day is observed as ‘Nandigram Dibas’ (Nandigram day). On March 14, 2007, 14 villagers were killed in police firing while protesting against forcible land acquisition in Nandigram, the seat from which Ms. Banerjee is contesting. “As a mark of respect and encouraged by my brothers and sisters of Nandigram, I am contesting #BengalElections2021 as @AITCofficial candidate from this historic place. It is my great honour to be here and work along with members ofshaheedfamilies against anti-Bengal force,” Ms. Banerjee said on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-leads-rally-on-a-wheelchair/article34070107.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI:,||Two more parties in Assam Mahajot||The size of the Congress-ledMahajot(grand alliance) in poll-bound Assam has increased to 10. Two community-based parties — Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party, or JDPP, and Adivasi National Party (ANP) — together claim to have influence in some 50 of the State’s 126 Assembly seats. They joined theMahajotin the past 72 hours. The JDPP represents the Deori community and the ANP the Adivasis, who are loosely referred to as “tea tribes” and “ex-tea tribes”. TheMahajothad six parties when it was formally announced on January 19: the Congress, the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the Communist Party of India, CPI (Marxist), the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha. Two others, former BJP ally the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal, joined later. Neither the JDPP nor the ANP is contesting any seat, but they have joined theMahajoton certain conditions. “We want theMahajotto support us in the next Deori Council polls,” said JDPP leader Mohesh Deuri. Formed in 2015, the JDPP had won six seats in the Deori Council polls the following year. ANP president Bijay Tiru said they were looking forward to the support of theMahajotconstituents in the next panchayat polls. Three of the alliance’s constituents had won seats in the 2016 Assembly election. While the Congress won 26, the AIUDF bagged 13 and the BPF 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-parties-in-assam-mahajot/article34070108.ece
15 March 2021||Mumbai,||Explosives near Antilia: police officer Vaze in NIA custody||A special court on Sunday remanded assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) till March 25 in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden car found near Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25. NIA’s spokesperson said Mr. Vaze was arrested at 11.50 p.m. on March 13 for his “role and involvement in placing explosives laden vehicle near Carmichael Road”. The SUV was found with 20 gelatin sticks on February 25 and the police said the car was stolen from the Airoli-Mulund bridge on February 18. Mr. Vaze has been arrested under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and the Explosive Substances Act. The car’s owner, Mansukh Hiren, who was an auto parts dealer, was found dead on March 5 in Kalwa creek. The case was transferred to the NIA on March 8. On March 12, a sessions court in Thane rejected Mr. Vaze’s pre-arrest bail in Hiren’s murder. Mr. Vaze is known as an “encounter specialist” in the Mumbai police. He was suspended for 17 years after being arrested in the custodial death of a 27-year-old software engineer Khwaja Yunus, but was granted bail after 58 days of being in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/explosives-near-antilia-police-officer-vaze-in-nia-custody/article34070122.ece
15 March 2021||Belagavi,||Police officers of both States to meet today||Senior police officers of Karnataka and Maharashtra are likely to meet on Monday, to put in place a plan to ensure law and order at the Karnataka – Maharashtra border that has been disturbed by differences between Kannada and Marathi groups in Belagavi and Kolhapur. Raghavendra Suhas, Inspector General of Police (northern range), told journalists in Belagavi on Sunday that the officers will discuss ways to resume the bus service between the States and other issues. Superintendents of Police of both districts are likely to participate. Bus services between the States were stopped after officers of the State Transport undertakings felt that the tense situation at the border could damage vehicles. NWKRTC stopped buses from the border districts - Belagavi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi and Bidar. Around 200 trips were stopped by Sunday morning, officers said. The buses would ply if the situation returns to normal, they said. Hundreds of passengers waited at Belagavi central bus stand to go across the border. They were disappointed to know that most buses would return from the border at Nippani. This follows attempts by Marathi and Kannada groups at blackening of boards and pasting stickers and stoning of vehicles and boards before shops in Belagavi and Kolhapur. This was a response to the blackening of Kannada boards in Kolhapur in Maharashtra by some Marathi groups last week. Kannada groups in Belagavi retorted by tearing away and blackening Marathi boards in Belagavi this week. NWKRTC officers said bus services would be resumed once the situation returned to normal by Monday. Cases booked The Belagavi district police have booked four cases against administrators of various social media handles following some provocative posts about the border issue. This is being done to ensure that peace and harmony prevails, the IGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-officers-of-both-states-to-meet-today/article34070082.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka CM hints at tougher curbs||In the light of rising COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has convened a high-level meeting here on Monday. The cases in the State has been on the rise in the last fortnight with the detection of many clusters. Besides, neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala are also reporting higher cases during this period, which has raised anxiety of a much anticipated second wave in the State due to limited restriction on inter-State movement. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday also appealed to the public to adhere to COVID-19 protocols and cooperate with the government to contain the spread. “If the public wishes not to face tough measures such as lockdown or curfew, it should cooperate with the government,” he warned. “We have no proposal to impose lockdown now. But if the cases increase in the coming days, circumstances could take us towards imposing curfew or a lockdown,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Yediyurappa indicated that the restrictions could be imposed on the movement of people from Maharashtra and re-imposing curbs on the number of people attending marriage and other functions. The meeting is likely to be attended by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, and Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar among others. Sources in Chief Minister’s office said that the discussion at the meeting would revolve around implementing some tough measures to contain the spread. They would include tough restrictions to be put in place for inter-State movement, especially those coming from Maharashtra and Kerala where cases are high, and imposing quarantine restrictions on those coming from abroad. “Since the restriction on big gatherings had been eased with a cap of 500 persons, it is more or less being violated. The government is thinking of imposing tough restrictions on that too.” Sources said that the wearing of mask in public places that was been seen as slackening could be made tougher. The sources said that after the meeting, which would be attended by senior government officials and experts, the government was expected to announce some tough measures to contain the spread. “The Chief Minister will take stock of the situation and decide on the future course based on the inputs he receives from the experts and officials,” the sources said. Meanwhile, Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters here that the next steps would be taken based on what the Chief Minister says on Monday. “So far, there has been no discussion with us on imposing either curfew or night curfew.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cm-hints-at-tougher-curbs/article34070083.ece
15 March 2021||BENGALURU,||SIT intensifies search for woman in CD||The Special Investigation Team (SIT that is looking into the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has intensified search operation to track the woman and two others, who are suspects in the issue that rocked the State since it surfaced on March 2. A team of officials from SIT visited the hometown of the woman and questioned her friends and relatives. Sources in the SIT said the woman is in neighbouring Andhara Pradesh and efforts are on to trace her. Meanwhile, a journalist from Tumakuru and his associate from Devanahalli are on the run. The police are analysing their bank account details to track them. The police suspect that the accused might use the money and their mobile phone, which can give the officials a lead. SIT officials questioned four suspects for the second time. The suspects were involved in handing over the CD to Dinesh Kallahalli, the complainant in the case. Security promised Hours after the video involving the woman in the CD scandal surfaced seeking protection, R. Pramila Naidu, chairperson of the State Women’s Commission, assured necessary protection. I have spoken to the city and State police chiefs asking for protection, since the woman expressed threat perception. The commission will provide her all possible help, and she can approach us, Ms. Naidu said. Even senior officials of the SIT said action has been taken to ensure protection to her family. “We assure the woman that she can contact the police and choose the time and place of her convenience to get her statement recorded, for investigation,” sources in the SIT said. The SIT officials also issued notice to the woman in question by pasting it on her family house, relatives and paying guest where she was staying. They also e-mailed her the notice asking her to get back to the police. Support extended Many social organisations and women’s rights group supported the woman and demanded that government should ensure protection to her.  SIT officials questioned four suspects, who were involved in handing over the CD to complainant Dinesh Kallahalli, for the second time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-intensifies-search-for-woman-in-cd/article34070146.ece
15 March 2021||Special Correspondent New Delhi,||Right to dissent is central, says Sainath||Pointing out that the right to dissent should be the central focus of press freedom, independent journalist P. Sainath struck a dissenting note in the report submitted by the Index Monitoring Cell (IMC), set up by the Information and Broadcasting Ministry with stakeholders to improve India’s ranking in the World Press Freedom Index and to evolve an objective yardstick to gauge media freedom. “The right to dissent is very central... You know there are people filing FIRs and taking legal action against journalists (and other citizens) under the Epidemic Act, Disaster Act, sedition laws. We are shutting down the Internet for six months or more for whole regions,” Mr. Sainath made this observation, giving a complete list of names of journalists targeted by the government in his 12-page dissent note, along with three indices with a complete list of journalists who have been arrested and intimidated by the State in the last two years. Mr. Sainath pointed out that the report failed in its objective to analyse the World Press Freedom Index (of Paris-based Reporters Without Borders or RSF), and India’s performance in it with a view to identify areas of strengths and concern related to press freedom in India. To draw attention to the stranglehold of several laws on press freedom, Mr. Sainath pointed out 52-media related laws and their misuse by the State in intimidating journalists, adding that there was a complete lack of accountability of the state in the misuse of laws. The 15-member committee, which had four meetings between May and December last year, has four journalists and government functionaries. Chaired by Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Principal Director General of the Press Information Bureau, the committee has 10 government employees. Among the key recommendations is the decriminalising of defamation. India is one of the few countries in the world to criminalise defamation. The panel has also recommended that consent of the Press Council of India is a prerequisite before filing an FIR against the media or a publication. The meeting of the panel comes in the backdrop of a steady decline in India’s ranking in press freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-to-dissent-is-central-says-sainath/article34070113.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre reconstitutes panel on mythical Sarasvati river||The Centre has reconstituted an advisory committee to chalk out a plan for studying the mythical Sarasvati river for the next two years, after the earlier panel’s term ended in 2019. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on March 10 issued a notification for “reconstitution of the Advisory Committee for the Multidisciplinary Study of the River Sarasvati”. The ASI had first set up the committee on December 28, 2017 for a period of two years. The committee would continue to be chaired by the Culture Minister and include officials from the Culture, Tourism, Water Resources, Environment and Forest, Housing and Urban Affairs Ministries; representatives of the Indian Space Research Organisation; officials from the governments of Gujarat, Haryana and Rajasthan; and an ASI official. Among the “non-official members” of the 27-member panel are archaeologists B.R. Mani, Vasant Shinde, K.N. Dixit and K.K. Muhammed, and historian Balmukund Pandey. The committee includes Madan Gopal Vyas, Ratnesh Tripathi, Prabhu Sundarji Bhai Thakkar, S. Kalyan Raman, Prashant Bhardwaj, Amit Rai Jain, V.M.K. Puri and Mukesh Garg. One of the officials in the panel said the committee would review the work done by the previous panel and then formulate a plan. The committee would advise the Government Departments conducting research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-reconstitutes-panel-for-studying-sarasvati-river/article34070116.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. releases list of BJP’s ‘failures’ in Assam||The Congress on Sunday released a 12-point “chargesheet” against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led alliance government in Assam for its alleged failure on different fronts. “Betraying” the indigenous people by bringing in the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and stalling the process of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) top the list of “failures” of the Assam government headed by Sarbananda Sonowal. Assam accord “The BJP had promised to protect jati [race], mati [land] and bheti [foundation] but imposed the CAA to welcome illegal migrants and threaten the language, culture and identity of the people of Assam. The party also failed to implement Clause 6 of the Assam Accord,” the Congress said. It also slammed the saffron party for keeping the NRC exercise on hold, thus affecting the genuine citizens who were left out of the citizens’ list. Around 19.06 lakh people were excluded from the NRC published in August 2019. The Congress criticised the BJP for letting tea plantation workers down by not fulfilling its 2016 election promise of increasing their daily wages to Rs. 351 and backtracking on the promise to grant the Scheduled Tribe-status to six communities. Rising unemployment, appointment scams, selling of the State’s resources to corporate houses cheaply, controlling legal and illegal trades through syndicates, abnormal price rice, ignoring the flood and erosion problem, not expelling any foreigner and denial of minimum support price to farmers were other failures listed in the “chargesheet” released by the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-releases-list-of-bjps-failures-in-assam/article34070098.ece
15 March 2021||KHAMMAM,||BJP candidate alleges attack by TRS cadre||G Premender Reddy, BJP candidate for the Legislative Council election, who reportedly suffered suffocation in an alleged attack by suspected cadre of the TRS in Mahabubabad district on Sunday afternoon, was admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital in the afternoon. He was brought to the hospital in an ambulance from Parvathammagudem village. He reportedly complained of suffocation soon after the incident. His condition was stated to be stable. The BJP Khammam district president Galla Satyanarayana alleged that Mr Reddy was attacked by “TRS goons” when he visited the village on specific information that TRS functionaries were distributing cash. Meanwhile, mild tension prevailed near the two-town police station here on Sunday morning when the police reportedly detained a local Congress leader on the charge of moving in the vicinity of a polling station in violation of prohibitory orders. He was freed later, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-candidate-alleges-attack-by-trs-cadre/article34070091.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Gogoi’s imprisonment was planned to keep him out of public view’||Rights activist Yogendra Yadav said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Assam government had planned peasant rights activist Akhil Gogoi’s imprisonment in order to keep him off public view during the Assembly election. Mr. Yadav and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Sunilam visited the jailed leader, who is also the president of the newly-floated Raijor Dal, at the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital on Sunday. “It is the misfortune of this country that people who should be in jail are roaming free while a few who should be free are rotting in jails. Akhil Gogoi’s is not a criminal trial, it is a political trial planned well ahead in order to prevent him from addressing the people during the election,” Mr. Yadav told mediapersons at the hospital.  Mr. Sunilam said he was asked by Mr. Gogoi to carry a message to the people of Assam — “defeat the BJP”. He said the Congress, leading the Mahajot , should have had the moral responsibility of letting the “people’s voice win” by not putting up candidates against the Raijor Dal and its associate regional party, the Assam Jatiya Parishad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gogois-imprisonment-was-planned-to-keep-him-out-of-public-view/article34070103.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Protest at EFLU, 14 students detained||Students of English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU), who staged a ‘silent protest’ in front of the campus gate demanding the administration to reopen the hostels, were detained by the Osmania University police here on Sunday evening. The students said that their career would be at stake if the administration did not give access to hostels, the library, and internet for online classes. “We sat on a peaceful, 24-hour hunger strike that was started at 12 noon requesting the administration to open the hostels and provide students with access to educational resources and internet facilities necessary for the completion of courses,” one of the protesting students told The Hindu . Later in the day, the administration called half-a-dozen students but did not listen to their demands, and in turn informed the OU police while they were protesting, he said requesting anonymity. At around 5.30 p.m. on Sunday, a group of police personnel forcefully detained 14 students in vehicles and took them to the police station, he said. He alleged that even female students were manhandled, beaten down and their clothes were torn. “Despite that, they were forcefully taken to the police station and their identification is being taken forcefully to individually target and punish students,” the protesting student said. He said that the police harassed the students to end the strike or face the consequences, as they were disturbing the MLC election polls. The students pointed out that when all schools, colleges and universities across the country opened their doors to students, why was EFLU yet to take a call. “We are demanding the administration to open the gates for at least underprivileged students in a phased manner as they do not have access to internet and other facilities back home,” another student said. Meanwhile, OU police said 14 students were taken into preventive custody but let off later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-students-detained-following-protest-at-eflu/article34070191.ece
15 March 2021||Satyasundar Barik BHUBANESWAR,||Slow, steady crossing of educational milestones||For his entire life, 65-year-old Trilochan Naik of Odisha’s Dhenkanal district has waited to achieve educational milestones. Forty-one attempts over two decades to pass Class 10, 13 bids in 14 years to clear Class 12 and three years each for graduation and law degrees, the educational journey of this sexagenarian over six decades is remarkable in itself. But Mr. Naik is not done yet. He is set to join the Master of Law course next year, and before that, he has enrolled himself as a member of the Odisha State Bar Council in March and begun practising law in the Dhenkanal court. “I was not good at studies, but I was a firm believer of ‘never say die’. I also believe that society looks down upon a person who is not educated. And it prompts me to go for earning educational degrees,” said Mr. Naik, who earns a living from farming. He first appeared for the matriculation examination from the Banasingh High School in Dhenkanal district in 1972. He could not clear it and sat for the supplementary examination in the same year, but failed. As he failed over 15 attempts, teachers at the Banasingh High School refused to fill up his forms again Not disheartened, he enrolled himself in a correspondence course to clear the matriculation exam. “I was taking my studies very seriously. But I was clueless as I found myself short of pass marks in individual subjects after every examination,” Mr. Naik said. In 1992, he finally cleared matriculation after 41 appearances in the exam. In 1997, he took admission in the Dhenkanal Government College’s Humanities stream for the Plus Two programme when his older son enrolled in the same college for his Bachelor’s degree. “Once, my son threatened to drop out from the college upon stumbling across me on the same college campus. My wife also castigated me. I had to convince both of them on how important pursuing education was for me,” he said. It took 14 years for Mr. Naik to clear Class XII examination in 2011. Subsequently, he took admission in the Dhenkanal Evening College. He cleared it in one attempt in 2014. During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, Mr. Naik successfully completed his law degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slow-steady-crossing-of-educational-milestones/article34070115.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Clinics ease protocols as vaccination catches pace||Dentists and dermatologists who run small clinics are hoping for a revival now that the COVID-19 vaccination drive is under way. With a large number of healthcare workers vaccinated in the State, many private practices, particularly dental and skincare clinics, which saw low footfall during the pandemic, are now tweaking the rules. Some are doing away with RT-PCR tests, which were mandatory before doctors undertook a procedure. Dental clinics, too, have started conducting the procedures they had stopped. Rajkumar G.C., principal, V.S. Dental College, said that many dentists had stopped procedures such as root canal treatments and dental fillings. “But now that their staff have taken the vaccine, they have restarted some of the procedures,” he said. He explained that root canals, dental fillings, and capping of teeth are aerosol-producing procedures where transmission of the virus is very high. “We were worried that our staff may contract the virus from people who had COVID-19, but were unaware of it because they were asymptomatic. But now that our staff have completed the vaccination, we are not stressed and have started all these procedures while following safety protocol.” To instil confidence in clients, many clinics are planning to display boards announcing that their staff have taken the vaccine. Ramya Himanish, a dentist at Vidyaranyapura, said she would be putting up a board with this announcement to encourage more patients to come to the clinic. Many private practitioners are even reaching out to former clients. Rajesh S., a software professional who had been putting off a visit to his dentist for the past eight months, said, “My clinic called me last week and said that all their staff were vaccinated. So now I will schedule an appointment as the chance of contracting COVID-19 from a person who is vaccinated is lower,” he said. Plastic surgeons and dermatologists, too, are optimistic that business will pick up. Gunasekar Vuppulapati, consultant plastic surgeon, GVG Invivo Hospital, said they will stop conducting RT-PCR tests for all elective procedures for their patients. Before the drive, it was mandatory for all patients undergoing surgeries to take the test. “Now, with our staff vaccinated, we are planning to do away with RT-PCR test from the coming week. Patients need to only undergo a Rapid Antigen Test before the procedure,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clinics-ease-up-on-protocols-as-vaccination-drive-gathers-steam/article34070212.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Ire in Kerala Congress over the candidates list||Political theatre marked the unveiling of the Congress candidates’ list in New Delhi. It also offered a striking split-screen moment for television news channels in Kerala. The live telecast from the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) headquarters at Indira Bhavan here did not seem to augur well for the image of unity the party leadership had attempted to project painstakingly. Immediately after KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran reeled out the contestants’ names, television cameras panned to the Congress State headquarters. Mahila Congress president Lathika Subash faced the cameras and said the KPCC had passed her over for an Assembly seat. She created sensational prime time news content by having a hairdresser give her a tonsure in full view of live cameras. Ms. Subash announced her resignation as president. She hinted she would contest from her home town in Ettumanur as an Independent. The Congress had given the seat to the P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress. Ms. Subash said the KPCC had sacrificed women representation at the altar of group politics. She had been active in the Congress for four decades. However, leaders had chosen newcomers over her. Several Congress leaders who were denied party tickets appeared to find common cause with Ms. Subash. United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan said the party had done Ms. Subash wrong. Former Kochi Mayor Soumini Jain and Rajmohan Unnithan, MP, aired similar sentiments. The Mahila Congress saw a slew of resignations. Activists said the KPCC had reneged on its promise to reserve 20% seats for women. Sudheeran’s take Former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran said the Congress faced unprecedented protests from workers over the lopsided allotment of party tickets. He said groups had prevailed over the process. Another leader said ‘A’ and ‘I’ faction leaders had wangled seats for their loyalists from under the nose of the All India Congress Committee (AICC). Factionalism appeared to plague candidate selection. Irikkur, Nemom, Thripunithura and Chadayamangalam saw Congress ‘groups’ feuding over party tickets. Mr. Ramachandran said the AICC had finalised the matrix of candidate selection. K. Muraleedheeran, MP, said Ms. Subash should have avoided the theatrics in front of Indira Bhavan.  Mahila Congress activists say the KPCC reneged on its promise to reserve 20% seats for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ire-in-kerala-congress-over-the-candidates-list/article34070088.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||India logs 25,320 new virus cases||Close to 30 million vaccine doses have been administered since the beginning of the drive on January 16, with around 1.5 million of those given between Saturday and Sunday morning, according to the latest figures from the Ministry of Health. About 1.4 million of those doses were administered in the past 24 hours. In February, the Ministry, in response to a question in the Lok Sabha, said 41 million doses of vaccine — Covishield and Covaxin— had so far been procured for the vaccination drive. India is supposed to get 97 million doses of Covishield through its arrangement with the global vaccine facility, Covax, however a communique from that organisation in March did not spell out the timeline for when that lot would be available in India. States have been administered vaccine based on estimates provided by states to the Centre on how much they need, the number of available institutions where inoculations can be administered and vaccine storage and distribution infrastructure. Since February 16, there has been a gradual uptick in fresh infections, that for most part of the previous fortnight had declined to as little as 8,000 daily infections. A team deputed by the Centre to understand the surge in Maharashtra had reported on March 1 that among the possible reasons for the growing number of cases in the city were — COVID-19 inappropriate behaviour due to “lack of fear of disease”, pandemic fatigue, missed cases, super spreading events and crowds due to recent gram panchayat elections, marriages, re-opening of schools, and crowded public transport. However, the report stressed that the situation in Maharashtra was not unique and a similar combination of events was responsible for a surge in the other States too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-logs-25320-new-virus-cases/article34070095.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC orders suspension of two IPS officers in Bengal||The Election Commission (EC) on Sunday ordered the suspension of two IPS officers for their failure to protect West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during an incident in Nandigram on March 10 that left her with injuries. The EC met on Sunday to discuss the reports submitted to it by West Bengal Chief Secretary and special general observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dube on the incident, said a statement. After going through the reports, the EC ordered the removal and suspension of West Bengal Director, Security, Vivek Sahay, and Purba Medinipur Superintendent of Police Pravin Prakash. The EC also transferred Purba Medinipur District Magistrate Vibhu Goel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-orders-suspension-of-two-ips-officers-in-bengal/article34070096.ece
15 March 2021||Kolkata,||‘Secular, pro-farmer votes should not split in Bengal’||Secular and pro-farmer votes in West Bengal should not get split, leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and civil rights activists who have been campaigning in the State for the past three days said on Sunday. Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and social activist Medha Patkar campaigned in Nandigram, Singur and Kolkata and urged people not to vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “In Delhi, the government is not talking to us. In Bengal, the same people are going door to door asking for votes. What we are telling the people and farmers is that they should ask BJP leaders to withdraw the three Bills and bring a law giving guarantee on minimum support price,” said Rakesh Tikait, who had held protests in Nandigram and Kolkata. Referring to the BJP’s farmers outreach programme, wherein party leaders are visiting farm households and collecting handful of food grains, Mr. Tikait said, “Those who are collecting foodgrains should ensure minimum support price for them.” Social activist Medha Patkar, who was in Singur on Sunday and Nandigram on Saturday, said both these places have a glorious history of people’s movement against corporates. “In Singur and Nandigram, people were resisting corporate interest and put up a fight for protecting their land. After that, all secular parties joined the movement against land acquisition,” said Ms. Patkar, who addressed a kisan mahapanchayat at Singur on Sunday. Both Ms. Patkar and Mr. Tikait said the aim of their campaign is to dissuade people from voting for the BJP. Mr. Tikait said the Morcha does not mind if people vote for “Mamata ji and Left or Congress”. Interestingly, the Left parties, particularly those who are constituents of the Left Front, have distanced themselves from the movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/secular-pro-farmer-votes-should-not-split-in-bengal/article34070149.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents may be allowed to fill NPR details online||According to the recently published report for the year 2019-20, there will be a three-pronged approach for updating the NPR database — self updating, wherein it is proposed to allow residents to update their own data fields after following some authentication protocols in a web portal; updating of NPR data in paper format; and the mobile mode. The report said that a “pre-test” on NPR updation has been undertaken in selected areas of the States and the Union Territories, except Assam, along with the pre-test of the Census. “The demographic and other particulars of each family and individual are to be collected/ updated during the updation exercise of NPR. No documents or biometrics would be collected during updation of NPR,” the report said. As reported, the pretest for the first phase of the Census and the NPR, involving 30 lakh respondents, was conducted from August 12 to September 20, 2019. The report said that the government prepared the NPR of all the “usual residents” in the country in 2010 by collecting specific information of each resident. “The NPR is prepared under various provisions of the Citizenship Rules, 2003, framed under the Citizenship Act, 1955. In 2015, a few fields such as name, gender, date and place of birth, place of residence and father’s and mother’s name were updated and Aadhaar, mobile and ration card numbers were collected. To incorporate the changes due to birth, death and migration, there is a need to update it again,” it said. Additional queries The questions for the fresh NPR have not been made public yet but the pre-test conducted in 2019 included additional questions, such as the date and the place of birth of the father and mother, the last place of residence and mother tongue, Aaadhar (optional), Voter ID card, and mobile phone and Driver’s Licence numbers. States ruled by non-BJP parties have expressed apprehensions regarding the additional questions. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on February 1 that Rs. 3,768 crore had been allocated for the Census in the financial year 2021-22. Though no separate budget for the NPR has been allocated in this fiscal, Rs. 3,941.35 crore was approved for updating the NPR in the financial year 2019-20. Around 30 lakh enumerators — government officials and government school teachers — will each be assigned the responsibility of collecting details from about 650-800 people through both the online and offline modes. The Registrar-General of India (RGI) is presently conducting field trials of the first phase of the Census and the NPR through the mobile application in a block, each comprising 50-60 households, in all the States and Union Territories. Widespread dissent The NPR’s link with the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the yet to be implemented Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019, has been opposed by many States and civil society groups. The Citizenship Rules framed in the year 2003 say that the NPR is the first step towards the compilation of the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC), or the NRC. The CAA passed by the Parliament on December 11, 2019, allows citizenship on the basis of religion to six undocumented communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. Though the government has denied that the CAA and the NRC are linked, there are apprehensions that the CAA followed by a countrywide NRC, will benefit non-Muslims excluded from the proposed citizens’ register, while excluded Muslims will have to prove their citizenship. The Union Home Ministry informed the Lok Sabha on February 4, 2020 that “till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the NRIC at the national level”. However, in March 2020, the Ministry filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court that preparation of the NRC is a “necessary exercise for any sovereign country for mere identification of citizens from non-citizens”. It submitted that it is “the responsibility entrusted on the Central government “to identify/detect illegal migrants and thereafter, follow the due process of law”. At the peak of anti-CAA/NRC/NPR protest in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a public rally on December 22 in Delhi that “there had been no discussion, no talk on an NRC for India since his government had taken power in 2014”. On December 9 the same year, Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Parliament that “there is no need to create a background for NRC, we are clear that NRC ought to be done in this country, our manifesto is the background”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/residents-may-be-allowed-to-fill-details-online/article34070087.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Vote for those who uphold Constitution’||The Assam Christian Forum, representing all denominations of the church in the State, appealed to people to vote for candidates who work for a secular society and uphold the Constitution.  ACF spokesperson Allen Brooks said the forum had restricted itself to canvassing for fair elections. “We are now speaking about an inclusive society because minorities are being increasingly intimidated. Father Stan Swamy’s arrest ... is an example.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vote-for-those-who-uphold-constitution/article34070101.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi faces flak for Borphukan reference||Opposition parties in poll-bound Assam slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for referring to 17th century Ahom general Lachit Borphukan as a freedom fighter. Mr. Modi mentioned Borphukan along with others who “contributed to the independence of the country” at a function to launch the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on March 12. The programme commemorated 75 years of India’s independence from British rule. Borphukan had in 1671 led the Ahoms in the Battle of Saraighat, considered the greatest naval battle on a river, to victory over the Mughals. He died in April 1672, almost two centuries before the freedom movement began. “The Prime Minister may either be ignorant or [it is] a ploy to get political mileage in Assam ahead of the Assembly election. We want to remind him that Assam was a sovereign country for more than 600 years from 1228-1826. The people of Assam revere Lachit Borphukan,” said Assam Jatiya Parishad general secretary and former BJP leader Jagadish Bhuyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-faces-flak-for-borphukan-reference/article34070104.ece
15 March 2021||Pune,||Except Assam, BJP will lose all polls: Pawar||With the exception of Assam, the BJP will lose the Assembly elections in three States and the Union Territory of Puducherry, including the fiercely contested polls in West Bengal, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said on Sunday. “While it is difficult to comment on the outcome at this juncture, the political trends nevertheless show that the BJP will retain power only in Assam and would be defeated in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry. And this trend will also prove to be the harbinger of changing political currents in the country,” said Mr. Pawar in Baramati. He accused the BJP-led Centre of abusing power by attacking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal. “There, our sister [Ms. Banerjee] is alone fighting for the people of her State, withstanding the mounting political attacks of the BJP. But the people of Bengal are self-respecting and if anyone dares to attack their culture, the whole State will come together and unite against any force.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/except-assam-bjp-will-lose-all-polls-pawar/article34070105.ece
15 March 2021||Mysuru,||Golden Chariot chugs again, after three years||Karnataka’s luxury train Golden Chariot hit the tracks again after a break of more than 3 years and reached Mysuru on Sunday with the tourists. The response to the 6N/7D trip was encouraging and the occupancy is high, according to an IRCTC official who said that the next departure is scheduled for March 21. The train was flagged off from Yeshwanthpur Railway Station by senior officials of the IRCTC and KSTDC and will cover places of tourist interest in Mysuru including Bandipur, Halebid, Chikkamagalaru plantations, Hampi, Pattadakal and Aihole and Goa before terminating at Bengaluru on Saturday. The interiors of the train has been redone with renovated cabins, new upholstery etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/golden-chariot-chugs-again-after-3-year-break/article34070190.ece
15 March 2021||KOCHI,||Protest against church circular||A group of reform-minded Catholics under the aegis of Joint Christian Council (JCC) has slammed the Syro-Malabar church authorities for what they alleged was an attempt to bring back the ‘inquisition’ to punish critics of the church. The allegation has been denied by the Syro-Malabar Church spokesperson, who described them as ‘laughable.’ He said that the church authorities had always tried to correct those who went astray and though there have been several public pronouncements against the church hierarchy, attempts have been only to correct them, he added. The Joint Christian Council members staged a dharna in front of the house of the Major Archbishop Cardinal George Alencherry on Sunday afternoon demanding that the church authorities withdraw a circular, read out during Sunday mass in Syro-Malabar church parishes on March 7. The circular from Cardinal Alencherry was issued after the 29th synod of the Bishops in the second week of January and it referred to breach of discipline in the church as it authorised diocesan authorities to take action according to church rules against those who challenged the church teachings and authority. The circular is being portrayed as an attempt to bring back church laws and silence the critics, who have called for reforms in the church and more transparency, said Felix J. Pulloodan of Joint Christian Council. Geoerge Kattikkaran of the Council too felt that the circular was an attempt to gag criticism of the ‘wrong ways of the hierarchy.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-against-church-circular/article34070092.ece
15 March 2021||Ranikhet,||Uzbek troops train on Sig Sauer rifles||At the ongoing India-Uzbek exercise Dustlik-II at Ranikhet, Uzbek troops learnt the handling of SIG-716 assault rifles, recently inducted into service by the Army and also got orientation in slithering from helicopters for heli-borne operations in a counter terrorist (CT) environment. The scope of the exercise is to conduct sub-unit level operations in CT role under United Nations (UN) mandate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uzbek-troops-train-on-sig-sauer-rifles/article34070117.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bank operations may be hit for two days||Banking operations across the country could be impacted on Monday and Tuesday as the United Forum of Bank Unions has called for a nationwide strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders. Services such as deposits and withdrawals at branches would be affected.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bank-operations-may-be-hit-for-two-days/article34070151.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||As cases surge, Congress asks government to prepare a strategy||With the number of COVID-19 infections crossing the 25,000-mark in the past 24 hours, the Congress on Sunday questioned the pace of vaccination and asked the government to prepare a strategy to complete the drive within 12 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-cases-surge-congress-asks-government-to-prepare-a-strategy/article34070152.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Voters grappling with loss of livelihood||Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar Assembly constituency is a classic case of a region that is caught between the city’s poorer north and a prospering central district. Nowhere is the voice shriller than when it comes to expressing to opining on rising prices of fuel and essential commodities. The voters, who have to grapple with a host of issues, are deeply disappointed. And the COVID-19 pandemic has only added fuel to the fire. “We do not want freebies that the political parties are promising voters. Instead, we want them to put an end to the steep hike in the prices of fuel and essential commodities. I pay an exorbitant amount to buy anything from oil to cooking gas cylinder but I cannot increase the price of tea or snack when I sell it to people. How can we survive like this,” asks B. Venkatesh, who runs a small eatery at Pulianthope. With an electorate of 2.2 lakh people, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar constituency, which was formed after the delimitation exercise, comprises areas like Pulianthope, Otteri, Pattalam, Ayanavaram and parts of Perambur. The lower middle class families are predominant in the constituency. Pandemic impact Abdul Khader, who runs a shop in Pattalam, says many have been rendered jobless after COVID-19 struck and the government should look at ways of generating jobs. Otteri Nullah that is supposed to carry flood water to the Buckingham Canal has not been desilted, and people dump garbage along its banks. Vidya B., a long-time resident of Otteri, says the mosquito menace has become worse. “All the by-lanes get flooded every monsoon. In my house, we always pack things as monsoon as hits, because we know rainwater will enter the house. They should desilt the canal often which they barely do,” she says. Residents say some roads were hurriedly laid recently ahead of the election. But some stretches are still in poor shape. Ammaiya Ammal Street is a case in point. Riding through it is a nightmare for people like N. Rathi. And that is not all. “The sewage gets mixed with drinking water often and we have to go complain now and then. We are fed up,” she says. After delimitation, voters elected V. Neelakandan of the AIADMK in 2011 and in 2016, they returned the DMK’s Thayagam Kavi. Mr. Kavi is seeking re-election. As if sensing the strong undercurrent of discontent, the AIADMK has given the seat to the Tamil Maanila Congress, which is fielding P.L. Kalyani, a local resident. Mr. Kavi says some roads have not been laid yet because the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) is yet to complete its work. Ms. Kalyani says, “I have been a resident of the area for years and I know what the issues are. If elected, I will first rectify the sewage overflow issues and change the pipelines and guarantee clean drinking water.”  The sewage gets mixed with drinking water often and we have to go complain every now and then. We are fed up  N. Rathi Resident of Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voters-grappling-with-loss-of-livelihood/article34070278.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wrong dates in vaccine certificates a concern||With COVID-19 vaccination picking up in the State, technical glitches and errors in data entry have been reported. While some who were vaccinated faced a delay in getting the vaccination certificate, many others were left in a fix after they received certificates with the wrong dates of them getting the shots. After a slow start, vaccination coverage has increased in the State, especially after it was opened up for senior citizens and persons aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities on March 1. However, a few glitches have cropped up. While some residents in the city complained that there was a delay in getting the vaccination certificate, a number of others were surprised to find the date of vaccination wrong in their certificates. A 69-year-old resident of Madipakkam, who was vaccinated at a nearby primary health centre, received a certificate with a wrong date of vaccination. He was vaccinated on March 9, while the certificate mentioned the date as March 13. His age, too, was wrongly entered as 70. “My father got vaccinated on March 9, and did not receive the SMS link till March 12. The doctor said there was some issue with uploading the details. When he got his certificate on March 13, the date of vaccination was wrong.” Another person, on condition of anonymity, said she received the vaccination at a private hospital in Chennai, but has ended up with two first dose certificates. “I think the problem is in uploading information as the provisional certificate that came after the first dose said it was done a week later. Though I took the second dose, I landed with another provisional first shot certificate. I now have a second first dose certificate with a new reference number,” she said. Similar issues were raised by a number of persons who received the vaccines in the city. A government doctor in Chennai said the SMS that was sent after the second dose carried the wrong date of vaccination. Officials of the Health Department said this may be due to data entry issues. “If there are any challenges in the vaccination certificates with regard to data discrepancies, we will get it rectified over a period of time,” an official said.  A government doctor in Chennai said the SMS that was sent after the second dose carried the wrong date of vaccination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrong-dates-in-vaccine-certificates-a-concern/article34070308.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 cases exceed 700 in Tamil Nadu||Fresh COVID-19 cases are rising slowly and steadily in a number of districts across Tamil Nadu. On Sunday, the State’s daily count exceeded 700 after a total of 759 persons tested positive for the infection. The new COVID-19 infections crossed the 700-mark eight days after the total exceeded 500 cases a day. It crossed 600 cases a day on March 10. Major chunk Chennai, along with Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur, continued to account for a major chunk of the fresh cases. Around 60% of the fresh cases came from these districts, with Chennai clocking in 294 cases, followed by 63 cases in Chengalpattu and 58 in Coimbatore. There were 42 cases in Tiruvallur. Thanjavur recorded a small rise in new infections after 44 persons tested positive. While Tiruppur recorded 33 cases, there were 27 cases in Kancheepuram and 22 in Erode. The number of districts that reported fewer than 10 cases dropped to 19 on Sunday, while Kallakurichi had no new cases of COVID-19. The fresh cases took the overall tally to 8,59,726. A total of 67,087 persons were tested in the last 24 hours. The State tested 67,269 samples. The total sample count stood at 1,82,84,550. Active cases Of the 4,870 active cases, Chennai accounted for 1,979. A total of 547 persons were discharged and four more persons succumbed to the infection. Till date, a total of 8,42,309 persons have been discharged and 12,547 persons have died in the State. While Chengalpattu recorded three deaths, Chennai reported one death. This included a 63-year-old man from Chengalpattu who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease. He died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here on March 13 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure.  Of the 4,870 active cases, Chennai accounted for 1,979. A total of 547 persons were discharged and four more deaths were recorded||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-cases-exceed-700-in-tamil-nadu/article34070294.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP announces its 17 candidates||The BJP announced a list of 17 candidates on Sunday afternoon for the Assembly election to be held on April 6. The party had been allotted 20 seats by the AIADMK. Hours after DMK MLA from Thiruparankundram P. Saravanan joined the BJP, the national party rewarded him with a ticket to contest the election from the Madurai North constituency. Mr. Saravanan had been elected to the Assembly in a bypoll. He was denied a ticket by the DMK this time. Mr. Saravanan is the second DMK MLA to switch to the BJP. Earlier, Thousand Lights MLA Ku. Ka. Selvam joined the BJP, but the seat has now been given to actor-politician Khushboo. BJP State president L. Murugan said Mr. Selvam didn’t want to contest. As per the list, Mr. Murugan will contest from Dharapuram (reserved) constituency. Mr. Murugan will be contesting against DMK’s Kayalvizhi Selvaraj. Vanathi Srinivasan has been named the candidate for Coimbatore South, where she will be facing actor-politician Kamal Haasan and Congress’ Mayura Jayakumar. Ms. Khushboo, who had been campaigning hard at Chepauk-Triplicane as the party’s election in-charge of the constituency, will be taking on N. Ezhilan, a physician, of the DMK at Thousand Lights constituency. Nainar Nagendran, who had already filed his nomination two days back for the Tirunelveli seat, has been allotted the constituency and he will be up against the DMK’s Lakshmanan. Former IPS officer K. Annamalai is being fielded at Aravakurichi against the DMK’s R. Elango. Other candidates The other candidates and their constituencies are: Vinoj P. Selvam (Harbour), Thanigavelu (Tiruvannamalai), former MLA Kalivarathan (Thirukovilur), C.K. Saraswathi (Modakurichi), D. Periyasamy (Thittakudi-reserved), Poondi S. Venkatesan (Thiruvaiyaru), H. Raja (Karaikudi), G. Pandurangan (Virudhunagar), D. Kuppuram (Ramanathapuram), M.R. Gandhi (Nagercoil) and P. Ramesh (Colachel). Candidates for three seats — Thali, Udhagamandalam and Vilavangode — are yet to be announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ticket-bjps-entry-gift-for-dmk-mla/article34070288.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Multi-modal transport hub coming up at Kathipara||Kathipara Junction will soon have a multi-modal urban square with several facilities, from bus bays to parking lot and eateries, under the flyover. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the work taken up at a cost of Rs. 14 crore to develop the square, spread over 55,000 square metres, is nearing completion and will be thrown open to public by the end of May. “The objective is to attract more people to use the Alandur Metro station, which is the largest elevated station linking the two stretches of phase I project with two levels,” said an official. In this square, there will be bus bays, a parking lot, food stalls, ATMs, kids play area and kiosks. MTC buses will have a stop in the square. “We will connect this Kathipara Urban Square and the Alandur Metro station with a pathway,” the official said. Landscaping planned There will be a lot of landscaping around this space, officials said. “This station has a reasonable footfall, and we think it will increase when the square is thrown open to public. Commuters, who want to eat or buy something, can use this spot. Once, this is opened to public, they will find it useful,” an official said. CMRL has been planning to provide last-mile connectivity from this square to the neighbourhood. A skywalk, equipped with escalators and elevators, to connect the Alandur Metro station to the other side of the road was opened sometime ago as this station has entry and exit only on one side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multi-modal-transport-hub-coming-up-at-kathipara/article34070275.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Can the State afford LPG subsidies?||Keeping in mind the spike in the prices of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders that is hurting consumers and hoping to hit the right chord with the middle class and the lower middle class, political parties have promised voters a subsidy on the refills. A domestic cylinder with 14.2 kg of gas is sold at Rs. 835 in Chennai (as on March 1), and the price varies according to the bottling plant. The subsidy is a meagre Rs. 25 a cylinder. The DMK has promised to give Rs. 100 per cylinder. The State has over 2.20 crore LPG connections. If two crore consumers get Rs. 100 per cylinder a month, it amounts to Rs. 200 crore. Besides subsidising LPG cylinders, the DMK has promised to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel, meaning a considerable dent in the State’s revenue. Similar is the case with the AIADMK’s promise of six free cylinders a year. With Rs. 800 as a base price per cylinder and 2 crore family cards, it will be Rs. 1,600 crore in expenditure every two months. In its manifesto released on Sunday, the party has announced that it will take steps to increase the quantity of subsidised diesel and kerosene supplied to mechanised and country-craft fishermen. An oil industry expert said that after COVID-19, the situation was so bad that even the Centre was not able to increase the subsidy. “They are slowly reducing subsidies and government interference in many sectors. In such a situation, these promises don’t seem to be keeping the State’s financial well-being in mind,” he said. A former IAS officer and said they would only lead the State to a financial mess from which it could not be retrieved. “We are now a power surplus State. These promises, if implemented, would lead us to a situation wherein we won’t be able to pay our power dues and we will be pushed back to the dark ages,” he said. Another former official said it could even lead to the cutting down of capital expenditures and affect the basic services like drinking water supply. However, another former official said the parties that have made such promises should know from where to raise funds. “Raising the prices of liquor and municipal taxes would be the possible avenues. Since the State already has good infrastructure, it won’t have to cut down on anything. It is only the question of maintaining what is in existence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/can-the-state-afford-lpg-subsidies/article34070253.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film director S.P. Jananathan passes away at 61||Director S.P. Jananathan died in the city on Sunday morning. He was 61. He was admitted to a hospital a few days ago. The acclaimed film-maker received the National Award for Best Feature Film in Tamil in 2004 for Iyarkai , his first film starring Shaam, Radhika and Arun Vijay. He went on to direct films such as E , starring Jiiva, and Peraanmai , starring Jayam Ravi. His films were known for their strong social commentary and varied themes. His last release as a film-maker was the critically acclaimed Purampokku Engira Podhuvudamai , starring Vijay Sethupathi and Arya in 2015. His films, especially E , Peraanmai and Purampokku Engira Podhuvudamai , reflected his belief in Communism. He believed in the direct communication of his political ideas in his films instead of using indirect narrative techniques to make his point. One of the most talked about scenes written by him was in Peraanmai where the protagonist, a young tribal forest officer, teaches young urban women about the Marxist perspective of how profit is extracted from the labour of human beings. Jananathan was fascinated by Tamil history and culture. In Purampokku Engira Podhuvudamai , the protagonist, who is on death row, says that a “Tamil nation” will not be possible if it does not take into account class contradictions. “He taught many of us how to approach and make a film with social consciousness. Mr. Jananathan taught us much more about film-making and the society than any other institution or person could,” said his long-time associate, friend and director Kalyanakrishnan. Jananathan penned the dialogues for Mr. Kalayanakrishnan’s film Bhoologam . Recognised by many aspiring directors as easygoing and accommodating, the film-maker was known to take in as many of them as possible to assist him on his projects. Jananathan had been busy with the post-production work for his film Laabam , starring Vijay Sethupathi and Shruti Haasan, which was to be released soon. Condolence messages poured in on social media from members of the Tamil film fraternity. Cinematographer P.C. Sreeram tweeted that Jananathan’s films would be remembered as they reflected his conviction towards society. Shruti Haasan thanked him for his wisdom and kind words. Director Mohan Raja said the film-maker had been an inspiration to many, including him. Jananathan’s funeral will take place on Monday morning.  He taught many of us how to approach and make a film with social consciousness Kalyanakrishnan Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-director-sp-jananathan-passes-away-at-61/article34070284.ece
15 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Cong. announces candidates for 21 seats||The Congress high-command on Saturday night released the list of candidates for 21 of the 25 Assembly constituencies allotted to it by the DMK and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency. As per the announcement made by AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik, V. Vijayakumar alias Vijay Vasanth, the son of H. Vasantha Kumar, whose death caused the vacancy, is the candidate for the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha by-election. Names of candidates for four Assembly constituencies including Vilavancode, the sitting seat for the party, have been withheld in the wake of protests held in TNCC headquarters Satyamurthy Bhavan. R. Mohan Kumaramangalam, the son of late Union Minister Rangarajan Kumaramanalam, is the candidate for the Omalur constituency. Thirumagan Evera, the son of former TNCC president EVKS Elangovan has been fielded in Erode (East) constituency. Dalit leader K. Selvaperunthagai is the candidate for Sriperumbudur (reserved) constituency. Mayura S. Jayakumar will enter the fray in Coimbatore (South) against Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) founder and actor Kamal Haasan. The seat has been allotted to the BJP in the AIADMK alliance and senior leader Vanathi Srinivasan might be the candidate. Though the Congress won three Assembly constituencies in Kanyakumari district in 2016, the candidate for Killiyoor alone has been announced. The sitting MLA Mr. Rajeshkumar is the candidate. Names of candidates for Colachel (sitting MLA J.G. Prince) and Vilavancode (sitting MLA Vijayadharini) constituencies are yet to be announced. Rubi Manoharan is the candidate for Nanguneri constituency. H Vasantha Kumar won from the constituency and resigned the post to contest in Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat in 2019. In Tenkasi, the party has fielded S. Palani Nadar and in Srivaikundam the candidate is Urvasi S. Amirthraj, the son of late Congress MLA Selvaraj. R. M. Karumanickam is entering the contest in Thiruvadanai and AMGC Ashokan from Sivakasi. P.S.W. Madhavara Rao is the candidate for Srivilliputhur (reserved) constituency and T. Ravichandran is for Melur constituency in Madurai. The party has fielded S. T. Ramachandran, son of party MP Su Thirunavukkarasar, in Aranthangi constituency and S. Mangudi in Karaikudi constituency. The candidate for Vriddhachalam is M.R.R. Radhakrishnan and K. Thennarasu is the candidate for Udumalaipettai. Sitting MLA R. Ganesh is re-entering the contest in Udhagamandalam and K.I. Manirathnam in Kallakurichi (reserved) constituency. J. S. Arumugam will enter the fray in Uthangarai (reserved) constituency and A.M. Munirathanam, who recently rejoined the Congress is the candidate for Sholingar. Durai Chandrasekar has been fielded in Ponneri (reserved) constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-announces-candidates-for-21-seats/article34070410.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not an iota of doubt about DMK’s victory, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday took a pledge to resolve the problems of the people, submitted to him through petitions in the ‘Stalin in your constituency’ programme, in 100 days. He said one crore families would benefit from the plan. “There will be a separate department to deal with the petitions. The officials designated for the work will fully concentrate on the petitions and will not do other work. I will come back to you again after 100 days to explain what we have done,” he said while taking a pledge in Anna Arivalayam. Mr. Stalin said he had visited 187 constituencies in the State, met 10 lakh people and received 17,77,000 petitions. “I could not go to other constituencies because the election date was announced,” he said. “There is not even an iota of doubt about our victory on May 2. The boxes containing the petitions will be opened the next day. There will be a district-wise camps to deal with the petitions and solution will be found in 100 days,” he said, adding that what people had expressed in their petitions were basic issues that could have been solved by the AIADMK government. “They do not need any sanction from the Centre or great funds. But the AIADMK government is interested only in making money and mere announcements. I received more petitions in Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s constituency,” he said. Mr. Stalin said there were critics who had raised doubts about his confidence of a win. “All I would say is wait and see. In the name of Anna and Kalaignar, I vow to fulfil them,” he said. He added that after filing his nomination for the Kolathur constituency on Monday, he would leave for his hometown Tiruvarur, from where he would launch his election campaign on March 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-an-iota-of-doubt-about-dmks-victory-says-stalin/article34070296.ece
15 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Thirumavalavan announces candidates’ list for the poll||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday announced the names of candidates who will be contesting in six Assembly constituencies across the State. Party general secretary Sinthanai Selvan will be contesting from Kattumannarkoil. Its deputy general secretary, Vanni Arasu, has been fielded in Vanur. Panayur Babu, the media coordinator, will contest from Cheyyur. The party’s deputy general secretaries — Gautam Sanna, Aloor Shanavas and S.S. Balaji — will contest from Arakkonam, Nagapattinam and Thiruporur constituencies respectively. Announcing the list, Mr. Thirumalvalavan said, “We will be contesting with our own symbol. I am requesting the cooperation of every cadre of our allies to help us win in all the six constituencies.” Driving away sanathana forces and protecting democracy was the main aim of his party, he said, adding that some party members may be unhappy over their names not figuring in the list. He felt sorry for not being able to give them and the women members a chance.  I am requesting the cooperation of every cadre of our allies to help us win in all the six constituencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-chief-releases-candidates-list/article34070301.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMDK joins hands with AMMK||The Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), which quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance a few days ago, clinched an electoral deal with the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) on Sunday evening and was allocated 60 seats. The agreement was signed by DMDK presidium chairman V. Elangovan and AMMK Deputy General Secretary G. Senthamizhan. The AMMK said the party would withdraw its candidates already announced for the 60 constituencies. DMDK chief Vijayakant is not contesting. The party’s treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant will be contesting from Virudhachalam Assembly constituency and deputy secretary and former MLA P. Parthasarathy will contest from Virugambakkam. Meanwhile, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in a statement, referred to the withdrawal of his candidates in 60 seats, which have been allocated to the DMDK and hoped that the party men would understand the need for ensuring victory of allies in all 234 Assembly constituencies. “I assure that those candidates, whose names have been withdrawn, would be given opportunities at the right time in the future,” he said. The constituencies allocated to the DMDK are: Gummidipoondi, Tiruttani, Avadi, Villivakkam, Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar, Egmore, Virugambakkam, Sholinganallur, Pallavaram. Cheyyur, Madhurantakam, K.V. Kuppam, Uthangarai, Veppanahalli, Palacode, Pennagaram, Chengam, Kalasapakkam, Arni, Mailam, Tindivanam, Vanur, Tirukoilur, Kallakurichi, Yercaud, Mettur, Salem West, Namakkal, Kumarapalayam, Perundurai, Bhavanisagar, Gudalur, Avinashi, Tiruppur North, Valparai, Oddanchathiram Nilakkottai, Karur, Krishnarayapuram, Manapparai, Thiruverumbur, Musiri, Perambalur, Tittagudi, Vridhachalam, Panruti, Cuddalore, Kilvelur, Peravurani, Pudukkottai, Solavandan, Madurai West, Aruppukkottai, Paramakudi, Thoothukudi, Ottapidaram, Alangulam, Radhapuram, Colachel and Vilavancode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-joins-hands-with-ammk-to-contest-in-60-constituencies/article34070312.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases exceed 700 in T.N.||Fresh coronavirus infections are rising steadily in a number of districts across the State. On Sunday, the State’s daily count exceeded 700 as a total of 759 persons tested positive for COVID-19. The new cases crossed the 700-mark eight days after the total exceeded 500 cases a day. It crossed 600 cases a day on March 10. Chennai along with Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur continued to account for a major chunk of the fresh cases. Around 60% of the fresh cases came from these districts with Chennai clocking in 294 cases followed by Chengalpattu (63), Coimbatore (58). There were 42 cases in Tiruvallur, while Thanjavur recorded a small rise in new infections than usual as 44 persons tested positive. While Tiruppur recorded 33 cases, there were 27 cases in Kancheepuram and 22 in Erode. The number of districts that reported fewer than 10 cases dropped to 19 on Sunday, while Kallakurichi had no new cases of COVID-19. The fresh cases took the overall tally to 8,59,726. A total of 67,087 persons were tested in the last 24 hours. Samples-wise, the State tested 67,269 samples. The total sample count stood at 1,82,84,550. Of the 4,870 active cases, Chennai accounted for 1,979. A total of 547 persons were discharged and four more persons succumbed to the infection. Till date, a total of 8,42,309 persons were discharged and 12,547 persons have died in the State. While Chengalpattu recorded three deaths, Chennai reported one death. This included a 63-year-old man from Chengalpattu who had diabetes, systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease. He died at Rajiv Gandhi GH on March 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-exceed-700-in-tn/article34070396.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector rescues woman stuck in Adyar river||A police inspector rescued a 55-year-old mentally ill woman who was stuck in the slush in Adyar river near Saidapet early on Saturday. Inspector Pugazhendhi was proceeding towards Panagal Maligai around 2.30 a.m. on Saturday, when he found a woman struggling to come out of the slush in the Adyar. He alerted the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services. The inspector got down into the river and pulled her out with the help of some logs and tiles. Her son Anandan was informed about the rescue and he took her home. Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Vikraman lauded the inspector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-rescues-woman-stuck-in-adyar-river/article34070270.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro station hosts awareness programme||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) organised cultural performances as part of an awareness programme ahead of the Assembly election at the Guindy Metro station on Sunday. The Nimirvu Kalaiyagam troupe presented the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-station-hosts-awareness-programme/article34070273.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child drowns in a bucket at Mannadi||An 18-month-old girl drowned in a bucket at her home at Mannadi in the North Beach police station limits on Saturday. According to the police, Iniyasree, daughter of Kumaresan and Kalaivani residing on Subbu Pillai Street, was found dead in the bucket in the bathroom by her parents on Saturday afternoon. The couple were asleep. The police suspect that the child might have peeped into the bucket and fallen head first into the water. “We are investigating,” said a police officer. The police have sent the body to the Government Stanley Hospital for post-mortem. (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-drowns-in-a-bucket-at-mannadi/article34070279.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for circulating counterfeit notes||Three men have been arrested by the flying squad in the Elephant Gate police station limits on Saturday as they were in possession of counterfeit currency notes with a face value of Rs. 4.07 lakh. The police suspect that they were planning to circulate them across the city. According to the police, a flying squad, led by a sub-inspector, secured a man who was loitering in the market on Saturday night. The police found counterfeit currency notes with a face value of Rs. 50,000, in the denomination of Rs. 500. The police gave the names of the arrested as Vimal Jain, 30, from Pattalam. During investigation, he gave information about Chetan Patel, 25, of Erukkanchery, and counterfeit currency notes with a face value of Rs. 66,500 were seized from him. Since he had got the notes from Chellaram, 45, of MKB Nagar, the police nabbed him too. Counterfeit currency notes with a face value of Rs. 2.91 lakh were seized from him. All the three were remanded in judicial custody on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-circulating-counterfeit-notes/article34070280.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Dismiss plea on 26 verses in Koran’||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, said that a recent petition by the former Chairman of the U.P. Shia Central Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi in the Supreme Court seeking removal of 26 verses from the Koran on the grounds that they “promote violence and terrorism” should be dismissed forthwith. Stating that his attention had been drawn to several reports about the same by members of the community, Mr. Ali said the petition had been condemned by eminent people and learned scholars from both the Shia and Sunni communities. “Such an absurd, frivolous and vexatious petition deserves to be dismissed at the outset,” he said. “There is not a single verse in the entire Holy Qur’an, which promotes violence or terrorism, when read in its proper context. The Holy Qur’an condemns unjustified violence and terrorism, while permitting self-defence. Only a distorted reading of verses taken out of the context can lead to such utterly wrong views, as expressed by Waseem Rizvi,” the Prince of Arcot said in a statement. He said the court was not the proper forum or body to decide which verses can be allowed or removed from a religious book. “This would be a serious interference in the religious beliefs of communities concerned affecting their right to freedom of religion. If any court entertains such a petition, tomorrow it may be faced with similar petitions for the removal of verses from the religious books and scriptures of other religious communities,” his statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dismiss-plea-on-26-verses-in-koran/article34070282.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||J&K Tourism Dept. organises roadshow||The Jammu and Kashmir Department of Tourism, in collaboration with the Travel Agents’ Society of Kashmir (TASK) organised a roadshow in the city recently, which saw over 160 travel agents taking part. Additional Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir Tourism Waseem Raja highlighted the known and lesser-known tourist destinations for art and craft, pilgrimage and adventure, besides the upcoming festivals there. He assured the agents of all necessary support from the department in making the stay of tourists in the Union Territory memorable and comfortable. Besides Mr. Raja, the team of Jammu and Kashmir tourism was represented by DGM, Jammu and Kashmir Tourist Development Corporation, Ashwani Gupta; Tourist officer, Chennai, T.P. Singh; president of TASK Mir Anwar; vice-president of TASK Athar Yamin and its other members. The roadshow was attended by director of information and public relations, Tamil Nadu, Bhaskaran; director of the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation T.P. Rajesh; president of the Tamil Nadu Tour, Travel and Hospitality Association V.K.T. Balan; chairman, TAAI (southern region) K. Shah ul Hamid; president of the Tamil Nadu Tourist Vehicle Operators’ Association A. Afzal, and secretary of ADTOI, Tamil Nadu chapter, Ashok Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jk-tourism-dept-organises-roadshow/article34070306.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK promises resolution in Assembly against CAA||The DMK announced in its election manifesto that it would urge the Centre to withdraw the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019. Party president M.K. Stalin, who released the manifesto, said he had been fighting against the CAA and had collected one crore signatures in support of its withdrawal. “The signatures have been sent to the President. Once we form the government, the DMK will adopt a resolution in the Assembly demanding its withdrawal,” he said. The party’s manifesto also promised to get citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamils who have been living in camps across the country. The manifesto also made it clear that the party won’t grant permission for a port at Kattupalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-promises-resolution-in-assembly-against-caa/article34070291.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered during spat||A 33-year-old security guard surrendered in the Kodungaiyur police station after he reportedly murdered a labourer on Saturday night. According to the police, Prasanna Kumar Jana of Odisha was working at a construction site where Dugna Sahu, 33, from the same State, was posted as a security guard. On Saturday night, Prasanna Kumar reportedly brought his friends to consume liquor. However, as Dugna Sahu opposed this, Prasanna Kumar pushed him down. Dugna Sahu left the premises and returned with a brick. He hit Prasanna Kumar on his head with the brick and the latter reportedly died on the spot. Dugna Sahu surrendered before the police. The police sent Prasanna Kumar’s body for post-mortem. Dugna Sahu has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-during-spat/article34070281.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Attack on Kamal’s car alleged||Makkal Needhi Maiam general secretary (party structure - North and East) A.G. Mourya on Sunday night said on Twitter that a person had attempted to break actor and MNM president Kamal Haasan’s car window in Kancheepuram. Mr. Haasan was in Kancheepuram to address a public meeting on Sunday evening. “A person who attempted to break the car window of our party president has been handed over to the police. We will not back down because of those who are attempting to create a barrier to our path of honesty,” Mr. Mourya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-kamals-car-alleged/article34070289.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cash, goods seized from Chennai||Flying squads and static surveillance teams have seized cash and materials worth Rs. 5.8 crore from the 16 Assembly constituencies of Chennai district after the announcement of election. According to data compiled by the Chennai district election office on Sunday evening, most cash and materials have been seized from 20 locations in the northern and central parts of the city. On Sunday, Rs. 93,000 was seized from the Virugambakkam Assembly constituency, the first in south Chennai. On Saturday, 3,370 kg of PDS rice bags were seized from Nelson Manickam Road. On Friday, officials seized 12.6 kg of gold from the Anna Nagar Assembly constituency. The gold was worth Rs. 5 crore. Most materials seized in the city have been from the Harbour Assembly constituency. On E.V.R. Periyar Salai, officials seized 2.6 kg of silver 10 days ago. Railway Protection Force personnel seized Rs. 16.6 lakh cash and 15.3 kg of silver from a passenger at the MGR Chennai Central railway station on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-goods-seized-from-chennai/article34070302.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK candidate changed||The AIADMK on Sunday changed its candidate in the Kurinjipadi constituency and fielded former Minister Selvi Ramajayam in the seat in Cuddalore. However, the party did not specify a reason for its decision. R. Palanisamy was initially the candidate. Disgruntled AIADMK workers damaged window panes and a campaign vehicle at the party office in Padhirikuppam here to register their protest against the change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-candidate-changed/article34070286.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to file nomination papers today||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will file his nomination papers in the Edappadi Assembly constituency in Salem district on Monday. According to party sources, he would file his papers at 1 p.m. and campaign in Nangavalli, Jalakandapuram, Chettimankurichi, Edappadi and Konganapuram in Salem district on Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-file-nomination-papers-today/article34070298.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP||T.K. Rohit   Social media was abuzz after DMK MLA P. Saravanan, who joined the BJP on Sunday morning, found his name in the party’s candidate list released the same evening. It was a surprise even for the BJP cadre. When reporters questioned BJP State president L. Murugan, he said: “Mr. Saravanan joined the party yesterday itself. We are just making it official in front of you today.” Mr. Murugan said Mr. Saravanan had joined the BJP through the “online” mode. When a reporter asked, “Oh [through] a missed call?” Mr. Murugan and his supporters burst out laughing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp/article34070257.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Blue tick||S. Poorvaja   Hours after she was named as the candidate from the BJP for Thousand Lights, actor and politician Kushboo Sundar appealed to Twitter, through her handle, to look into restoring “verified” status to her account, at the earliest. “Humbly request @verified @TwitterIndia to kindly look into restoring my verified blue tick at the earliest,” she tweeted. The blue verified badge on Twitter is to let people know that an account of public interest is authentic and serves as a confirmation of their identity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blue-tick/article34070261.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Freebies||SanjAy Vijaykumar   Manifestos of both the AIADMK and the DMK for the 2021 Assembly election have a slew of freebie announcements, which raises questions about their impact on the State’s finances. The recent report of the 15th Finance Commission pointed out that the profligacy during 2014–2016 (in the run up to the election in May 2016) perhaps had a telling effect on the fiscal indicators of the State. It can be recalled that Tamil Nadu moved from a revenue surplus to a revenue deficit State after 2012-13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freebies/article34070263.ece
15 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industrial needs take priority||Almost every neighbourhood in this city buzzes with one activity or another related to garment making. Tiruppur, the knitwear capital of the country, has thousands of Micro, Small and Medium-scale garment units, employing workers who have come from different parts of the country. In 2016, the AIADMK won the seat and this year it is again going to be a direct contest between the DMK and the AIADMK. The main demand of Tiruppur South Assembly constituency is infrastructure for industrial development, says Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. Taking priority among the infrastructure needs is housing for workers. “Workers shell out almost 30 % of their earnings towards monthly house rent. With the COVID-19 pandemic, rentals have gone up,” points out a trade union source. Thus, affordable housing for the workers is a major demand. The industry had submitted this demand to all the political parties. Another need of the industries is an internationally-recognised laboratory, exclusively for the knitwear sector. In the recent weeks, steep hike in yarn prices, the raw material for garment makers, has become the talk of the town. “So far, yarn prices remain an industrial issue. However, if the prices keep going up, it will affect jobs and will be an election issue,” says Mr. Shanmugham. For the public, the slow pace and lack of details regarding Smart City works taken up in their area is a matter of concern. “The road remains dug up. We are unable to bring our cars and two-wheelers inside the house. If the utility lines are damaged during the works, the time taken for restoration is long. And no political leader from the area has visited us and listened to our grievances,” says a resident of Rayapuram. Roads certainly need attention. The roads remain congested and damaged, says another resident of College Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-needs-take-priority/article34070326.ece
15 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Kamal will realise the difference between acting and politics’||Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan would soon realise the difference between acting and politics, National president of BJP’s Mahila Morcha and the party’s candidate for Coimbatore South Assembly constituency Vanathi Srinivasan said here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, she said he would get the realisation after entering the field. People would turn up for his meeting but that would be because he was an actor. And, the turn out would not necessarily translate into votes for him. He would also come to understand that mere presence on the digital space, including social media, would not help him gain acceptance among voters. Stating that she was confident of winning the Coimbatore South constituency this time, Ms. Srinivasan said that in the last Assembly election she secured around 34,000 votes. This time, though, with the AIADMK support she was confident of getting more votes. The 2021 Assembly election would be different from the 2019 Parliamentary election in that the voters’ mindset had changed and the AIADMK government had reached out to the people. In response to a question, Ms. Srinivasan said the BJP had given opportunity to new faces and youngsters to contest election. Ms. Srinivasan would file her nomination on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-will-realise-the-difference-between-acting-and-politics/article34070329.ece
15 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||More than 1,800 take part in ‘Victory Run’||More than 1,800 persons participated in the ‘Victory Run', a marathon organised by the tri-services in the city on Sunday as part of the ongoing celebrations of the golden jubilee year of India's victory in the 1971 war with Pakistan. Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, Coimbatore, and Jose Chacko, Governor, Rotary District 3201, flagged off the marathon at Race Course. According to organisers, 750 tri-services personnel, their family members, NCC cadets, Rotarians and 1,100 people from the district took part in the marathon. T-shirts and certificates were given to all participants of the marathon that was conducted with the support of Rotary G-40 Coimbatore district. Victory flame INS Agrani on Saturday received one of the four victory flames of the golden jubilee celebrations which is currently touring major defence establishments in south India. Vice Admiral (retd.) B. Kannan, Surgeon Rear Admiral (retd.) Nirmala Kannan, 85-year-old Noreen Enid Harris and Commodore Rai received the victory flame. Ms. Harris is the wife of late Charles Valentine, a former Chief Petty Officer who joined the Royal Indian Navy on December 15, 1941 who later participated in the 1971 Indo-Pak war wherein he was in the Fleet Reserve. On Friday, the NCC Group, Coimbatore, received the victory flame at the Government Arts College. More than 500 NCC cadets and NCC officers, defence personnel from various colleges, schools and NCC units of Coimbatore zone took part in the event. Colonel L. Chandrasekharan Naidu, Group Commander, NCC Group Coimbatore, Colonel J.P.S. Chauhan, Commanding Officer, 4 Tamil Nadu Battalion NCC, and Lieutenant Colonel Girish Parthan, Commanding Officer of 2 Tamil Nadu Artillery Battery NCC, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-than-1800-take-part-in-victory-run/article34070331.ece
15 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Six juveniles escape from observation home in Coimbatore||Six offenders escaped from the observation home for juveniles after allegedly assaulting and grabbing the keys from the warden late on Saturday. The police, who sent alerts to all the neighbouring districts about the escape, managed to trace four of them to Udumalpet bus stand as they alighted a bus there early on Sunday morning. According to the police, the Juvenile Delinquents Observation Home at Lakshmi Mills junction on Avinashi Road housed 11 inmates. Six of them allegedly plotted a plan and executed it when they were taken out of their room for dinner around 7.30 p.m. on Saturday. They snatched the keys from the warden after overpowering and locking him in a room. Other five inmates were locked up in another room. The warden managed to come out of the room and informed the police about the escape around 10 p.m., said a police officer. The Race Course police immediately sent alerts to police control rooms in all the neighbouring districts. Searches were conducted in probable places such as bus stands and railway stations. “Four of them were secured when they alighted a bus at Udumalpet bus stand early on Sunday morning. One of them hailed from Tiruppur. Of the two inmates who are yet to be traced, one hails from Coimbatore and other from Erode,” said the officer. The six juveniles also took away Rs. 400 from the warden which they used for bus tickets, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-juveniles-escape-from-observation-home-in-coimbatore/article34070446.ece
15 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 21,500 officials undergo election training||Coimbatore district administration on Sunday conducted the first level training for 21,534 officials at a centre each in one of the 10 Assembly constituencies allotted to them. A release from the district administration said 5,331 officials designated as principal election officer, 5,328 officials as polling officer I, 5,489 officials as polling officer II and 5,386 officials designated as polling officer III underwent the training in 10 centres. The administration had conducted the training at National Matriculation School for officials posted to the Mettupalayam Assembly constituency, RVS College of Arts and Science in Sulur Assembly constituency, Kongunadu Arts and Science College in Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency, Hindusthan Arts and Science College in Coimbatore North Assembly constituency, Sri Krishna Arts and Science College in Thondamuthur Assembly constituency, Nirmala College for Women in Coimbatore South Assembly constituency, PSG College of Technology in Singanallur Assembly constituency, Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology in Kinathukadavu Assembly constituency and Dr. Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology for officials posted in Pollachi and Valparai Assembly constituencies.  Officials, who conducted the training, told the trainee officers about the procedure to be followed prior to voting, while voters exercised their franchise, forms each of the officers would have to fill, functioning of electronic voting machines and control units, the release said and added that during the training the administration also gave them the postal ballot forms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-21500-officials-undergo-election-training/article34070323.ece
15 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District sees 58 COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Sunday logged 58 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 396 active cases on Sunday while 46 persons returned to their homes after recovering from the disease. In Tiruppur district, 33 persons tested positive. The Health Department said that 184 persons from Tiruppur district were undergoing treatment for the disease in different hospitals as of Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 13 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,441. The number of deaths in the district stood at 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-sees-58-covid-19-cases/article34070327.ece
15 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore start up raises funds||Juicy Chemistry, an organic skin and personal care brand, has raised $ 6.3 million in a Series A funding round led by Belgium-based investment firm Verlinvest. Organic products According to a press release, Juicy Chemistry was founded by Megha and Pritesh Asher in Coimbatore in 2014 and offers a range of certified organic, personal care products.  Rapid expansion “The investment will enable Juicy Chemistry to strengthen its position as a leader in the clean and organic beauty segment. We are keen to leverage this capital for the rapid expansion of Juicy Chemistry’s thriving e-commerce platform and omni-channel distribution capabilities, to reach new and existing geographies, to hire talent, for brand building and to cater to the increasing demand for products both domestically and in the international market” said Pritesh Asher, Co-Founder and CEO of Juicy Chemistry.  Jump in revenues The company saw a 300 % jump in revenues for this financial year with a growing customer base, the press statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-start-up-raises-funds/article34070319.ece
15 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK workers arrested for their FB posts||The Pollachi East police on Sunday arrested two Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) workers for alleged defamatory posts on AIADMK leader Pollachi V. Jayaraman on Facebook. The arrested were S. Prabhu from Periyar Colony (West) and S. Patteeswaran from Udumalai road in Pollachi. According to the police, Prabhu is the Pollachi town secretary of DMK’S volunteer team, and Patteeswaran is the district deputy organiser of DMK’s art and literary wing. The two were arrested based on a complaint lodged by an AIADMK functionary. The complaint accused the two workers of having shared defamatory posts on Mr. Jayaraman on Facebook. The posts, which had mentions of the Pollachi sexual abuse case, came after Mr. Jayaraman was nominated as AIADMK’s candidate in Pollachi constituency for the Assembly election, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-workers-arrested-for-facebook-posts-on-aiadmk-leader/article34070320.ece
15 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested||A week after a youth hailing from Vadakkipalayam went missing, the police on Saturday arrested a 20-year-old youth who murdered the former by pushing him into the Contour Canal of the Parambikulam Aliyar Project (PAP) near Anamalai. The Vadakkipalayam police arrested J. Udayakumar of Sethumadai from whom the investigating team recovered a costly motorcycle which belonged to the deceased – A. Prasath alias Purushothamman of Athiyur. The police said that Udayakumar confessed of murdering Prasth by pushing him into the Canal on March 7 to steal his motorcycle worth Rs. 2.45 lakh. The Vadakkipalayam police had registered a man missing case after Prasath’s mother Sathyapriya lodged a complaint stating that her son went missing on March 7. Prasath had told her that he was going to meet a friend at Anamalai to buy a horse. “Udayakumar had craze for motorcycles and horses. He knew that Prasath owned a costly motorcycle. The motive of the murder was to steal the two-wheeler and settle his debts,” said Vadakkipalayam inspector Vijayan. Following Udaykumar’s confession and recovery of Prasath’s two-wheeler from him, the police altered the man missing case which they registered initially. The police added that Prasath’s body was yet to be retrieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-arrested-for-murder-of-missing-man/article34070332.ece
15 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on March 25||The Department of Posts will conduct a Dak Adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, on March 25 at 11 a.m. Specific complaints related to postal service in Coimbatore division should be sent to Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, Coimbatore - 641001 before March 22. The cover should be superscribed as Dak Adalat, said a press release.   A five-year-old boy from Negamam died after being run over by a tractor on which he was playing on Friday. The deceased has been identified as S. Vibin from Nalla Thanneer Thottam near Negamam. The police said that the accident occurred on Friday evening when the boy was playing on a stationary tractor. The boy played with the gear of the tractor which moved when he unknowingly pulled the knob to the neutral mode. As the vehicle started moving, the boy tried to jump from it. However, he was run over by the left tyre of the tractor engine. Though he was rushed to the Government Hospital, Pollachi, doctors declared him brought dead.       The Sultanpet branch of Canara Bank has shifted to a new premises. During the inauguration, loans worth Rs. 4 crore were disbursed to SHG members, MSMEs and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-march-25/article34070324.ece
15 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Police geared to handle elections peacefully’||Out of 1015 licensed guns, 961 have been surrendered with the respective jurisdictional police stations, while the remaining 54 weapons were being used by officers. Complying with the Election Commission of India's guidelines, in view of the general elections to the Legislative Assembly on April 6, the district police have drawn up a comprehensive plan and executed it. At a review meeting, chaired by Inspector General of Police (south zone) Murugan on Sunday, the DIG of Police Muthusamy, Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya and others said that the police were geared to handle the elections in a peaceful manner. The officers said that three companies of Central forces had arrived in the district. Based on the assessments, 18 locations, which were considered vulnerable, flag marches were held. As many as 138 anti-social elements, who had a history of criminal records, had given a pledge before the RDO that they would conduct themselves as per the laws and would not indulge in any violations during the poll process. Likewise, the officers said that since January, seven persons were detained under the Goondas Act. The 11 check-posts installed in the district at different locations, had round-the-clock surveillance and checks were under way. So far, 312 cases were booked for poll violations in the district. There were 72 flying squads. Recently, the Natham police had booked a person on charges of possessing country made guns in Palanipatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-geared-to-handle-elections-peacefully/article34070425.ece
15 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Five teenagers drown in dam||In a tragic incident, five teenagers drowned in the Kamarajar dam near Athur here on Sunday. Police said that six teenagers from Bharatipuram Sourashtra Colony near here went to the dam for bathing around 11 a.m. Even as they were all taking a swim, suddenly two among them went missing. When three other boys went in search of them deeper, they too drowned. After an alarm was raised, fire and rescue service personnel reached the spot. After about 30 minutes, the team retrieved five bodies, which were sent to the Government Hospital for post-mortem. Sembatti police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-teenagers-drown-while-bathing-in-athur-dam/article34070310.ece
15 March 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Work hard to fight against corruption’||Expressing concern over the poor turnout and ‘nonchalant’ attitude of the functionaries at the booth committee meetings, senior leader P. Chidambaram said that the need of the hour for the Congress was to fight with a fire, which alone would help bring back the sheen of the party. The Congress leader, who has been extensively presiding over party workers' meetings in the district over the last fortnight ahead of the general election to the Legislative Assembly, said that it would be important for the Congress to stand on its own, when a seat was allotted to the party by the ally (DMK). "I am here to fight valiantly against the BJP. The party should not win even one seat. For this to be achieved, the party has to work hard and fight against corruption and malpractice of the opponents," he said. When many of the political parties had started campaigning, the functionaries of the Congress party had not even showed up for booth-level meetings. Time was running out. The campaign had to start any time now. "We have to meet the people. We have to tell them about the need for voting for us. We have to expose the BJP," he said. To achieve this, Mr Chidambaram said that the support of the cadres and the functionaries at district level was very important. The high command cannot be blamed. Having got 25 seats from the DMK, the Congress had to get into action and work hard. Our immediate goal should be to win all the 25 Assembly Constituencies. There was no point in fighting against the allies for more seats or to allot tickets for constituencies not given to the Congress, he said. With the party having got Karaikudi Assembly Constituency, the former Union Minister was shocked over the absence of the designated functionaries, who had not turned up for the booth committee meeting. Though some of them turned up after his arrival, when he inquired about the other names, the functionaries said that they were away at a temple festival. Winding up his address, when he left the meeting, functionaries from different groups in Devakottai lined up before Mr Chidambaram's car seeking tickets and submitted petitions. Only a few days ago, Mr Chidambaram had said that the number of seats allotted to the Congress had been steadily falling election after election. He had underlined the need to arrest the trend and improve the number of victories in a phenomenal manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-hard-to-fight-against-corruption-chidambaram/article34070309.ece
15 March 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Congress chooses district VP as candidate for Karaikudi||S. Mangudi, a graduate and a building contractor, is the Congress candidate for Karaikudi Assembly Constituency. He has been the vice president of the party for Sivaganga district and has also served as panchayat president of Sankarapuram from 2006-2016. The BJP has announced H. Raja as its candidate for Karaikudi Assembly constituency. A senior politician, he has held many positions in the party at State and national- level. Though he had contested in the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, he had not succeeded.       Sivaganga  The CPI has chosen two-time MLA and past district secretary S. Gunasekaran as its candidate for Sivaganga Assembly constituency. The 66-year-old candidate has been instrumental in leading many agitations in the district and at State-level on key issues. He is also the State president of the TN Vivasayigal Sangam.       Ramanathapuram  The BJP has announced advocate Kuppuram as its candidate for Ramanathapuram Assembly constituency. A senior in the party and a staunch supporter of Hindutva, he has long been associated with the RSS. He had represented the issues of fishermen on Ram Sethu project and among other issues from Ramanathapuram district at the national-level. He was State president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, vice president of RSS, State president of TN Fishermen Welfare Association and other associations.  Thiruvadanai AC K. R. Manikam is the Congress candidate for Tiruvadanai Assembly constituency. Coming from a family of politicians, Mr Manikam is the third generation, and a member in the All India Congress Committee. A lawyer, he has served as union councillor from Kannangudi Union. His father K. R. Ramasami had won five times from the constituency and later won once from Karaikudi Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-chooses-district-vp-as-candidate-for-karaikudi/article34070421.ece
15 March 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Balaji||C. Jaisankar   While a majority of contestants for the Assembly election have adopted conventional approaches to garner votes, some have chosen to walk the extra mile to woo electors. DMK candidate for the Karur constituency, V. Senthil Balaji, who faces fierce competition from Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar, has been seeking votes by touching the feet of voters. Minutes after offering prayers at the Muthalamman temple in Kodangipatti near Karur, he began his campaign on Saturday by touching the feet of every voter in Kodangipatti, Perumalpatti, Othaiyur and Paraiyur. Though some were not comfortable with the method, Mr. Balaji did not mind and moved on with his plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/balaji/article34070259.ece
15 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre miffed over entry of Saravanan into electoral fray||A group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre staged a demonstration in front of their party office here on Sunday protesting the party’s decision to announce former Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA P. Saravanan, who joined the BJP on Sunday, as its candidate for Madurai North Assembly constituency. Dr. Saravanan, who won the Tirupparankundram by-elections on DMK ticket, was denied a seat by the Dravidian party in the April 6 Assembly elections, after the seat was allotted to its ally Communist Party of India (Marxist). Dejected over this, Dr. Saravanan joined the BJP on Sunday morning and he was given a ticket to contest from Madurai North constituency. BJP district secretary A. Nagarajan, who led the protest on Sunday, said it was unfair that BJP leaders had chosen Dr. Saravanan over senior party leaders. He was asked to contest from Madurai North constituency within a few hours after joining the party. This has disappointed the cadre who have worked hard for several years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-miffed-over-entry-of-saravanan-into-electoral-fray/article34070624.ece
15 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Development remains a distant dream for Usilampatti||Usilampatti Assembly constituency, which is located in the western periphery of Madurai district, remains an exception to the saying that ‘change is the only constant.’ Water scarcity, declining agricultural activities, lack of industries and job opportunities, are some of the major reasons for this region remaining underdeveloped. Usilampatti, which is predominantly arid, is plagued by drinking water scarcity and depleting groundwater table. Although the 58-canal scheme was completed after several struggles, there are several inadequacies in the project, says P. Tamilselvan, Coordinator of 58 Grama Pasana Sangam. “A portion of the canal breached at least two times in the last three years when water was released from Vaigai dam. Farmers are demanding for construction of a cement channel in vulnerable spots to tackle the issue,” he says. This year only one out of the 33 tanks filled up to the optimum storage level when water was released through the 58-canal scheme, he adds. Apart from agriculture, water scarcity has also makes it difficult for farmers to find a water source for their livestock. The declining trend in agriculture and lack of other job opportunities have forced many families to migrate to other districts and States for their livelihood. Many families have migrated to Maharahtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh They make idlis, ‘murukkus’ etc., or work as daily wage labourers there. Although political parties promised to set up a SIPCOT at Sedapatti union of the constituency, no step has been taken towards it, says O. Soundarapandian, a social worker. “Only when industries are established, this region will witness development,” he adds. Establishment of a scent factory in Usilampatti is another long-pending demand of farmers. “Usilampatti is the major producer of ‘madurai malli’ in the district. Establishment of a scent factory will ensure that jasmine farmers earn good returns throughout the year,” says P. Manikandan, president of Madurai District Wet and Dry Land Farmers’ Association. Lopsided sex ratio Usilampatti is also infamous for its lopsided sex ratio. Child marriages and female infanticide are still reported here. A government school teacher says there is an urgent need to start a government higher secondary school, exclusively for girl students, so as to tackle the issue of child marriage which is widely prevalent in the region. “There is also a need to sensitise families so as to bring about a change in their mindset about girls,” he says. Caste dynamics The constituency, with a majority belonging to Piramalai Kallar caste of Mukkalathors, has sensitive pockets where there are frequent clashes between the dominant castes and the Dalits. The three major contestants for the upcoming Assembly elections are all from the Piramalai Kallar community. The All-India Forward Bloc, which is an ally of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, has fielded P.V. Kathiravan, a former MLA from the constituency. I. Mahendran, a former Usilampatti MLA, will be contesting for Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam. The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has denied a seat for the sitting MLA P. Neethipathi and instead has fielded P. Aiyappan, who is contesting the Assembly polls for the first time. Redressing issues related to the 58-canal scheme and establishing industries in Usilampatti are some of the major promises made by the candidates.  A government higher secondary school for girls must be established to tackle the issue of child marriage School teacher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/development-remains-a-distant-dream-for-usilampatti/article34070630.ece
15 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Very little material to help survivors of suicide loss’||Be it poverty, illness or disability, there is gendered stigmatisation, said retired Madras High Court Judge Prabha Sridevan at the release of a book penned by writer and activist Nandini Murali titled, ‘Left behind: surviving suicide loss.’ The book deals with how to deal with the stigma. Justice Prabha Sridevan received the first copy of the book at the event held at LAICO Auditorium here on Saturday. Senior Consultant Psychiatrist R. Raguram called the book a path-breaking contribution. He stressed the need for establishing a digital archive for the use of survivors of suicide loss. Consultant Psychiatrist S. Mohan Raj said there is very little material in India to help the survivors of suicide loss. ‘Just the beginning’ This is the beginning, he said. Agreeing with him was Director of Projects, Aravind Eyecare Systems Aravind Srinivasan. Vice-Chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University M. Krishnan said the book was a platform for such issues. Managing Director of Hi-Tech Arai B.T. Bangera recollected his association with Ms. Nandini Murali. The first copy of the book was released by S. Renuka of Novartis, and a survivor of suicide loss. Overwhelmed by the support, Ms. Nandini Murali said, “Through the book on surviving suicide loss, I found a channel to express myself and the pain acted as the catalyst.” She read out a passage from the book and thanked her family members for the support. Her husband T.R. Murali, a renowned urologist, committed suicide in 2017. Earlier, Senior Consultant Psychiatrist C. Ramasubramanian of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation welcomed the gathering. A support page for survivors of suicide loss,www.speakinitiative.org, was launched at the event. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/very-little-material-to-help-survivors-of-suicide-loss/article34070390.ece
15 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Amendment to Land Ceiling Rules challenged in court||An advocate has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court challenging a government order and a subsequent amendment made to Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Rules. It violated the basic objectives that were envisaged in the Tamil Nadu Land Ceiling Act, he contended. The petitioner, M. Suresh, of Tirunelveli said the Act was enacted with the objective of distributing lands to landless persons and pave the way for equitable distribution among citizens. However, the government order destroys the general provisions of the Act, he said. It dilutes the power vested with the Authorising Officers, who, under the Act, have the power to declare illegal holding of lands by any person over the ceiling laid in the Act. As per the government order, the parameters fixed for consideration before granting permission for selling of excess land were also vague, he said. The government order cannot supersede the Act, the petitioner said and said the G.O. must be quashed and amendment made to the Rules. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi observed that any action pursuant to the G.O. would be subject to the result of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amendment-to-land-ceiling-rules-challenged-in-court/article34070631.ece
15 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Tiger reserve will help in protecting Vaigai’||The announcement of Srivilliputtur Meghamalai Tiger Reserve will help protect Vaigai river and its catchment areas, said S. Nagarathinam, Professor and Head, Department of Communication, Madurai Kamaraj University, here on Sunday. Range of issues  Speaking at a conference organised by environment protection groups Vaigai Nadhi Makkal Iyakkam and Neer Nilaigal Pathukappu Iyakkam, Mr. Nagarathinam said that the Vaigai has been battling a range of issues. “The tiger reserve will help restore the ecology of this region,” he said. S. Kannan, Chairperson of School of Energy, Environment and Natural Resources, MKU, said the origin of the Vaigai river in Meghamalai has been heavily encroached, affecting the natural ecology of the region. “We have seen how formation of tiger reserves have kept rivers perennial - be it Tamirabarani because of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve. Water flow Similarly, the announcement of Srivilliputtur Meghamalai Tiger Reserve will help improve water flow in the Vaigai,” said Mr. Nagarathinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-reserve-will-help-in-protecting-vaigai/article34070424.ece
15 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special weekly superfast train from March 17||A special weekly superfast train (No. 01201/01202) will run between Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (Mumbai) and Madurai from March 17. A railway statement said train No.01201 will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on Wednesdays at 1.15 p.m. and reach Madurai at 6.10 p.m. the next day. In the return direction, train No. 01202 will leave Madurai on Fridays at 3.50 p.m. and reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 8.30 p.m. the next day until further advice. The train will stop at Raichur, Mantralayam Road, Adoni, Guntakal, Cuddapah, and Renigunta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-weekly-superfast-train-from-march-17/article34070633.ece
15 March 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Commemorative march concludes||Volunteers and students concluded the final leg of a cycle rally commemorating the salt satyagraha undertaken by over 100 freedom fighters in southern Tamil Nadu. The freedom fighters had taken the march from Tiruchi to Vedaranyam in solidarity with the Dandi march led by Mahatma Gandhi on March 12. The celebration is part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, a celebration of the country's 75th year of Independence over 75 weeks across the country. Collector Praveen P. Nair flagged off the cycle rally in Moolakkarai, from where the students reached the Vedaranyam Salt Satyagraha Memorial following which a cultural event was organised by the Department of Arts and Culture at Rajaji park in Vedaranyam. The relay rally took three days to conclude from the Salt Satyagraha Memorial in Tiruchi to Vedaranyam. The first set of students in Tiruchi travelled through the city, through Thiruvalarsolai to Kallanai on Friday. From Thanjavur, another set of students took over till Thirukattupalli. On Saturday, they travelled through Ayyampettai, Papanasam, Nallur, Darasuram, Kumbakonam and Valaigaiman to enter the Tiruvarur district. The relay rally reached Melamarudhur in Nagapattinam district on Sunday morning after which 100 students from the district took over and completed it. The celebrations are in line with the nationwide call to celebrate the 75th year of Independence in August 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commemorative-march-concludes/article34070389.ece
15 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Major fire in Nagercoil compost yard||At least four fire fighters and a poclain machine operator complained of suffocation while they were engaged in putting out a fire that was reported on the 13-acre compost yard at Valampurivilai near here on Sunday. The civic authorities, who collected the garbage from the Corporation limits here and dumped them at the yard, had frequent issues of fire accidents. Though they were put out locally in the past, the Sunday fire was described as a " major" incident, officers said. On receipt of the fire call, the District Fire Officer Saravana Babu led a team of firefighters. As the fire could not be contained, more fire tenders and fighters from Kanniyakumari, Colachel, Thuckalay, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi stations were pressed into the operation. The officers said that they may take at least another 24-hours to contain the fire as the smoke engulfed from the yard delayed in bringing it under control. Meanwhile, poclain was used to dig out the garbage, which resulted in suffocation. Three or four firefighters complained of breathlessness and a machine operator were rushed to the hospital. Many residents too had complaints of suffocation. The patients, who had respiratory issues had a harrowing experience during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-fire-in-nagercoil-compost-yard/article34070423.ece
15 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Training held for polling personnel in Namakkal||The first level training for polling personnel was held at the training centres in six Assembly constituencies here on Sunday. Election officials said 2,049 polling stations would be set up at the six Assembly constituencies - Rasipuram, Senthamangalam, Namakkal, Paramathi-Vellur, Tiruchengode and Kumarapalayam. Training was held for presiding officers and Booth Level Officer – I, II and III here. An additional strength of 1,640 personnel and 9,836 polling officers underwent training at various centres. The personnel were trained in setting up ballot units, control units, VVPAT machines, and carrying out other election day procedures. They were given forms for postal ballots. The officials said two volunteers would be present at all polling booths to give gloves and hand sanitisers to voters and check their body temperature. Collector and District Election Officer K. Megraj visited the training centre at Paramathi Vellur and Namakkal and reviewed the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-held-for-polling-personnel-in-namakkal/article34070435.ece
15 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress workers protest surrendering of seats to DMK||The Congress party’s screening committee meeting led by former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijay Singh and party general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao held at the PCC office here on Sunday plunged into chaos as party workers raised their voice against the leadership for surrendering a major share of seats to the DMK. As Mr. Narayanasamy started speaking, a Congress worker, Venketesh, hailing from Thirubuvanai constituency, raised the DMK flag and asked the leadership whether the Congress had sold the party to the DMK. Soon, chaos prevailed with other members from Mangalam constituency also shouting at the leaders for surrendering to the Dravidian party. Disgruntlement had been brewing in the national party after the Congress allotted four more seats to the DMK compared to the last Assembly election. While the DMK contested nine seats and won two in the last poll, the party got 14 seats this time. Though the Congress contested 21 seats and won 15 last time, the number of seats for the 2021 election had been reduced to 15. To add to the fury of the Congress workers, the DMK had taken away the constituencies that were traditionally won by the Congress. “The party has completely surrendered to the DMK. We performed much better than the DMK in the last election, but we are still contesting less number of seats. Puducherry is our stronghold and we should not have succumbed to their pressure. We should have contested alone with other secular parties,” a Congress leader told The Hindu.  Following the commotion, the three senior Congress leaders went into a huddle inside another room. Security near the PCC office was strengthened after more workers started gathering to stage a protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-workers-protest-surrendering-of-seats-to-dmk/article34070315.ece
15 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister Kannan joins BJP||Former Minister P. Kannan joined the BJP along with his son in New Delhi on Sunday. The former Rajya Sabha member has been keeping a low profile in Puducherry’s political scene of late. Mr. Kannan, who started his political career as Youth Congress leader, was elected in 1985 to the Puducherry Assembly from the Cassicade constituency on Congress ticket and became the Health Minister. He was the Speaker of Puducherry Legislative Assembly between 1991 and 1996. He quit the party in 1996 to join the Tamil Maanila Congress headed by G.K. Moopanar. In 2001, he moved out to form the Puducherry Makkal Congress and in 2005 the Puducherry Munnetra Congress, but achieved very little. He again returned to the Congress in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls and campaigned for Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, who had made his first electoral debut then. After the elections, he merged PMC with the Congress. He was rewarded with a Rajya Sabha seat. He was a Rajya Sabha member from 2009 till October 2015. After his term ended, he quit the Congress and joined the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in 2016. He had contested the last Assembly election unsuccessfully. He then quit the AIADMK and floated his own party Makkal Munnetra Congress in 2019 with not much success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-kannan-joins-bjp/article34070705.ece
15 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Moot court competition held at law college||If law students simulated the courtroom environment with their sharp arguments and counter arguments during the moot court competitions at the Dr. Ambedkar Government Law College, venerable judges from the Madras High Court added value with wisdom, insight and wit at the valedictory session of the national event on Sunday. The three-day All India Moot Court Competition 2021 was supported by the National Human Rights Commission. G.R. Swaminathan, a judge of the Madras High Court, presented the winning trophy to “Woodpeckers”, the three-member team from Saveetha School of Law, Chennai, represented by Subayoga, Madhu Balaaji and Rangeela. The trophy carried a cash prize of Rs. 30,000. The runner trophy was bagged by “Finches”, the team from Government Law College, Vellore, represented by Preethi, Snegha and Divyabharati. The team took home a cash award of Rs. 20,000. Prizes were also given in various other categories, including Best Memorial, Best Male Counsel and Best Female Counsel, apart from participation certificates. Addressing the aspiring lawyers, Justice Swaminathan gave his “dissenting note” to an earlier speaker who had suggested that language was secondary to facts. Stressing the importance of language proficiency, he said: “The courtroom is a formal setting where language cannot be used casually.” On a lighter note, he added that when he was told about a physical event being planned, he had imagined the theme would be on federalism, against the backdrop of the tug of war between former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy. In jestful parting advice, he told the students to aspire to become a judge if “you are content with a middle class life; else become a hotshot lawyer”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moot-court-competition-held-at-law-college/article34070700.ece
15 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One more person dies of COVID-19 in Karaikal||One more COVID-19 death in Karaikal took the overall toll in the Union Territory to 671 on Sunday. According to a medical bulletin, a 60-year-old man died at the GH in Karaikal with co-morbidities of hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Meanwhile, Puducherry recorded 15 new cases and 15 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The active cases stood at 190. Of this, 92 were in hospitals and 98 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.39%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 97.85%. The cumulative total is 40,030 with the recovery of 39,189 patients to date. Of an estimated 6.45 lakh samples tested, 5.99 lakh returned negative. 26,165 vaccinated Meanwhile, with 464 health care personnel, 386 frontline workers and 828 members of the public taking their first shot of vaccine, the number of persons vaccinated to date in the Union Territory stood at 26,165.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-person-dies-of-covid-19-in-karaikal/article34070703.ece
15 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Election observers appointed for all 30 Assembly constituencies||The Elections Department has appointed expenditure observers in all 30 Assembly constituencies to ensure that the April 6 election is conducted in a fair and peaceful manner. Chandra Prakash Meena has been appointed for Mannadipet, Thirubhuvanai and Oussudu; Aditya Shukla for Mangalam, Villianur and Ozhukarai; Aparajita Sharrma for Kadirkamam, Indira Nagar and Thattanchavady; Deepti Chandola for Kamaraj Nagar, Muthialpet and Raj Bhavan; Devesh Gupta for Lawspet, Kalapet, Uppalam, Orleanpet and Mudaliarpet; Prashant Shukla for Nellithope, Ariyankuppam and Manavely; Shiv Pratap Singh for Embalam (SC), Nettapakkam (SC) and Bahour; K.R. Abhishekanandarao for Mahe and Sanjay Kumar Jain for Yanam. A press note from the District Election Officer said the observers had reached Puducherry and would be monitoring the election expenditure of contesting candidates and verifying their day-to-day expenses/bank transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-observers-appointed-for-all-30-assembly-constituencies/article34070701.ece
15 March 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Standing her father in good stead||Health Minister and AIADMK nominee for Viralimalai C. Vijayabaskar, who has been seeking votes on a feverish pace, seems to have found a robust campaigner in his teenage daughter V. Rithanya Priyadarshini. He takes her along in his campaign van. Seated in the vehicle that covered the interior areas of the constituency, Ms. Priyadarshini refers to her father as ‘ungal veetu pillai’ (son of your house), reasoning out that he has spent most of his time with people of the constituency than with his family. On the day of Deepavali in 2019, she said, her father was supervising the operation to rescue a minor boy who fell into a borewell at Nadukattupatti near Manapparai. “I myself told my father that he should not return home without rescuing the boy,” she said. Appealing to the electorate to vote for Mr. Vijayabaskar, Ms. Priyadarshini said he was the one who had brought Cauvery water to the constituency. “During the COVID-19 pandemic when many of us did not venture out fearing the spread of the infection, my father was on the ground inspecting the COVID-19 wards at hospitals without caring about his health,” she said. Just over a month ago, she had her bharatanatya arangetram in Chennai in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/standing-her-father-in-good-stead/article34070255.ece
15 March 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Scent factory, a persistent demand in the region||Omalur constituency will see fight between the Congress and the AIADMK in the upcoming Assembly elections. R. Mohan Kumaramangalm is the Congress nominee for the constituency and R. Mani will contest on behalf of the ruling party. V. Srinivasan will contest in Makkal Needhi Maiam’s ticket. It is one of the constituencies that gets benefited by the Mettur surplus water scheme and it has brought hopes among the farmers in the region. Implementation of the long-standing demand like the Mettur surplus scheme is expected to work in favour of the ruling party. V. Shakthi, an agriculturist in the region, says they are hopeful that once the surplus water reaches the region, water for agriculture needs will be met. Flower cultivation is one of the major farming activity here. Flowers from the region are sent to Chennai, Bengaluru and other important flower markets. Florists have been demanding a scent manufacturing unit in the region for long. The constituency also hosts the Salem Airport and its development and expansion have been a major demand among the business community and travellers in the region. The airport remained non-functional and resumed operations in 2018. At present, only one flight is operated from the airport to Chennai. The public have been demanding flights to other important cities and operation of evening flight. The airport caters to passengers from the neighbouring Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts. The inclusion of the airport in Udan 4.0 scheme and Airport Authority of India’s proposal to start a pilot training school here has brought in new hopes regarding airport development. However, acquisition of land for the airport’s expansion is another issue in the constituency. About 609 acre has to be acquired for expansion of the airport and there is opposition to it. Though a section of landowners are willing to give away their lands, they are reportedly demanding higher compensation. Though located on the important Salem-Bengaluru National Highway, residents here complain that most of the buses do not stop at Omalur bus stand. The public have also been demanding measures to desilt the Sarbanga river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scent-factory-a-persistent-demand-in-the-region/article34070442.ece
15 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Burglary attempt at ATM||A burglary attempt was made at an ATM kiosk near the new bus stand here on Sunday. The police said an unidentified youth entered the ATM kiosk of a nationalised bank around 2 a.m. and attempted to break open the machine. As the alarm at the ATM centre was triggered, the miscreant escaped. The Pallapatti police rushed to the spot and held inquiries. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglary-attempt-at-atm/article34070436.ece
15 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Fire at grocery shops||A fire occurred at three grocery shops and a tea shop in a row near the Sooramangalam market on Sunday. According to officials, the fire occurred at a grocery shop spread to the tea shop and an oil shop adjacent to it. Passers-by alerted the police and the fire and rescue services personnel. Tangedco personnel disconnected power supply to the stores and four fire engines from Sooramangalam, Shevapet, Omalur and Salem doused the fire in two hours. The Sooramangalam police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-grocery-shops/article34070439.ece
15 March 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Gold, silver goods seized||Valuables including cash, silver and gold jewellery were seized by election surveillance teams during checks here. A flying squad team conducting vehicle checks at Maravaneri in Salem North constituency seized 22 gold rings worth Rs. 2 lakh from a motorist on Saturday. Officials said the motorist was jewellery a sales agent. The valuables were handed over to treasury. During vehicle checks in Veerapandi constituency, surveillance officials seized 10 kg of silver waist chains and silver anklets worth about Rs. 3.5 lakh from a two-wheeler rider. The valuables were handed over to the treasury. In Krishnagiri, a static surveillance team during vehicle checks near the Government Arts College seized Rs. 4.64 lakh from a car. The amount was handed over to the sub-treasury in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-silver-goods-seized/article34070440.ece
15 March 2021||SALEM/ KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Expenditure observers discuss election measures with officials||Expenditure observers held discussions with polling personnel on the measures for the smooth conduct of elections. In Krishnagiri, Kalyanam R. Ramarao, expenditure observer for Krishnagiri constituency, interacted with returning officers and surveillance team personnel. Mr. Ramarao advised the officials to be courteous during vehicle checks and only one official should interact with an individual at a moment. The officials were advised to alert higher officials in case of any issues and avoid getting into arguments with the public. They were advised to prevent parties and candidates from spending beyond permissible limits for election campaigns. Video surveillance teams were advised to file reports at the earliest. In Salem, expenditure observers held discussions with polling personnel on Saturday. Six expenditure observers have been deployed for 11 Assembly constituencies. According to officials, as part of improving surveillance, 66 flying squads have been additionally deployed. The observers advised the officials to ensure thorough checks of vehicles during surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expenditure-observers-discuss-election-measures-with-officials/article34070438.ece
15 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Virus cluster identified in Thanjavur school||A cluster of COVID-19 cases has been identified at the Government-aided Girls Higher Secondary School at Ammapettai here. A total of 56 people have tested positive and are undergoing treatment, officials said. According to the officials, a student had suffered from symptoms of fever and cold last week. She was tested for the viral infection, and the report indicated that she was positive. Subsequently, two batches of COVID-19 tests were conducted for the 1,100 students and staff at the school. In the first batch, 20 persons tested positive, and in the second batch, 36 tested positive, I. Raveendran, Deputy Director of Health Services, Thanjavur, said. Among the 56 patients is one teacher, while the remaining are students of Classes 9, 10, 11 and 12. All patients are asymptomatic, a source at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital said. Of them, 17 have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and four to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. The remaining are undergoing treatment at private hospitals in the district. Dr. Raveendran said an inquiry would be undertaken to determine if there was any lapse in adherence to safety protocol, including mask-wearing, at the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virus-cluster-identified-in-thanjavur-school/article34070299.ece
15 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||TMC candidate promises flyover at VVD Junction||The TMC candidate, S. T. R. Vijayaseelan, who is contesting from Thoothukudi Assembly constituency, on AIADMK’s ‘Two Leaves’ symbol, said that he would work for the development of the district here on Sunday. Speaking at a meeting, in which the alliance partners also spoke, the candidate said that he had a good knowledge about the needs of the common man. Apart from delivering the welfare measures, the AIADMK government would be in a position to get more funds from the Centre, as the BJP was a partner here. Speaking on the occasion, AIADMK secretary and MLA S. P. Shanmuganathan said that the waterlogging issue, which had been haunting the residents, would see a permanent solution. “Only if the AIADMK was elected to power again, the people can lead a happy life. The business community would remain free only if the AIADMK was in power as the political opponents had a history of unleashing violence,” he charged. Thoothukudi city has been witnessing rise in vehicular traffic. A flyover at the VVD intersection would be built, if elected, Mr Vijayaseelan said and added that he would bring about tangible change in the lives of the people and sought an opportunity to represent them in the Legislative Assembly as MLA. Without mentioning the DMK candidate Geetha Jeevan's name, speakers said that she had been an MLA and even a Minister in the past, but had done nothing tangible for the district or the constituency. However, the DMK candidate had amassed wealth and turned wealthier, they charged. Former Mayor Sasikala Pushpa and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-candidate-promises-flyover-at-vvd-junction/article34070734.ece
15 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Transfer||S. Sundar   A flying squad led by junior engineer, NHAI, Marimuthu, and SSI Murugan had checked the vehicle of Minister and AIADMK Kovilpatti candidate Kadambur Raju on March 12. Mr. Marimuthu later lodged a complaint stating that the Minister threatened to have him transferred. Following this, there were rumours that Mr. Marimuthu had been shunted out to the Vilathikulam Assembly constituency from Kovilpatti. But district election officer and Collector K. Senthil Raj said: “All officials on poll duty will continue in the same location.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transfer/article34070265.ece
15 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women SHGs look for support from new government||Women self-help groups expect lower interest rates on loans, workshops for skill development from the new government as they prepare to vote in the upcoming assembly election. For Prema Aloysius and her Mahilampoo SHG, life has not been easy. The group has been around for over 20 years, consisting of women who had been married into families in Tiruchi and were promised a better life. After years of suffering from a lack of toilet facilities, the women have undertaken the work of maintaining a Swachh Bharat Mission toilet complex to ensure clean toilets for around 150 houses. SHGs have been the reason for our financial independence, Ms. Prema said. “We have been able to contribute to large purchases in our house, and even been able to command respect from our family members; my husband jokingly says that he has no fear and that I will take care of all needs,” she said. With the assembly election not far off, the women claim they do not discuss politics. “We insist that everyone cast their vote to practice their democratic right. The choice of whom to vote for, however, is not discussed. Politicians visit us and have made several promises, many of which have not translated into action, so we leave it to individual choice,” Ms. Prema said. They, however, have some demands which they would like the new government to pay heed to, they said. The locality has at least five other SHGs, Sembaruthi, Malligai, Sevanthi and Om Shakthi, all of which borrowed from private banks and, therefore, were not eligible under the waiver scheme announced by the State government. “All our bank accounts were with cooperative banks and cooperative unions until two years ago when officials of the district administration created accounts for us in private banks," said A. Eshwari. “While the Chief Minister had said that SHGs had sought a waiver as they were unable to pay back loans due to COVID-19, we paid every month’s due on time,” she said. Ms. Eshwari said that she was drafting a letter which she would send to the incoming Chief Minister. “They should instruct us on whether to remain with private banks or return to cooperative banks. There are many SHGs across the state like ours who continue to pay off their loans. Is this fair? How will we be motivated to pay the money back?” she asked. Instead of providing skill development and leaving the SHGs on their own, the group could be employed at various offices, she suggested. “We can be taught how to do the job and then given employment. Selling phenyl and washing powder does not provide enough to sustain a family,” said S. Sudha of Roja Mahalir Kuzhu in Sangiliyandapuram. Ms. Sudha also suggested that they decrease the rate of interest on loans. Lack of financial assistance from the government during lockdown has also been disappointing, Ms. Roja said. “We too are working women, we could be included in the labour department and given financial assistance in emergency situations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-shgs-look-for-support-from-new-government/article34070404.ece
15 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Gift bags with images of AIADMK leaders seized||Officials from a flying squad seized 151 cloth bags, with photos of AIADMK leaders, that contained gifts within the limits of the Udumalpet Assembly constituency late on Saturday. According to Revenue Department sources, the flying squad visited Pethappampatti near Udumalpet at around 11 p.m. based on a tip-off. The officials found the cloth bags loaded in a mini-truck, with each bearing the images of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, along with the ‘Two Leaves’ symbol. Mr. Radhakrishnan has been renominated for the Udumalpet constituency. Each of the cloth bags contained a dhoti, a sari and a watch. The total worth of the gifts was around Rs. 1 lakh, the sources said. The vehicle along with the bags was seized and taken to the Udumalpet taluk office. Further investigation is on. In Coimbatore, flying squads and static surveillance teams in the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district on Sunday seized Rs. 14.34 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gift-bags-with-images-of-aiadmk-leaders-seized/article34070300.ece
15 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kangeyam farmers plan to file nominations||A total of 1,000 members of a farmers’ committee plan to file nominations at Kangeyam Assembly constituency from Monday demanding adequate release of water under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP). The PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee, which comprises farmers from Kangeyam and Vellakoil Blocks, went on a five-day hunger strike in January demanding the release of water for irrigation as per the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (Regulation of Water Supply) Act, 1993. P. Velusamy, a member, said on Saturday that the farmers ended the hunger strike after their representatives met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and submitted their demands. “There has been no progress since,” he claimed. The 1,000 members will file their nomination papers at Kangeyam taluk office to garner attention for their demands, Mr. Velusamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kangeyam-farmers-plan-to-file-nominations/article34070321.ece
15 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||12 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,137 with 12 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 20,694 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 92. The death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, the case tally stands at 16,274. In Tirupathur district, three new cases were reported. In Tiruvannamalai, four new cases were detected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article34070739.ece
15 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Congress fields two first-timers in Sivakasi, Srivilliputtur seats||A leading industrialist, A.M.S.G. Ashokan, is the Congress candidate for Sivakasi Assembly constituency, while legal consultant P.S.W. Madhava Rao is the party candidate for Srivilliputtur (Reserved) constituency. A former vice-chairman of Sivakasi Municipality (2006-2011), Mr. Ashokan comes from a Congress family. His father, A.M.S. Ganesan was two-time Chairperson of the municipality between (1967-1974) and his elder brother was the State president of Congress Seva Dal. A Commerce graduate, Mr. Ashokan has been with the Congress party since 1996. He has held top positions in the associations of fireworks manufacturers, match manufacturers and master printers. He is also the president elect of Chemical and Allied Products Export Promotion Council (CAPEXIL). Stating that he had been seeking party ticket to contest in Assembly and Parliament elections in the past, Mr. Ashokan said that his efforts would be promotion of digital initiative in Sivakasi and to make the town cleaner. He is pitted against AIADMK’s Lakshmi Ganesan. Mr. Madhava Rao, a native of Watrap under Srivilliputtur constituency, is a legal consultant and LPG distributor. His association with the party dates back to 1986 when he was president of Rajiva Gandhi Forum in Madras Law College. He has been with the National Students Union of India and held the post of State vice-president and secretary of Tamil Nadu Youth Congress. A Pradesh Congress committee member, Mr. Rao will be contesting election for the first time. “People of Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency have a lot of aspirations. Being the son of the soil, I will strive to fulfill all their expectations,” he said. He will take on ruling party candidate, Manraj. Meanwhile, businessman S. Rajasekar alias S.R. Thevar, of All India Moovendar Munnani Kazhagam, has been fielded in Tiruchuli Assembly constituency. He will contest on AIADMK’s Two Leaves symbol against DMK’s MLA Thangam Thennarasu. Mr. Rajasekar, who started his political career with Mr. Rajasekar Peravai, joined AIMMK as its general secretary in 1998 while the party was launched by Dr. N. Sethuraman. Later, he floated Desiya Forward Bloc along with B.T. Arasakumar and contested Lok Sabha election from Sivaganga Parliamentary constituency in 2011. President of Five Districts Periyar-Vaigai Irrigation Farmers’ Association, Mr. Rajasekar has promised to improve irrigation facilities, drinking water facility and providing free coaching for NEET and government job aspirants in the constituency. He runs several businesses, including a four-star hotel in Kerala. Bharatiya Janata Party has rewarded a young businessman, G. Pandurangan (38), with the party ticket to contest from Virudhunagar Assembly seat, after he was instrumental in enrolling over 6,000 cadres in the party. He is into apparels manufacturing and construction materials business giving employment to over 2,500 persons. Recently, he organised a grand public meeting in the town. He is pitted against DMK’s two-time MLA A.R.R. Seenivasan. Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has fielded Dr. A.R.R. Raghuraman, on DMK’s party ticket to contest in Sattur Assembly constituency. A Government Medical Officer, Dr. Raghuraman quit his job and joined the party in 2012 and has been the party’s district Medical Wing secretary and has now become Virudhunagar West district secretary. He has unsuccessfully contested from the same constituency in 2016. He will contest against AIADMK Virudhunagar East District Secretary R.K. Kalimuthu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-fields-two-first-timers-in-sivakasi-srivilliputtur-seats/article34070417.ece
15 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cong. fields first-timers in Sivakasi, Srivilliputtur||Leading industrialist A.M.S.G. Ashokan and legal consultant P.S.W. Madhava Rao are the two Congress candidates for Sivakasi and Srivilliputtur (reserved) constituencies respectively. A former vice-chairman of Sivakasi municipality (2006-2011), Mr. Ashokan comes from a Congress family. His father, A.M.S. Ganesan was two-time chairperson of the municipality between (1967-1974) and his elder brother was the State president of Congress Seva Dal. A Commerce-graduate, Mr. Ashokan has been with the Congress party since 1996. He has held top positions in the associations of fireworks manufacturers, match manufacturers and master printers. He is also the president elect of Chemical and Allied Products Export Promotion Council (CAPEXIL). Stating that he had been seeking party ticket to contest in Assembly and Parliament elections in the past, Mr. Ashokan said that his efforts would be to promote digital initiative in Sivakasi and to make the town cleaner. He is pitted against AIADMK’s Lakshmi Ganesan. Mr. Madhava Rao, a native of Watrap, under Srivilliputtur constituency, is a legal consultant and LPG distributor. His association with the party dates back to 1986 when he was president of Rajiv Gandhi Forum in Madras Law College. He has been with the National Students Union of India and held the post of State vice-president and secretary of Tamil Nadu Youth Congress. A Pradesh Congress Committee member, Mr. Rao will be contesting election for the first time. “The people of Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency have lots of aspirations. Being the son of the soil, I will strive to fulfil all their expectations,” he said. He will take on ruling party candidate Manraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-fields-first-timers-in-sivakasi-srivilliputtur/article34070313.ece
15 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||First randomisation for polling staff held in Virudhunagar district||Randomisation process to classify officials on polling duty as presiding officer, polling officers 1, 2 and 3 was done in Virudhunagar district on Sunday. District Returning Officer, R. Kannan, was present when the randomization process was done using the Election Commission website tool. A total of 11,376 teachers and Government employees have been selected for polling duty in 2,370 polling booths. In the first randomization process, among the 11,376 polling staff, the nature of duty – Presiding Officer, Polling Officer (PO) 1, P.O. 2 and P.O. 3 – was categorized. The order of the first randomization would be served to all the polling staff along with the Form 12 D meant for seeking postal ballots would be distributed to them at the first training programme to be held at seven different places in the district. The training programmes will commence at 9.30 a.m. on March 17. It would be held at PACM Matriculation Higher Secondary School for Rajapalayam Assembly constituency, VPMM Nursing College for Srivilliputtur AC, S.R. Naidu College for Sattur. The training programme for Sivakasi AC will be held at SFR College, for Virudhunagar at KVS Boys Higher Secondary School, for Aruppukottai AC at Devangar Arts College and for Tiruchuli at CEOA College. In the second randomisation, the Assembly constituency will be allocated to the polling staff and in the last and final randomization, they would be allotted the polling booth, an official said. Three more training classes would be held for the polling staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-randomisation-for-polling-staff-held-in-virudhunagar-district/article34070427.ece
15 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Colour match unit accident toll goes up||Death toll in the Saturday’s fire accident at Durga colour match unit near here has gone up to three with the death of two more workers on Sunday. The police said that V. Veerasamy (55) of Gurumoorthinaickenpatti and S. Natarajan (50) of Muthulapuram, who had suffered 100% burns succumbed to injuries at the Sivakai Government Hospital. Earlier, K. Puduraja (40) of Amathur died within hours after the accident that took place on Saturday evening. The lone female worker, M. Panchavarnam (50) is under treatment with 30% burns at the GH. Meanwhile, the Amathur police have arrested the colour match unit’s foreman, Durairaj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colour-match-unit-accident-toll-goes-up/article34070428.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Battlelines drawn in Tiruchi||With battlelines almost drawn in all nine constituencies of the district following announcement of candidates by AIADMK and DMK, electioneering has intensified. While DMK candidate K.N. Nehru will take on V. Padmanaban of AIADMK in Tiruchi (West), Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan of AIADMK has been fielded against DMK-backed Inigo Irudhayaraj of Christhuva Nallenna Iyakkam. The AMMK has fielded former MLA R. Manoharan against Mr. Natarajan. In Srirangam, former Minister K.P. Krishnan (AIADMK) has been fielded against S. Palaniandi (DMK). Former Mayor Charubala Thondaiman has been fielded by AMMK. Similarly, P. Kumar of AIADMK will take on Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi of DMK in Thiruverumbur. It will be Stalin Kumar of DMK versus T. Indragandhi of AIADMK in Thuraiyur constituency. The main contestants in Mannachanallur are former Minister M. Paranjothi and C. Kathiravan of DMK. Sitting MLA R. Chandrakar will test his luck for the third consecutive time in Manapparai constituency against DMK-backed Indian Union Muslim League candidate. The main contest in Musiri will be between sitting MLA Selvarasu of AIADMK and N. Thiyagarajan of DMK. A clear picture on candidates to be fielded by other parties is yet to emerge. Though filing of nomination began on Friday, the contestants of mainstream political parties are yet to fulfil the procedure. Most of the AIADMK candidates are expected to file their papers on Monday. Arrangements have been made to take out rallies before filing nomination. Meanwhile, most of the candidates of AIADMK and DMK have begun canvassing for votes. Accompanied by their supporters, they engage in door-to-door campaign in their areas. In Thiruverumbur constituency, Mr. Kumar appealed to residents to choose the two-leaves symbol at Melakalkandarkottai on Sunday. Similarly, AIADMK candidates Mr. Natarajan, Mr. Krishnan, and Mr. Nehru and Mahesh Poyyamozhi from DMK met notable personalities in their constituencies to muster support for their candidature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/battlelines-drawn-in-tiruchi/article34070399.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tourism potential remains untapped in Thuraiyur||The AIADMK and the DMK are evenly poised in Thuraiyur (Reserved) constituency, situated close to the Pachamalai, a low range hills part of eastern ghats. Located in the north-west of Tiruchi, the constituency has been a most backward for so long. Lack of employment opportunities and acute drinking water scarcity has been the major election issues. Despite of Pachamalai and Puliyancholai possess immense potential to tab tourism potential, there is a strong grouse among the voters that the representatives and the rules have failed to give a fillip to the eco-tourism initiatives, although the Forest Department had created some infrastructure for the visitors at Top Sengattupatti recently. There is hardly any industrial developmental activity in the constituency except a few explosives units and rice mills. Until the 2008 delimitation process, most of the areas of the existing Thuraiyur constituency were part of Uppilliyapuram (Scheduled Tribes) constituency. Two panchayat unions such as Uppilliyapuram and Thuraiyur, Thuraiyur municipality, and two town panchayats such as Balakrishnanpatti and Uppilliyapuram are in the constituency. It has a sizeable population of Scheduled Tribes, who live in 49 remote villages around Vannadu, Kombai, and Thenpuranadu of Pachamalai. People of the constituency mainly depend upon agriculture and allied agricultural activities such as rearing milch animals, sheep, and goats for livelihood. Shallots, maize, and cotton are raised in some parts of the constituency. In spite of the tough condition, absence of assured irrigation sources and frequent failure of monsoon, people work hard to meet their both ends. Tapioca is the major crop raised on Pachamalai and its foothills. It is estimated that farmers raise tapioca on about 3,000 hectares every year and it accounts for more than 80% of tapioca cultivation in Tiruchi district. Almost all tribes of Pachamalai are engaged in the cultivation of tapioca. Though it is an important livelihood opportunity of tribal farmers, many of them are sore over the method of fixing of prices of tapioca. It is alleged that a syndicate of sago industries in the neighbouring Salem district invariably manages to keep the prices low, which leaves very little profit for farmers. Claiming that the middlemen and agents of sago industries are fixing prices for tapioca according to their whims and fancies, the farmers have been raising the issue with the elected representatives and the State government. But there has been no sign of a solution in sight. The high-intensity blast at Vetrivel Explosives that killed at least 20 lives in 2016 still lingers among the voters of the constituency. Many are still up in arms against the move to reopen the explosive unit. Though the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAS) supplies water to the residents of the Thuraiyur municipality along with 98 village panchayats and the town panchayats from the Cauvery river, many complaints that they get water once in 7 to 10 days. The existing water scheme, which was designed in 2001 with a capacity to supply 3.12 million liters a day (MLD), is said to have become outdated with the growing population. “Drinking water scarcity has been a major election issue for so long. We get water once in 10 days. There are talks of establishing a new water scheme. But it is yet to materialise,” says M. Suresh Babu, a voter in Thuraiyur constituency. An analysis of earlier elections reveals that the AIADMK has a slight advantage over its principal rival, the DMK. In the first election held in 2011 after the delimitation process in 2008, AIADMK candidate T. Indra Gandhi defeated D. Parimala of the DMK by a margin of 10,935 votes. DMK candidate S. Stalin Kumar won in 2016 by defeating A. Maivizhi of the AIADMK with a margin of 8,068 votes. Before the delimitation process, the AIADMK had won five times and DMK thrice since 1971 in the erstwhile Uppilliyapuram constituency. While the DMK has renominated Mr. Stalinkumar, the AIADMK has given another chance to former MLA Ms. Indra Gandhi. Soon after the announcement of candidates, both Mr. Stalin Kumar and Ms.Indra Gandhi have launched their campaign. Both of them are familiar with voters. Unlike the DMK candidate, the AIADMK candidate is faced with discontent after a section of cadre of the AIADMK, opposed to her candidature, sought a change in the candidate. However, she is said to have won over the dissenters and primed for the challenge. By all indications, the constituency is poised for close fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-potential-remains-untapped-in-thuraiyur/article34070383.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ruling AIADMK promises washing machines for all||A 50% subsidy in fare for women in city buses and extending the maternity leave from the existing nine months to a year were among the announcements aimed at the women voters. It also promised the supply of 200 ml of milk/milk powder to all school students and a Metro Rail project in Madurai.  The party promised to deliver ration supplies at the doorstep and give six gas cylinders to every ration card-holder a year, as announced by Mr. Palaniswami earlier. Farmers would get Rs. 7,500 in farm subsidy, while all rice ration card-holders would get solar stoves.    “If a family did not have a member in government service, one of its members would be given a government job,” the manifesto said. The social security assistance given to the elderly and women would be increased from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000. ‘Amma Seervarisai’ assistance would be given for the wedding of for poor couples, it said. All ration card-holders would get a free cable television connection. “The AIADMK will insist on a State-level exam, instead of a centralised exam, for recruiting employees and providing employment,” the manifesto said. The AIADMK, which ruled the State for the past 10 years, promised that it would insist that the Centre declare Tamil one of the administrative languages. It also promised to make Tamil a mandatory subject for students till Class 10. It promised to increase the age limit for joining the government service by two years and grant weekly off on a rotation-basis to police personnel. The manifesto promised that the reservation would be implemented in education and employment based on the recommendations of the commission constituted by the government to gather information on communities. Mr. Palaniswami said late DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi and party president M.K. Stalin were responsible for the death of Ms. Jayalalithaa. At a press conference, he said, “The DMK is responsible for the death of Amma... People know who is responsible for her death.” A defamatory campaign was being undertaken, he said. “The soul of Amma would definitely punish them. Amma was providing a good government to the people of Tamil Nadu. Though she was declared innocent at courts [in corruption cases], there was an appeal, and it caused her agony following which she left this world in a situation wherein she could not receive appropriate treatment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ruling-aiadmk-promises-washing-machines-for-all/article34070285.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK promises washing machines for all||“If a family did not have a member in government service, one of its members would be given a government job,” the manifesto said. The social security assistance given to the elderly and women would be increased from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000. ‘Amma Seervarisai’ assistance would be given for the wedding of for poor couples, it said. All ration card-holders would get a free cable television connection. “The AIADMK will insist on a State-level exam, instead of a centralised exam, for recruiting employees and providing employment,” the manifesto said. The AIADMK, which ruled the State for the past 10 years, promised that it would insist that the Centre declare Tamil one of the administrative languages. It also promised to make Tamil a mandatory subject for students till Class 10. It promised to increase the age limit for joining the government service by two years and grant weekly off on a rotation-basis to police personnel. The manifesto promised that the reservation would be implemented in education and employment based on the recommendations of the commission constituted by the government to gather information on communities. Mr. Palaniswami said late DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi and party president M.K. Stalin were responsible for the death of Ms. Jayalalithaa. At a press conference, he said, “The DMK is responsible for the death of Amma. God will definitely punish them. People know who is responsible for her death.” A defamatory campaign was being undertaken, he said. “The soul of Amma would definitely punish them. Amma was providing a good government to the people of Tamil Nadu. Though she was declared innocent at courts [in corruption cases], there was an appeal, and it caused her agony following which she left this world in a situation wherein she could not receive appropriate treatment,” he said. The public knew that Karunanidhi and Mr. Stalin were responsible for her death, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-promises-washing-machines-for-all/article34070409.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||National business meet held||Indian business systems are better than those in Western countries due to strong family values and culture, P. Kanagasabapathi, Expert Council Member, Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR), New Delhi, has said. Addressing a national-level online conference on ‘Sustainable Business and Marketing’, organised by the Department of Management Studies, National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi, Mr. Kanagasabapathi said 30% of Indian innovations were made by illiterate or less educated people, thereby strengthening the potential of India to become a global leader in innovation index. Tulasi Balasubramaniyan, keynote speaker, said in the backdrop of global crises such as climate change, global warming, wildfires and COVID-19, fast-track development through sustainable business models was the need of the hour. M. Duraiselvam, Dean of Planning and Development, NIT-T, presided over the meet. The conference served as a platform for entrepreneurs, practising managers and academicians to discuss and deliberate the best business practices and to provide a road map for self-reliant and sustainable business models for India to become competitive in the global marketplace, G. Muruganantham, Head-Management Studies, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-business-meet-held/article34070385.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cong., CPI(M) retain nominees in Aranthangi, Gandarvakottai||The Congress and the CPI(M) have retained their candidates for Aranthangi and Gandarvakottai (reserved) Assembly constituencies for the coming election. Congress nominee S. T. Ramachandran, son of Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP and six-time Aranthangi Asembly MLA Su. Thirunarukkarasar, will lock horns with AIADMK’s M. Rajanayagam this time. CPI(M} nominee M. Chinnadurai will cross swords with AIADMK candidate S. Jayabharathi, panchayat president of Theethanviduthi. Both suffered defeat in the hands of AIADMK candidates during the 2016 election. Although Mr. Ramachandran gave a spirited fight, he eventually lost by a margin of 2,291 votes. The Congress was an ally of the DMK-led alliance in the previous assembly election too. In 2016, the CPI(M) was a constituent of Makkal Nala Kottani comprising the two Left parties, DMDK, MDMK and Tamil Maanila Congress. Mr. Chinnadurai was way behind in terms of the number of votes polled by AIADMK and DMK. Mr. Chinnadurai, 54, who is State secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasaya Thozhilalar Sangam, was the party’s Pudukottai district secretary for a decade. Barring Gandarvakottai and Aranthangi, the remaining four seats — Pudukottai, Viralimalai, Alangudi and Tirumayam— will witness a direct fight between AIADMK and DMK this time as well. V.P. Nagaimaali, CPI(M) contestant for Kilvelur, ended up third in 2016. The CPI has fielded K. Marimuthu, secretary of the party's Kottur Union in Tiruvarur district and State committee member as the candidate, for Thiruthuraipoondi constituency. Former IPS officer and BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai makes his electoral debut as the party’s nominee for Aravakurichi Assembly segment in Karur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-cpim-retain-nominees-in-aranthangi-gandarvakottai/article34070400.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prepping electors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prepping-electors/article34070304.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Women’s day celebrated||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop celebrated the manufacture of the 500th wagon this financial year with contribution from Naari Shakti, the women staff of the workshop. This is the first batch of wagons completed as part of an order from Container Corporation of India for manufacturing 1,035 BLCS wagons for carrying double-stack containers at 100 km per hour. The workshop celebrated International Women's Day on Saturday where 10 women employees chosen from various wings were invited as special guests to commemorate completion of the first set of BLCS wagons. S.P. Devi, Assistant Financial Advisor, V. Aiswarya, Assistant Audit Officer and the first female welder in this workshop qualified for ISO 9606 A. Sumathi were among those who took part in the event. The new set of wagons were rolled out by women Loco Pilots P. Jhansi Rani and N. Nandhini aided by Loco Inspector P. Narayana Vadivu and assisted by a guard in the rear brake van A.Neeladevi, all from the Tiruchi Railway Division. The women employees were felicitated by the senior officials, led by Shyamadhar Ram, Chief Workshop Manager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-day-celebrated/article34070384.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sharp spike in cases in central region||The central region reported on Sunday reported a sharp increase in fresh cases with 86 testing positive, 44 of whom hailed from Thanjavur district. Two colleges in Tiruchi undertook measures after students tested positive. Meanwhile, no death was reported in the region for the viral infection. In Thanjavur district, which recorded a sharp increase in the number of cases, 44 persons tested positive for COVID-19 including 36 school students. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 15 fresh cases. Among the patients to test positive in Tiruchi were one student each from National College and Government Engineering College, Srirangam. College authorities in National College decided to close the campus until Wednesday and undertake sanitisation measures. R.Sundararaman, Principal of the college, said the student’s classmates had been asked to take tests before returning to the institution. At Government Engineering College, Srirangam, 253 test samples were lifted from contacts of the infected student and sent for processing. In Tiruvarur, 10 patients reported positive, while in Nagapattinam, seven. Four fresh cases were recorded in Karur, three in Pudukottai and two in Ariyalur. Perambalur recorded one fresh case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-spike-in-cases-in-central-region/article34070394.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 22 COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 22 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 14,977. While 11 persons were discharged, 114 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem saw 10 positive cases. According to health officials, nine indigenous cases were reported and one patient returned from Chennai. In Namakkal, seven new cases were reported, one patient returned from Erode. In Krishnagiri, five indigenous cases were reported and one case in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-22-covid-19-cases/article34070433.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Recently the Madurai Division of TNSTC has introduced AC city bus services. This is welcome, but it should be affordable to the commoners. About a decade ago when a fleet of low-floor buses with high fare were introduced, ‘ordinary fare’ buses vanished gradually from city roads. People were forced to cough out high fare. Similarly, AC buses are operated in small numbers now and their introduction should not cause any decrease in the number of normal buses in due course since many people cannot afford the high fare of the AC bus service. TNSTC authorities should remember that cost-effective and safer bus service is more important than a modern fleet. B. Nagaraja Ganesh, Pasumpon Nagar     Following persistent demands from the public, the Railway Board has at long last decided to operate one or two passenger train services in select sections, starting with a pair of DEMU services between Tiruchi and Karaikudi from March 15. Yet, the hapless passengers should take the proposal with a pinch of salt as they have to pay express train fare. To levy express train fare for a short distance shuttle train, mostly used by commuters, is by no means just and fair. Would the Railway Board reconsider and revert to the normal fare structure applicable to passenger train services, considering the plight of the commoners who are already reeling under the spiralling price rise on various fronts? K. Muthiah,  Railar Nagar    With the run-up to the Assembly elections, major political parties are vying with one another in announcing freebies to the public. The State budget, presented in February, projected a deficit of Rs. 5.72 lakh crore by 31 March 2022. With such a colossal deficit looming large, one does not know where the parties will generate revenue to give all those freebies. Freebies will make people lazy as more number of people will be disinclined to go to work. There are no freebies in countries such as Japan and China where people work hard and increase the GDP and generate money for the exchequer. Freebies will boost the State debt, affect overall development and spell doom to the economy. G. Chittibabu, Velmurugan Nagar     Round-the-clock toll-free numbers and contact numbers of District Election Officer, Returning Officers have been announced to receive election-related complaints from the public. A majority of people find it difficult to get quick access to these numbers. So boards displaying these numbers should be put up at railway stations, bus stands and offices of urban and rural civic bodies. It will be of utmost help if these numbers, along with those of Election Observers, flying squads and static surveillance teams are sent as SMS to mobile phones of every voters that they can send their election-related complaints such as cash for votes and gift distribution. M. Sainithii,       NEET has been scheduled for August 01. Problems were encountered when students from Tamil Nadu were allotted exam centres in other States. Because of language problem, the students, especially the girls, and their parents faced much difficulties in locating the centre, etc. A parent who took his daughter to Kerala for the test two years back breathed his last there itself. I wish the authorities concerned should take utmost care in allotting the centre. If the candidates are allowed centres within the State, they could take the test without tension. Rajakumar Arulanandham,      Election Model Code of Conduct is in force now. Has the Election Commission punished any violator? When candidates filed nominations, one could see on TV many people accompanying the candidate, though MCC permits only two persons. Can’t the EC disqualify the nomination based on it. We need more T.N. Seshans to rectify all these anomalies. R. Donjeba, Nazareth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34070627.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident near Usilampatti||Two persons riding a motorbike were fatally knocked down by a speeding van near Usilampatti on Sunday. The deceased were identified as R. Abhishek, 21, and P. Rajkumar, 35, of Vellimalaipatti. The accident occurred on Usilampatti- Batlagundu Road near Chinnachempatti at around 6.30 a.m. Police said the two were going to the flower market in Usilampatti when the van that was coming from the opposite side hit their two-wheeler. Both the victims were dragged for over 10 metres on the road and were killed on the spot. Uthapanaickanoor police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-road-accident-near-usilampatti/article34070405.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Management, International Consumer Rights Day, webinar on Consumers as Buyers and Consumers as Products, Yashoda Durge, associate professor, GNVS Institute of Management, Mumbai, guest speaker, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34070434.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tongue in cheek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tongue-in-cheek/article34070269.ece
15 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||CD scandal: No idea what is going on, says Nirani||Murugesh Nirani, Minister for Mines and Geology, said he had no idea what was going on with the alleged CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. “I don’t know what is happening. I have stopped watching news on TV,” Mr. Nirani told journalists in Belagavi on Sunday. He was here to inaugurate the regional office of his department. To a question, he said that he did not know what D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, had said about the CD scandal. “I only know that Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi is innocent. He will come out unscathed from any inquiry,” he said. A complaint has been filed and an investigation is on. “The offenders will be punished and the innocent will be spared. The law will take its course and punish the offenders, however powerful they are. But I don’t have other details,” he said. “Basavaraj Bommai, Home Minister, is responding to all queries on the investigation. Other Ministers and leaders are far away from that issue,” he said. The credit of including Panchamsali community in the list of Backward Classes goes to B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr Nirani said. He got the community into 3B during his stint as CM in 2008. “On my request, he set up a committee that recommended the community to be included in 2A. But it was included in 3B as it was easier to do so. Now, the CM has formed a committee headed by a former judge. It will submit the report to the Cabinet,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-scandal-no-idea-what-is-going-on-says-nirani/article34070457.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL deploys fifth tunnel boring machine in Phase II||For the first time, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has deployed an indigenously assembled tunnel boring machine for Namma Metro work. The unnamed TBM has been deployed at Rashtriya Military School station, and will burrow its way towards Langford station. “The length of the tunnel is around 650 metres. The machine is manufactured by Herrenknecht, a German company, and assembled in Chennai. It is the first machine to be used by BMRCL which has been assembled in India. After completing one tunnel between RMS and Langford, the machine will be brought back to RMS and re-launched for the second tunnel,” said B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO of BMRCL. Under Phase II of Namma Metro project, the BMRCL is building an underground line from Dairy Circle to Nagawara (13.9 km), which is part of the 21-km line from Nagawara to Kalena Agrahara. For this, BMRCL will construct the underground line in four packages. The BMRCL has already deployed four TBMs. One machine, Urja, commenced burrowing work in August 2020 from Cantonment station towards Shivajinagar. So far, it has covered a distance of over 328 metres. Another machine, Vindya, was launched in October last year, and has covered a distance of 279 metres. The third machine, Avani, is digging a tunnel from Shivajinagar to Rashtriya Military School, and has covered 281 metres. Another machine ‘Lavi’ has been deployed and will start tunnelling work shortly. “Under Phase II, a total of nine machines will carry out tunnelling work to cover a stretch of 14 km. Two machines, Tunga and Bhadra, will arrive from Chennai in a month and will be deployed between Dairy Circle and Langford,” said Mr. Chavan. The final two machines will arrive at a later stage and will be deployed for work between Pottery Town and Nagawara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-deploys-fifth-tunnel-boring-machine-in-phase-ii/article34070203.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR to consult BIAL on train schedule||In an attempt to increase ridership and entice people to use trains to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), the South Western Railway (SWR) is contemplating making changes to schedules depending on the requirement of air passengers and people working in the airport campus. Since March 1, barely 50 passengers have been travelling from the city to the halt station at KIA every day. The return journey sees even fewer passengers at just over 30. On January 4, SWR launched five pairs of services from KSR Bengaluru, Cantonment, Yeshwantpur and Yelahanka to KIA. However, ridership is yet to pick up. Before the suspension of services, there were instances of some trains running empty. SWR Chief PRO E. Vijaya said, “Earlier, the SWR had fixed the train schedule after consulting the BIAL. In the coming days, we will consult them again, and changes will be done in the schedule only if required.” Apart from air passengers, as many as 25,000 people work across various sectors at the KIA campus. However, not all of them find the train schedule convenient as they work on a shift basis. “Before services were temporarily suspended, I used to travel by train regularly. But that time, my shifts were 12 hours long. It has been changed to eight hours, and the train schedule is no longer convenient,” said Noorulla who works at the international airport. The few commuters who use the train believe that altering the schedule or increasing the frequency of the service may increase ridership. Another official said, “People coming from Bangarpet and other points use trains that stop at KIA halt station. As of now, there is no proposal before us to cut down the number of services. If demand increases, we will run more trains.” Many passengers and regular train commuters said SWR should take measures to popularise the service, especially as it will be useful for people residing in villages located close to the airport. This can be done by improving access to the halt station and providing basic amenities at Dodjala . For security reasons, the road connecting the halt station with the National Highway is closed. If given access to the halt station, residents in nearby villages, such as Bachahalli Gate, Kanmangla, Poojanahalli, Bhuvanahahalli and others, will find the services useful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-consult-bial-on-train-schedule/article34070208.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Life in a containment zone left residents scarred||“The government locked us up without providing for us. There was a shortage of everything – water, milk, food, vegetables and even medicines. Shortage of milk hit our family very badly,” said Shivabasappa, a resident of Bapuji Nagar, recalling the days when the ward was sealed. Along with Padarayanapura, it was part of the city’s first containment zone. Nearly a year after the two areas were subjected to a stringent ‘seal down’ due to COVID-19 cases being reported in April 2020, which later led to violent protests and a crackdown, residents of Padarayanapura and the adjoining Bapuji Nagar wonder how the norms are ‘so relaxed today’. The sealing of the wards, they recalled, also affected their livelihood, as a majority of residents worked in the informal sector. “People lost jobs and because of the stigma attached to the two areas, employers refused to take them even after the restrictions were lifted,” said Mohammed Saleem, a carpenter who was jobless for over six months. Civic officials concede that they ‘overreacted’. “We can say that in hindsight. In April 2020, amidst a national lockdown, even we were trying to grapple with the pandemic. Today, we don’t even seal the entire building from which COVID-19 cases are being reported,” said a senior civic official. But the barricading of the wards has left residents, especially of Padarayanapura, scarred. Violent protests broke out 10 days into the seal down when civic officials started herding secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients into institutional quarantine. “The way the ruling party politicised it and the media targeted us has hurt the community badly. Of the 128 arrested, many are innocents,” said Saddam Baig, a lawyer and resident of the area who is a counsel for many of the accused. “The ruling BJP took objection to even roads in the area being named after our local residents, stigmatising our area. Many have shifted out of the area out of fear of being targeted by the police. My well-wishers have advised me to shift. But blaming the area is wrong. If the area was bad, how could I become a lawyer?” Imran Pasha, former councillor of Padarayanapura, who was in prison for 36 days for violating social distancing norms, alleged being targetted, pointing out that he was probably the only person in Karnataka to be jailed in connection with the pandemic, even as ministers conducted large weddings and political rallies. Activist and advocate Vinay Sreenivasa, who was part of a fact-finding committee following the Padarayanapura violence, said the sealing of entire wards was not only unscientific, but that the State failed to fulfil its responsibility leaving residents agitated. “There was a large communication gap, giving room for wild speculation leading to fear and panic among residents, which eventually backfired,” he said. Neither of the two wards have reported a cluster since then. However, the scenario in these areas seem to be no different from that in the rest of the city. “A complacency has set in. Most residents do not wear a mask or take other precautions. Wearing a mask has become like enforcing the helmet rule: people wear them only to avoid being penalised,” Mr. Baig lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-in-a-containment-zone-left-residents-scarred/article34070215.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Academic year draws to a close, but angst over fee continues||While students are preparing for their final examinations and teachers are getting ready for the next academic year, parents and school managements are yet to arrive at a consensus on payment of school fees for the current year. While managements claim they need the money to run their schools and pay staff, parents say they are unable to pay the full amount because of financial constraints as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The matter has been under dispute for 11 months now with parents and then schools staging protests and seeking government intervention. According to stakeholders, it is unlikely to get resolved any time soon. The High Court of Karnataka, earlier this week, passed an interim order directing the State government not to take any coercive action against members of the Association of Indian Schools, affiliated to the CBSE and the ICSE, for any violation of the Government Order mandating that schools not collect more than 70% of the tuition fee charged in the previous academic year. For managements, this came as a relief, though many said they were trying to accommodate parents on a case-by-case basis. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said the department cannot force schools to charge only 70% of the fee. However, keeping in mind the problems that families are facing, he said that many managements were currently collecting only 70%. “We are instead asking them to sign an undertaking that they will pay the whole amount later if the court permits them,” he said. Mansoor Ali Khan, a member of the board of management of the Delhi Public group of schools, said the hope is there will be more clarity from courts on the matter by the end of March. “We are asking parents who didn’t take salary cuts to pay the full fee. There is a moral responsibility that they have. Those who can afford to pay should do so. However, for those who cannot afford to pay the full fee, we are not stopping online education,” he said. Gowdaiah H.K., a member of Voice of Parents, a parents’ group, accused managements of not being transparent with parents about their expenses, which has resulted in animosity and distrust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academic-year-about-to-end-but-not-angst-over-fees/article34070199.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another arrest over film piracy||The manager of a film distribution firm caught a man from Yadgir allegedly attempting to sell an HD pirated version of the film, Roberrt , near Prasanna theatre on Magadi Road on Sunday. The accused, Vishwanath, had recorded the entire film on his mobile phone the day it was released. He was offering to sell an HD print for Rs. 5,000. According to the police, when the manager, Srikanth M., heard of this, he tracked down Vishwanath and offered to buy a print. They agreed to meet near Prasanna theatre, which was how Vishwanath was nabbed. The accused was handed over to the Magadi Road police, who have booked him under the Copyright Act. “We are investigating further to ascertain where he has links to others in the piracy racket,” said a police officer. This is the second instance of piracy since the Darshan-starrer was released last week. Recording on phone On Saturday, the police had arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly trying to record the film on his mobile phone at a theatre in Puttenahalli. “We will investigate and see if there is a link between latest arrest and the Puttenahalli case,” said Sanjeev Patil, DCP (West).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-arrest-over-film-piracy/article34070209.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK: Maharashtra govt. desperately trying to divert public attention||Criticising the Shiv Sena’s repeated efforts to raise border issues, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said such efforts were aimed at diverting the attention of the public from their dissatisfaction against the government. “The Shiv Sena is viewing hoisting of Kannada flag by activists in Belagavi as a crime. In fact, Belagavi is ours. To hoist a Kannada flag is our right. Maharashtra has no right to question this,” he said in a series of tweets on Sunday. “Maharashtra has said that over the last eight days, there have been attacks on Marathi speakers. Who attacked our buses in Kolhapur first? The attack happened on Kannadigas while removing the Marathi boards in Belagavi. Despite this, Maharashtra is trying to desperately to draw attention,” he said. The second Vidhana Soudha of the State was built in Belagavi and legislature sessions were conducted to establish the State’s right over Belagavi, he added. Stating that it was better for Maharahstra to keep quiet on the border issue till the legal fight comes to an end, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the Mahajan Commission report was final. “The commission was set up on the demand of Maharashtra and the commission has said Belagavi belongs to Karnataka. The legal fight of Maharashtra will go waste.” While Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene, Mr. Kumaraswamy said there was no need for that. “Will the Maharashtra BJP not bring pressure on the Prime Minister? Will the BJP accept if Mr. Modi hands over Belagavi to Maharashtra?” he wondered.  “The Shiv Sena is viewing hoisting of Kannada flag by activists in Belagavi as a crime. To hoist a Kannada flag is our right. Maharashtra has no right to question this,” H.D. Kumaraswamy said on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-maharashtra-govt-desperately-trying-to-divert-public-attention/article34070222.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||934 COVID-19 cases||Karnataka is once again inching closer to the thousand per day mark, with 934 new COVID-19 positive cases reported on Sunday. This is the second consecutive day that the case load crossed 900 in March. On Saturday, 921 people tested positive for the virus. The total number of positive cases in the State stands at 9.6 lakh. A bulk of the positive cases (628) were reported in Bengaluru Urban district. Three people, all from Bengaluru Urban, succumbed to COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the death toll to 12,390. Of the total 8,364 active cases in the State, 125 patients are in intensive care units. As many as 73,108 COVID-19 tests were conducted across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.27%, while the case fatality rate was 0.32%. Meanwhile on Sunday, a total of 11,021 people were vaccinated. With this, cumulatively as many as 13.65 lakh people were vaccinated up to March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/934-covid-19-cases/article34070213.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointment of Subhash Adi opposed||Urging the State government to maintain status quo Backward Class category status, several leaders from other backward classes opposed the appointment of former judge Subhash B. Adi to consider the demand of Panchamsalis to be included in backward class 2A category. Leaders of the Backward Classes Welfare Federation, who met here to chalk out the future course of action, felt that adding Panchamsalis in the 2A category list would affect backward classes already in the category. Former MLC and weavers’ community leader M.D. Lakshminarayan said another meeting of leaders has been convened on March 17 following which, the communities will launch a struggle. “B.S. Yediyurappa’s Budget has Rs. 500 crore allocation to about 300 communities, which is not right. On the other hand, an allocation of Rs. 500 crore has been made to the Veerashaiava Anubhava Mantapa,” he added. Federation president K.M. Ramachandrappa said the communities did not have faith on Mr. Adi, and that they are not confident of him submitting a transparent report. Federation general secretary Saidappa Guttedar said the 2A category had 362 castes and so far, only one or two powerful communities have cornered the 15% reservation. “If powerful communities come under the 2A umbrella, others in the category will stand to lose,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointment-of-subhash-adi-opposed/article34070224.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Our children are being singled out in class’||For the better part of this academic year, almost all dinner conversations at Lata Thomas’ (name changed) house have revolved around school fee. Both the children of the house are enrolled in a top private school in Bengaluru, but Ms. Thomas and her husband have had to take pay cuts because of COVID-19. “Now, paying the entire school fee is a burden, one that weighs heavily on us,” she said. Despite assurances from school managements, parents remain anxious about the treatment meted out to their children if they don’t pay the fee. Many families have taken loans as they are worried that if they don’t do so, their children will not be allowed to give their examinations or will be be singled out. A mother of a class 5 student, on the condition of anonymity, said that although her son’s school was notrestricting access to online classes, children were being named and shamed. “Every week, the teacher will make a list of students who have to pay the fee and read it out in class. This will deeply affect my child’s morale, so I was forced to pay the fee,” she said. Many school managements are also allegedly not evaluating assignments and tests if thestudent has not paid the fee.Antony Sebastian, chairperson of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said they have received several complaints from parents about the way their children were being targeted. “We are forwarding the complaints to the respective Deputy Directors of Public Instruction or Block Educational Officers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/our-children-are-being-singled-out-in-class/article34070464.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Theme park proposal ruffles feathers||The controversy over the rejection of conservation reserve status to the last remaining grasslands in the city at Hesaraghatta has not yet died down. In the new budget, unveiled on March 8, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced a ‘theme park’ spread over 100 acres at Hesaraghatta. This has not gone down well with environmentalists and conservation activists. “A theme park will be established on 100 acres in Hesaraghatta with private partnership to provide information and training with permanent exhibition and demonstration of native livestock, breeds of sheep/goats and poultry breeds,” Mr. Yediyurappa said in his speech. This has raised eyebrows as it comes on the back of a big blow to conservation efforts for the grasslands during the recent meeting of the State Wildlife Board on January 19. The Chief Minister had shot down the proposal to declare it ‘Greater Hesaraghatta grasslands conservation reserve’. Board members, some of who went on to file written objections, alleged that the proposal was shot down due to the intervention of Yelahanka MLA S.R. Vishwanath. According to the minutes of the board meeting, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , Mr. Vishwanath was a ‘special invitee’. The MLA argued against the proposal, saying there was a shortage of government land for developmental works. The minutes also mention board members who supported the proposal. Reacting to the new theme park project announced in the budget, one of the board members, who had filed his dissent, said this was the wrong time to announce new plans for the area. “On the contrary, you can't allot land there for anything now as a lot of things are still open-ended. How can you announce a project on 100 acres? It suddenly becomes private property,” said the member. Conservationist and photographer Mahesh Bhat pointed out that Hesaraghatta already has poultry and livestock research institutes. “Farmers have been visiting and getting trained in various aspects of animal husbandry for decades. There is no need to set up a theme park for this now. This only shows the myopia of the government.” The Hesaraghatta lake bed and grasslands in the surrounding catchment area are considered an important reservoir of biodiversity and a refuge for endangered wildlife species like the Lesser Florican and the leopard, and the place is home to over 130 species of birds, many mammals and butterflies and millions of insects. Coincidentally, the 2021-22 budget mentions a grant of Rs. 50 lakh for conservation programmes of Lesser Florican, which is on the verge of extinction. “It is great that some amount of concern has been shown for conservation of this bird. They should know first and foremost that habitat needs to be conserved. They should not go and plant trees on the grasslands and build watchtowers as they did in Siraguppa where GIBs were sighted. However, it makes me wonder how the same government that allocates funds for conservation of a grassland species doesn’t agree to conserve its habitat at Hesaraghatta,” Mr. Bhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theme-park-proposal-for-hesaraghatta-ruffles-feathers/article34070201.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC’s inter-State services showing no sign of recovery||The recent surge in cases in neighbouring States as well as the ongoing border tension has hit the cash-strapped Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). A year after the outbreak of COVID-19, the RTC is still struggling to improve patronage for its inter-State services, especially for its AC buses. Last year, it had resumed inter-State services in a phased manner and had gradually started increasing the number of buses operated. A dip in COVID-19 cases in December was a silver lining in an otherwise dark cloud. However, the surge in COVID-19 cases in States such as Maharashtra now, has dashed any hope of a revival. Officials say only 40% of its fleet of air-conditioned buses are currently operating on inter-state routes. A senior official of the KSRTC said, “Inter-state services, especially the AC service segment, are showing no sign of recovery. For example, during pre-lockdown time, we used to run five AC services from Bengaluru to Pune, Mumbai, Shirdi and other places. But now it is difficult to find passengers for even one bus.” To Kerala A similar trend is playing out on routes to Kerala. “We used to operate 25 buses per day, but now it has reduced to four or five. And even then, seats are empty,” said the official. He attributed the low occupancy to the mandatory tests that passengers have to take. Even services to other popular destinations such as Hyderabad, Chennai and Tirupati have taken a hit. “Summer is the time when there is a rise in demand for AC buses, but it’s unlikely to happen this year,” the official added.  Academic changes Another reason is the changes in the academic calendar and a short summer holiday. Classes for students are likely to continue through summer, and families may either postpone or drop their travel plans. “People, who usually travel to their home-towns during this time, have already moved back due to work from home options. “They will continue to work from their native places until restrictions are relaxed,” the official added. A majority of the AC buses, including the brand new luxury Ambari Dream Class, which was launched in 2019, are gathering at dust at depots. The KSRTC has maintained that non AC bus services within the State have picked up trips and most of the buses are operational.  Summer is the time when there is a rise in demand for AC buses, but it’s unlikely to happen this year. A KSRTC official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twin-blows-decelerate-ksrtcs-chances-of-improving-patronage/article34070238.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Our children singled out’||For the better part of this academic year, almost all dinner conversations at Lata Thomas’ (name changed) house have revolved around school fees. Both the children of the house are enrolled in a top private school in Bengaluru, but Ms. Thomas and her husband have had to take pay cuts because of COVID-19. “Paying the entire school fee is a burden, one that weighs heavily on us,” she said. Despite assurances from school managements, parents remain anxious about the treatment meted out to their children if they don’t pay the fee. Many families have taken loans as they are worried that if they don’t do so, their children will not be allowed to appear for their examinations or will be be singled out. A mother of a class 5 student said that although her son’s school was not restricting access to online classes, children were being named and shamed. “Every week, the teacher will make a list of students who have to pay the fee and read it out in class,” she said. Many managements are also allegedly not evaluating assignments and tests of students who have not paid the fees. Antony Sebastian, chairperson of Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said they have received several complaints from parents. “We are forwarding them to the respective Deputy Directors of Public Instruction or BEOs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/our-children-singled-out/article34070204.ece
15 March 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Children are singled out’||Despite assurances from school managements, parents remain anxious about the treatment meted out to their children if they don’t pay the fee. Many families have taken loans as they are worried that if they don’t do so, their children will not be allowed to give their examinations or will be be singled out. The mother of a class 5 student, on the condition of anonymity, said that although her son’s school was notrestricting access to online classes, children were being named and shamed. “Every week, the teacher will make a list of students who have to pay the fee and read it out in class. This will deeply affect my child’s morale, so I was forced to pay the fee.” Many school managements are also allegedly not evaluating assignments and tests if thestudent has not paid the fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-are-singled-out/article34070652.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IFS officer dismisses allegations||IFS officer Nitin Subhash Yeola, against whom the Cubbon Park police had registered an FIR for dowry related harassment based on a complaint by his wife Karnataka cadre IPS officer Vartika Katiyar, has refuted all the allegations against him. In his statement to the police, a copy of which is with The Hindu , he has made a point by point rebuttal. Calling the complaint ‘an afterthought’ and ‘malicious’, Yeola questioned its timing. The couple had tied the knot in 2011. In her complaint, Katiyar alleged harassment in the initial days of the marriage. “She did not ever report any of the allegations from 2011 till date,” said Yeola, in his statement. The couple have filed for divorce and are locked in an access and custody battle for their eight-year-old son. Yeola claimed that he had filed a contempt petition against Katiyar in the Delhi High Court in December 2020 for her alleged refusal to comply with a family court order allowing him access to their son. “The present FIR has been filed to disrupt these ongoing legal proceedings,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dowry-case-ifs-officer-refutes-allegations/article34070205.ece
15 March 2021||Bengaluru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Fake circular: Dy. CM promises strict action||The Department of Collegiate Education has decided to file a complaint after a fake circular announcing that the State government was declaring holidays was circulated on social media and other platforms. The circular, which was the cause of much confusion among college managements, stated that the State government had decided to declare holidays from March 15-30, 2021, to contain the spread of COVID-19. College principals were inundated with calls from parents and students seeking a clarification. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that the cyber crime police has been instructed to detect the culprits immediately. “This is fake news. I have directed officials to book criminal cases against such persons,” he told journalists in Hubballi on Sunday. “Some people have shared a fake circular on social media handles widely, creating an impression that the government has declared holidays due to the rising COVID-19 cases. That is false. The fake circular has created panic and confusion among parents and students. We will ask the cyber crime police to trace the origin of this fake circular and take action against those responsible. This will send out the message that no one should play with our children’s future,” he said. Pradeep P., Commissioner of DCE, said that the fake circular was causing confusion among both students and teachers. “We will lodge a police complaint tomorrow,” said Mr. Pradeep. Officials pointed out that an old circular declaring holiday for colleges had been tweaked with the dates.  What it says The circular, which was the cause of much confusion among college managements, stated that the State government had decided to declare holidays from March 15-30, 2021, to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-circular-dy-cm-promises-strict-action/article34070237.ece
15 March 2021||KALABURAGI/BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Rising COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra have become a cause for concern||Constantly rising cases of COVID-19 in Maharashtra, which reported over 15,000 new cases and accounted for over 60% of active cases in the country, has posed a serious threat of the rapid spread of the infection in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Belagavi districts that share the border with this State. After a long lull, these districts have started seeing a steep rise in cases in the last 10 days. Kalaburagi, for instance, has constantly been reporting double-digit positive cases since the first day of March. It reported 37 new cases on Wednesday and 35 new cases on Saturday taking the number of active cases in the district to 277. In a bid to check the spread of the virus, the administrations in the border districts have tightened the containment measures including setting up of check-posts at Karnataka – Maharashtra border to ensure that only those who had COVID-19 negative reports could enter the State. Mobile squads “Kalaburagi district is reporting an average of 35 cases a day for the 10 days. We have formed four mobile squads with health, police and civic personnel and deployed them at different places. These mobile clinics are visiting the areas where positive cases have been reported and enforce the containment measures including isolating the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons after collecting their throat swab samples. We have also set up a check-post at Kalaburagi railway station to ensure that only those with COVID-19 negative reports enter the city,” Rajashekhar Mali, District Health and Family Welfare Officer, told The Hindu.  The North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation has indefinitely suspended bus services to Maharashtra. As per the sources in the State-owned transport corporation, as many as 60 buses were operating between different cities in Karnataka and Maharashtra daily. Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna has indefinitely imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, banning all jatras, festivals and Urus across the district to avoid crowds gathering. She is holding meetings of officers every evening to closely monitor the containment measures in place. Increased testing The surge in cases in Maharashtra has led to changes in Belagavi and Vijayapura districts. They include the increased target of daily testing, contact tracing of positive cases, implementation of guidelines for public functions and checking at the border. Officers in Belagavi said that the Health Department had set a target of 3,000 tests a day in Belagavi and 2,000 a day in Vijayapura. Officers have been asked to trace 20 contacts of each positive person within 24 hours. They will be tested first. If they test positive, 20 primary contacts of those persons are tested again. Contact tracing has begun from Sunday, officers said.  However, checking at the border is not being done strictly, according to some officers. The severity of checking at the four borders in Belagavi and the two borders in Vijayapura has come down, they say. The prime reason is that people are not as afraid of COVID-19 as they were. Secondly, checking each vehicle takes time and causes traffic jams on the highways. Thirdly, two-wheelers and other smaller vehicles are using chord roads narrow roads to enter the State, a Health Department officer said. The government has reintroduced the restrictions on the crowd during public functions. The crowd limit is 500 for outdoor and 200 for indoor functions. For family functions and observations like cremation and death anniversary, the number is 100 for outdoor and 50 for indoor functions. “We are taking enough precautions and following the State SOP. The rise in the number of cases is not much in Belagavi. We have ranged from zero to 15 cases in the last few weeks when the Maharashtra spike was reported,” said M . .Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rising-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-have-become-a-cause-for-concern/article34070236.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||ZP asks gram panchayats to form task force to combat spread of COVID-19||The Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat has asked all its gram panchayats to constitute a village task force each to check the threat of COVID-19 from upsurging again. The ZP Chief Executive Officer Kumar said that the task force will be headed by the Panchayat Development Officer. In addition, it will have the village accountant, an anganwadi worker, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), and a gram panchayat member. The task force will have to create awareness among people in the jurisdiction of their respective panchayats to take COVID-19 vaccine, wear masks in public places, and to take other precautionary measures. It will have to monitor whether people are wearing masks in public places. The task force will have to ensure that all precautionary measures are taken to contain the spread of infection. The zilla panchayat issued a circular to all panchayats on the same last week, Mr. Kumar said. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy said that the Health Department has now begun asking for COVID-19 negative certificates from those arriving from Maharashtra at Mangaluru International Airport. If they did not have it they are being subjected to the sample test at the airport. Those who did not have the certificate are being advised to be under home quarantine till their test reports are out. Nodal officer for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada H. Ashok said that the department conducted a meeting with the representatives of hotels//lodges last week and asked them to ensure that they insist guests from Maharashtra and Kerala produce COVID-19 certificates before allotting them rooms. About 50 representatives from the city attended the meeting and agreed that they would follow it. In addition, they were also instructed to get their cooks and food servers get checked every fortnight. He said that the malls and colleges have been instructed that they should make their employees and students who travelled from Kerala daily to undergo the sample test every fortnight. The responsibility of the same has been fixed on the malls and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zp-asks-gram-panchayats-to-form-task-force-to-combat-spread-of-covid-19/article34070648.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Assault: CMC resolves to cancel trade licence of shop||In a special meeting on Sunday, the Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) resolved to cancel the trade licence of Asma Cassette Corner located in Uudpi city bus stand area, after the police arrested on Saturday two members associated with the shop on charges of assaulting the driver of the vehicle collecting solid waste for the municipality, on Friday. K. Raghupathi Bhat, Udupi MLA, told presspersons in Udupi on Sunday that the council passed a resolution condemning the attack on the driver Sanju Madara, belonging to the Scheduled Castes. The meeting, presided over by Sumitra Nayak, president of the CMC, expressed solidarity with the employees and other workers of the city municipality. The police arrested Ismail, 56, of Nejar and Suhail, 28, of Hoode on the charge of assaulting the driver. It is alleged that they attacked the driver when asked to hand over segregated waste. The Udupi Town Police have registered a case in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assault-cmc-resolves-to-cancel-trade-licence-of-shop/article34070638.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KR network may see electric locomotive-hauled trains by June||The 741-km Konkan Railway network is likely to witness trains hauled by electric locomotivess after this June even as Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL), successfully conducted trial run of an electric locomotive between Thokur near Mangaluru and Karwar (238 km) last week. KRCL’s stretch between Roha and Ratnagiri (203 km) in Maharashtra has already witnessed successful trial run of an electric locomotive about a fortnight ago. Both the stretches were awaiting statutory inspection by the Commissioner for Railway Safety for certification to operate electric loco-hauled trains. Corporation’s Regional Railway Manager in Karwar B.B. Nikam told The Hindu KRCL was expecting CRS inspection by this month-end. Electrification of the track between Karwar and Ratnagiri (about 300 km) will take another three months after which the entire KR network will be covered under Railway Electrification project. The trial run of the electric locomotive, backed by a diesel one (in case of emergency), started at 9.40 a.m. from Thokur last Sunday and the locomotive successfully reached Karwar at 12.44 p.m. In the return direction, the locomotive commenced its run at 1.40 p.m. and reached Karwar at 4.10 p.m., according to KRCL’s Public Relations Manager in Mangaluru Sudha Krishnamoorthy. The trial run passed through 22 stations including two new along KR network between Thokur and Karwar. According to KRCL’s Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta, the corporation could save at least Rs. 100 crore on its annual energy bills; which at present come to around Rs. 300 crore due to running of diesel locos. Since trains would be hauled by electric locomotives instead of diesel, it contributes to environment conservation too. KRCL took up the Railway Electrification Project at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,100 crore along with path-doubling work since 2017. Railway Electrification was undertaken in two packages—Roha to Verna in Goa and Verna to Thokur. The 741-km network of KRCL will have 15 traction sub-stations to facilitate running of electric locomotivess, including six in Karwar region—Mulki, Barkur, Senapura, Murdeshwar, Kumta, and Bali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kr-network-may-see-electric-locomotive-hauled-trains-by-june/article34070453.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Portuguese, Kannada inscriptions found in Mangaluru college||Two inscriptions, one in Portuguese and another in Kannada, have been found on the technology wing campus of the College of Fisheries, at Hoigebazar in the city, while the ground was being excavated for constructing a building under the Smart City Mission. According to A. Senthil Vel, professor and dean, they were found two days ago and were noticed by Shreyash G. Bhandary, a third-year BFSc student. “The workers were excavating the ground after demolishing an old building,” Prof. Vel told The Hindu . As per the preliminary studies by the archaeologists, the Kannada inscription might belong to Alupa dynasty of 8th or 9th century A.D. The other inscription is yet to be studied fully. The dean said that the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to examine the inscriptions after he brought the same to the notice of PMO. “An ASI team is visiting the campus on Monday,” he said, adding that there could be more such monoliths in the same place in the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portuguese-kannada-inscriptions-found-in-mangaluru-college/article34070455.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||ASI dies of complications from injury suffered in 2018 accident||B. Narayana Naik, 58, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Mangaluru Traffic West (Pandeshwar) police, on Sunday died of complications from a road accident injury that occurred in October 2018. Mr. Naik suffered head injuries at Padavinangadi on October 10, 2018. He resumed duty after three months. However, a couple of months ago, he developed complications and got admitted again, and slipped into a coma. Mr. Naik succumbed to the injuries on Sunday morning. He leaves behind his wife and two daughters. A native of Padakodi in Bantwal tauk, Mr. Naik joined the police in 1989 as a constable after completing PU. He was promoted as an ASI in September 2018. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, Deputy Commissioners of Police Hari Ram Shankar, Vinay Gaonkar, and others paid tributes. Mr. Naik’s mortal remains were given state honours on the occasion.  Naik suffered head injuries while on patrol duty at Padavinangadi on October 10, 2018. He resumed duty after three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asi-dies-of-complications-from-injury-suffered-in-2018-accident/article34070452.ece
15 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Glaucoma support group launched||TMA Pai Hospital, Manipal, Department of Ophthalmology, Kasturba Medical College and Hospital, Manipal, and Department of Optometry at Manipal College of Health Professionals (MCHP) launched the glaucoma support group in Udupi on Saturday on the occasion of ‘ World Glaucoma Week’ which is observed worldwide in the second week of March. Vinod Bhat, executive vice-president, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, who inaugurated the group, said that the group will be a common platform to exchange information and support each other. He suggested to develop glaucoma awareness booklets in Kannada and English to educate people. Sharath Kumar, Dean, KMC Manipal, said: “Glaucoma is called silent killer. It kills the vision silently because it usually does not show any symptoms. But slowly the vision decreases. The lost vision cannot be recovered but the present vision can be retained with regular screening and treatment”. Neetha Kir, assistant professor and consultant glaucoma specialist at Kasturba Hospital, gave an overview of the support group. Vasanthi, a glaucoma patient, shared her experience with the gathering. A free glaucoma screening was done and free glaucoma medications were given to some patients, a release aid. The week is observed for creating more awareness on glaucoma. The theme for this year was ‘the world is bright, save your sight’, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/glaucoma-support-group-launched/article34070645.ece
15 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Power supply will be stopped to Alake, Kudroli, Basavanagudi, Gokarnanatha Old Gate Road, Nadupalli, and Jamia Masjid area on March 16 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works, a MESCOM release said.      There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi on March 16 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Indrali Railway Station, Ananthanagara, Paniyadi, Hayagreevanagara, Lakshmindranagara, Saralebettu, Eshwaranagara, Kadabettu, Ambagilu, Perampalli, Karamballi, Moodusagri, Bannanje, city bus stand area, Ajjarakadu, Nayarkere, Malpe, Aadi Udupi, Madwanagara, Salmara, Kola, and Kadabettu.     Mangaluru City Corporation has called a public consultative meeting at the government higher primary school, Kasba Bengre here on March 15 at 4.30 p.m. It is to inform people about a round-the- clock water supply project being taken up in ward number 60 at Bengre under the financial assistance from the Asian Development Bank.     Private medical establishments have been given time till March 31 to register under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act. In all, 462 establishments in Dakshina Kannada will have to renew their registration, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34070643.ece
15 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A case of misplaced priority for the city?||The ghost of ropeway or cable car project for Chamundi Hills has been resurrected again after a long hiatus which is set to trigger a fresh tug of war between proponents and opponents of the project. This is the latest in a series of projects that have been initiated atop the Chamundi Hills which is fast turning into an urban jungle with a slew of concrete structures including a multi-storey vehicle parking lot, road expansion works, and commercial kiosks that have already come up. It was the Minister for Tourism, C.P. Yogeshwar, who set the cat among the pigeons by announcing in the city last week that the ropeway or the cable car project was very much on the anvil and it would be taken up with private entities with experience in installing such projects in north India. That Mr. Yogeshwar - who is also the Minister for Environment - was strongly in favour of the project stems from his statements before the media that the “project will not impact the environment.” “A few poles will be installed and a cable will be drawn to support the carriages and there will be no sound pollution nor will it emit smoke’’, the Minister had stated during his interaction with mediapersons, underscoring his preconceived notions that the project will have no environmental impact on Chamundi Hills. The Minister was apparently influenced by the stakeholders in the tourism sector who have time and again aired the demand before successive governments to keep the issue alive. Earlier assurances Prior to Mr. Yogeshwar, the then district in-charge Minister V. Somanna had promised ‘development’ at Chamundi Hills and apart from raking up the ropeway project, had sought a new community feeding hall or Dasoha Bhavan and construction of new kiosks. The former Tourism Minister, C.T. Ravi, had proposed a zipline though the Forest Department denied permission for it. Another scheme mooted by the earlier governments was to ‘develop’ Chamundi Hills on the lines of Tirupati and create accommodation facilities. The proponents conveniently ignored the fact that Chamundi Hills was only 5 km from the city centre. Environmentalists, social activists and NGOs in Mysuru have time and again pointed to the ecological fragility of the area and the misplaced priorities of the government. They have warned that such infrastructure projects will backfire on the tourism sector as the pristine beauty of Chamundi Hills will be destroyed. A signature campaign was launched against the project by the Mysore Grahakara Parishat and Society for Empowerment of Voluntary Associations almost 6 years ago and it elicited a strong response against the project. Chamundi Hills is a treasure trove of biodiversity with over 150 birds documented in the reserve forests apart from 400 plant species. Buffer zone Environmentalists have pointed out that conservation of Chamundi Hills should receive priority as it regulates micro-climatic conditions and serves as a catchment area for the region. Hence there have been campaigns for creation of a buffer zone around Chamundi Hills but such pleas have been ignored in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-case-of-misplaced-priority-for-the-city/article34070664.ece
15 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tenders invited for waste biomining||Tenders have finally been invited for clearing the mounds of legacy waste piling up at the Mysuru City Corporation’s (MCC) waste treatment plant at Vidyaranyapuram through biomining. The piling up had become a thorn in the flesh of the authorities, who were at the receiving end of the complaints by residents of adjoining localities over the foul smell as well as the threat posed to their health from the rising mounds of garbage in their neighbourhood. MCC Health Health officer D.G. Nagaraju told The Hindu that bids had been invited for biomining the legacy waste, which is estimated to be more than 2 lakh tonnes. The last date for submitting bids is April 5 and the estimated cost of the work is Rs. 4.6 crore as per the tender details. Though the proposal to biomine the legacy waste had been approved by the government following a visit more than a year ago by a team of people’s representatives and officials from Mysuru to Nagpur, where a similiar exercise had been undertaken, former Minister and area MLA S.A. Ramdas had sought changes in the project that included shifting the waste treatment plant out of Vidyaranyapuram. Commitment However, sources in the MCC pointed out that MCC and Mysuru district administration had given a commitment to the National Green Tribubal (NGT) that the legacy waste will be cleared by 2022. If deadline is not complied with, the State Chief Secretary may be hauled up for contempt of court, the official said. Mysuru produces about 450 tonnes of waste every day and the plant at Vidyaranyapuram has a capacity to process no more than 150 to 200 tonnes per day. Even if the 9 zero waste management plants process about 45 tonnes per day at the rate of 5 tonnes per plant, a large quantum of waste is added every day to mounds of untreated waste lying at Vidyaranyapuram. The work is expected to be completed within nine months from the date the contract is awarded and an estimated 25 acres of land is likely to be reclaimed by the MCC after the biomining or scientific processing of the legacy waste is completed. As part of the biomining, the legacy waste will be segreated and sorted before processing. The Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) will be transported out of the Vidyaranpuram site. The successful bidder should also supply excavators, loaders, trailers and trucks for the biomining exercise. The 25 acres of land on which the legacy waste has now piled up can be reclaimed by the MCC through bioremediation after the biomining exercise and used for other purposes. The invitation of bids comes weeks after Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar announced that work on the waste treatment plants at Kesare and Rayanakere will start soon. Capacity addition The tender process had been completed for the 200 tonnes per day plant at Kesare and 150 tonnes per day plant at Rayanakere. The capacity shortfall to treat about 200 tonnes per day in Mysuru is expected to be more than made good by the plants at Kesare and Rayanakere, which together have a capacity of 350 tonnes. While the plant at Kesare is expected to come up on 25 acres of land near the Outer Ring Road at a cost of Rs. 11.32 crore, the unit at Rayanakere will be coming up on 7 acres of land near H.D. Kote road at a cost of Rs. 9.7 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tenders-invited-for-waste-biomining/article34070666.ece
15 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Fire in Bandipur buffer zone doused||A minor fire swept through parts of Bandipur buffer zone on Saturday evening but was brought under control and doused by the Forest Department personnel. The authorities said about 5 to 8 acres of the forest area was affected but said it was only a ground fire and had no significant impact on either the vegetation or the animals in the area. The fire was first noticed around 3.30 p.m. in the Terakanambi forest area of the buffer zone in Gundlupet. It transpired that the fire was approaching the forest area from a private agricultural tract which was on fire and hence the Forest Department rushed its personnel to the spot to bring it under control before it engulfed the core forests. However, strong wind made it difficult for the ground staff to control the fire and hence additional personnel from the adjoining Gopalswamy Betta and Kundukere range were also pressed into service. When the wind subsided the Forest Department staff doused it. Bandipur and surrounding forests are prone to fire and the authorities recruit temporary fire watchers to reinforce he strength of their ground staff. February and March tend to be the peak fire season and given the nature of the forests which are dry deciduous, the fire tends to burn swiftly and reduce the vegetation to cinders. More than 50 per cent of the national park has been overrun by weeds such as lantana that tend to dry quicky during summer and hence accentuate the intensity of fire. Bandipur has a history of frequent outbreak of fire and the biggest in recent times was in 2019 when nearly 15,000 acres was gutted. It necessitated the deployment of IAF choppers to air drop water. The park authorities aver they are equipped to deal with any contingency and have stationed fire tenders but prevention or controlling it in the early stages was the only way to aver a major conflagration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-in-bandipur-buffer-zone-doused/article34070233.ece
15 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah rules out alliance with JD(S)||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has ruled out the possibility of the Congress entering into an alliance with the JD(S) in future. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who arrived in Mysuru for the first time after the rift in the party over its alliance with the JD(S) during the recent Mayoral polls, was fielding queries from reporters over the local arrangement made by supporters of the Congress and the JD(S) in the elections to Mysuru District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Societies’ Union Ltd. “I am not supporting it. There is no alliance between the Congress and the JD(S),” said the Congress leader. However, he said the elections to co-operative bodies are not held on party symbols and dismissed the alliance as a local arrangement. Responding to queries on demands for reservation, Mr. Siddaramaiah found fault with the State government’s approach. All such demands for reservation will have to be backed with evidence on their population, he said. Though the caste census report was ready during the coalition tenure, the then Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy refused to accept it . When C. Puttaranghashetty from Chamarajanagar was Minister for Backward Classes Development, the then Chairman of the State Backward Classes Commission H. Kantharaj was ready to submit the report, but Mr. Kumaraswamy did not accept it. Mr. Siddaramaiah criticised the BJP government for its measly allocation to different community-based development corporations. There are about 12 to 13 corporations in the State and the budgetary allocation for all of them put together is just Rs. 500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-rules-out-alliance-with-jds/article34070231.ece
15 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||HDK cautions SIT against yielding to pressure||JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday cautioned officials of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the CD scandal against succumbing to pressure from persons in the government. Fielding queries from reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Kumaraswamy said governments will come and go, but officials will continue to work. “You should honestly find out who is behind the incident that has led to such a situation and who needs to be punished,” he sought to convey to the officials, before asking them to boldly come out with a decision without yielding to pressure from anyone. He said the State’s honour was in their hands. “Be merciless and conduct an impartial and fair probe and protect the State’s honour,” he said. However, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he does not believe that the investigation by SIT would reach its logical conclusion. For, he believed that it was possible for people in power to politically finish off their adversaries by using small wrongs for character assassination. Referring to a video message sent reportedly by the woman allegedly in the CD that triggered a row to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the JD(S) leader said he believed that the woman has been provided protection. Even if the government has not managed to trace her, she has protection, Mr. Kumaraswamy said. On KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar’s claim that there was an attempt to fix him in the scandal, he said: “When nobody took his name, what was the need for him to assume that he was the one they were trying to fix.” He wondered why Mr. Shivakumar, who has more political experience than him, made such a claim publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-cautions-sit-against-yielding-to-pressure/article34070227.ece
15 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity, trade body sign MoU||JSS Science and Technology University, Mysuru, and Bengaluru Chamber of Industry and Commerce have entered into a memorandum of understanding.   It focusses on organising industry-institute collaborative hackathons, contests, and workshops, along with curriculum developmentin emerging areas where skills are growing in demand. BCIC will also support the university in incubation and startup development and promotion activities, a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-trade-body-sign-mou/article34070462.ece
15 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Shepherd’s body recovered||The police and the Fire and Emergency Services personnel recovered the body of a shepherd, Laxman, 45, from the Krishna on Sunday. He was killed by a crocodile when he was washing his sheep at the river near Yakshinthi village in Shahpur taluk. A case has been registered at the Shahpur police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shepherds-body-recovered/article34070460.ece
15 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Doranahalli returning to normal||Doranahalli village in Shahpur taluk of Yadgir district almost returned to normality on Sunday. Most of the shops were opene but people did not gather much owing to the prohibition imposed under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code on Thursday midnight. Violence erupted in the village on Thursday night after a youth allegedly insulted ‘Shivalinga’ and also posted a photo on social media. It may be recalled that there was a clash between groups of residents and at least three police personnel on duty were injured in a stone-pelting incident. Following this, tahsildar of Shahpur Jagannath Reddy imposed the prohibition and ordered the suspension of the annual fair and rathotsava of Sri Mahanteshwar Temple, which was scheduled on March 12 and 13.  The police said that they are searching for more persons involved in the incident and three persons, including the youth, have been arrested so far. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that there will be no restrictions for the weekly market on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doranahalli-returning-to-normal/article34070461.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Yediyurappa to hold meeting today||Sources in Chief Minister’s office said that the discussion at the meeting would revolve around implementing some tough measures to contain the spread. They would include tough restrictions to be put in place for inter-State movement, especially those coming from Maharashtra and Kerala where cases are high, and imposing quarantine restrictions on those coming from abroad. “Since the restriction on big gatherings had been eased with a cap of 500 persons, it is more or less being violated. The government is thinking of imposing tough restrictions on that too.” Sources said that the wearing of mask in public places that was been seen as slackening could be made tougher. The sources said that after the meeting, which would be attended by senior government officials and experts, the government was expected to announce some tough measures to contain the spread. “The Chief Minister will take stock of the situation and decide on the future course based on the inputs he receives from the experts and officials,” the sources said. Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters here that the next steps would be taken based on what the Chief Minister says on Monday. “So far, there has been no discussion with us on imposing either curfew or night curfew.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-yediyurappa-to-hold-meeting-today/article34070232.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KPCC legal wing too looking into CD scandal: Shivakumar||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, who alleged that there has been a conspiracy to frame him in the Ramesh Jharkiholi CD episode, on Sunday said the Congress legal wing was also looking into the matter even as Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah is set to raise the issue in the legislature on Monday. “They are giving different statements on and off the record. This is something that we know about naturally. I will also seek some information. Our party’s legal team is looking into it since one of the Ministers has named the Congress of conspiring in the CD issue,” he told reporters in Shivamogga on Sunday. “Why has there been no discussion on statements of BJP legislators Basanagouda Patil Yatnal or A.H. Vishwanath? Why has there been no suo moto complaint in this regard? When six Ministers have officially claimed of CDs that could mar their reputations, why has it not been covered under investigation? When the former Minister claims it to be fake, then what is the need for the investigation?” Mr. Shivakumar asked. However, Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president and brother of Mr. Ramesh, told reporters in Belagavi that there can be no conspiracy to trap anybody through the CD, and that truth will come out of a police investigation. In another salvo, BJP legislator from Vijayapura Basannagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been at loggerheads with the State BJP leadership for some time now, demanded a CBI enquiry since the State police could come under the influence of leaders here. “It is an organised conspiracy to finish off Mr. Ramesh politically.”  Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa welcomed Mr. Siddaramaiah’s announcement that the issue will be raised in the Assembly. “The Opposition Leader has the freedom to raise any issue. However, he has to shed light on the issue properly.” Further, he said Mr. Siddaramaiah has to bring to the attention of the government several issues, and these observations will help Ministers to work with caution. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai also welcomed Mr. Siddaramaiah’s decision to raise the issue in the Assembly. He said: “The SIT will look into providing security to the woman and her family.” On the statement of Mr. Shivakumar that he was being framed in the issue, Mr. Bommai said: “It is his opinion and only he can provide explanation on it.” In Mysuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah did not comment on the ongoing investigation. When his reaction was sought on Mr. Shivakumar’s statement, he said: “He has told it all. There is nothing that I can comment on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-legal-wing-too-looking-into-cd-scandal-shivakumar/article34070221.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||One-man Opposition in the Assembly||Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal(in picture)is arguably one of the most disgruntled leaders today. The ruling party has been going slow on the demand of the Panchamasali community, to which he belongs, for inclusion in the 2A category of OBC list. This is only the latest among his many grievances against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He has expressed his frustration on many occasions by hitting out at Mr. Yediyurappa and his style of functioning. Last Wednesday, on the floor of the Legislative Assembly, he accused the Chief Minister of being missing in action, saying there was no assurance from the government on Panchamasalis’ demand despite rallies and protests by the community. Knowing well that the ruling establishment is unlikely to concede the demand right now, Mr. Yatnal has threatened to launch an all-night protest on the premises of the Legislative Assembly on Monday if the Chief Minister declines to set a deadline on inclusion of the community under 2A. Though Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government would speak to Mr. Yatnal and ask him to calm down, it remains to be seen what his next move will be. Meanwhile, with him around, the Opposition’s task is half taken care of.   In Bengaluru, the real estate mafia seems to be more powerful than the BJP government, or so one would think, going by a recent statement of Revenue Minister R. Ashok. The Minister appears to have conceded defeat to the real estate mafia and officials who are hand in glove with the agents. He recently expressed helplessness in dealing with the encroachment of government lands worth thousands of crore in the State capital. “It feels like my hands are tied,” remarked the Revenue Minister, indicating his inability to take on the property mafia. Officials in the sub-registrar department too knock on the doors of the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal and get stay orders on transfers and come back to Bengaluru, he said. Amused with the Minister’s remark, A.T. Ramaswamy, JD(S) MLA, who was part of a committee that went round the city to prepare a report on land encroachment, asked whether the government was alive. There was enough land grabbing in the city based on fake documents that would fetch sufficient money to prepare two State Budgets, he said. “These are powerful people, who are fudging documents to grab land. There is no fear. That’s why I say we are the living dead,” he said.   When in public life, every person’s action is keenly watched and commented upon. Criticism gets louder especially when there is a lot of publicity over developmental programmes but little is visible on ground. Photographs of Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar(in picture)holding pickaxes and performing bhoomi puja for various works appears in the print media regularly. Often these very photographs are used to take a dig at him. In fact, Mr. Shettar has been targeted by the Opposition for delay of every developmental work. This seems to be of late getting on the nerves of Mr. Shettar who otherwise has the image of taking criticism in his stride. He lost his cool at a recent event. However, he soon braced himself and said he had become something of a punching bag. “It is like I am responsible for anything that goes wrong in the twin cities,” he said, amused. Nagesh Prabhu Girish Pattanashetti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-man-opposition-in-the-assembly/article34070218.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Taking a break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taking-a-break/article34070198.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for stealing gold||A police team patrolling Malleswaram caught a 23-year-old man for allegedly diverting the attention of customers at a jewellery shop to steal their valuables. “The accused, Santosh Kumar V., works in a banking and investment firm. He had recently invested his savings in the share market, but incurred huge losses,” said a police officer. Santosh, who is the sole breadwinner of his family, decided to take to crime. The police seized 92 gram of gold worth Rs. 4.7 lakh from him. In his statement to the police, Santosh said that he watched videos of attention diversion on YouTube and practised before striking out on his own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-stealing-gold/article34070206.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Unique ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unique-ride/article34070650.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Informal meet with Ministers||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has convened an informal meeting of Ministers on Monday before the legislature’s Budget session commences. Sources said that the meeting was likely to discuss the manner in which the Opposition could be handled in the legislature as the Congress was staging a protest against the suspension of its member B.K. Sangameshwara. Also, the Congress has announced that it would raise the issue of a CD on Ramesh Jarkiholi in the legislature. The sources said that the meeting had been called to ensure participation of Ministers and BJP members in the session when the Congress mounts the attack. “Last week, even Ministers remained absent in the Assembly and the number of ruling party legislators in the House was also thin, offering the Congress an opportunity to attack the government.” Meanwhile, the Congress, which has already criticised the Budget, is also convening a meeting to chalk out strategy to attack the government, said KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/informal-meet-with-ministers/article34070219.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cosy spot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hover-near-flower/article34070229.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||The bucks stop here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-bucks-stop-here/article34070459.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Talk on miniatures||National Gallery of Modern Art, in collaboration with Gandhi Centre for Science and Human Values, will be organising a virtual introductory talk on Indian miniatures by Prof. Benoy K. Behl, art historian, photographer and film-maker, on March 19 at 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/talk-on-miniatures/article34070195.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||letters||Sir, — Vehicle users in Bengaluru continue to risk life and limb because of speed breakers on roads across the city, most of which are constructed quite haphazardly, without complying with the prescribed standards. The situation is worse on the street where there are hardly any warning signages or paint marks on the humps or speed breakers. Consequently, motorists get thrown off their seats while negotiating the humps. In addition, there are scores of speed breakers in the city that are unauthorised. Apart from many cases of fatal accidents because of these speed breakers, spine-related health issues in people are becoming commonplace. Officials of the civic body, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, do not seem bothered by this or are grossly incompetent in finding a lasting solution to the problem. KAMAL LADDHA,  Bengaluru     Sir, — It is welcome news that the KSRTC has arranged Airavat Gold Class services to Belagavi in north Karnataka from Bengaluru every day, departing from Kempe Gowda Bus Station at 9.30 a.m. The service is very beneficial to passengers intending to reach Belagavi in the evening. But there is an urgent need to connect Hubballi, Dharwad, and Belagavi by providing the new Airavat Club Class air-conditioned service departing at noon from Kempe Gowda Bus Station. At present, there are no buses connecting to Belagavi-Hubballi-Dharwad between 9.30 a.m. and 3 p.m. from Kempe Gowda Bus Station. The non-availability of an afternoon service to Belagavi via Hubballi-Dharwad is causing an inconvenience to passengers who intend to reach Belagavi at least by 9.30 p.m. Varun Dambal, Bengaluru  Readers can write    to letters.bangalore    @thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/letters/article34070196.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports: Special sports meet for women, Mangala stadium, 10 a.m.  Department of Food and Civil Supplies: World Consumers Day celebration, Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat, guest, K. V. Rajendra, Deputy Commissioner, Dakshina Kannada presides, Besant College for Women, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34070644.ece
15 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No political front is expecting a cakewalk this time||What makes the contest fascinating in the Aroor Assembly constituency is its sheer unpredictability. Aroor was considered a citadel of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] till the 2019 Assembly bypoll when United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate Shanimol Usman of the Congress wrested the seat from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) by defeating Manu C. Pulickal of the CPI(M) by a margin of 2,079 votes. A few months prior to the byelection, the LDF had the first signs of trouble in Aroor. A.M. Ariff, then MLA, who won from the Alappuzha Parliament constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by defeating Ms. Usman, however, trailed in the Assembly segment. In the bypoll, Ms. Usman, carrying on the momentum, bagged Aroor for the UDF after a gap of 13 years. When it comes to the upcoming polls, no political front is expecting a cakewalk. The Congress has fielded Ms. Usman again from the seat. The party feels the good work carried out in the last one-and-a-half years and her acceptance among voters will help it retain the constituency. For the CPI(M), it is a matter of prestige to win recapture the seat, which it had won 10 times out of the 16 elections. The party, which witnessed some rumblings within post byelection defeat, is taking no chance this time. It has fielded Alappuzha district panchayat vice president Daleema Jojo. Ms. Jojo, a playback singer, was recently re-elected to the local body for the second time from the Aroor division. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has announced the candidature of T. Aniyappan of the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) from the seat. In 2016, Mr. Aniyappan who contested from Aroor on the BDJS ticket had garnered 27,753 votes. If the results of the 2020 local body polls were any indication, the LDF has every reason to be upbeat. It romped to victory in seven of the 10 grama panchayats in the constituency. They include Kuthiathode, Ezhupunna, Aroor, Panavally, Perumbalam, Thycattusserry and Chennam Pallippuram. The UDF came to power in Thuravoor and Arookutty. The BJP won the Kodamthuruth grama panchayat. Presence of NDA The growing presence of the NDA is expected to make the battle for Aroor an interesting one where a large number of electorates make a living by fishing and working in allied sectors. Politics alone will not determine the winner as caste and religious equations too will play a role. Apart from the Ezhava community, a dominant force in Aroor, Muslims and Christians also have a sizeable vote share there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-political-front-is-expecting-a-cakewalk-this-time/article34070538.ece
15 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha comes out with its list of candidates||With the announcement of candidates by Congress and the BJP, battle lines have been drawn in almost all Assembly constituencies in the district. Congress’s two sitting MLAs—Ramesh Chennithala and Shanimol Usman—will contest from Haripad and Aroor. Mr. Chennithala is up against LDF’s R. Sajilal (CPI). Former BJP district president K. Soman is the NDA candidate in Haripad. In Aroor, Ms. Usman is pitted against Daleema Jojo of the CPI(M) and T. Aniyappan of the BDJS, an NDA constituent. K.S. Manoj is the Congress candidate from Alappuzha. The CPI(M) has fielded P.P. Chitharanjan, and the BJP’s candidate is Sandeep Vachaspati. DCC president M. Liju will contest from Ambalappuzha. He will face H. Salam CPI(M) and Anoop Antony Joseph (BJP). In Chengannur, Saji Cherian of the CPI(M) clashes with Congress veteran M. Murali and BJP district president M.V. Gopakumar. Kayamkulam constituency will see a fight between CPI (M)’s sitting MLA U. Prathibha and Aritha Babu (Congress). Pradeep Lal (BDJS) is the NDA candidate. P. Prasad (CPI) and S. Sarath (Congress) will fight in Cherthala, where BDJS has P.S. Jyothis, former CPI(M) member. CPI(M)’s M.S. Arun Kumar will face K.K. Shaju (Congress) in Mavelikara. K. Sanju, a former CPI(M) man, is the BJP candidate. Thomas K. Thomas (NCP) is the LDF candidate in Kuttanad, and Jacob Abraham (KC-Joseph) is UDF’s. The NDA is yet to declare its candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-comes-out-with-its-list-of-candidates/article34070595.ece
15 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BDJS announces three more contestants||The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has declared the names of three more contestants for the Assembly elections in the State. The candidates are C.D. Sreelal (Kaipamangalam), Unnikrishnan Thrishnath (Kodungalloor) and Subramanian Chungapali (Ponnani). The BDJS has so far announced candidates for 21 segments. It is likely to contest in 25 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bdjs-announces-three-more-contestants/article34070559.ece
15 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki gets a taste of reverse migration||Idukki district which had witnessed an influx of settlers starting nearly a century ago is now witnessing a reverse migration, resulting in a decline in population and severe shortage of manpower in various sectors. As per a document released as part of a special package for the district by the State government recently, in 2001-11, the population in the State increased by 4.9% while Idukki witnessed a drop in population of 1.8%. Though the exact data of 2011-21 are unavailable, various surveys point out that the decline in population will be higher than that was evident in the economic surveys. Fall in production For the past two decades, the district has been undergoing a serious crisis with the production share in various sectors on a decline. During 2011-12, it was 3.8% and 3.2% in 2018-19. In 2011-12, income from agriculture was Rs. 4,623 crore and Rs. 4,225 crore in 2018-19. The high ranges have been witnessing a severe manpower crisis, especially in the plantation sector, where a huge reverse migration has been reported since a crisis hit the tea sector two decades ago. The plantation sector was the largest employment provider and migration from Tamil Nadu started prior to the large-scale migration from Central Travancore. The crisis in the plantation sector and better opportunities in the booming construction sector triggered the reverse migration. Empty estate lanes “A large number of Tamil workers who had settled in the plantation areas of Peerumade, Udumbanchola and Devikulam taluks returned to their native places following a reduction in the cost of living there. Now, the workers prefer to arrive daily and return the same day in contract taxis, instead of staying in estate lanes (workers’ quarters),” said Prasanth, manager of a tea estate in Peerumade taluk. Reasons Farming and owning land are no more profitable after the drop in the prices of cash crops. Following human-wildlife conflicts, those living in the buffer zones of the forests were relocated to safer places and some of these people chose to return to their native areas. Reverse migration is also witnessed among settlers from Central Travancore, as the farm sector is no more lucrative and their third and fourth generation members opt for jobs outside the district, especially in Gulf countries. Calamities too The reverse migration was real, said Fr. Sebastian Kochupurackal, general convener, High Range Samrakshana Samiti, adding that the severe crisis in the farm sector was due to constant price fall, increase in attacks by wild animals in human-inhabited areas and the increase in natural calamities. He said that unless corrective steps were taken, it would lead to a severe drop in agriculture production as the migration to the high ranges started under the ‘grow more food scheme’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-gets-a-taste-of-reverse-migration/article34070558.ece
15 March 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||People’s trust prompted decision, says Surendran||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has said that he is contesting from both the Manjeswaram and Konni Assembly constituencies in the upcoming polls because the people have reposed faith in him and the party. Mr. Surendran arrived in Manjeswaram in a helicopter on Sunday. He was returning after holding discussions with the party’s national leaders in New Delhi on candidate selection, and was in Kasaragod for the inauguration of the BJP’s election office. Mr. Surendran told mediapersons that he had lost the last Assembly election to the Indian Union Muslim League’s (IUML) P.B. Abdul Razak by 89 votes because of bogus voting. “The IUML and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] cheated in the election and it is necessary to reclaim the constituency,” he added. He added that he had huge support in the Konni constituency, especially when the Sabarimala protest was raging. He said the controversy over women’s entry to Sabarimala would be a major issue in this election. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had permitted women to enter the temple then, and the former had even expressed his regret for the happenings. ‘All communities’ Mr. Surendran said the BJP had fielded eminent candidates this time. The party had included people from all communities. The list had nominees from SC/ST communities in unreserved seats, and those from religious minorities, including eight Christian and two Muslims. Many women too would contest this election as BJP nominees, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peoples-trust-prompted-decision-says-surendran/article34070573.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Church row key factor in Kothamangalam||A triangular contest, as in 2016, is on the cards in Kothamangalam Assembly constituency, a largely agricultural belt. While the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has fielded 2016 winner Antony John for the second time, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has arrayed Shibu Thekkumpuram of the Kerala Congress (Joseph), who was active in the constituency with his ‘Ente Naadu Kothamangalam’ initiative. Both the fronts are wary of the Twenty20’s increasing influence among voters, which has fielded 50-year-old Joe Joseph, son in law of KC (J) leader P.J. Joseph, here. A medical doctor, he was associate professor at Government Medical College, Kalamassery. As on Sunday, the NDA was yet to announce its candidate for the seat, which could be given to its ally, the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS). Track record Kothamangalam has mostly been an UDF bastion, with V.J. Paulose winning a hat-trick — winning three elections from here, beginning from 1991. Candidates from different factions of the Kerala Congress represented the region eight times, beginning from 1965 when the constituency was formed, while the CPI(M) won in 1967 and in 2016. Members of the Syrian Jacobite Church are the dominant community of the area. Their votes will be decisive, since the feud with the Syrian Orthodox Church has aggravated as compared to yesteryears. The LDF is banking on the trend during the local body polls of December 2020, when it came to power in Kothamangalam Municipality and in four of the eight grama panchayats, with the UDF winning the balance four grama panchayats. “This was largely because members of the Jacobite Church welcomed the State government formulating the Cemeteries Bill, which laid to rest concerns about burying bodies of its members in cemeteries of churches which were yielded to the rival faction on the basis of a court order. The Assembly election is a different ball game and we look forward to proactive MLAs like late T.M. Jacob (who won thrice from the constituency on KC ticket),” said a septuagenarian businessman who hails from Kothamangalam. Infrastructure hurdles Key issues in the constituency — most of which remained unaddressed during the past decades — include inadequate road connectivity from Ernakulam city, long-overdue bypass projects which were aimed at decongesting the town and the region’s under-utilised agricultural and farm tourism potential. Former chairman of Kothamangalam Municipality Biju Thomas expressed dismay at projects to decongest the town hanging fire for decades, despite Revenue and Forest departments holding possession of considerable land in the region. “The non-completion of the bypass ring road project has resulted in a pair of overbridges remaining under-utilised, for want of approach roads. Similarly, encroachers on ‘purampoke’ land too have not been cleared, further affecting traffic movement. A project to clean a canal which passes through the town too has not materialised, despite Mar Athanasius College of Engineering offering technical help in 2003. It is now a garbage dump. Once considered the gateway to high ranges, Kothamangalam has fallen behind towns like Thodupuzha on the development front,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-row-a-key-factor-in-kothamangalam/article34070553.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cherishing the gift of public education||It is not the first time that the Government Higher Secondary School, Vennala, is treading the offbeat track. Teachers, PTA representatives, and alumni of the institution visited houses of students, who won awards in various art competitions, in its decorated school bus with gifts during the weekend. “The initiative titled ‘Sammanavandi’ [a vehicle loaded with gifts] was also aimed at creating awareness among people about the recent additions to the school’s infrastructure and the slew of measures that have been taken to promote inclusive education, including for differently abled students. We wanted to drive home the point that the school has sound infrastructure and a team of qualified and committed teachers,” said Jolly Sebastian, Headmistress of the school’s upper primary and high school sections, which alone have 490 students. “Over the years, many parents in the vicinity preferred to seek admission for their kids in unaided schools located far away, since they were not aware of the development projects taking place in our school. The mad rush to seek admission in unaided English medium schools, which charge hefty fees, has been occurring despite the fact that our school has a full-fledged English medium section. In this circumstance, we decided to embark on the outreach programme. Drivers of the autorickshaw stand in front of the school pooled in with banners listing the school’s unique achievements, that were fixed at the front and rear of the school bus. There was good response from parents and students to the campaign,” she said. The institution has teachers trained in imparting education to differently abled students, while 40 students from other States are given additional help under the Roshni scheme. “The school recently added a new UP school building using Rs. 1-crore MLA fund of P.T. Thomas. Likewise, the foundation stone for a higher secondary block comprising classrooms and labs, a Rs. 3-crore KIIFB-funded project, was recently laid. Our aim during the campaign was to promote public education, since the image of government schools is slowly improving,” said Dennis Valiyanthara, president of the school’s PTA. “Few know that the school dates back to over 100 years. It is among the few government schools in the State to have its own band group. It also has a dedicated Student Police Cadet (SPC) and Red Cross unit. A team from the school also won State-level acclaim in Hindi role play contest,” he said. It is also on the lookout for sponsors for its initiative to provide notebooks and financial help to students in distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cherishing-the-gift-of-public-education/article34070548.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pineapple farmers upbeat as demands soar||Pineapple farmers across the State are possibly looking at around 20% rise in fruit production, even as demand has gone up in north India following the winter season and COVID-19 restrictions. Farmers, numbering around 5,000, have brought more area under cultivation, as planters opted out of rubber farming in the backdrop of the fall in the price of the crop, said Jose Varghese, a pineapple merchant at Vazhakkulam. He added that the rise in demand from upcountry markets had boosted harvesting too, as farmers are seeing an opportunity to get remunerative prices. According to him, the raw variety sent to cities outside Kerala are fetching around Rs. 25 a kg. The demand for ripe fruit in the local market is steady, but prices hover around Rs. 20 a kg. Though the price levels are remunerative, farmers had sustained massive losses during the pandemic, and it will be difficult for them to make good for their losses, he said. Baby John, a pineapple farmer, said with more areas coming under pineapple cultivation, the availability of the fruit had been steadily rising during January, February, and March. He added that around 1,500 tonnes of the fruit were being exported to cities outside Kerala over the last three months. Taking good care This is largely because farmers took good care of their gardens during the pandemic. The availability of the fruit at this level is unprecedented, Mr. John said. Around 150 lorry loads of pineapple are shipped to north Indian cities, including New Delhi and Mumbai. The summer season has seen a rise in demand for fruits, even as the supply of mango and orange has come down, Mr. John said. This is another reason why the demand for pineapple is on an upward spiral. Resistance At the same time, a rise in the price of the fruit will also cause some resistance from buyers, as the pandemic has curtailed income for a large segment of the population. It is estimated that 18,000 hectares under pineapple cultivation in the State produce around 5.5 lakh tonnes of the fruit on average in a year.  Farmers, numbering around 5,000, have brought more area under cultivation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pineapple-farmers-upbeat-as-demand-soars/article34070532.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A book returns to help ailing author||A book may be published for myriad reasons; out of the author’s craving to be in the limelight, to fulfil a literary dream, or just to make a few bucks. The second edition of the book Veenju (wine) was published on Sunday for a much nobler cause. Kochi-based Vayanappura volunteered to publish 1,000 copies of the book priced at Rs. 200 to fund the treatment expenses of its author Thankachan C.V. from Palluruthy after his large circle of friends came up with the idea. The 60-year-old, an active presence in social work and literary circles, especially during the 80s, is now faced with mounting treatment expenses following kidney failure. “He had undergone a bypass surgery two years ago following prolonged heart ailment. That itself was a drain on our limited resources before things turned worse when he was diagnosed with failed kidneys 10 months ago. “Now, he needs to undergo dialysis twice a week, and the collective monthly treatment expenses, including medicines, exceed Rs. 40,000,” said his wife Barbara K.V. Mr. Thankachan had been active in relief missions in far-off places in the State following the 2018 deluge.  Veenju was first published a few years ago and features the author’s memories with stalwarts from literary, film and artistic circles, which included Om Puri, Shaji M. Karun, M.V. Devan, and John Abraham, to name a few. A few more chapters were added for the second edition. “Thankachan chettan was instrumental in mobilising over Rs. 1 lakh for the treatment of Kerala Sahithya Akademy award-winning author Thomas Joseph in a similar manner. So, when he himself fell ill, we thought of returning that favour,” said publisher Thengapuraykkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-book-returns-to-help-ailing-author/article34070523.ece
15 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Jacobite panel unable to meet Amit Shah, returns from Delhi||Even amidst reports that a high-level delegation from the Syrian Jacobite Church returned from New Delhi on Saturday evening without being able to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, sources in the Church said their mission, that was primarily aimed at debunking the misconception that the church is a foreign one, was successful. The Secretary of the Syrian Jacobite Church Peter K. Elias said that people inimical to the church had fanned this misconception about the church being a foreign one. Away from politics As a religious denomination, the Church clearly preferred to steer clear of politics, he said. Since January, thanks to Mizoram Governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai, the Church was able to convey to Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leaders the fact that the Jacobite Church was very much interlinked with Hindu/local traditions for the past about 2,000 years. Propaganda Propaganda to the contrary was aimed at driving a wedge between us and the BJP-led NDA at the Centre. “Our aim was to apprise stakeholders at the Centre of this,” he said. The Church also shed light on the nature of documents that were produced by the Orthodox faction before courts, including the Supreme Court, to wrest control of churches where members of the Jacobite faction were in vast majority, Mr. Elias said. Yet to take a stand He also added that the Church is yet to take a stand on which front to support in the impending Assembly poll. The Church’s spokesman had said a week ago, quoting the Church’s Synod decision, that it would extend help to whichever political formation that reaches out to help it out of the crisis it is encountering. This was in view of the rival Orthodox Syrian Church citing a court order and demanding control of churches where members of the Jacobite faction were in majority.  The Church says, as a religious denomination, it clearly prefers to steer clear of politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jacobite-panel-unable-to-meet-amit-shah-returns-from-delhi/article34070525.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rebels in UDF raise banner of protest||Resentment is brewing in the United Democratic Front (UDF), especially in the Congress, after the release of the list of party candidates on Sunday evening. While a section of the Congress activists came out against the candidature of K. Babu in Thripunithura, trade unionists led by Congress ‘I’ faction leader K.P. Haridas have raised the banner of protest against party candidate Deepak Joy in Vypeen constituency. Indian Union Muslim League leader T.A. Ahamad Kabeer has also protested against him being denied the Kalamassery seat. In Thripunithura, District Congress Committee general secretary A.B. Sabu lashed out at Mr. Babu and alleged that senior party leader Oommen Chandy had bargained a seat for Mr. Babu, as the former Excise Minister was the funding source for Congress candidates. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Sabu said Mr. Babu would spoil the party for the UDF in the State. Mr. Babu was attempting to fool voters by saying that he had obtained a clean chit from the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau in the bar bribery case. It was by sporting a report of the Bureau that Babu attempted to whitewash himself. However, no court has accepted the report, he said.  When contacted, Mr. Babu chose not to respond to the developments. “Let the party handle the issue,” he said. In Vypeen, Mr. Haridas, a general secretary of the INTUC, said he would field himself as a candidate if the trade union asks him to take the tough stand. The union will take out a Statewide protest march on March 16 against the non-inclusion of its leaders in the Congress list. If the party does not concede, a meeting of the organisation on March 17 will decide on fielding its candidates in all the constituencies, said Mr. Haridas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rebels-in-udf-raise-banner-of-protest/article34070551.ece
15 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||INTUC threatens to field candidates||The Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) has threatened to field candidates in all districts in the State in protest against the alleged Congress decision to overlook trade union leaders in deciding candidates in the forthcoming Assembly election. A seven-member committee has been constituted to decide the future course of action. Candidates soon At a press conference here on Friday, INTUC State president R. Chandrasekharan said that candidates would be declared soon. Though, initially claim was made for 15 Assembly seats, it was reduced to five at the request of the KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. Mr. Chandrasekharan demanded the KPCC leadership to pay heed to the organisation's demand while regarding INTUC with 17 lakh members as the primary vote bank of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intuc-threatens-to-field-candidates/article34070542.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||BJP feeder organisations get representation in list||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), while picking its candidates for the 14 Assembly constituencies in the district, has given due representation to its feeder organisations, including Yuva Morcha and Mahila Morcha, in the list that was released on Sunday afternoon. The Yuva Morcha got its representation in the list of candidates through M.A. Ashish. The State vice president of the youth organisation is the party candidate in Piravom constituency. The BJP chose Padmaja S. Menon, State secretary of the Mahila Morcha, to contest from Ernakulam. Minority Morcha State vice president Jiji Joseph will contest in the party symbol from Muvattupuzha constituency. K.S. Radhakrishnan, the State Vice president of the party, will contest from the Thripunithura constituency. Though it was widely speculated that E. Sreedharan, who recently joined the party, would seek mandate from the constituency, the former technocrat chose Palakkad to contest and the mantle fell on Mr. Radhakrishnan, who was once a Congress fellow-traveller. T.P. Sindhumol, State secretary of the BJP, is the party candidate in Perumbavoor and K.V. Sabu, former State president of the Bharatiya Minority Morcha, will seek mandate from Angamaly. M.N. Gopi, the party candidate in Aluva, is the district vice president of the BJP. K.S. Shyju, district general secretary of the party, has been fielded in Vypeen, whereas C.G. Rajagopal, the meghala secretary of the party, is the candidate in Kochi constituency. S. Saji has been given one more chance from Thrikkakara constituency. Renu S. Suresh, BJP State secretary, is the party’s choice for Kunnathunadu constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-gives-feeder-organisations-due-representation-in-list/article34070550.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No surprise candidates in Cong. list in Ernakulam||With the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) releasing their list of candidates, the electoral scene of the district has become active. The CPI(M) and the CPI had finalised their list last week. There were no surprise candidates in the Congress list, as the party gave one more chance at the hustings for all its sitting legislators from the district. Incidentally, it was the delay in finalising the party candidate for the Thripunithura seat along with nine others that reportedly delayed the release of the list. Though a section of the Congress leaders, it is learnt, was not in favour of fielding former Excise Minister K. Babu once again from his home turf, Thripunithura, his loyalty to A group leader and Congress general secretary Oommen Chandy paid for the senior Congress leader. Mr. Babu, who had represented Thripunithura for a quarter century, was trounced by M. Swaraj, the CPI(M) candidate, in the last election. Its will be a replay of the 2016 election at the constituency, as the CPI(M) has retained Mr. Swaraj as its candidate. Congress strongman V.D. Satheesan will test his popular support from his citadel, Paravur, once again, while Eldhose Kunnapally will contest from Perumbavoor. The party has reposed faith in sitting MLA Roji M. John and fielded him once again from Angamaly. The formal announcement of the candidature of P.T. Thomas, who had kicked off his campaign a few days ago, too came on the day. He will seek another term in the Assembly from Thrikkakara. T.J. Vinod, Ernakulam DCC president and Ernakulam MLA, will contest from his home turf. V.P. Sajeendran will seek people’s mandate from Kunnathunadu. The party has picked former Kochi Mayor Tony Chammany to wrest the Kochi seat back from sitting MLA and former Kochi Corporation councillor K.J. Maxy. Anwar Sadath will once again contest from Aluva, which he had been wining back-to-back. In Vypeen, a former civic representative, Deepak Joy, is the party’s choice to wrest the seat back from the LDF. Mr. Joy had opted out of the civic polls this time, as the division he represented earlier was reserved for women at the just concluded civic polls. The Youth Congress leader was recently appointed as the national coordinator of the organisation. In Muvattupuzha, a lawyer-politician, Mathew Kuzhalnadan, also a leader of the Professional Congress, is the Congress candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-surprise-candidates-in-cong-list/article34070555.ece
15 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||All FLTCs in Ernakulam to be closed down soon||The temporary arrangements made in the district to treat COVID-19 patients are coming to an end, with first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) gradually shutting down. The COVID Care Centre at PVS Hospital is likely to be closed down by the end of the month. FLTCs have been a strain on resources, particularly staff, according to health officials. Some FLTCs have been running only with a handful of patients, and health care workers had to be posted at the centres even for a small number of patients, they said. Only four FLTCs are at present functioning where 24 people are being observed. They will be shut in about a week, and those who may require monitoring at FLTCs will be shifted to Community Health Centres (CHCs) where facilities are available for COVID patients. Some centres that were functioning out of educational institutions, like the one in Aluva, closed in December. In July last year, the district administration had directed local bodies to set up FLTCs of around 50 to 100 beds each for asymptomatic people or those with mild symptoms, and a drive was held to collect essentials like bedsheets and pillows for the centres as donations. When cases surged last year, the district had around 20 FLTCs running with around 2,000 patients altogether, according to health officials. But with more people with mild symptoms choosing to recover at home, the number of people seeking admission at FLTCs dwindled. Early in November, over a thousand people were being monitored at FLTCs. In the last week of January, the number had dipped to 235, further falling to 120 at the end of February. The Kochi Corporation had readied two centres — one each at the Palluruthy and Mattancherry town halls. In some areas like Eloor and Ayavana panchayat, centres were set up but never used. In Eloor, a centre was set up at Manjummel, but staff appointments were not made, and eventually the need for one subsided, said A.D. Sujil, Municipal Chairperson. The items collected for the centre have been shifted to a hall for storage. The centre at Mattancherry has been upgraded to a second-line treatment centre (SLTC), where category B patients, with more severe symptoms, can be treated. Other SLTCs continue to function at Kothamangalam, Perumbavoor, and Paravur. Meanwhile, PVS Hospital, which has been treating critically-ill COVID patients, is likely to shut by the end of March, a senior health official said. The hospital is being acquired, and the buyers had recently enquired about handing the premises over to them. The medical equipment purchased by the district administration or donated to the centre will be shifted to the District Hospital at Aluva, which is being converted into a treatment facility for seriously-ill patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-fltcs-in-ernakulam-to-be-closed-down-soon/article34070524.ece
15 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||132 test positive in district||As many as 132 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Sunday. The source of infection could not be determined in eight cases. No new cases were reported among health workers. Ten people tested positive from Pampakuda, seven each from Kottuvally and Thripunithura, and six each from Edathala and Chittatukara. With 425 recoveries on Sunday, the active caseload of the district is 3,989. A total of 5,582 samples were collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/132-test-positive-in-district/article34070545.ece
15 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pokkali farmers’ demand||Farmers in the Kandakkadavu and Maruvakkad pokkali paddy field collectives in Chellanam panchayat have demanded that the district administration intervene to maintain the crop calendar under the one-fish-one-rice cycle. Mary Ligin, panchayat member representing Ward 12, has written to the authorities pointing out that if fish farming continued throughout the year in the paddy fields, the entire area would be flooded. Besides, maintaining salt water in the fields through most part of the year damaged nearby houses. Fisheries Act She said that the Inland Fisheries Act prescribed fish cultivation in the pokkali fields between November 15 and April 15 after which the fields were to be prepared for paddy cultivation by draining the salt water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pokkali-farmers-demand/article34070549.ece
15 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Chathannur in a fiesty triangular fight||The only constituency in Kollam that recorded an evident change in electoral equations, Chathannur is all set for a tight three-cornered contest. The LDF has retained the seat for three consecutive terms. The UDF is hence pulling out all stops to recapture Chathannur. As regards the BJP, there has been a considerable surge in its vote share here that helped the party to push Congress to a third position in the 2016 Assembly polls. CPI leader G.S. Jaylal, the sitting MLA, represented the constituency for the last two terms, winning his first electoral battle in 2011 defeating Bindu Krishna of Congress. In 2016, he raised his margin from 12,589 to 34,407. The UDF has fielded former Kollam MP N. Peethambara Kurup. The senior politician is entering the fray after 2009 when he defeated P. Rajendran of CPI(M), recapturing the Lok Sabha constituency for the party. BJP district president B.B. Gopakumar, the NDA candidate, polled 33,199 votes in 2016, coming second after Mr. Jayalal. While Bindu Krishna secured 47,598 votes in 2011, Congress vote share came down from 41.64 to 22.63% in 2016. The Assembly segment includes Paravur municipality and panchayats of Chathannur, Adichanallur, Poothakkulam, Kalluvathukkal, Pooyappally and Chirakkara. A major part of the voters here belong to the traditional industries of the State, including coir and cashew. During previous polls, most of the legislators elected from Chathannur had been part of the ruling front and the constituency has stood with both LDF and UDF in the past. In the recent local body elections, both the fronts won 14 seats each in Paravur municipality. Currently, LDF is ruling four panchayats in the constituency, leaving one each to other fronts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chathannur-in-a-fiesty-triangular-fight/article34070600.ece
15 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Dalit Christian forum formed||Kerala Dalit Christian Federation was formed at the State conference of Dalit Christians organised by Kerala Dalit Federation at Kollam. KDF State president P. Ramabhadran is the patron of the federation while pastor P.D. Babu from Kollam and pastor George Mathew from Pathanamthitta were elected as the president and general secretary respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalit-christian-forum-formed/article34070596.ece
15 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Battle lines drawn in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta||With the declaration of lists of candidates by both the United Democratic Front and National Democratic Alliance, battle lines have been drawn in the Assembly segments across the Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts that will go to polls on April 6. The Left Democratic Front had declared its candidates to the Assembly segments in the two districts by last week itself. The Congress, which released its candidates’ on Sunday, has introduced two new faces in the district—former DCC president Tomy Kallani in Poonjar and former Kottayam municipal chairperson P.R. Sona in Vaikom. At the same time, senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan will seek re-election from their sitting seats—Puthuppally and Kottayam respectively, KPCC vice president Joseph Vazhakkan will contest from Kanjirappally after a gap of one-and-a-half decade. Of the remaining four seats in the district, the Kerala Congress joseph group will contest in three —Changanassery, Ettumanur and Kaduthuruthi—while the Nationalist Congress Kerala leader Mani C. Kappan will contest from Pala. In the NDA, BJP will be contesting from six while the BDJS will field candidates in three seats. While the BJP is fielding G. Linjinlal in Kaduthuruthi, party’s former district president N. Hari will contest in Puthuppally. Former Congress leaders G. Raman Nair and J. Prameela Devi have got tickets in Changanassery and Pala respectively where as Minerva Mohan, a former CPI(M) worker, has been fielded from Kottayam. Former Union Minister Alphonse Kannanthanam, who defeated Joseph Vazhakkan in Kanjirappally as an LDF candidate in 2006, is once again contesting against the latter in the same constituency. In the remaining three seats, BDJS candidates M.R. Ullas (Poonjar), Bharath Parengadan (Ettumanur) and Ajitha Sabu (Vaikom) will contest. Candidate line-up Puthuppally: Oommen Chandy [UDF (Congress)], Jaick C. Thomas [LDF (CPM)], N. Hari: [NDA (BJP)]; Kottayam: Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan [UDF (Congress)], Anil Kumar [LDF (CPM)], Minerva Mohan [NDA (BJP)]; Ettumanur: Princi Luckose [UDF (KC Joseph)], V.N. Vasavan [LDF (CPM)], Bharath Parengadan [NDA (BDJS)]; Kaduthuruthi: Mons Joseph [UDF (Congress)], Stephen George [LDF (KC-M)], Lijinlal G. [NDA (BJP)]; Vaikom: P.R. Sona [UDF (Congress)], C.K. Asha [LDF (CPI)], Ajitha Sabu [NDA (BDJS)]; Pala: Mani C. Kappen [UDF (NCP-K)], Jose K. Mani [LDF (KC-M)], J. Prameela Devi [NDA (BJP)]; Poonjar: Tomy Kallani [UDF (Congress)], Sebastian Kulathungal [LDF (KC-M)], M.R. Ullas [NDA (BDJS)]; Kanjirappally: Joseph Vazhakkan [UDF (Congress)], N. Jayaraj [LDF (KC-M)], Alphonse Kannanthanam [NDA (BJP)]; Changanassery: V.J. Lali [UDF (KC-Joseph)], Job Michael: LDF (KC-M)], G. Raman Nair [NDA (BJP)] Pathanamthitta The Congress has fielded Robin Peter in Konni, Youth Congress leader M.G. Kannan in Adoor, Rinku Cheriyan in Ranni, and K. Sivadasan Nair in Aranmula. In Thiruvalla, Joseph group leader Kunjukoshy Paul will fight for UDF. In protest to the denial of ticket, P. Mohanraj, former DCC president resigned. The BJP has fielded its State president K. Surendran in Konni while Pandalam Sudhakaran, who left the Congress, will contest in Adoor. It has also fielded Biju Mathew in Aranmula and the district president Ashokan Kulanada in Thiruvalla. The BDJS has fielded K. Padmakumar in Ranni.  List of candidates Konni: Robin Peter [UDF(Cong.)], K.U. Janeesh Kumar [LDF-CPI(M)], K. Surendran [NDA (BJP)]; Adoor: M.G. Kannan [UDF(Cong.], Chittayam Gopakumar [LDF-CPI], Pandalam Sudhakaran [NDA (BJP)]; Aranmula: K. Sivadasan Nair [UDF(Cong.)], Veena George [LDF(CPI-M)], Biju Mathew [NDA (BJP)]; Ranni: Rinku Cheriyan [UDF(Cong.)], Pramod Narayanan [LDF(KC-M)], K. Padmakumar [NDA (BDJS)]‘ Thiruvalla: Kunjukoshy Paul [UDF(KC Joseph)], Mathew T. Thomas [LDF(JD(S)], Ashokan Kulanada [NDA (BJP)].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-lines-drawn-in-kottayam-and-pathanamthitta/article34070597.ece
15 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) gives up Kuttiyadi as protest escalates in CPI(M)||Marking an end to the days-long stand-off over a decision by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to allot the Kuttiyadi Assembly segment to the Kerala Congress (M), the party on Sunday decided to hand over the seat to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. With this, the KC(M)’s seat share in the LDF has shrunk to 12 seats. Though the party had already released the list of candidates to 12 out of the 13 seats allotted to it, it deferred a decision on Kuttiyadi in view of the raging protests within the CPI(M) at the local level. Announcing the decision to withdraw from Kuttiyadi, KC(M) chairperson Jose K. Mani attributed the move to the peculiar political situation emerging in the Assembly segment. “As far as the KC(M) is concerned, our key concern now is about upholding the unity of the LDF. Hence, the party has decided to hand over the Kuttiyadi seat to the CPI(M) as the focus remains on ensuring victory to the LDF and thus facilitating continuation of its governance,” Mr. Mani said. “Although the KC(M) is fully entitled to its original allocation of 13 seats in the LDF, the decision is being made after due consultations with the coalition by taking into account the prevailing situation,” he added. Hundreds of CPI(M) workers had taken to the streets in Kuttiyadi, a sitting seat of the United Democratic Front, after the LDF had announced the decision to allot the seat to the KC(M). Prior to the public protests, the party workers had also conveyed their displeasure to central committee member Elamaram Kareem when he announced the party decision at the Kuttiyadi mandalam committee meeting. The CPI(M) leadership, however, decided not to buckle under pressure and instead waited for the KC(M) to take a decision. Following parleys The decision of the KC(M) follows days of deliberations with the State leadership of the CPI(M). The KC(M)’s proposed candidate Mohammed Iqbal had told the media recently that he would “go to any extent to protect the interests of the comrades in Kuttiyadi.” The CPI(M) leadership had been holding organisational-level meetings at the local level. It was reported that the Vadakara and Kunnumal area committees extended their support to the State leadership. It was decided to hold a public meeting on Sunday in Kuttiyadi to be attended by Mr. Kareem, where the party would declare its stand. It was to be followed by a constituency-level convention where the candidate would be announced. However, it was party district committee secretary P. Mohanan who addressed the meeting on Sunday. Mr. Mohanan said that the KC(M) had taken “an appropriate decision to return the seat considering the political realities.” He also said that a CPI(M) candidate would contest from the seat and that the State committee would soon make an announcement. Mr. Mohanan also criticised the local activists saying that public protests were not the CPI(M)’s style. Probable candidates It is learnt that Democratic Youth Federation of India State secretary A.A. Rahim and CPI(M) Onchiyam area secretary and former leader of the Students Federation of India T.P. Bineesh are probable candidates.  (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-gives-up-kuttiyadi-as-protest-escalates-in-cpim/article34070561.ece
15 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||BJP-Church talks won’t impact election: Mani||The attempts by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to align with various Churches and expand its social base in the State will not have much of an impact on the Assembly elections, says Jose K. Mani, chairperson of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)]. “The BJP, like any other party, is reaching out to different social groups ahead of the election and the meetings that it held with the Churches should be viewed in this context. None of these Churches will intervene in mainstream politics though they constantly raise the issues faced by their people,” observed Mr. Mani, in an interaction with The Hindu . The KC(M), at the same time, shares a common ground with these Churches as most of the social issues raised by them, be it pertaining to farmers or the allocation of title deeds, are the focal points of the regional party as well. ‘No political angle’ Mr. Mani refused to view a scheduled discussion between the BJP national leadership and representatives of the Jacobite Syrian Church in New Delhi as a political development. “The Jacobite Church has approached different parties, including those in power, for a solution to its dispute with the Orthodox Church. This forms the background of these discussions,” he added. As to how far the KC(M)’s association with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has been fruitful at the grassroots, Mr. Mani said the party had integrated well with the coalition over three to four months. “Our decision to leave the United Democratic Front (UDF) and later to join the LDF had come at a very crucial time. The State was on the throes of an all-important election to its three-tier bodies, and this helped us set a platform for the integration process,” noted Mr. Mani. ‘Issues addressed’ The LDF government, in return, has addressed the key issues highlighted by the KC(M), including title deeds in Idukki, appointment of 3,000-odd teachers in aided schools, increasing the support price for natural rubber and declaring the minimum support price for 16 crops, he said. Hence, issues regarding the allocation of Piravom and Kuttiyadi seats could be settled without further ado. “The controversy over the candidacy of Sindumol Jacob in Piravom, triggered by a ticket aspirant out of frustration, was settled immediately on an intervention by the CPI(M) district secretary in Piravom. The situation in Kuttiyadi was different, but that too could be addressed after consultations with the CPI(M),” he said. On leaving UDF On his decision to leave the UDF, Mr. Mani said the Congress, as the leading partner of the coalition, had always pursued an agenda of slicing and subsuming its smaller partners. “The injustice meted out to the KC(M) in the name of a post in a local body was a part of this agenda. Now that the Congress itself is facing disintegration in Kerala, we see it as an opportunity to expand our presence in the State,” Mr. Mani said.  The Congress, as the leading partner of the UDF, has always pursued an agenda of slicing and subsuming its smaller partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-church-talks-wont-impact-election-mani/article34070540.ece
15 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Battle lines drawn in Kozhikode||With the Congress and the National Democratic Alliance declaring their candidates for the upcoming Assembly polls, battle lines have been drawn in Kozhikode district, where some high-profile electoral fights are expected this time. The only thing that remains is the CPI(M)’s declaration of a candidate from Kuttiyadi. Congress candidates The Congress is fighting from five seats here. The candidates are Kerala Students Union president K.M. Abhijith (Kozhikode North), actor Dharmajan Bolgatty (Balussery), Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) secretary K. Praveen Kumar (Nadapuram), and KPCC general secretaries P.M. Niyas and N. Subrahmanian from Beypore and Koyilandy, respectively. BJP candidates The BJP will field nominees from 13 seats. They are party State general secretary M.T. Ramesh (Kozhikode North), party district president V.K. Sajeevan (Kunnamangalam), party former district president T.P. Jayachandran (Elathur), Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha former State president K.P. Prakash Babu (Beypore), Kozhikode Corporation councillor Navya Haridas (Kozhikode South), M. Rajesh Kumar (Vadakara), P.P. Murali (Kuttiyadi), Libin Bhaskar (Balussery), M.P. Radhakrishnan, (Koyilandy), K.V. Sudheer (Perambra), T. Balasoman (Koduvally), M.P. Rajan (Nadapuram), and Baby Ambatt (Thiruvambady). A three-cornered contest is on the cards in Kozhikode North, Kozhikode South, Beypore, and Kunnamangalam seats. Kozhikode North Former Kozhikode Mayor Thottathil Raveendran is the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate from Kozhikode North, where the urban electorate has an upper hand. A. Pradeep Kumar of the CPI(M) had been representing the seat since 2006. The LDF is banking on the development works done by Mr. Kumar and the popularity of Mr. Raveendran, a two-time Mayor here. With Mr. Ramesh, a moderate face of the BJP, and Mr. Abhijith, a well-known youth leader, coming here, the poll battle will be interesting. In Kozhikode South, two of the major candidates are women, Noorbina Rasheed of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Ms. Haridas. The LDF candidate is Indian National League’s Ahamed Devarkovil. Beypore seat The Beypore seat becomes significant because of the presence of the Democratic Youth Federation of India National president P.A. Mohammed Riyas. With Mr. Niyas and Mr. Babu also contesting from there, the fight is likely to be three-cornered. In Kunnamangalam, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has fielded Congress leader Dinesh Perumanna as an Independent candidate of the Indian Union Muslim League. The LDF candidate is incumbent MLA, P.T.A. Raheem. Another interesting contest is going to take place in Balussery, where Mr. Dharmajan is taking on Students Federation of India State secretary K.M. Sachindev. As the CPI(M) and its allies had announced their candidates earlier, they had already started their campaign. With the Congress hinting about possible candidates by Saturday, their nominees too began electioneering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-lines-drawn-in-kozhikode/article34070519.ece
15 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mayor skips urine therapy meet||Kozhikode Mayor Beena Philip is reported to have skipped a meeting on Sunday that discussed the advantages of urine therapy after public health activists raised objections to it. According to sources, the event was organised by Kerala Sivambu Padhana Koottayma, a collective of urine therapy practitioners, whose theme is ‘Urine, water for life’. It was to commemorate P.N. Das, writer and naturopathy practitioner, and to honour T. Narayanan Vattoli, who translated J.W. Armstrong’s Water for Life to Malayalam as Urine Therapy , with the ‘Sreschtacharya Award’. Ms. Philip was supposed to open the event in which practitioners of urine therapy explained their experiences. However, several people including Manoj Komath, scientist at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, wrote to the Mayor pointing out that it was an attempt to “glorify urine therapy”, which was a “primitive habit”. Mr. Komath said it was not clear who authored Water for Life and there was no scientific validity for the treatment methods described in the book. It claims that drinking urine and applying it on the body can even cure infertility and cancer. Such claims were against medical ethics and the laws governing the health sector. Scientists had already rejected most of the claims on urine therapy after thoroughly studying them, he said. The Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE), a forum under the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, also wrote to Ms. Philip, saying that urine therapy had not been scientifically proved. Both the letters urged the Mayor not to attend the event. Sources said writer U.K. Kumaran inaugurated the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-skips-urine-therapy-meet/article34070521.ece
15 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Votaries push humble cycle to big league||With increasing air pollution and sky-rocketing fuel prices, many people across the State have taken to bicycles. However, poor facilities and safety concerns prevent many from pedalling onto busy city roads. Now, Cycle Mayors across the State have presented a Cycle Manifesto to all political parties ahead of the Assembly elections. “Most of the demands are not just meant for ease of cycling, but safer streets in general,” said Sahir Abdul Jabbar, Cycle Mayor of Kozhikode. Car-free days Some of the key demands include car-free days every week; at least a road in a district be left for cyclists and pedestrians on Sundays; cycle tracks in every district possibly near the beaches and well-connected to the main roads; earmarking 1/10th of the available parking space for cycles; and cycle lanes in all newly built roads. To promote cycling among the public they want governments to promote electric cycles/scooters, workshops in schools, bicycle advance to government employees, and bicycle maintenance allowance. To increase safety, they suggest more colourful road signals, especially at vulnerable junctions, more motor vehicle-free zones/ pedestrian-only spaces and safe road crossing facilities for cyclists at traffic signals. More CCTVs to curb traffic violence and misbehaviour towards cyclists has also been suggested. “By cycling more, we can check air pollution to a great extent. It is necessary to build a healthy society that is close to nature as well,” Mr. Jabbar said, adding that Kerala, being ahead of other States in several sectors, can set a model in this as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/votaries-push-humble-cycle-to-big-league/article34070536.ece
15 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Take Elathur back, demands Raghavan||Kozhikode MP M.K. Raghavan has asked the Congress leadership to take back the Elathur Assembly seat now allotted to the Nationalist Congress Party (K), floated by Pala MLA Mani C. Kappan. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Raghavan pointed out that the United Democratic Front had a majority in Elathur, considered a CPI(M) stronghold, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The party should not take steps that would erode its base. Local activists are already sore at not being consulted about the candidature,” he said. Mr. Raghavan said Mr. Kappan’s party had no base in Elathur. He urged Ms. Gandhi to field popular and strong candidates from there. It is learnt that Zulfikkar Mayuri is Mr. Kappan’s nominee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/take-elathur-back-demands-raghavan/article34070517.ece
15 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||288 fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode||As many as 288 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Sunday. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 275 locally acquired infections and the source of 10 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation reported 82 cases of local transmission while Koyilandy and Kayanna reported nine cases each. Test positivity rate A total of 5,175 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 5.56%. As many as 404 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload dropped to 3,580.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/288-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode/article34070520.ece
15 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||BJP fields former VC in Tirur||The BJP has surprised voters of Malappuram by fielding M. Abdul Salaam, former Vice Chancellor of Calicut University, in Tirur. Dr. Salaam will take on the UDF’s Kurukkoli Moideen and the LDF’s Gafoor P. Lillis. Dr. Salaam is one of the two Muslim candidates on the BJP banner in Malappuram — the other is Sattar Haji Kalliyath in Tirurangadi. Sattar Haji had been with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) before joining the BJP and is currently the district president of the BJP Minority Morcha. Dr. Salaam was in the thick of many controversies during his tenure as Vice Chancellor. He went to the varsity as a UDF nominee in 2011 and relinquished the post in 2015, having embittered and alienated most sections of employees, including those loyal to the UDF and LDF. It needs to be seen if Dr. Salaam can make a ripple in Tirur. It also needs to be seen if the contest will be triangular, because the BJP’s vote share in the constituency has been abysmally low. In 2016, the BJP’s M.K. Devidasan had secured 9,083 votes in Tirur (only 5.79% of the votes polled). While UDF incumbent C. Mammootty polled 46.85% votes, LDF’s Gafoor P. Lillis got 42.34%. In 2011 too, the BJP’s vote share in Tirur was only 4.39%. The party’s Muslim candidate P.T. Ali Haji had polled only 5,543 votes. However, the BJP’s vote share in Tirur had risen marginally to 7.13% in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the NDA’s V.T. Rema polled 11,365 votes. BJP leaders said Dr. Salaam’s contacts and goodwill were expected to work in his favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-fields-former-vc-in-tirur/article34070570.ece
15 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||JD(S) office-bearers||Janata Dal (Secular) national president H.D. Deve Gowda has nominated Abraham P. Mathew and Kollamkode Raveendran Nair as general secretaries of the party in Kerala. C.K. Gopi and P.K. Babu Meenangadi were nominated vice presidents. V.P. Varkey and Augustine Kolanchery were nominated secretaries. Mathew T. Thomas is the president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jds-office-bearers/article34070571.ece
15 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Teams formed for early warning system||Dedicated teams have been formed at the State and district levels to facilitate the creation of an Early Warning Dissemination System (EWDS), a vital component in disaster risk reduction. The State government has constituted a project management committee (PMC), an administrative support group, a technical support group and a quick response team at the State level and PMC in every district which would serve as support systems for the creation of EWDS. Implemented under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project, the EWDS envisages the dissemination of early warnings and alerts about potential disasters gathered from national and international agencies through the emergency operations centres at the State, district and taluk levels; the fisheries stations; divisional offices of the Fire and Rescue Department; and the police headquarters. Rs. 78.59-crore project Work on the EWDS was kicked off with the State government issuing a revised administrative sanction and awarding the Rs. 78.59 crore project to CMS Computers Ltd. in January. The administrative support group is headed by the State project manager, National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project; and the technical support group, by the member secretary, Kerala State Disaster Management Authority. The members of both the committees will be part of the PMC. Support systems “Institutional arrangements in the form of dedicated teams are needed at the State and district levels to provide administrative and technical support, troubleshoot problems/issues day-in and day-out and to ensure a high level of coordination among stakeholder departments and agencies,” noted a March 8 order issued by the Disaster Management Department forming the dedicated teams. The Telecommunications Consultants India Limited. (TCIL) is the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA)-appointed consultant for the EWDS project in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teams-formed-for-early-warning-system/article34070528.ece
15 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Many fresh faces on Cong. list||The Congress retained all three of its sitting MLAs in the district, while bringing in quite a few fresh faces on its list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly elections. Putting rest to days of speculation regarding the candidate for the Nemom seat, the party announced the name of K. Muraleedharan, MP. Kerala Pradesh Congress (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, who announced the list here on Sunday afternoon, said that the candidate for the Vattiyurkavu constituency, which had witnessed a revolt from the local leadership of the Congress, would be announced later. Mr. Muraleedharan, the MP representing Vadakara, returns to Thiruvananthapuram district after a gap of two years, following his resignation as MLA from the Vattiyurkavu constituency, where he had won twice. With his return, the Congress is taking back the Nemom constituency that it had given to its ally Janata Dal (United) in the previous two elections, signalling its intent to take on the BJP in its only seat in the State. Among the new faces on the list is B.R.M. Shafeer, who will be contesting from Varkala. The 40-year-old is currently serving as a KPCC secretary. He came into politics through the Kerala Students Union (KSU) and had later served as a district leader of the Youth Congress. S.S. Lal, who will be contesting from Kazhakuttam, is a public health expert who has worked with the World Health Organisation. A student leader of the KSU and office-bearer of Medicos’ Associations, he came back into active politics last year through the All India Professionals’ Congress. P.S. Prasanth, who will be contesting from Nedumangad, had served as the vice chairperson of the Youth Welfare Board during the previous UDF government’s tenure. He had also held the position of the district president of both the KSU and the Youth Congress, and has been an office-bearer of the District Congress Committee (DCC) and the KPCC. Ansajitha Russal, the only woman on the Congress list in the district, has been a district panchayat member since 1995 and will contest in Parassala. In 2013, she became the president of the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat. She is currently representing the Vellarada division in the district panchayat. 35-year-old B.S. Anoop, who will be contesting from the Chirayinkeezhu constituency, is currently the Youth Congress State general secretary and is a member of the Kadakkavoor grama panchayat. Malayinkeezh Venugopal, the Congress candidate from Kattakada, had earlier won seats for the party in the district panchayat as well as the Nemom block panchayat. He has also been a member of the District Planning Committee and the District Tourism Promotion Council. Anad Jayan, Congress candidate in Vamanapuram, is currently a member of the district panchayat. MLAs V.S. Sivakumar will contest in the Thiruvananthapuram Assembly constituency, which he has been holding since 2011. M. Vincent, who won from the Kovalam constituency in 2016, will be contesting from there for a second time. K.S. Sabarinadhan will contest in the Aruvikkara constituency for a third time. R. Selvaraj, who had kicked up a storm after resigning as a CPI(M) MLA and joining the Congress in 2012, will contest in Neyyattinkara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-fresh-faces-on-cong-list/article34070729.ece
15 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP fields prominent names in all-out fight in capital||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced its candidates for 10 Assembly seats in the district on Sunday. Indicating its intention to put up a tough fight in the capital district, the party has fielded a few political heavyweights, including two of its former State presidents in the district. It is yet to announce its candidate in the Kazhakuttam constituency. The party also announced the candidature of Kerala Kamaraj Congress leader Vishnupuram Chandrasekharan in Kovalam on the day. While O. Rajagopal, the incumbent legislator in Nemom, will not be in the fray, the party’s former State president and former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan will contest in his place to retain the constituency, the BJP’s first-ever seat in the State. Despite registering no victories in a series of electoral battles (the latest being the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 when he contested from the Thiruvananthapuram Parliament constituency), the veteran leader is credited with having led a surge in the party’s vote share in various constituencies in the district of late. BJP national executive member and former State president P.K. Krishnadas will contest from the Kattakada constituency for the third time on the trot. His increasing vote share has instilled confidence among party workers in the region. He had previously contested from the Thiruvananthapuram Parliament constituency in 2009. The party’s district president, V.V. Rajesh, has been fielded from the Vattiyurkavu constituency. Despite losing in the Assembly polls twice (Vattiyurkavu in 2011 and Nedumangad in 2016), Mr. Rajesh tasted success recently when he was elected to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation from the Poojappura ward. In Nedumangad Another senior BJP leader, J.R. Padmakumar, will be in the poll fray in the Nedumangad constituency. The party’s State treasurer has contested twice in Lok Sabha elections and four times in Assembly polls in the past. Actor Krishna Kumar, who recently joined the BJP, is set to fight an electoral battle for the first time from the Thiruvananthapuram segment. BJP State secretary C. Sivankutty will contest from Aruvikkara, while State general secretary P. Sudheer will represent the NDA in Attingal that has been reserved for Scheduled Castes candidates this time. In Parassala The BJP is betting on its State secretary Karamana Jayan to win from the Parassala constituency where he had contested five years ago. Asha Nath G.S., councillor representing Pappanamcode in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, will become the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate in Chirayinkeezhu. Hotelier S. Rajasekharan Nair will contest from the Neyyattinkara constituency. Front partners The BJP has allotted three constituencies in the district to its allies. The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena had announced the candidature of Aji S.R.M. and Thazhava Sahadevan from Varkala and Vamanapuram respectively earlier.  Canidate in Kazhakuttam yet to be announced,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-fields-prominent-names-in-all-out-fight-in-capital/article34070726.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 1,792 new cases||Kerala reported 1,792 new cases of COVID-19 when 50,565 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden, ever since the pandemic began, to 10,91,270 on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR), which has been below 4% since the past one week, was 3.54%. With 3,238 recoveries on Sunday, the active case pool dropped again to reach 29,478 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began has risen to 10,57,097. On Sunday, the addition of 15 recent deaths to the official list took the State’s cumulative COVID-19 toll till date to 4,396. Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kannur and Kasaragod reported two deaths each while one death each was reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Malappuram and Kozhikode. The number of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State currently being treated in ICUs in hospitals in the State dropped below 500 for the first time in several months to 496 on Sunday, according to official reports, with 154 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Of the 1,792 new cases reported on Sunday, 1,606 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections, through contact with other infected persons. This includes infections reported in nine healthcare workers. In 43 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States. No history of travel or contact with infected persons are reported or known in the case of 143 infections Most in Kozhikode Kozhikode reported the most number of new cases with 288, Kollam 188, Kottayam 161, Thiruvananthapuram 161, Kannur 151, Malappuram 151, Pathanamthitta 137, Ernakulam 132, Alappuzha 112, Thrissur 108, Kasaragod 65, Idukki 59, Wayanad 40 and Palakkad 39.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-1792-new-cases/article34070566.ece
15 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kodiyeri all praise for KC(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has commended Kerala Congress (M) chairperson Jose K. Mani for his party’s decision to relinquish the Kuttiyadi seat. The KC(M)’s decision is proof of the unity in the Left Democratic Front (LDF), he said. Mr. Balakrishnan’s praise for Mr. Mani came at the LDF election convention held in the Thiruvananthapuram Assembly constituency on Sunday. The KC(M) had decided to hand over the Kuttiyadi seat to the CPI(M) following discussions, Mr. Balakrishnan said. Victory in seats was key to ensuring continuation of the LDF rule and the KC(M) understood this, he added. The LDF would make only those promises it could keep, Mr. Balakrishnan said, highlighting the achievements of the Pinarayi Vijayan government over the past five years . For years, the Congress promised an end to poverty. The BJP government assured jobs. None of these promises were kept. The BJP government had put on sale the public sector units and was bent on writing away the sky, sea, and land to the corporates, Mr. Balakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodiyeri-all-praise-for-kcm/article34070563.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dissent in Congress over Vattiyurkavu||The Congress party, which is facing revolt in its ranks in various parts of the State regarding candidate selection for the Assembly election, has yet another crisis on its hands. In Vattiyurkavu, a few Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) members and other local leaders are set to resign against the proposed candidature of K.P. Anil Kumar. The mandalam committee, which met on Sunday morning at the NSS hall here, passed a resolution against “parachuting in outsiders” as candidates in Vattiyurkavu. A KPCC member told The Hindu that the mandalam committee had proposed the name of KPCC member D. Sudarsanan, who is the chairman of the committee and had served as the election committee chairman in the constituency for the past few elections. However, the names proposed by the leadership did not include anyone from Vattiyurkavu. “The Congress leadership has been choosing people who do not live in Vattiyurkavu as candidates here for the past several elections. It seems the leadership is not keen on providing seats to anyone from the constituency. Some of the leaders and members are submitting their resignation in protest against this treatment,” he said. Those who will be submitting their resignations include Mr. Sudarsanan, KPCC member Sasthamangalam Mohan and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dissent-in-congress-over-vattiyurkavu/article34070727.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Live phone-in programme for Class 12 students||The KITE Victers education channel will telecast a live phone-in programme from Tuesday for Class 12 students who will appear for the public examinations in April. The phone-in programme will clarify doubts of students right then, besides helping with revision based on the stipulated ‘focus areas’ and analysis of model examination question papers. Facing exams The programme will also equip the students to face the examinations with confidence. All programmes will be available on the First Bell portalwww.firstbell.kite. kerala.gov.inon the day after the telecast. The phone-in programme for Class 10 students will be from 2.30 p.m. to 4 p.m. It will be re-telecast at 6.30 p.m. For Plus Two students, the phone-in programme will be from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m., with re-telecast the next day at 6.30 a.m. The classes for grades 1 to 9 will be completed by April 30. All set Arrangements for covering all portions by that time have been made, K. Anvar Sadath, CEO, KITE, has said. The Plus One classes that began in November last year will continue in May. A decision on the last telecast will be taken later. A special bridge course for all classes will be telecast on Victers in May. Toll-free number The toll-free number for the live phone-in programme is 1800 425 9877. KITE has also published the schedule for the live phone-in programme till March 31 on the First Bell portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/live-phone-in-programme-for-class-12-students/article34070526.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Join hands on global health protection’||Complex and diverse cultures and heritage should work together and communicate across borders, Susan Shaw, associate dean of Auckland University of Science and Technology, has said. As the health system and health care of each country differ according to their culture and heritage, ways should be found to transfer the health system and protection methods globally, she said, delivering a talk at the Fourth Global Ayurveda Festival on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/join-hands-on-global-health-protection/article34070696.ece
15 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two-day bank stir from today||Binoy Viswam, MP, will inaugurate a public meeting in front of State Bank of India (SBI) Statue branch here on Monday as part of a nationwide bank strike in protest against the Union government’s decision to privatise public sector banks. Nearly 10 lakh bank employees will take part in the two-day protests on Monday and Tuesday, organised under the United Forum of Bank Unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-day-bank-stir-from-today/article34070527.ece
15 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||161 new cases||The district’s COVID-19 caseload remained stable as 161 persons newly contracted the disease and 166 recovered. The number of active cases stood at 1,935. The pandemic has claimed 857 lives in the district so far with the death of a 75-year-old man being attributed to it on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/161-new-cases/article34070723.ece
15 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CPI candidate’s name in obituary column||The CPI is planning to seek legal action against Janmabhoomi newspaper, which published news about the demise of C.C. Mukundan, LDF’s candidate in the Nattika Assembly constituency. “It was defamatory news. It shows the upper caste fascist mindset of the politics represented by Janmabhoomi . It was their intolerance towards selection of a Scheduled Caste leader,” said CPI district secretary K.K. Valsaraj. By publishing Mukundan’s biodata in an obituary column, the newspaper has humiliated not only the party but also the people of Nattika. The news put the family of Mr. Mukundan in great mental pressure. The party is planning to approach the Election Commission against the news. It will also give a complaint to the police, human rights commission, Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe Commission, Kerala Union of Working Journalists, Press Council of India and District Collector.  It shows the upper caste fascist mindset of Janmabhoomi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-candidates-name-in-obituary-column/article34070541.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The great election bazaar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-great-election-bazaar/article34070544.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homage/article34070699.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Self-sufficient||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/self-sufficient/article34070530.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hopes dashed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopes-dashed/article34070568.ece
15 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four drown in tank near Penukonda||Six members of a family hailing from Surya Nagar in Anantapur drowned in the Bhogasamudram Tank, near Penukonda, on Sunday afternoon. The Fire Department personnel saved two persons, while four lost their lives. Out of the 20-member family that had gone to Penukonda Dargah on a religious trip, some members went to the tank to swim, said Circle Inspector Sree Hari. The deceased were: have been identified as Taslima(14), Sadiq(40), Sasha(17) and Allabaksh(45). The police fished out the bodies and sent them to Anantapur for postmortem, said Circle Inspector Sree Hari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-drown-in-tank-near-penukonda/article34070164.ece
15 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam fails to open account in AMC||The winning streak of YSRCP continued in Anatapur Municipal Corporation as the party fell short of a clean sweep just by two seats. The party sent 48 candidates to the municipal council while the remaining two were won by independent candidates. Aming the independent candidates are Sri Lakshmi, a YSRCP rebel, bagged ward no.40, while TDP rebel Shanti Sudha won the polls by a margin of 65 votes. The TDP, which had 32 members in the last council, could not get even a single ward. The YSRCP bagged 293 wards out of 337 wards in 11 civic bodies in the district, followed by TDP (54), CPI (2), BJP (1), MIM (1). Independent candidates won seven wards. Win in Tadipatri Meanwhile, the TDP managed to win only from Tadipatri municipality. Hectic political activity was on in Tadipatri with the TDP keeping its flock of 18 newly-elected councillors along with the one of the CPI and an independent candidate together at an undisclosed camp. Former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy who won the 24th ward is being projected as the Chairperson candidate, the YSRCP is confident of getting its candidate elected as chairperson with the help of ex-officio members. TSDP emerged victorious in 18 wards when compared to to the YSRCP’s 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-fails-to-open-account-in-amc/article34070689.ece
15 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Majority seats in Tadipatri municipality won by TDP||The TDP that was in power in all the 11 urban local bodies in the district managed to win only from Tadipatri municipality.  Keeping flocks together Even as the YSRCP cadres celebrated the victory everywhere in the district, hectic political activity was on in Tadipatri with the TDP keeping its flock of 18 newly-elected councillors along with the one of the CPI and an independent candidate together at an undisclosed camp. Former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy who won the 24th ward by a margin of 304 votes is being projected as the Chairperson candidate. However, the YSRCP is confident of getting its candidate elected as chairperson with the help of ex-officio members. TDP emerged victorious in 18 wards when compared to to the YSRCP’s 16. Two of the 16 wards it won unanimously (22nd & 31st), while in the ward no.34, both the TDP and the YRSCP candidates got the same number of votes (917). The spin of a coin decided the winner there and Pula Rupa of the YSRCP was declared winner against Sayyad Noorjahan of the TDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/majority-seats-in-tadipatri-municipality-won-by-tdp/article34070691.ece
15 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP pipped in Naidu’s turf||The ruling YSRCP has bagged two municipal corporations (Tirupati and Chittoor) and four municipalities (Madanapalle, Palamaner, Puttur and Nagari) in the district, and has handed a humiliating defeat to the TDP and its national president in his home turf. The votes polled in the elections to the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) were counted on Sunday. The Punganur municipality, the bastion of Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, had already been bagged by the YSRCP as its candidates won all the 31 wards unanimously. In the Chittoor Municipal Corporation, the YSRCP candidates had bagged 37 out of 50 divisions unanimously. Of the remaining 13 divisions that went to the polls, the YSRCP won 9, TDP three and Independent one. In Tirupati, the ruling party had bagged 48 out of 49 divisions. Election was not held in one division. Of these, the YSRCP had won 22 unanimously. In Palamaner, the YSRCP had won 24, 18 of them unanimously, out of the total 26 wards. In Madanapalle, it won 33 out of 35 wards, 15 of them unanimously, while the TDP won two. In Puttur, the YSRCP won 22 out of 27 wards (including one unanimously), leaving five wards to the TDP. Rebels lose In Nagari, the YSRCP won 25 out of 29 wards (including 6 unanimously). Here, while the TDP won three wards, an Independent bagged one. Interestingly, 10 out of 11 YSRCP rebels were defeated in Nagari. In her reaction, Nagari MLA R.K. Roja said stern action would be taken against the rebel candidates. TDP shocked The severe drubbing shocked the TDP cadre across the district. Though it was a foregone conclusion that the YSRCP would win the elections, senior TDP party leaders expected to given a tough fight at several wards. Neither TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s three-day visit to Kuppam constituency nor his day-long protest at Renigunta airport alleging attacks on the TDP cadres helped the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-pipped-in-naidus-turf/article34070677.ece
15 March 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling party wins hands down in Krishna, West Godavari||The YSR Congress Party candidates won hands down in the urban local bodies elections held in Krishna and West Godavari districts. The ruling party has won the Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation and was leading in many wards in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) till last report came in. Results were announced for most of the urban local bodies on Sunday. Jana Sena Party (JSP) won only four wards in Narsapuram and one in Jangareddygudem. In West Godavari district, the ruling party candidates won in Narsapuram, Kovvur, Nidadavole and Jangareddygudem municipalities. The Telugu Desam Party candidates won seven wards in Kovvur municipality, three in Jangareddygudem and one each in the remaining municipalities in the district. The YSRCP candidates bagged 24 wards out of 31 in Narsapuram, 15 of the total 23 wards in Kovvur, 27 out of 28 in Nidadavole and 25 wards of the total 29 in Jangareddygudem municipalities. In Krishna district, the ruling party was leading in Nuzvid, Pedana, Vuyyur, Nandigama and Tiruvuru municipalities. The YSRCP candidates won in the areas that were otherwise considered as the bastion of the TDP, in West Godavari and Krishna districts. The YSRCP candidates celebrated the victory at the respective party offices. They distributed sweets and exchanged greetings on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-hands-down-in-krishna-west-godavari-districts/article34070695.ece
15 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||GMC, five municipalities in ruling party kitty||The YSRCP swept the elections conducted to the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) and five municipalities – Tenali, Repalle, Chilakaluripeta, Sattenapalli, and Vinukonda – in the district, the votes for which were counted on Sunday. The ruling party had already won two other municipalities – Macherla and Piduguralla – unanimously. In the elections held to the GMC after nearly 16 years, the YSRCP won in 44 out of 57 divisions. While the TDP bagged nine divisions, the JSP and Independents shared two divisions each. In the municipalities, the YSRCP won 32 out of 40 divisions in Tenali; 25 out of 28 in Repalle; 28 out of 30 in Chilakaluripet; 24 out of 31 in Sattenapalli; and 28 out of 32 in Vinukonda. The ruling party had bagged all the 31 divisions in Macherla and 33 in Piduguralla. The YSRCP performed well in both Guntur East and West Assembly constituencies, but suffered a setback in Prathipadu Assembly constituency represented by Home Minister M. Sucharitha, where JSP’s Yerramsetti Padmavathi (47th division), TDP’s N. Balaji (46th division), and Independent Challa Sambi Reddy (27th division) won over the YSRCP candidates. In Guntur East and West constituencies, many YSRCP candidates won by over 2,000 votes. Kavati Manohar Naidu, who is tipped to be the next Mayor, won by over 3,000 votes in the 20th division. Similarly, YSRCP city president Padarthi Ramesh Gandhi won by a big margin in the 6th division. “I owe this victory to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who, in the last 20 months, has brought welfare to the people’s doorstep. We will ensure better amenities and living conditions for the people,” said Mr. Manohar Naidu. The TDP could win just nine seats, a pale shadow of its performance in the elections held in 2005. K. Ravindra Babu (Nani) bagged the 35th division defeating Bandlamudi Roja Rani. The YSRCP leaders went into a celebratory mode by bursting crackers and taking out victory processions. The party leadership is expected to announce the Mayoral candidate soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gmc-five-municipalities-in-ruling-party-kitty/article34070678.ece
15 March 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam springs a surprise in Mydukur||Though the YSRCP trounced the TDP in Kadapa Municipal Corporation and in the five municipalities of Badvel, Jammalamadugu, Proddatur, Rajampeta and Rayachoti, besides Pulivendula (unanimously), the opposition party could save its face by winning 12 out of 24 wards in Mydukur municipality. Here, while the YSRCP won 11 wards, the JSP and an Independent candidate won one ward each. However, the prospects of the TDP getting its member elected as municipal chairman looks bleak as the Mydukuru MLA and Kadapa MP, who belong to the YSRCP, have two votes as ex officio members. Soon after the results were out, the TDP reportedly shifted its victorious members to an unknown location fearing horse-trading.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-springs-a-surprise-in-mydukur/article34070680.ece
15 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins 81% of wards in E.G.||The YSR Congress Party has registered a sweeping victory in 81% of wards among the 268 in the 10 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the municipal elections in East Godavari district. The total wards secured by the YSRCP are 218, including 35 where there was no contest while the TDP got 34 seats. The Jana Sena Party claimed victory in eight wards. “The mandate in the ULB elections tells about the acceptance of the policies and welfare measures of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government across the State. Our governance is the sole factor in the historical victory,” B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna told The Hindu.  In Tuni municipality, the YSRCP won all the 30 wards, including 15 where elections were unanimous, leaving the rival TDP and Jana Sena Party in shock. In Ramachandrapuram municipality, the hometown of Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna, the YSRCP registered a thumping victory in 24 wards, including 10 unanimous. The TDP and JSP had to be content with one seat each while independents won two wards. In Pithapuram, where TDP national General Secretary Nara Lokesh campaigned, the YSRCP bagged 20 wards. The TDP won six wards, the highest number of seats won by the party among all ULBs in the district. Independents won four wards in the civic body. In the twin towns of Samarlakota and Peddapuram, the home ground of former Home Minister and TDP MLA Nimmakayala China Rajappa, the YSRCP won 55 wards. The TDP won four wards while one independent candidate emerged victorious. In Mandapeta municipality, the YSRCP won 22 wards while the TDP bagged 7 among total 30. An independent bagged one ward. In Konaseema, a bastion for JSP, the YSRCP claimed victory in the Amalapuram municipality with a record 18 wards while JSP secured six. The TDP bagged four seats and one went to an independent. Compared to the recent Gram Panchayat results, the YSRCP increased its hold in the Konaseema region in the ULBs election. Nagar Panchayats The YSRCP won all the three Nagar Panchayats where it bagged 48 of the 60 wards. It claimed 18 wards in Gollaprolu, 16 in Yeleswaram and and 14 Mummidivaram. The TDP won 12 wards in the three Nagar Panchayats. Elections were not held for the two municipal corporations in the district. A legal battle over the merger of some gram panchayats with the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation stalled the polls here. In the case of the Kakinada Municipal Corporation, the Council’s term is not over yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-81-of-wards-in-eg/article34070708.ece
15 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s YSRCP all the way in Kurnool||The YSRCP swept the elections in all the nine Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the district for which counting concluded on Saturday. In the Kurnool Municipal Corporation, a YSRCP candidate, B.Y. Ramaiah, won by a record 2,066 votes margin in a Backward Classes (general) seat. He is likely to be elected Mayor on March 18.  The TDP won 8 of the 52 wards, while 41 went to the YSRCP and three Independents came out victorious. The YSRCP had won in two wards unanimously. Out of the 302 wards in the district, elections were held for 225. The YSRCP won 256 seats, TDP 23, BJP three and CPI one. Independents numbering 10 also emerged victorious. AIMIM loses While the BJP won two seats in Allagadda and one in Guduru, the CPI(M) drew a blank. The CPI had to contend with one seat in Dhone. The AIMIM nominees contested from 27 municipal wards in the district, but lost all despite their MP Asaduddin Owaisi campaigning in district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-ysrcp-all-the-way-in-kurnool/article34070679.ece
15 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins Naidupeta civic body||The ruling YSR Congress Party annexed the Naidupeta civic body with an overwhelming majority as it bagged the two wards for which elections were held on March 10. Declaring the results soon after of counting of votes on Sunday, SPSR Nellore Joint Collector Prabhakar Reddy said the election for the Chairperson would be held on March 18. The ruling party has already won 21 of the 23 wards decided uncontested, leaving one each to the Telugu Desam Party and the Bharatiya Janata party. YSRCP nominees D.Narayana Reddy and D. Ravi won the remaining two wards at stake. While Mr. Narayana Reddy won by a margin of 590 votes against a Congress candidate in the sixth ward, Mr. Ravi won by a margin of 689 votes against TDP nominee D. Rajendra in the 24th ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-naidupeta-civic-body/article34070165.ece
15 March 2021||NELLORE / ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||A decisive win in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh||The YSRCP won all the 11 urban local bodies in south coastal A.P. as its nominees emerged victorious in 245 of the 293 divisions / wards. The election of the YSRCP nominees as Mayor / Chairperson slated for March 18 is only a formality in the civic bodies of Ongole, Chirala, Kanigiri, Markapur, Giddalur, Addanki and Chimakurthy in Prakasam district and Atmakur, Sullurpeta, Naidupeta and Venkatagiri in Nellore district. Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy’s political strategy paid dividends as the YSRCP nominees swept the polls in the four municipalities in Nellore district. The YSRCP won all the 25 wards in Venkatagiri, a stronghold of former Minister and YSRCP MLA Anam Ramanarayana Reddy, and also in 24 of the 25 wards in Sullurpeta and 23 of 25 wards in Naidupeta municipality. In Atmakur municipality, the ruling party won from 19 wards. Two party rebels who won as Independents returned to the party fold. The TDP could win only in two wards in Atmakur, and one ward each in Naidupeta and Sullurpeta. The BJP opened its account winning in one ward in Naidupeta. Minister’s tweet Reacting to the impressive results, Mr. Goutham Reddy tweeted, “Grateful to the people of #Nellore district for supporting @YSRCParty candidates in the #APLocalBodyElections 2021 & for expressing your confidence and faith in CM @YSJagan garu’s leadership, vision, and commitment to the development and progress of our State.” In Prakasam district, YSRCP nominees, including mayoral aspirant G. Sujata, scored a facile victory in 41 of the 50 divisions in Ongole Municipal Corporation, while the TDP managed to win only in six divisions. The YSRCP would face some opposition only in Chirala Municipality, where party rebels gave tense moments to the ruling party nominees. Independents backed by former Chirala MLA and YSRCP leader Amanchi Krishnamohan won from 13 of the 33 wards, upsetting the political calculations of the ruling party. The YSRCP candidates hand-picked by Balarama Krishnamurthy, who had switched loyalties after winning on TDP ticket in the 2019 Assembly elections, were successful only in 19 wards. In Kanigiri Nagara Panchayat, the YSRCP won all the 20 wards. The ruling party nominees bagged 30 of the 35 wards in Markapur Municipalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-decisive-win-in-south-coastal-andhra-pradesh/article34070682.ece
15 March 2021||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||6 farmhands killed in accident||Six persons were killed and seven suffered critical injuries in a hit-and-run case at Gollapalli in Krishna district on Sunday. According to reports, an unidentified vehicle hit the autorickshaw in which the victims were travelling in the early hours. The injured were shifted to Nuzvid and Vijayawada government hospitals. The victims, natives of Lion Thanda in Nuzvid mandal, were going for agricultural works at Kanumolu village of Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district, said Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu. Special teams formed “Police are verifying the CCTV footages. Other police stations in the area have been alerted. We suspect that a heavy vehicle might have hit the auto at a high speed. Special teams have been formed to identify the vehicle which caused the accident,” Mr. Srinivasulu told The Hindu . The deceased have been identified as Bhukya Somla, Banavathu Nagu, B. Nagaraju, Ramesh, Banavathu Swarna and B. Babu.  Governor, CM express condolences  Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief over the ghastly road mishap and expressed condolences to the bereaved families. He spoke to the Krishna district officials and directed the police, revenue and medical and health officials to provide proper treatment to the injured. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Home Minister M. Sucharita and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) expressed shock over the deaths and conveyed their condolences to the victims’ families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-farmhands-killed-in-road-accident-in-krishna/article34070094.ece
15 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco board chief exhorts farmers to adapt to change||Tobacco Board Chairman Y. Raghunatha Babu on Sunday exhorted farmers to adopt the best global farming practices to survive in the international arena. Inaugurating an electric loose leaf barn imported from Brazil at Mangamoor village in Prakasam district, he said: “Farmers should realise that they are catering to an international market and competing with farmers globally.” Interacting with a group of farmers a day ahead of commencement of auctions in the traditional tobacco growing areas, he wanted them to make a conscious effort to cut costs and improve efficiency in processing of tobacco to realise better price for their produce. The Rs. 10 lakh loose leaf barn is first-of-its-kind in the southern black soil(SBS) region promoted on a trial basis with the Tobacco Board and the ITC bearing Rs. 3 lakh each as subsidy and farmer V.V. Prasad bearing the rest. Farmers could save about 50% of the labour cost by going for energy efficient loose leaf barn and save in a season up to Rs. 1.5 lakh per acre. Tobacco yield could be increased by about 130 kg per hectare, the chief said. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-board-chief-exhorts-farmers-to-adapt-to-change/article34070167.ece
15 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club holds blood donation camp||Rotary Club Governor (District-3020) M. Satish Babu has urged people from all walks of life to donate blood and save lives. As part of Rotary service activities, he inaugurated a blood donation camp and a solar power plant in the government high school here. At a function at Bapuji Kala Mandir, he gave away Rotary Puraskarams to representatives of various organisations, including Indian Red Cross Society, Bhavani Charitable Trust and Geeta Srikanth Foundation. Mr. Satish congrulated the Srikakulam Rotary Club president M.R.K. Das for organising medical camps and health awareness programmes in the district. The club’s regional secretary C.V. Rajulu, representatives P. Uma Maheswara Rao, D. Shiva Sankar and P.S.V.S. Varma were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-holds-blood-donation-camp/article34070709.ece
15 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A cakewalk in Srikakulam||The YSRCP has won Itchapuram, Palasa-Kasibugga and Palakonda municipalities with comfortable majorities in Srikakulam district. The TDP, which won the Itchapuram Assembly seat in 2019 general elections, faced defeat in the civic polls, despite its concerted efforts to win a respectable number of wards. The YSRCP candidates bagged 15 out of 23 wards in Itchapuram while the TDP could register win in six and the independent candidates won the remaining two wards. In Palakonda, it was almost a cakewalk for the YSRCP which won 17 out of 20 wards. The TDP won only three wards. In Palasa, the YSRCP got 23 out of 31 wards. The TDP won eight wards in Palasa-Kasibugga municipality. Minister for Fisheries Sidiri Appala Raju who represents Palasa Assembly said the people had rejected the TDP in municipal elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-cakewalk-for-ruling-party-in-srikakulam/article34070690.ece
15 March 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||In GVMC, YSRCP suffers losses where its MLAs hold sway||Though the YSR Congress Party has won 58 out of 98 wards in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Council (GVMC) polls, it has lost some wards to the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and other parties where it has MLAs. On the other hand, it had made good inroads into areas where the sitting MLAs are from the TDP. It has lost in 11 wards in Gajuwaka area, where the MLA is Tippala Nagi Reddy from YSRCP, lost in five in Bheemili, which is the constituency of Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, seven in Pendurthi, where YSRCP MLA is A. Adeep Raj and five in South Constituency, where TDP MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar had shifted loyalties to the YSRCP. On the other hand, it has won 15 out of 17 in North Constituency, where the sitting MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao is from the TDP, though Mr. Srinivasa Rao had recently submitted his resignation, won 10 out of 14 in West Constituency of TDP MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu (Gana Babu) and 10 in East Constituency of TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu. The YSRCP also made good grounds into the newly-merged wards of Anakapalle, where it had won four out of five. Steel plant issue Losing a sizeable chunk in Gajuwaka could be due to the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) privatisation issue. Despite, YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and other party leaders taking up a 25-km padayatra in support of the agitating employees and assuring a number of times that it would take up the issue with the Prime Minister and also the Chief Minister writing two letters to the Prime Minister, the people appear to have not convinced. Mr. Vijaya Sai admitted that there seems to be some issues and distrust among people and the employees of the VSP. He also has gone to the extent of saying that his party would do an introspection and go back to the people to gain their trust. In Gajuwaka, there are 19 wards and the TDP had won eight and with alliance of the CPI and the CPI (M), its tally goes to 10. The JSP has won one seat. Former MLA from Gajuwaka Palla Srinivasa Rao, who took up indefinite fast on the VSP issue, proved his mettle by securing eight wards. Speaking to The Hindu, he said Viskhapatnam is the only place where the TDP can claim to be a respectable opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-gvmc-ysrcp-suffers-losses-where-its-mlas-hold-sway/article34070684.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thumping win for YSRCP in VMC||The YSRCP won the elections to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) with a thumping majority on Sunday. The ruling party registered victory in 49 of 64 wards, while the Opposition TDP, which was at the helm in the previous term, could win only in 14 wards. CPI(M) candidate B. Satya Babu emerged victorious in the 50th ward, while the CPI lost in all the six wards it had contested in alliance with the TDP. The CPI(M) contested in 22 wards. The YSRCP leadership will soon announce the names of the candidates for the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts, the elections for which would be conducted on March 18. The JSP and BJP candidates were defeated in all the wards (41 and 22 respectively) they contested. However, the JSP managed to bag the third position in several wards. In the 15th ward, where only YSRCP and JSP candidates were in fray, the latter secured 3,678 votes but lost to Bellam Durga by a margin of 956 votes. Kesineni Swetha, TDP’s mayoral candidate and daughter of MP Kesineni Srinivas, won by a majority of 1,783 votes in the 11th ward by defeating YSRCP’s Kammili Shoba Rajini. Eleven out of 14 wards won by the TDP were unreserved while the other three were reserved for the BCs. It was a close contest between the TDP and YSRCP in several wards. The opposition party won by a majority of more than 2,000 votes in a few wards. The wards the TDP won were 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 23, 26, 28, 32, 45, 52 and 60. While TDP’s Potluri Siva Sai Prasad, who won the 12th ward, is the oldest, YSRCP’s Bhimisetty Pravallika, who won the 3rd ward, is the youngest. Twenty-two of the elected candidates are in the 20-40 age group, while 39 are in the 41-60 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thumping-win-for-ysrcp-in-vmc/article34070742.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescued boy handed over to parents||The One Town police handed over the boy, who was kidnapped on February 27 from a bus station in Alipiri, to his parents through Krishna district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, the boy’s father, Uttam Kumar Sahu, thanked Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) K. Hanumantha Rao and other police personnel who rescued his son near Sri Durga Malleswaraswamy Vaarla Devastanam on Saturday. “We kept the boy in a private shelter home since Saturday afternoon, and handed over him to his father. The boy had tested negative for COVID-19, and was in good health condition,” One Town CI P. Venkateswarlu said. Sivam Kumar(6), who came to Tirumala along with his parents from a village in Chhattisgarh, was abducted from the Balaji Link Bus Station, under Alipiri police station limits. He was rescued in Vijayawada 14 days after being abducted. After the boy’s father lodged a complaint the next day, the Tirupati Urban district police launched a hunt to nab the kidnapper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rescued-boy-handed-over-to-parents/article34070169.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,098 tonnes of parcels handled by SCR||The South Central Railway(SCR) has handled 2,098 tonnes of parcels in 2020-21 (till January). The revenue during the current financial year is expected to cross Rs. 1,000 crore. Indian Railways parcel services were geared to provide transportation for small consignments, over a vast network of stations. Small traders and businessmen were using the services of railway parcel services, for transportation of their goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2098-tonnes-of-parcels-handled-by-scr/article34070744.ece
15 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Welfare schemes clinched victory’||Attributing the landslide victory in the elections to the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to good governance of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said people blessed the YSRCP with a decisive mandate having reposed trust in the slew of welfare schemes implemented in the last 20 months. Addressing media on Sunday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the groundswell of support was an acknowledgement of the government’s policies and it has blown the Opposition away even before it could feel the wind. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana said though the TDP won 12 wards and the YSRCP 11 in Mydukur municipality, the ruling party candidate would become the chairperson with ex officio votes. He said the clear mandate in ULB elections proved the fact that people in urban areas also endorsed the transparent, nona-corrupt and dedicated governance of the Chief Minister. Decentralised development MLA Ambati Rambabu came down heavily on N. Chandrababu Naidu for “provoking people” in Guntur and Vijayawada and said the absolute mandate was a proof of people’s acceptance of YSRCP and it was also supportive of decentralised development. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh hailed the voters’ verdict, and said it reflected their faith in the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. In a statement, he pointed to the resounding success to the series of welfare measures launched for different sections. The result was a proof that not just the voters in rural areas but also people in towns and cities were behind the YSRCP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-schemes-clinched-victory/article34070676.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More than 90% voter turnout in MLC polls||The polling for the biennial elections to two teachers’ constituencies of the Legislative Council were conducted on Sunday, as more than 90% of voters exercised their franchise. In total, 30 candidates are in the fray and the elections were conducted at 227 polling stations. Around 2,200 staff and 2,400 police personnel were deployed on election duty. The counting of votes will be done on March 17 and the election process will be completed by March 22. The elections are necessitated as the tenures of teachers’ constituencies represented by A.S. Ramakrishna (Krishna - Guntur), a TDP supported candidate, and Ramu Surya Rao (East & West Godavari) will expire on March 29. Webcasting Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) K. Vijayanand said that the elections were conducted in a peaceful manner. The poll proceedings were monitored through webcasting from the Secretariat. As per the reports received by 4 p.m., 91.91% of the voters exercised their franchise in East and West Godavari teachers’ constituency, while 93.01% voting was recorded in Krishna and Guntur. The final poll percentage were yet to be announced, he said. Elaborate arrangements were made for the elections and the COVID-19 protocols were followed strictly. Masks, gloves and sanitisers were provided to the polling staff. In the Maoist-hit Rampachodavaram and Yatapaka divisions in East Godavari, and Kukunoor and Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district, voters were allowed to exercise their franchise from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Eleven candidates are in the fray in the East-West Godavari constituency. Nineteen candidates filed papers in the Krishna-Guntur constituency and 13,505 people were eligible to vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/council-polls-more-than-90-voter-turnout-in-ap/article34070194.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||75% of active COVID cases reported from 5 districts||The State reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 298 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the highest single-day tally in the past two months. Nearly 75% (1,039 cases) of the total active cases in the State were reported from five districts including Chittoor (479), Krishna (192), East Godavari (164), Guntur (102) and Visakhapatnam (102). All other districts have less than 100 active cases and Vizianagaram has 17 active cases, the lowest among the districts. With the new numbers, the cumulative tally increased to  8,91,861 and the toll reached 7,184. Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each. Recovery rate The number of active cases increased to 1,400 from 1,268 on Saturday with 164 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate further decreased to 99.04% as the number of recoveries stood at 8,83,277. The positivity rate of the 45,664 samples tested in the past day was put at 0.65%, the highest in the two months. The overall positivity rate of 1.453 crore samples tested so far was 6.13%.  Meanwhile, five districts reported a surge in daily infection count. Chittoor continued to witness a spike in infections with 90 cases in the past day. It was followed by Guntur (48). East Godavari, Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported 32 new cases each. Kurnool district reported 14 cases, followed by Kadapa (12), Prakasam (11), Anantapur (9), Srikakulam (7), West Godavari (5). Nellore and Vizianagaram districts reported three new cases each. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,646), Eest Godavari (94,382), Chittoor (88,070), Guntur (75,911), Anantapur (67,857), Nellore (62,536), Prakasam (62,252), Kurnool (60,961), Visakhapatnam (60,250), Kadapa (55,467), Krishna (49,152), Srikakulam (46,300) and Vizianagaram (41,182).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/75-of-active-cases-in-state-reported-from-5-districts/article34070687.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM-A.P. to introduce MBA in Data Science||The SRM University-A.P. campus plans to introduce a course in MBA in Data Science with a specialisation in Business Analytics. The formal inaugural of the course will take place on March 15 (Monday) on the university campus. Industry experts, including co-founder and COO of Jigsaw Academy Sarita Digumarti, Digital Learning Design expert and professional performance coach Randhir Mishra and vice-president and Head, Data Science in SRM Group Gaurav Baidyasen will attend the inaugural session. A statement said the experts will share their experience and provide insights on the industry, market aspects to help the students comprehend the significance of Data Analysis in the modern business operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-ap-to-introduce-mba-in-data-science/article34070743.ece
15 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thumbs up for Vizag as Executive Capital, says Vijaya Sai Reddy||People have voted for development and have supported the idea of Chief Minister of making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital and have once again proved TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu wrong, said YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday after achieving a resounding victory in the GVMC polls, he said, “The victory ensures that the people of Vizag have endorsed the idea of three capitals for holistic development.” The people have also proved Mr. Naidu wrong that he still enjoys support in the urban areas. “We have won both the gram panchayat and the ULB polls across the State handsomely. The result also proves that people have voted for development and we have our support both in rural and urban,” he said. Mr. Vijaya Sai pointed out that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy did not campaign in the civic polls. This proves that he believes in people and people believe in him, the YSRCP leader said. Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh had unleashed a vicious campaign and tried to provoke people of different regions but they failed, Mr. Vijaya Sai said. Ridiculing Mr. Naidu’s statement that people of the State are going to other States to work as labourers, he enquired if Mr. Naidu and his family have gone to Telangana for such a work. ‘Tourist leaders’ “Both Mr. Naidu, his son Lokesh and Mr. Pawan Kalyan of JSP are tourist leaders, as they come to the State once in a while to spread hatred,” he said. The YSRCP MP also criticised Mr. Naidu for his comment in 2019 election when he had said that the EVMs were tampered. “Now the people have rejected him through the ballot, what will he say now?” he questioned. Pointing out at some losses in the GVMC election he said, “We have lost in 11 wards in Gajuwaka, five in Bheemili, seven in Pendurthi and five in South constituency. Once we settle down, we shall do an introspection to see, where we have gone wrong or what are the issues that need to be addressed,” he said. He also came down heavily on MP Kanumuru Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, TDP leader Sabbam Hari and a section of the press that was critical of the YSRCP. Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu said that loss in Gajuwaka could be due to false propaganda that YSRCP had a hand in the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thumbs-up-for-vizag-as-executive-capital-says-vijaya-sai-reddy/article34070685.ece
15 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 32 new COVID cases, one death||The Visakhapatnam district reported 32 new COVID-19 cases taking the cumulative tally to 60,762 on Sunday. The last time the district saw more than 30 cases on a day was on January 26. The death toll also increased to 540, as one more person succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The last death was reported in the district was on February 23. In March so far, 222 cases reported in the district compared 268 cases reported in the entire month of February. The number of active cases in the district has increased to 102. The last time when the active cases were over 100 was on February 4. Twenty-three persons recovered from the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries stands at 60,120.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-32-new-covid-cases-one-death/article34070750.ece
15 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress a pale shadow of a glorious past||Once considered to be a formidable political party in the district, the Congress appears to have completely lost its hold. In the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) polls, it had fielded candidates from 67 out of total 98 wards in the corporation and had won none. None of its candidates were even seen giving a close fight to any of the political parties such as YSRCP, TDP, BJP, JSP or the Left parties. But it should be remembered that the party had won the corporation polls thrice out of five polls that the corporation has gone through since 1981. From 1992 to 2002, when the last election was held, the Congress had won all the three polls in 1992, 1997 and 2002. The Mayors who were elected by Congress include Sabbam Hari, Rajana Ramani and Pulusu Janardhana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-polls-congress-fails-to-open-account/article34070509.ece
15 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP-JSP combine wins four wards in GVMC polls||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) opened its account in the GVMC polls by securing three wards. While the JSP contested in 51 wards, its alliance partner BJP put up candidates in 44 wards. The BJP secured one ward taking the combine’s tally to four. Speaking to The Hindu , JSP general secretary Bolisetty Satyanarayana said that the results were on expected lines. “We have been talking about winning five wards and we won in four, with alliance with the BJP,” he said. While the JSP won in wards 64 (Gajuwaka), 22 (Maddilapalem) and 33 (Gnanapuram), the BJP won in ward 48 in Kancharapalem area. Mr. Satyanarayana said that in every ward there are 1,000 to 3,000 people who voted without taking any freebies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-combine-wins-four-wards-in-gvmc-polls/article34070751.ece
15 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties retain wards in GVMC||Both the CPI(M) and the CPI have successfully retained the wards that they had won in the last election in 2007, in the GVMC polls. Gangarao of the CPI(M) has won from ward 78, which is located in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant township, and A.J. Stalin has won from ward 72 in Gajuwaka area. Both Gangarao and Stalin had also won in 2007 and in this election they had won with good margins defeating the YSR Congress Party. As part of an understanding, the TDP did not field candidates in both the wards. Both the wards are located in industrial areas and close to the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The issue of privatisation of the VSP appears to have helped them in winning. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Gangarao said the employees to the VSP had reposed faith in him and the CPI(M) and he would use the platform of the GVMC council to voice their concern. Mr. Stalin said that the win has motivated him and the CPI to take up the fight against privatisation of the VSP more vigorously. Out of the total 98 wards, the CPI (M) had contested in 19 wards and the CPI had put up its candidates in six wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-retain-wards-in-gvmc/article34070683.ece
15 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camp organised||A free medical camp was organised by the Rotary Club of Visakha Port City under its ‘Project positive health stop NCD’ at BNR Nagar, Arilova, on Sunday. As many 50 children and 80 older persons were examined and medicines were given free of cost at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-camp-organised/article34070747.ece
15 March 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP employees take out silent march||A silent march was taken out by officers and employees of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) along with their family members from the Telugu Talli Junction to Kurmannapalem on Sunday demanding withdrawal of the decision of the Centre on 100% strategic disinvestment/sale of RINL. The rally was organised under the aegis of Steel Executives Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-employees-take-out-silent-march/article34070749.ece
15 March 2021||VISKAHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s YSR Congress Party show all the way||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) continued its winning streak in the urban local body elections in the State by winning a majority of the wards in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections, the results of which were declared on Sunday evening. The YSRCP emerged victorious by winning 58 of the total 98 wards in the GVMC while the TDP finished second by securing 30 wards, Independents won four wards, Jana Sena Party (JSP) secured three and the CPI, CPI(M) and the BJP won one ward each. The GVMC recorded 59.41% polling in the elections held on March 10. The total number of voters in the 98 wards of GVMC is 17,26,158 of whom only 10,25,442 voted on March 10, while 7,00,716 abstained from voting. The prominent winners include Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao’s daughter M. Priyanka (YSRCP) with a majority of 963 votes in ward no. 6 and Ch. Vamsi Krishna Srinivas, YSRCP city president, who is said to be in the race for the post of Mayor, won with a majority of 2,275 votes in the 21st ward. G. Kavitha (48th ward) is the lone BJP candidate to have won in the election. BJP Parliamentary district president M. Raveendra congratulated her on the achievement. The celebrations began early for the CPI(M) candidate for ward no. 78, B. Ganga Rao, who is also the city committee secretary of the party, who was among the first candidates to have won. The CPI(M) women performed ‘kolatam’ in jubilation over his victory. CPI leader A. Joseph Stalin won from ward no. 72. The YSRCP workers took out a rally to celebrate the victory of the party candidates at Maddilapalem. Close finish In a close finish, the YSR Congress Party edged out the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in Narsipatnam municipality, by winning 14 out of total 28 wards on Sunday Coming close, the TDP secured 12 wards and one ward each was won by the Jana Sena Party (JSP) and an independent. The fight was very close and some candidates won with a majority of 10 to 15 votes. For the first time , the JSP has opened its account in Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district. The Congress party failed to open its account in this election. Among the 12 winning candidates from the TDP, include Ch. Padmavathi and Ch. Rajesh, wife and son of former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu. They won in ward nos. 26 and 27 respectively. Narsipatnam is the home town of Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu and was considered to be a TDP bastion. Narsipatnam recorded a percentage of 73.94 % in the elections and out of 47,821 voters, as many as 35,357 voters had exercised their franchise. Among the 28 winning candidates, 16 are women, including seven each from the TDP and the YSRCP, one from JSP and an independent. A total of 437 votes were considered invalid and about 500 NOTA votes were polled. The postal ballot votes were 252. The YSRCP swept the municipal polls in Yelamanchili by bagging 23 out of total 25 wards. The party candidates were unanimously elected in three wards nos. 5, 15 and 16. In the 22 wards, where the polls were held, the YSRCP has won 20 wards, while the TDP and an independent won one ward each. Out of 22 winning candidates, 11 are women, — 10 are from YSRCP and one independent. The Jana Sena Party has failed to open its account. Yelamanchili has reported 75.69 % voting in the municipal polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-58-wards-in-gvmc-polls/article34070694.ece
15 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP candidates win with good margins in Vizianagaram||The YSR Congress Party made a clean sweep in the municipal elections held in Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Saluru and Nellimarla nagar panchayats. Except for Bobbili, the TDP could not even give a fight as the candidates fielded by the ruling party won with good majority. In Vizianagaram Municipal Corporation, the results came as a shock for the TDP as it could win only one of the total 50 wards. The YSRCP candidates emerged victorious in 48 wards, while TDP candidate Karrothu Radhamani won the 49th ward. An independent canidate bagged one ward. Vizianagaram district had been as considered a bastion for the TDP till 2019 general elections. YSRCP Vizianagaram MLA K.Veerabhadra Swamy’s daughter Kolagatla Sravani was elected from the 29th ward . TDP mayor candidate Kandi Samantaka Mani was also defeated by YSRCP candidate Bavireddy Satish in the 22nd ward with a margin of 210 votes. In Bobbili municipality, the YSRCP won 19 of the total 31 wards. The TDPwon 11 wards while an independent candidate won one ward. The YSRCP candidates bagged 22 of the total 30 wards in Parvatipuram. The TDP candidates won five wards while independent candidates bagged the remaining three seats. In Saluru, the YSRCP won 20 wards of the total 29, while the TDP bagged five and the Congress candidates emerged victorious in one ward. The YSRCP candidates won 11 out of the 20 wards Nellimarla .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-sweeps-civic-polls-in-vizianagaram/article34070693.ece
15 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees throng temple for fest||Hundreds of devotees offered prayers at the Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Cheepurupalli on the occasion of the 23rd annual festival. People from Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts participated in Netrotsavam, Paladharotsavam and Sobha Yatra on the first day, according to the trust chairman Ippili Govinda. He said cultural activities would be organised on Monday also as part of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-throng-temple-for-fest/article34070710.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily COVID total tops 200 for second day||Cases of COVID-19 infection in Telangana have gone beyond the 200-mark for the second consecutive day. While 216 cases were recorded on Friday, 228 cases were detected on Saturday. This is the second time since January 23 that over 200 cases have been logged in a day. One of the reasons for the increase in cases is increased testing. From March 1 to 12, a maximum of 41000-odd samples were being tested on a daily basis. On Saturday, however, 50,998 samples were examined. This was done after Health Minister Eatala Rajender directed officials to conduct 50,000 tests a day as cases are surging in neighbouring States such as Maharashtra and Karnataka, which share a border with Telangana. The new 228 cases on Saturday include 46 from Greater Hyderabad region, 17 from Rangareddy and 15 from Medchal Malkajgiri. No cases were recorded in Narayanpet, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, Jogulamba Gadwal and Jayashankar Bhupalapally. So far, 92,00,465 samples have been examined, leading to the detection of 3,01,161 virus cases. Of the total cases, 1,993 were active while 2,97,515 have recovered. The death toll presently stands at 1,653 with one more person succumbing to the infectious disease on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-total-tops-200-for-second-day/article34070474.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy turnout in polling for two Graduates’ MLC seats||Braving sun and bucking the trend of poor response in the past, graduate voters thronged the polling stations in large numbers, as in general elections, to exercise their right to franchise in the polling held for two Graduates’ constituencies in the Legislative Council on Sunday. The polling was peaceful in all the 21 reorganised districts which make the erstwhile districts, except for a few complaints about attempts to influence the voters in different ways and means including the statements allegedly made by Home Minister Md. Mahamood Ali and Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan. A complaint of attack on BJP candidate for Warangal-Nalgonda-Khammam constituency G. Premender Reddy and others by TRS activists was also lodged with officials. The Election Commission has put the polling percentage tentatively at around 60% for Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency and about 74% for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency till 4 pm. However, the percentage is expected go up further as the voters who reached the polling stations and were in queues till 4 pm were allowed to cast their votes. Slow beginning Polling for the two MLC seats began on slow note as only about 8% of the registered electorate cast their votes in the first two hours of polling – till 10 am. However, the polling picked after 11 am as the voters started thronging the police stations from 11 am as they were seen standing in long queues as many polling stations across the two constituencies. The polling percentage crossed 39% in in M-R-H and 43.5% in W-K-N constituencies by 2 pm. Voters complained of lack of shade (tents) and drinking water and were forced to wait under the scorching sun for hours as only 10-15 votes per hour were polled initially. The voters found it difficult to identify their choice of candidates for three preference votes as the ballot papers were very large. A total of 93 candidates are in fray for M-R-H constituency and 71 for W-K-N constituency. Tension prevailed at Nellikuduru in Mahabubabad district for some time where the activists of BJP and TRS indulged in an altercation and jostling on the arrival of BJP candidate G. Premender Reddy at the polling station to enquire about the polling trend. The police intervened and prevented escalation of the incident by dispersing the two sides. Mr. Premender Reddy alleged that the TRS activists attacked him and his supporters. Speaking after going around a few polling stations to oversee the polling trend and arrangements, Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel said complaints were received by election officials on the alleged attack on BJP candidate and influencing of voters. Reports were sought from the Returning Officers and police so that necessary action could be initiated. However, Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, who spoke at Hanmakonda, denied BJP allegation. He said the TRS ranks were told to advocate utmost restraint by the leadership, in spite of provocations by the BJP and Congress, and they followed the same. The ballot boxes of M-R-H constituency were shifted to the Indoor Stadium at Saroornagar here and those of W-K-N were taken to the market yard godown at Nalgonda. The counting of votes will be taken up on March 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-turnout-in-polling-for-two-graduates-mlc-seats/article34070494.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guzzle water, don’t let the sun stun you||The mercury has been steadily rising and those stepping out of home are feeling the heat, literally. Summer brings with it the threats of dehydration and heat stroke, which can often lead to complications. In such a scenario, the importance of frequent hydration cannot be stressed enough. K Shivaraju, head of Medicine at KIMS Hospitals, Secunderabad, says symptoms of heat stroke include fatigue, giddiness, sweating, confusion, nausea, and even fainting. Concentrated urine (a dark yellow tinge) is a sign of dehydration. Delayed treatment of heat stroke could damage internal organs such as heart, kidneys, liver and brain. If not attended to, it might even result in death. First-aid Dr Shivaraju says if a person suffering a heat stroke loses consciousness, they have to be taken to a shaded place. A wet cloth has to be rubbed over hands and legs to cool down the body as early as possible. “Call an ambulance to rush the patient to nearest hospital. If the person is conscious, they have to be given water and salts,” he adds. Head of Critical Care department at Citizens Hospital, Srinivas Jakkinaboina explains that people suffer a heat stroke when the body temperature rises above 40 degrees. It may be accompanied by hot dry skin, delirium, convulsions, or coma. Normal body temperature of 37 degrees is maintained by a process called thermoregulation. Mechanisms such as vaporisation, radiation, convection and conduction function to cool down when the body temperature increases. However, Dr Srinivas says hypothalamus cannot control body temperature in some situations such as prolonged exposure to sun, conditions such as diabetics and hypertension, and intake of certain medications which lead to loss of water from the body. “When body temperature increases, cutaneous vasodilation occurs, causing relative reduction in blood plasma, loss of salts and water in the form of sweat inducing dehydration, depriving the body of sodium, potassium and other minerals. This could lead to heat stroke,” he adds. One can counter the situation by consuming water and salts. Water mixed with table salt can be consumed. If table salt is not available, just plain water can be consumed. Dr Srinivas points out that if thatis not done, and further loss of salt and water could impair thermoregulation which can have serious effects such as organ failure. High-risk groups Dr Shivaraju has appealed to people above the age of 60 years, children and those with kidney or heart problems to avoid stepping out between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. as they are more prone to heat stroke. The doctor categorised children in the high risk group as they often do not share or cannot communicate if they are feeling dehydrated.  Prevention Heat stroke can be avoided by use of limiting outdoor activities during daytime or avoiding exposure to heat. Consuming plenty of water, wearing loose-fitting, light coloured clothing and being aware of medications that can lead to fluid loss are other measures. Impaired adults or children should not be left unattended, say doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guzzle-water-dont-let-the-sun-stun-you/article34070471.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poll campaign issues to spill over into Assembly session||As the budget session of legislature from Monday will begin within three days of the conclusion of the campaign for Legislative Council elections, the ruling TRS and Opposition parties were expected to continue their charges and counter-charges that they left behind in the campaign. The session will begin with the traditional address of Governor to both Houses of legislature followed by speeches on the condolence motion to mourn the death of MLAs, mainly Nomula Narasimhaiah of TRS, and motion of thanks to the Governor’s address in the subsequent days. The budget presentation was likely to be taken up on Thursday and then go into demands of various departments before winding up finally with the passage of Appropriation Bill well before March 31. Sources said the budget session of Assembly and Council had given an opportunity to leaders of TRS and rival parties to come face to face on charges that they traded in election campaign incognito. Issues like employment, shelving of Information Technology Investment Region for Hyderabad, unemployment allowance, fuel price hike and farm laws enacted by Centre which were the focus of campaign will repeat themselves if the parties stuck to the challenges that they threw days earlier. The Congress and BJP were expected to seek the stand of the government on its reported leak that it will offer a 29 per cent fitment to employees in pay scales. In this context, it was possible that the government will announce something on pay hike, they said. The TRS will, however, harp on its development and welfare agenda, measures taken to check COVID 19 and success achieved in registration of properties by Dharani portal. The Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said they will demand a resolution of the House seeking scrapping of farm laws enacted by Centre like it was done in other State ruled not only by Congress but other parties. The party will also highlight loss to farming community in Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Khammam on account of diversion of water upstream of Srisailam for Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme taken up by AP government. Perhaps, the most controversial issue that could draw flak from Opposition ranks was the claim of IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao during campaign that the government had created 1.32 lakh jobs. The Congress and BJP strongly objected to the claim and latter party even challenged Mr. Rao for a debate on Osmania University campus. It will be interesting to watch out government’s position on farm laws after initially opposing them and later announcing that the farmers should be allowed freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country in tune with the legislations. The government had also withdrawn paddy procurement centres in villages to more or less deregulate marketing of produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poll-campaign-issues-to-spill-over-into-assembly-session/article34070506.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad libraries spring back to life||The students are back in the courtyards of the major libraries in the city. They are back after a nine-month hiatus sitting on the steps, on the lawns and on foldable garden chairs reading their books and occasionally glancing at their cellphones. “The lockdown of libraries have hit our preparations. We lost nine months as our books were in the city and we moved to our villages,” says Manipal from Gajwel who is preparing for SI competitive examinations spending the day reading outside the State Central Library at Afzalgunj. While the officials marked their attendance and carried out their regular duties, the reading rooms and lending facilities in the libraries were shuttered for nine months. “When we returned the chairs we kept at the library got rusted and became useless. The only facility we use inside the library is the newspapers section and that was opened on February 20,” says K. Linganna, who is preparing for teacher as well as SI postings. Other functioning libraries in Hyderabad like the State Library at Chikkadpally and Shahalibanda have a similar scene where students bring their own chairs and park them around the building and read their own competitive exam books. “The libraries don’t acquire books for competitive examinations. We are Telugu medium students but there are no books to help us prepare for exams,” says Mr. Linganna. “The Telangana government which was formed on the sentiment has not purchased books on the struggle. Libraries have no literature on Telangana Statehood movement while the students are asked questions about it,” says K. Chandramohan, a publisher. Book purchase hit The election to Legislative Council hasn’t helped as the election code in force affecting book purchases by the Grandhalaya Samastha. “For the last two years there have been zero purchases by the libraries in the state. Only Vikarabad, Sangareddy and Rangareddy districts have acquired books. Purchases through the Raja Rammohun Roy Library Foundation have also been affected as they need a matching grant from the State to purchase books,” says Mr. Chandramohan. In the absence of book purchases by libraries in the State, students and bibliophiles are left to their own devices for gaining knowledge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-libraries-spring-back-to-life/article34070450.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana man named CIO of Fortune 250 Company||Telangana professionals continue to make headlines on the world techstage and the latest to join the list is Praveen Jonnalgadda. He has recently been promoted as Chief Information Officer (CIO) at Commscope, a Fortune 250 company in the USA with $8.4 billion revenue. Commscope is a global company with operations in India as well and Mr. Praveen was key in opening their capability centre in Hyderabad in 2013, creating employment opportunities in Telangana. Praveen, who hails from Miryalaguda, holds a masters degree and PhD in Artificial Intelligence from the department of Mathematics, Osmania University. Praveen has over 20 years of experience in leading global teams in product engineering, software development, manufacturing, supply chain and information technology. At Commscope, he is responsible for implementing a digital strategy. He joined CommScope in 2008, having previously filled leadership roles at Ford Motor Company and Sun Microsystems. The CIO Executive Council named Praveen one of their 50 ‘Ones to Watch’ technology leaders in 2018. “It’s a great responsibility and quite a satisfying achievement given the background,” says Praveen, who did his early schooling and B.Sc from Miryalaguda. Farmer’s son His father, Ranga Reddy, a farmer by profession, had established a junior college and degree college in his hometown. Mr. Praveen was an active member of the Telangana Development Forum in the USA that played a key role during the Telangana statehood movement. His father has served in both the Telugu Desam Party and the Telangana Rashtra Samiti.  It’s a great responsibility and quite a satisfying achievement given the background. Praveen Jonnalgadda, New CIO, Commscope, US||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-man-named-cio-of-fortune-250-company/article34070483.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS resorted to malpractice but we will win: Bandi Sanjay||The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP has accused the Telangana Rastra Samithi (TRS) of “distributing crores of rupees and liquor to woo the graduate voters for the two MLC constituencies for the Legislative Council on the voting day on Sunday. "The TRS, in an insult to the educated voters, has tried to distribute large sums of money. It should introspect why the party has come to a situation where it has to buy votes rather than seek votes. They are not even going to get the second position and our candidates are sure to win," claimed party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar at a press conference. He accused the police of being a ‘silent spectator’ to the ‘electoral malpractice’ of the TRS leaders including by the ministers but at the same time, could not prevent attack on their party leaders like G. Premender Reddy and others at Mahabubabad. "I had earlier urged my partymen not to get provoked as the frustrated ruling party will resort to any means to influence the election," he said, but warned that if the police “continue to take sides” the partymen would be “forced” to take law into their own hands. The BJP leader challenged the police to provide details on how many raids were conducted, how much money was seized and how many cases were filed thus far. "I request the police officers not to cross boundaries and wish to remind that the High Court has sent even district collectors to jail for their overzealousness," he said. The EC should also look into complaints of many polling stations not having drinking water and toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-resorted-to-malpractice-but-we-will-win-bandi-sanjay/article34070495.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Car rams lorry, 3 of family killed||Three members of a family were killed when their car rammed a container lorry moving in the same direction on Nehru ORR near Shamirpet on Sunday. The accident took place around 7.10 a.m. when the victims, Karunakar (48), his wife Sarala (42) and his sister-in-law Sandhya (32), were returning home at Chilkanagar from Gajwel after attending a family function. Karunakar, who was behind the wheels, failed to notice the container lorry that was moving slowly in the same direction, and rammed it from behind. “They suffered severe injuries and died on the spot,” Shamirpet police said. Their bodies were shifted to Gandhi Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/car-rams-lorry-3-of-family-killed/article34070487.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Homage to ‘Tenacious Tenners’||A wreath-laying ceremony at 1 EME Centre War Memorial, Secunderabad, by officers of the ‘Tenacious Tenners’ marked the golden jubilee of their commissioning on Sunday. It was in March 14, 1971, that 338 officers of Short Service Commission courses ‘NT10’ and ‘Tech 2’ passed from the Officers’ Training School (now Officers Training Academy), Chennai, in the rank of 2nd Lieutenant. All the officers had a unique opportunity of taking part in the 1971 Indo-Pak War popularly known as ‘Bangladesh Liberation War’. Seven officers of the batch lost their lives in action on the western and eastern fronts. Martyrs remembered Homage was paid to the martyred officers, as also to pay respects to another 67 officers who had died since 1972. Similar functions have been held at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, and War Memorials at Pune, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Aizwal, Jaipur and Officers Training Academy, Chennai. Brigadier S Sreeramulu (retired) recalled the valour displayed by the officers killed in the war and also their contribution during service to the nation after retirement, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homage-to-tenacious-tenners/article34070478.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS confident after high voter turnout||The high polling percentage has given lot of confidence to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which is expecting comfortable wins in both the Graduate MLC constituencies as they felt they managed better in mobilisation of voters compared to other parties. The TRS leaders in all the six districts that went to polls on Sunday gave a positive feedback to the party, saying their poll management was much better while the Opposition looked in a disarray in the crucial aspect of the polling. The strength of the ruling party right from village level to the districts, given their representatives from sarpanches to MLAs, made a huge difference. Ministers and MLAs, who were overseeing the polling strategy, also sounded confident at the end of the day, after the feedback from different sources. A Minister confided that till a couple of weeks ago they were nowhere in the picture in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar constituency but the smart move by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in fielding Vani Devi, daughter of late Prime Minister, P V Narasimha Rao made a huge difference. Marri Rajashekhar Reddy, party in-charge for Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency said youngsters in particular favoured the TRS given their confidence in the leadership of TRS working president, K.T. Rama Rao. “Don’t go by the opposition of few groups in Osmania University. There are thousands of youngsters who come out of professional colleges and they understand how the brand of Hyderabad makes a difference to their future. In the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency, the party feels, it has great advantage given the division of votes among some strong contenders. Senior Ministers like Jagadish Reddy and Errrabelli Dayakar Rao have worked hard to ensure their support base in rural and semi-urban areas worked for the party candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-confident-after-high-voter-turnout/article34070508.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP spar over KTR's comments||Social media platforms saw a near war between the TRS and BJP followers on Sunday after the TRS working president, K.T. Rama Rao made a sarcastic comment to embarrass the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the escalating gas cylinder prices, and the counter from the BJP criticising the TRS on the suicide of unemployed, and the the party's ‘silence’ on communal clashes in Bhainsa town of Nirmal district. It all started with KTR's deliberate provocative statement after casting his vote in Legislative Council polls at Sheikhpet Tahsildar office that he had prayed to the gas cylinder at his home, as wished by a great man, before going to the polling station. KTR was apparently referring to the widely publicised tweet of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi in 2014 general elections where he asked people to pray to the gas cylinder at home before going out for voting. It was a deliberate political ploy to provoke anger among the people on the polling day over the UPA's inability to control prices then. The BJP leaders reacted sharply to KTR's statement and attacked him holding him and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi responsible for the suicide of youngsters, and those who lost property in the recent communal clashes at Bhainsa town. BJP candidate for Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar Graduate MLC constituency, N. Ramchander Rao responded that he too had prayed for unemployed youngsters of Osmania University and for the implementation of Pay Revision Commission (PRC), which had been contentious issues. BJP's MLA, T. Raja Singh, known for his rabble-rousing speeches, said KTR should pray for the safety of Hindus in Bhainsa and not the gas cylinder. Throughout the campaign, KTR took on the BJP over the rising fuel and cooking gas prices, sharing videos of the Prime Minister and Union Ministers Nirmala Sithraman and Smriti Irani, who protested against the price rise during the UPA. "Who do we attribute the abnormal gas, diesel and petrol price increase to now? Care to own up?" KTR tweeted earlier comparing the prices of fuel and LPG cylinder in 2015 and 2021. He said petrol was Rs. 56.49 in 2015 and Rs. 100 in 2021. Similarly the LPG cylinder was Rs. 414 in 2015 and Rs. 819 in 2021. "Rs. 225 increase in last 3 months," he tweeted. along with the videos of Prime Minister nd the Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-bjp-spar-over-ktrs-comments/article34070499.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10,000 more senior citizens immunised||The first dose of COVID-19 vaccine was administered to 10,539 persons aged 60 years and above, apart from 7,793 beneficiaries aged 45-59 years with co-morbidities, on Saturday. Apart from them, 753 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 474 frontline workers (FLWs) also received the first dose. As many as 165 HCWs and 2,693 FLWs took the second jab too. . After the COVID-19 vaccination programme was launched on January 16, a total of 5,27,117 persons have received the first dose, and 2,22,080 second dose. The two doses are administered with a gap of 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-10000-more-seniors-immunised/article34070476.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bank told to pay interest subsidy on edu loan, Rs. 20,000 compensation||A district consumer commission directed Andhra Bank to pay Rs. 1.14 lakh, the interest subsidy on an education loan, and Rs. 20,000 as compensation to a complainant. The commission held that the bank was deficient in service for not having arranged the interest subsidy amount to the complainant. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission – I Hyderabad was dealing with a complaint filed by Nagendra Naren, a resident of Miyapur. The opposite parties were the Assistant General Manager, Andhra Bank, SR Nagar branch, and the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Andhra Bank, Saifabad. The complainant stated that he had availed an education loan of Rs. 2.20 lakh to pursue B Tech from the Andhra Bank’s SR Nagar branch in 2009. Meanwhile, the Centre had announced an interest waiver scheme on education loans obtained by those with a family income of Rs. 4.5 lakh per annum. The complainant had applied for this and requested the bank to upload the claim. He also stated that the designated nodal bank for this scheme was Canara Bank. He stated that despite furnishing all required documents like income certificate, Andhra Bank did not upload the claim for interest subsidy. He also stated that as per stipulations, it was the responsibility of the loan approving bank to upload the claim. For their part, the opposite parties denied the allegations. They stated that after submission of the claim, the nodal bank, Canara Bank, was responsible to explain ‘what has been admitted by it for getting the interest subsidy amount from the authority concerned’. It attributed deficiency of service by Canara Bank. Taking all evidence and arguments placed on record into consideration, the commission stated, “Based on the admission of the opposite party, in its written version, as to deficiency in service in not arranging the interest subsidy amount on the education loan availed by the complainant and stating that it is the duty of the Nodal Bank, it is not acceptable.” It also stated that when the claim was uploaded and cleared by the Ombudsman, it was the responsibility of the opposite parties and not Canara Bank, to pursue the matter till the claim was settled. Apart from ordering payment of the interest subsidy amount and compensation, costs of Rs. 10,000 were also imposed.  Based on the admission of the opposite party as to deficiency in service in not arranging the interest subsidy amount and stating that it is the duty of the Nodal Bank, it is not acceptable. Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-told-to-pay-interest-subsidy-on-edu-loan-rs-20000-compensation/article34070486.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OUTA women demand separate gender budget||The women representatives of Osmania University Teachers’ Association (OUTA) have requested the State government to allocate a separate gender budget to ensure better facilities for women on the university campus and constituent colleges. A team of OUTA led by Vice President B. Lavanya, and General Secretary Vijaya Lakshmi, along with other faculty members Srilatha, Swathi, Sadhana, Aruna and Madhuri met Finance Minister Harish Rao on Saturday to submit a survey report on facilities for women in Osmania University colleges. They requested the Finance Minister to allocate exclusive gender budget to improve the infrastructure facilities for women in the colleges in the ensuing State budget for the year 2020-21. The Finance Minister had “responded positively” and assured to consider the request, according to OUTA representatives. As per findings of the survey, there was an ‘immediate’ need to provide better infrastructure in the university colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/outa-women-request-separate-gender-budget/article34070490.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy ‘warns’ TRS government||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy upped the ante against the TRS government and warned that the Centre will not remain silent over the continued onslaught against it by Ministers here. “We have not yet started playing the political game in a full fledged manner otherwise the TRS will not know what it got hit with,” he warned, at a press conference in New Delhi on Sunday. Charging the State government of failing to bring the communal clashes at Bhainsa near Adilabad under control, he claimed that the violence has spread to the villages with more incidents of properties destruction and stab injuries being reported. Home Minister Amit Shah is being continuously apprised of the happenings but there is no plan for his visit, he said. Mr. Kishan Reddy accused the police of following the instructions of the Majlis-TRS leaders in foisting false cases against “innocents” rather than focus on bringing the situation under control. The Minister also questioned the continuing silence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Minister K. T. Rama Rao over the incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-reddy-warns-trs-government/article34070505.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Music concert for morning walkers||A music concert for morning walkers was held on Sunday at Melkote Park in Vittalwadi under the auspices of the walkers’ association and Tatvaa Arts. This was the third in the series at the park to promote fitness and relaxation through music and exercise. Sudhakar Rayaprolu presented a veena recital and was accompanied by N. Gunaranjan on mridangam and Y. Venkatesh on ghatam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/music-concert-for-morning-walkers/article34070481.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘HM violated election code’||Congress has demanded that the vote of Home Minister, Mahamood Ali be cancelled and action initiated against him for openly revealing that he has voted in favour of TRS candidate S. Vani Devi in the Legislative Council elections. In a complaint to the Chief Electoral Officer with video proof, Congress leader G. Niranjan said that Mr. Mahamood Ali exercised his vote at a polling station on Old Malakpet and later addressed the media where he declared that he voted for Ms. Vani Devi which is violation of election code and attracted action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hm-violated-election-code/article34070500.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panel discussion||A panel discussion on ‘Women in leadership: challenges and solutions’ would be held at BirthRight on Monday. Joint managing director of Bharat Biotech, Suchitra Ella would take part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-discussion/article34070475.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||World University of Design students excel||Students of World University of Design have won several events in the Design Challenges in India competition held recently. Rugved Patil, M.Des (Transportation Design) won the Automotive Design Competition organised by Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM); Gokul Gopi, M.Des (Industrial Design) and his team won D’source Corona Design Challenge organised by IIT- Bombay while a third team comprising Abhay Pratap Singh, Anand Singh and Mehak Singal (all from B.Des Product Design) and their faculty mentors Aditi Parikh and Rohit Kothari reached the finals of Toycathon 2021, the inter-Ministerial initiative of the Government of India. Rugved Patil finished second in SIAM ADC 2021 themed on ‘Influence of the New Normal on the Future of Automotive Design’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/world-university-of-design-students-excel/article34070484.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Poll staff blind to distribution of money: Congress||The Congress claimed widespread violation of election norms by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and blamed Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel that he had wilfully turned a blind eye despite the opposition parties bringing it to his notice. Criticising the CEO, Aall India Congress Committee (AICC spokesman Sravan Dasoju asked whether the officials were conducting elections on behalf of the Election Commission of India or like a private agency of the Chief Minister. “Is CEO, Telangana, blind or surrendered to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi to allow brazen display of party flex, flags, caps and scarves at various polling booths which is a sheer violation of election rules and model code?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poll-staff-blind-to-distribution-of-money-congress/article34070501.ece
15 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guntakal station gets a new look||Guntakal railway station, a major junction on South Central Railway, has been redeveloped at an estimated Rs. 11.5 crore. The station connects all directions across the country — Secunderabad and beyond in the north, Mumbai in the west, Bengaluru and beyond in the South and Vijayawada and beyond. It is now complete with a proper approach road, vertical gardens, rain water harvesting, solar panels, LED lighting, energy efficient devices, insulation on roof top, extensive use of solar lighting etc. A model of the steam locomotive has been kept in front of the Guntakal station building. Other important works taken up are an open air amphitheatre, children’s park, entry and exit arches, new open waiting halls, development of interiors and exteriors of new platforms and building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guntakal-station-gets-a-new-look/article34070504.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills son-in-law in Asifabad||An employee of Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Utnoor, was killed by his father-in-law at Hetiguda of Bejjur in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. M. Subhash (37) went to his father-in-law S. Ramaiah’s house on Friday. “Around 9.30 p.m., the duo picked up an argument over a petty issue, following which Ramaiah slammed Subhash’s head to the wall and kicked his private parts,” police said. He was rushed to Bejjur government hospital where he succumbed while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-son-in-law-in-asifabad/article34070489.ece
15 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||76% turnout in Khammam||Khammam district recorded a high voter turnout of 76% with 66,251 voters of the total electorate of 87,172 casting their votes in Sunday’s high-stakes Legislative Council election to Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency. An estimated 73% of the total electorate of 42,679 exercised their franchise in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in Sunday’s MLC election held amid elaborate security arrangements. After a relatively a dull start in the first two hours, the polling picked up momentum towards the end of the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/76-turnout-in-khammam/article34070510.ece
15 March 2021||khammam,TELANGANA||Mild tension in Khammam||Mild tension prevailed near the two-town police station here on Sunday morning when the police reportedly detained a local Congress leader on the charge of moving in the vicinity of a polling station in violation of the prohibitory orders in force on the election day. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka along with several leaders of the District Congress Committee reached the two town police station to lodge a protest against the "detention" of the local Congress leader. Later, Mr Vikramarka alleged that M Narendra, a local leader of the Congress, was detained by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mild-tension-in-khammam/article34070718.ece
15 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||TRS misused official machinery: CPI (M)||Leaders of the Communist Party of India and the CPI (M) took severe objection and criticised the official machinery “for supporting the luring activities of the ruling TRS” in the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates' MLC polling on Sunday. District secretaries Mudireddy Sudhakar Reddy of CPI (M) and CPI’s Nellikanti Sathyam released a statement, which said, “The ruling TRS members shamelessly misused the official machinery and distributed cash for votes.” Although several such instances were taken to the notice of the police there was no use, and in certain polling locations the cash-for-vote happened under the police’s view, they alleged. While in other instances, those who reported such incidents to the police were kept in preventive detention, they added. “The ruling party’s tactics would work only for temporary times, but there is severe anti-incumbent sentiment among the people. Soon, the people will reject money politics,” they noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-misused-official-machinery-cpi-m/article34070502.ece
15 March 2021||R. AvadhaniMEDAK,TELANGANA||Medak sees a rise in paddy cultivation||Thanks to heavy rains that took place last year, paddy cultivation in Medak district has considerably increased. Lift irrigation projects, desilting of lakes and check dams are also a reason for the increase in production of the crop . The area under paddy transplantation has increased enormously due to increase in groundwater and adequate amount of rainfall received in the past five years. The actual rainfall received from 2017 to 2020 was 849.7 mm, 700 mm, 540.6 mm, 916.9 mm and 867.5 mm respectively. The good amount of rainfall received in the past five years has increased the groundwater level in Medak district. “The piezometer depth readings reveal that water level has gone upwards as the district received good amount of rainfall in the years 2017, 2019 and 2020. The piezometer depth to groundwater level in the year 2020- 21 is 9.41 metres but in the year 2016-17 it was 12.45 metres. This clearly shows that desilting of tanks through Mission Kakatiya has shown positive effect on groundwater potential in the district,” said District Agriculture Officer (DAO) Ajmeera Parashuram Naik. The total paddy area cultivated during Yasangi 2018-19 is 79,108 acres. The paddy area cultivated during Yasangi 2020-21 is 1.90 lakh acres which is twice the area cultivated in the year 2017-18. As per Irrigation department information, out of 15 checkdams proposed, 6 checkdams were completed and are under usage. Under Mission Kakatiya 1,855 tanks were desilted in four phases providing water to 1,04,602 acres. The Ghanpur canal has catchment area of 28,000 acres. The groundwater availability is at 9.41 metres this year which brought all the existing 62,136 borewells into operation ultimately providing irrigation to paddy fields. “This is the first time in the district that we were able to achieve 1.90 lakh acres of paddy transplanted area in Yasangi season,” Mr Naik informed The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medak-sees-a-rise-in-paddy-cultivation/article34070721.ece
15 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two children among 4 killed as container lorry hits auto||Four persons, including two children, were killed and four others injured in a road accident near Choutkur mandal headquarters in Sangareddy on Sunday. The injured were shifted to Osmania General Hospital in Hyderabad and their condition was stated to be serious. According to Jogipet Circle Inspector Srinivas, a family from Sangareddy was going to Mansanpally in an auto, when a container lorry coming from the opposite direction hit the auto. Three persons died on the spot and another succumbed at the government hospital in Sangareddy. The deceased were identified as Chenna Sravan (41), Sai Vignesh (11) and Sai Charan (7) and Patnam Venkatesh (39). Vignesh and Charan were Sravan’s children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-children-among-4-killed-as-container-lorry-hits-auto/article34070491.ece
15 March 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Villagers block flow of water at Chintamadaka||An uneasy situation prevailed for sometime at Chintamadaka on Saturday when some farmers prevented the flow of Godavari water and Lok Sabha member K Prabhakar Reddy had to intervene to convince the villagers. Police had to see that normalcy was restored again. According to sources, as part of Kaleswaram project, Godavari water is being diverted to Mallannasagar surge pool from Ranganaiaksagar. From there, water is being released to fill tanks in Dubbak constituency. On Friday night, some farmers of Chintamadaka put some boulders halting the flow of water to lower areas . Knowing this, framers from Chellapur, Balvanthapur and Rajakkapet came to Chintamadaka and had heated arguments with them. Even after repeated appeals by Irrigation department officials, the farmers did not yield. Finally, Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy had to intervene and convince the farmers to remove the boulders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/villagers-block-flow-of-water-at-chintamadaka/article34070722.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Clinging on to ‘power’ with extension!||As the ruling TRS and Opposition parties traded charges on unemployment in the State during the recent election campaign, the Stateg government gave extension of service to two senior engineers in the R&B and Irrigation Departments. They are among a long list of senior IAS, IPS and engineering officials who are given extension after retirement. While some of them have been rehabilitated in the advisory roles, others are being continued in the regular posts, that too in key positions denying the opportunity to those in-line. “It all goes on based on the whims, fancies and other interests of the powers that be as the ground often mentioned – to keep continuity in the execution of key projects/works – is only a reason for public consumption”, a senior engineer who unsuccessfully tried to hang on to his post with the help of extension said.   All eyes were on Heera Group CEO Nowhera Shaikh about her future plans for investors whom she was alleged to have duped at her first press conference on Saturday following her release from jail on bail. Ms.Nowhera assured them that she would repay their money and also said that as per the signed agreement all of them were ‘partners’ in both profit and loss. During the question and answer session, she tried to answer the questions shot by the reporters, but remained silent when asked on who were investing money in her multi-crore business. She merely said she paid income tax of more than Rs. 100 crore per annum. The investigators suspect that some businessmen in Gulf countries were ‘pumping’ money in her Ponzi and other businesses.   Software engineers working from home as corporate offices in Hyderabad were shut down for staff due to COVID 19 have a difficult time if they happened to be from Nirmal district. In the wake of communal riots at Bhainsa town which is part of the district, the government had withdrawn Internet services in the entire district. So, the employees are going to the houses of their relatives in adjoining districts like Jagtial, Nizamabad and Adilabad to access the services. There were instances of the staff travelling 40 to 50 km on a daily basis.   Congress MLA of Mulug Seetakka who won appreciation walking to inaccessible villages in her constituency to hand over essential items to people hit by lockdown on account of COVID pandemic last year was at it again, this time to help out residents of a tribal hamlet in Govindraopet mandal whose houses were burnt in a fire. She carried a load of rice, cooking vessels and bedsheets on her head as she walked through forest with her aides who also had head loads.   (B. Chandrashekhar, Abhinay Deshpande   and N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clinging-on-to-power-with-extension/article34070497.ece
15 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Temple worker arrested for thrashing boy in U.P.’s Ghaziabad||A worker at the Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad was arrested on Saturday after a video of him thrashing a 14-year-old boy went viral, police said. Shringi Narayan Yadav apparently got enraged by the sight of a Muslim  boy drinking water from a tap in the premises of the temple. In the video, Mr. Yadav could be seen asking the boy his and his father’s names and started thrashing him when he said he came inside to drink water. The boy’s father, a daily wage worker, told reporters they were returning home when the boy felt thirsty and stopped to drink water. Iraj Raja, SP (Rural), said when the video clip came to their notice, they arrested Shringi and his aide Shivanand, who had been identified as the person who recorded the video.  Duo sent to jail After verifying the video, a case has been filed against Shringi and Shivanand under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC and Sections of the IT Act. On Sunday, they were sent to jail. In the video, Shringi could be seen twisting the arm of the boy and abusing him. As the boy cries in pain, he shoves the boy to the ground and kicks him repeatedly. “Badhiya se dono ka chehra aana chahiye [our faces should be clearly visible]”, Shringi could be heard telling his aide making the video before thrashing the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/temple-worker-arrested-for-thrashing-boy-in-ups-ghaziabad/article34070375.ece
15 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers should not go empty-handed from Delhi, says Meghalaya Governor||The farmers’ protest against the contentious farm laws got a new supporter on Sunday as Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik said farmers should not go empty-handed from Delhi’s borders and that no atrocity should be committed against them. “During my last visit, I met both the Prime Minister and the Home Minister and requested them not to use force against the protesting farmers. Don’t fiddle with farmers,” he said. In the matter of farmers, he said, he would go as far as possible. “It is because growing up, I have worked in the fields, I understand the pain of farmers,” he said at a felicitation programme in Baghpat. Mr. Malik said he later told a journalist close to the Prime Minister that sending farmers back empty-handed would be imprudent. “First, they would not go and even if they returned, they would not forget the insult for 300 years. So, give them something. There is not much to be done. Just give the MSP legal recognition. The rest of it can be resolved easily. I am ready to negotiate.” If it (the protest) was allowed to fester, he said, it would have repercussions. “I know [the temperament of] Sikhs. Don’t use force against them. Even on the day [Rakesh] Tikait was about to be arrested, I intervened.” He reminded that after Operation Blue Star, “Mrs. Gandhi organised a month-long mahamrityunjaya yagna. She could sense..., ” he said.  ‘Can’t keep quiet’ Earlier, Mr. Malik said as a Governor he was not expected to make statements, but on certain issues, he could not keep quiet. Mr. Malik, who hails from Hiswada village of the district, said he was known to speak candidly and sometimes suffered because of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-should-not-go-empty-handed-from-delhi-says-meghalaya-governor/article34070374.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP drops MLA for minor ally||The BJP’s third and final list of candidates had no surprises with seven of the eight party MLAs having been retained. The only MLA who missed out was Dipak Kumar Rabha, whose Dudhnai seat went to Shyamjit Rabha of the Rabha Joutha Mancha, a minor ally of the BJP. The Mancha leader, however, would be contesting under the BJP symbol. Party insiders said there had been murmurs about the likelihood of at least three MLAs, including Law and Justice Minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya, being dropped. But the final list followed the “continuity” script as he was retained for the Gauhati East seat. The other two MLAs who made it “against the tide” are Atul Bora for the Dispur seat and Suman Haripriya for the Hajo constituency. The latter is the daughter of former Union Minister Bijoya Chakraborty. Among the BJP’s heavyweights in the final list of 17 is Commerce and Industries Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary (Dharmapur seat). The remaining three MLAs retained are Ashwini Kumar Roy (Golakganj), Ashok Singhi (Bilasipara East) and Narayan Deka (Barkhetry). The BJP has a new face in Sankar Chandra Das for the Sorbhog seat in western Assam. Incumbent Ranjeet Kumar Dass, the State party president, would be contesting from Patacharkuchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-drops-mla-for-minor-ally/article34070376.ece
15 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Taxation’ forcing businesses out of Nagaland, says trade body||Almost a year after Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi poked the government for letting “armed gangs” reign and carry out “gunpoint extortions”, the State’s largest trade body has warned of such groups driving businesses out. The Dimapur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI), based in Nagaland’s commercial hub, said “unabated taxation” by the government as well as the “Naga political groups (NPGs)” – a euphemism for armed extremist groups – had made many traders shift base to Assam. The traders have been forced to exit Nagaland because they have had enough of paying 50-75% of their profit margin to the NPGs, the DCCI said in a statement issued on Saturday evening. Assam benefits While Assam has gained, the business volume of Nagaland has shrunk by 60-75%, the DCCI said as it advised the State government to wake up to this alarming development and try to regain the market lost. The Bharatiya Janata Party is the minor partner in the alliance government headed by Neiphiu Rio of the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party. The trade body said the business scenario in Nagaland has hit its lowest ebb because of being taxed heavily. “If the State government and the NPGs do not take immediate corrective steps, business in Nagaland is heading towards a point of no return,” it warned. The DCCI gave the example of Manipur-bound businesses that shifted to Silchar in southern Assam over the last few years. These businesses depended on goods and services to and from Manipur via the highway linking Dimapur and Manipur capital Imphal. These businesses are now focussed on the alternative highway to Imphal via Jiribam bordering southern Assam. “Consequently, the chain-support business such as hotels, transport and wayside dhabas in Nagaland have been hit hard,” the DCCI said. The trade body also said the number of monthly train wagons arriving at Dimapur railway station has come down to a “miserable” 20 from 120 a year ago. The number of trucks entering Nagaland has similarly reduced drastically, it added. “In this age where consumers are highly aware of their rights, and with the GST regime in place, any GST product being sold above MRP is near impossible and also an offence, and hence the business community in Nagaland sells any products on MRP that is uniform across India,” the DCCI said.  Profit margin hit But while traders in Nagaland get the same profit margin as their counterparts elsewhere in the country, they have to shell out 50-75% of their profit margin in “taxes” to the NPGs on average, the DCCI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/taxation-forcing-businesses-out-of-nagaland-says-trade-body/article34070378.ece
15 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘We can tilt scales in Uttar Pradesh’||“We are no B-team. We are that side of the scale, those we tilt towards will sit on the takht (power) and those whom we abandon, will be flattened on a takhta (board),” said All India Maljis-e-Itthehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday while addressing a joint rally with backward caste leader Om Prakash Rajbhar in Balrampur. Mr. Owaisi and Mr. Rajbhar, chief of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, are part of a Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a front of almost a dozen smaller parties in U.P., including outfits run by former BSP Minister Babu Singh Kushwaha and Krishna Patel, mother of BJP ally Anupriya Patel. At the rally, Mr. Owaisi urged people to embrace the “alternate political platform” provided by the Morcha for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections, as he took on the BJP government but also issued warnings to its opponents, the SP, the BSP and the Congress. Targets CM Mr. Owaisi targeted U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his recent comments at an event that secularism was the biggest threat to India’s traditions getting world recognition. Mr. Owaisi advised Mr. Adityanath to read Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution and wondered if the price of diesel and petrol had touched Rs. 100 because of secularism. “Instead of removing pain of the poor, U.P. CM talks of secularism,” Mr. Owaisi said. “Is this government working as per the Constitution? Is there rule of law in U.P. or rule by gun,” he asked referring to the “ thok do ” comments made by Mr. Adityanath and the string of killings of suspected criminals by the police since March 2017. After success in Bihar, Mr. Owaisi hopes to replicate his performance in U.P. where roughly one-fifth of the voters are Muslims. The BJP’s opponents were also in his cross hairs. In an apparent attack on the SP, which is arguably the strongest claimant to the Muslim vote in the State, Mr. Owaisi said, “they could not save secularism but only their families and relatives.” The BJP’s coming to power did not cause any loss to the person who was the CM then, Mr. Owaisi said referring to former CM Akhilesh Yadav. Muslims suffered and their voices were crushed, he said. A former ally of the BJP who rebelled against the party before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mr. Rajbhar is the chief organiser and face of the Morcha. He commands the support of the Rajbhar backward caste in East U.P. Claiming that it was due to his support that the BJP managed to form the government in U.P. in 2017, Mr. Rajbhar said now he was bent on defeating it. “If anyone can finish the BJP government in U.P., it is Om Prakash Rajbhar,” he said. Mr. Rajbhar asked the people to say no to divisive issues of “Hindu-Muslim, mandir-masjid and agra-pichda” and urged the people to chant “ abki baar bhaichara (brotherhood) wali sarkar, abki baar shiksha (education) wali sarkar .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/we-can-tilt-scales-in-uttar-pradesh/article34070379.ece
15 March 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC grants probate of woman’s will 31 years after plea||The Bombay High Court has granted probate of a deceased woman’s will 31 years after a plea was filed in court, calling it a “tragic and terrible commentary on our justice delivery system”. Justice Gautam Patel on March 10 decided on the petition filed by the woman’s four children, two of whom had died while the plea remained pending. The other two petitioners are now in their 80s. A copy of the order was made available on Sunday. The court noted with dismay that the plea remained pending for three decades, even though the will was uncontested. As per the judgment, the will belonged to Rasubai Chinoy, who died in October 1989. She made her will in 1980, bequeathing all her assets, including a property in Masjid Bunder, to a charity established in the name of her maternal aunt. The children had approached the court seeking execution of the will so that the assets could be bequeathed to the charity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bombay-hc-grants-probate-of-womans-will-31-years-after-plea/article34070593.ece
15 March 2021||Mumbai,||Congress Mumbai unit gets new office-bearers||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday approved appointments of new office-bearers to the party’s Mumbai unit, including senior vice-presidents, vice-presidents, general secretaries and secretaries. A statement issued by the party said former minister Baba Siddique and former MLA Madhu Chavan are among the list of six senior vice-presidents, while actor Nagma Morarji and ex-MLA Yusuf Abrahani figure in the list of 15 vice-presidents. There are 42 general secretaries and 76 secretaries and 30 executive members. Mumbai’s district presidents have been replaced with new appointments. Each district will have two working presidents along with the president. The Congress had appointed Bhai Jagtap as the Mumbai unit chief in December last year, while Charan Singh Sapra was named the working president. At that time, former minister Naseem Khan was made the campaign committee in-charge, Amarjit Manhas was named the coordination committee chairman, and former minister Suresh Shetty was made manifesto and publication committee in-charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-mumbai-unit-gets-new-office-bearers/article34070594.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 400 cases in Delhi for 4th consecutive day||Crossing the 400 mark for the fourth consecutive day, 407 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in Delhi on Sunday. The current spike comes after the number of new cases stayed below the 400 mark for over two months. On Thursday, the city recorded 409 cases, crossing the 400 mark and then staying at 431 cases and 419 cases on Friday and Saturday respectively. The last time the city recorded over 400 cases before the current spike was on January 3, with 424 cases. The number of cases in the city had shown a downward trend in the city since the start of the year with Health Minister Satyendar Jain commenting last week that the Capital has reached the “endemic” phase and that the “pandemic” phase was over as the positivity rate had dipped below 1%. The health bulletin released by the government on Sunday said that 68,223 tests had been conducted in 24-hours, with a positivity rate of 0.60%. There were two deaths in the same period with 350 recoveries. There are currently 2,262 active cases in Delhi, with 1,270 persons in home isolation. Out of the total tests conducted41,195 were RT-PCR tests and 27,028 were rapid antigen tests. The total cases stands at 6,43,696 cases, with 10,941 deaths and 6,30,493 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-400-cases-in-delhi-for-4th-consecutive-day/article34070366.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal inaugurates sewerage project work worth Rs. 480 crore||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday inaugurated the commencement of work of a sewerage project costing Rs. 480 crore in 114 unauthorized colonies and six villages of Kirari and Mundka Assembly constituencies. Speaking at the launch at Kirari, Mr. Kejriwal said that despite the shortage of funds, he had come to fulfil a promise made during the Delhi Assembly elections last year that the sewerage works would commence. “I remember visiting this area and taking a tour through all the lanes before the elections. You all were upset with me. Many roads were in despicable condition, the sewers were overflowing, several lanes were filled with garbage. Your bitterness with me was justified. I have come here today to fulfil my promise,” Mr. Kejriwal told those gathered. He added that the Delhi government had already provided water to every household in Kirari and that now the aim is to provide sewer lines to every household and good roads and lanes over the next four years. The sewerage project is being carried out by the Delhi Jal Board and is likely to benefit a total population of 7.25 lakh under the Sewerage Master Plan 2031. The area has already been covered with the water supply system, the Delhi government said. The scheme has been prepared to facilitate the public at large, residing in these colonies and villages with a sewerage system facility to achieve better sanitary conditions and reduce the pollution of the Yamuna, the government added. Under the scheme, there are provisions to lay the sewer lines in the length of about 423 km. The scope of work also includes the construction of Waste Water Pumping Stations at Prem Nagar, Bhagya Vihar, and Pratap Vihar having a capacity of 6.5, 9.0, and 41 MGD, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-inaugurates-sewerage-project-work-worth-rs-480-crore/article34070368.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||STF for Delhi Master Plan gets 77,000 complaints||A special task force (STF) set up to comprehensively oversee effective and proper enforcement of the provisions of the Delhi Master Plan and bye-laws received over 77,000 complaints till February 28, officials said on Sunday. Action taken on the complaints were reviewed during the 64th meeting of the STF on Saturday, they said, adding that officials from all local bodies and other agencies took part in it. “In total, 77,186 complaints have been received by the STF till February 28, and action has been initiated on 71,531,” a senior Delhi Development Authority official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/stf-for-delhi-master-plan-gets-77000-complaints/article34070364.ece
15 March 2021||Patna,||RLSP merges with ruling JD(U) in Bihar||After much flip-flop, the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) on Sunday merged with Bihar ruling Janata Dal (United) and its chief and former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha was appointed as president of the JD(U) parliamentary board. “The decision to merge with the JD(U) was taken at the party’s two-day meeting here and the people of Bihar too wanted it. It will make Bihar stronger and we’ll work under leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar,” said Mr. Kushwaha before rushing to the State JD(U) headquarters for the ceremony. Mr. Kumar and senior party leaders welcomed him into the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rlsp-merges-with-ruling-jdu-in-bihar/article34070377.ece
15 March 2021||Pune,||MVA allies, BJP spar over Sachin Vaze arrest||The arrest of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze in connection with the security scare outside Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai provoked a war of words between the Shiv Sena and the Congress, Maha Vikas Aghadi allies, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. Congress leaders Nana Patole and Balasaheb Thorat, along with Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut, lashed out at the BJP for attempting to “defame” Maharashtra and lower the morale of the Mumbai Police. In turn, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis slammed the Sena for allegedly shielding Mr. Vaze. He said the arrest was just the tip of the iceberg and more skeletons would tumble from the closet. “This is not a small plot but a major one… there are several people involved in this and all their names and motives will now come out into the open. The manner in which the details of this murky case are coming out is indicative of a major conspiracy,” said Mr. Fadnavis, speaking in Pune. ‘Questions over probe’ He said Mr. Vaze, who headed the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) that was leading the probe into the bomb scare outside Mr. Ambani’s house, put “a major question mark” on the way the probe was carried out. Mr. Fadnavis questioned Mr. Vaze’s reinstatement in the police force last year despite the Bombay High Court not clearing his name in the 2003 Khwaja Yunus custodial death case. “When I was chief minister and held the Home portfolio, the Sena [the then ally of the BJP] had pressed me to reinduct Mr. Vaze. But I referred the case to the State Advocate-General, who counselled against his reinstatement. However, after the Sena came to power, Mr. Vaze was reinstated with the government citing manpower shortage due to COVID-19,” he said, expressing astonishment at Mr. Vaze being given charge of the CIU. Meanwhile, Mr. Raut, while supporting Mr. Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on Saturday, questioned the ‘pressure’ put on the Mumbai Police by Central agencies. “I believe Sachin Vaze is a very honest and capable officer. While he has been arrested in connection with the gelatin sticks that were found in an SUV outside Mr. Ambani’s home and a suspicious death [that of Mansukh Hiren] has also occurred, it is the Mumbai Police’s responsibility to investigate the matter. No Central team was needed,” said the Sena MP. In a thinly veiled jibe at the BJP, Mr. Patole, State Congress chief, and Mr. Raut, castigated the “repeated interference” of Central bodies in the cases, remarking that it created “instability”. Mr. Thorat said that the intervention of Central agencies in local matters tended to demoralise the Mumbai Police, which was second only to the Scotland Yard in its capabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mva-allies-bjp-spar-over-sachin-vaze-arrest/article34070592.ece
15 March 2021||Raisen,||Tigress found dead in M.P.||A six-year-old tigress was found dead in a forest near Singhori Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh’s Raisen district, an official said on Sunday. The feline’s death was reported on Saturday evening, following which senior forest officials rushed to the spot, located about 70 km from the district headquarters, the sanctuary’s sub-divisional officer, Dr. Ruhi Haq, said. The tigress had an injured limb, she said, adding that a team of veterinarians from Hoshangabad and Bhopal carried out the autopsy, but its report was not yet released. The official ruled out the possibility of poaching. The carcass was later disposed of as per guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tigress-found-dead-in-mp/article34070348.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Not anti-Muslim, but enemies of State need to be identified’||A former president of the All Assam Students’ Union forged in the fire of jatiyatabadi (Assamese nationalism), Sarbananda Sonowal’s political graph began rising after he played a major role in getting the allegedly pro-foreigners Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act scrapped. His five years at the helm of a BJP-led alliance government largely escaped corruption charges but it faced challenges such as the publication of the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The 59-year-old bachelor is seeking re-election from Majuli, an “island” Assembly constituency. Excerpts:   You approached the election with a call to eject the Mughals from Assam. Does this indicate the BJP has no space for Muslims, who are almost 35% of the State’s population?  It is a myth that the BJP is anti-Muslim. We strongly believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s credo of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas’ (development for all, gaining everyone’s trust). Nobody has been deprived of any scheme. Benefits have reached every household irrespective of religion, caste and creed because we have upheld the spirit of democracy and the principle of secularism. But we have to identify the enemies of Assam. We will never allow certain forces that are a threat to the nation to raise their heads, threaten relationships, art, culture, land, language.  But your rivals say CAA, which they claim would open the floodgates for Hindu Bangladeshis, is a bigger cultural and linguistic threat.  They are making a mountain out of a molehill called CAA. Some elements spun a web of lies around CAA to fulfil their selfish interests. Some said CAA will bring in 1 crore (Hindu Bangladeshis), some said 2 crore. But their lies were exposed in time. The people saw through that and gave us a clear mandate in the panchayat polls (December 2018), the tribal council polls (January 2019) and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. People know CAA does not harm the country’s integrity. And we are not the first to amend it. Congress did it too.  Why do you think people will vote for you again?  Because after we came to power, they saw the end of anarchy, corruption, nepotism, terror, reign of middlemen and the start of good governance, peace, proper implementation of schemes, roads, bridges and other infrastructure completed in record time, people receiving 100% benefits after elimination of fake beneficiaries passed on as a Congress legacy. We took on corruption head-on, closed down 156 illegal check gates on national highways, investigating agencies were given a free hand. This was reflected in the transparent recruitment of sub-inspectors of police, the conduction of the Assam Public Service Commission exams. We checked rhino poaching, fast-tracked punishment for poachers, freed forests and satra (Vaishnav monastery) land of encroachment. We cannot claim to have been perfect, but people have seen us deliver in housing, midday meal, old age and widow pension and various other schemes. We have addressed issues that matter the most to people. These are the reasons why people want us to hold the reins again. There is no anti-incumbency.  Don’t you think the wage hike issue may affect the BJP in the tea-growing areas where your rivals have made it an issue?  Our tea community brothers and sisters know we are their true friends. We raised their daily wage by Rs. 80. Congress has no moral right to talk about wages. By how much did they hike in 55 years? The tea workers have been loyal to us and we will reward them for loyalty.  The BJP was part of the only alliance that took on individual parties in 2016. You are facing an eight-party alliance headed by the Congress and a regional front this time. Do you foresee a tough fight?  The Congress and the AIUDF (All India United Democratic Front led by perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal) always had an unholy alliance. Only this time it is official. I had always said they are two sides of the same coin, their ideologies and principles the same. They don’t raise the voice for the greater Assamese people, the Indians at heart. They always work to endanger the existence of our people, never in the interest of the nation. People have understood their design and will reject them despite bringing so many parties on board. As for the new parties (Assam Jatiya Parishad and jailed activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal), people have seen many such. People are wise enough to know which party or alliance can give them stability, peace and development.  The tea workers have been loyal to us and we will reward them for loyalty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-anti-muslim-but-enemies-of-state-need-to-be-identified/article34070370.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Campaign time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/campaign-time/article34070372.ece
15 March 2021||Washington,||China, N. Korea threats loom as Blinken, Austin head to Asia||Threats from China and North Korea will loom large over the Biden administration’s first Cabinet-level trip abroad, part of a larger effort to bolster U.S. influence and calm concerns about America’s role in Asia. A senior administration official said on Saturday that U.S. officials have tried to reach out to North Korea through multiple channels since last month, but have yet to receive a response. That makes consultations with the reclusive country’s neighbours, Japan, South Korea and China, all the more critical. Alaska meet Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin are heading to Japan and South Korea for four days of talks starting on Monday as the new administration tries to shore up partnerships with the two key regional allies. Mr. Blinken and Mr. Biden’s National Security Adviser, Jake Sullivan, will meet with Chinese officials in Anchorage, Alaska, on Thursday. The trip is intended to restore what Mr. Biden hopes will be a calming and even-keeled approach to ties with Tokyo and Seoul after four years of transactional and often temperamental relations under Donald Trump. He had upended diplomatic norms by meeting not once, but three times, with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Mr. Blinken and Mr. Austin also plan virtual meetings with journalists, civil-society members and others. After reassuring their counterparts of U.S. commitments to Japanese and South Korean security, they plan to focus on an increasingly assertive China, the nuclear challenge from North Korea and the pandemic. In his first months in office, Mr. Biden has signalled his desire to return the Asia-Pacific to the top of the U.S. foreign policy agenda. In keeping with his broader “America is back” diplomatic theme, Mr. Biden has pledged to keep stability in the region at the core of his international initiatives. On Friday, Mr. Biden participated in a virtual summit with the leaders of India, Japan and Australia. “A free and open Indo-Pacific is essential,” Mr. Biden said. “The U.S. is committed to working with you, our partners and all of our allies in the region to achieve stability.” As part of that effort and “to reduce the risks of escalation,” the senior official said efforts had been made to connect with the North Koreans since mid-February, including through what is known as the “New York channel.” To date, the official said, “we have not received any response from Pyongyang.” The official was not authorised to publicly discuss the diplomatic outreach and spoke on condition of anonymity. Payment for troops stay Meanwhile, U.S. and South Korean negotiators have overcame years of contentious discussions under Mr. Trump to reach a tentative deal on paying for the American troop presence in South Korea. As he had done with allies in Europe, Mr. Trump threatened to reduce security cooperation unless host countries paid more. That led to fears of troop withdrawals at a time of particular uncertainty as China boosts efforts to dominate the region and North Korea’s nuclear weapons remain a major source of angst. “Diplomacy is back at the center of our foreign policy, and we are working to strengthen America’s relationships with our allies as well as the relationships among them,” said Sung Kim, who is the top U.S. diplomat for Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-n-korea-threats-loom-as-blinken-austin-head-to-asia/article34070066.ece
15 March 2021||London,||Uproar over U.K. police action on vigil||Police in London drew widespread criticism on after handcuffing mourners at a vigil for a woman who was murdered after setting out to walk home, in a case that has sparked national fury about violence against women. Officers scuffled with some members of the hundreds-strong crowd that gathered despite coronavirus restrictions for a candlelit tribute late Saturday close to the spot where 33-year-old marketing executive Sarah Everard disappeared on March 3. Reclaim These Streets — who initially organised the event in south London’s Clapham — condemned the actions of officers “physically manhandling women at a vigil against male violence.” Social media footage showed police restraining and handcuffing some mourners, leading to an outpouring of criticism from across the political spectrum. Both Home Secretary Priti Patel and London mayor Sadiq Khan said they had asked for explanations from the Metropolitan police over how the vigil was handled. And Liberal Democrats leader Ed Davey called for Metropolitan police chief Cressida Dick to resign, having “lost the confidence of millions of women in London”. A nation in shock The murder of Everard, who vanished after setting out to walk home from a friend’s flat, has shocked the country and brought discussion around women’s safety to the fore once again. Wayne Couzens, 48, a serving officer in the Metropolitan Police’s elite diplomatic protection unit, appeared in court earlier on Saturday charged with kidnap and murder following his arrest at his home in Kent, southeast England. The victim’s body was discovered in a nearby wood. Organisers had cancelled the vigil after police outlawed it because of COVID-19 restrictions, but hundreds still turned out, with tensions overspilling as Saturday night fell. Mourners shouted “shame on you” at police, with tensions running high as a man arrested in connection with the murder is an officer. In the hours following the vigil, rage mounted with pressure groups and politicians condemning police actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uproar-over-uk-police-action-on-vigil/article34070072.ece
15 March 2021||Washington,||U.S. orders emergency agency to help with child migration surge||The Biden administration ordered the government’s disaster emergency agency on Saturday to help with a surge in migrant children crossing the southern border that has overwhelmed processing facilities. Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas called upon the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to support an effort to temporarily house thousands of children who crossed the US-Mexico border alone amid criticisms that authorities were holding them for long periods in overcrowded facilities. The Health and Human Services (HHS) department is currently holding about 8,800 migrant children and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection has hundreds more in their charge, with more arriving every day. In February alone CBP detained 9,457 unaccompanied migrant children at the southern border. Facilities are overcrowded and authorities are doubly challenged by restrictions related to COVID-19. The Department of Homeland Security said in a statement that FEMA would be part of a 90-day effort to ensure the children are safely sheltered and transferred to people who will take care of them, usually relatives already living in the United States. “The federal government is responding to the arrival of record numbers of individuals, including unaccompanied children, at the southwest border,” the department said. “Since April 2020, the number of encounters at the border has been rising due to ongoing violence, natural disasters, food insecurity, and poverty in the Northern Triangle countries of Central America.” The nearly two-month-old government of President Joe Biden faces growing pressure from migrants, apparently encouraged to try to enter the United States by his rejection of previous president Donald Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy toward undocumented immigrants. While migrant adults and families continue to be sent back to Mexico when they are caught, unaccompanied children are being processed and get help resettling with U.S. relatives. “Our goal is to ensure that unaccompanied children are transferred to HHS as quickly as possible, consistent with legal requirements and in the best interest of the children,” Mr. Mayorkas said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-orders-emergency-agency-to-help-with-child-migration-surge/article34070073.ece
15 March 2021||Dublin,||Ireland, Italian region halt AstraZeneca shots||Ireland on Sunday became the latest country to suspend the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine over concerns about patients developing post-jab blood clots, as nations across the world sought to step up their COVID-19 immunisation drives. Several countries including Denmark, Norway and Bulgaria last week paused the rollout of vaccines from the Anglo/Swedish pharma giant over fears of blood clots. The World Health Organization has said no causal link had been established between the vaccine and blood clotting. The manufacturer and Europe’s medicines watchdog have also insisted that the vaccine is safe. An AstraZeneca spokesman said “an analysis of our safety data that covers reported cases from more than 17 million doses of vaccine administered has shown no evidence of an increased risk” in blood clot conditions. “In fact, the reported numbers of these types of events for COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca are lower than the number that would have occurred naturally in the unvaccinated population.” Shortfall in deliveries AstraZeneca’s shot is among the cheapest available, and forms a bulk of deliveries to poorer nations under the WHO-backed Covax initiative, which aims to ensure the equitable global distribution of vaccines.  A spokesman for Ireland’s health ministry told AFP that “the administration of COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca is temporarily deferred from this morning, Sunday 14th March”. The move came after Ireland’s National Immunisation Advisory Committee recommended suspending the rollout as a precaution after “a report from the Norwegian Medicines Agency of four new reports of serious blood clotting events in adults after vaccination”. “It has not been concluded that there is any link” between the AstraZeneca vaccine and the blood clot cases and action has been taken “pending receipt of further information”, Ireland’s deputy chief medical officer Ronan Glynn said in a statement. Norwegian officials said on Saturday that the country had “received several adverse event reports about younger vaccinated people with bleeding under the skin” after getting the vaccine shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ireland-italian-region-halt-astrazeneca-shots/article34070069.ece
15 March 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka asks Amazon to not sell flag-themed items||Sri Lanka has asked retail giant Amazon to take down bikinis, briefs and doormats featuring the nation’s lion flag from its site, authorities said on Sunday, two days after it protested against the Chinese-made products. The country is highly sensitive to what it sees as any misuse of its national flag, as well as Buddhist symbols. Sri Lanka said it had lodged a formal protest with the online retailer and asked Chinese authorities to ensure an end to the manufacture and sale of similar products. “The company which marketed the product on Amazon was requested by letter from the embassy to immediately cease selling the doormats and any such products, misusing the Sri Lanka flag,” the Sri Lankan Embassy in China said. Sri Lanka’s Embassy in Washington said it had also complained to the U.S. government over what it called a “violation of intellectual property rights” of the South Asian nation. However, two days after Sri Lanka’s intervention, dozens of retailers were still selling the flag-themed items. Several Chinese vendors on Amazon were offering the doormat at prices ranging from $10 to $24, and the lion-printed briefs and bikini from $9.20 to $17.30. “This is how the Chinese see Sri Lanka,” said one Facebook user. Another suggested the doormat was a forewarning of how future relations might play out in light of Sri Lanka’s huge debt to China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-asks-amazon-to-not-sell-flag-themed-items/article34070070.ece
15 March 2021||Peshawar,||Pak. Hindus forgive temple vandalisers||The Hindu community in Pakistan’s restive Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has decided to pardon the mob thatvandalised and burned down a century-old temple in the province. The local clerics and members of the Hindu community held a meeting on Saturday to resolve the dispute. As per the dialogue, informally called ‘jigra’, the accused have tendered an apology over the attack and a similar incident in 1997. The Muslim clerics have assured full protection to the Hindus and their rights as per the country’s Constitution. A reconciliation statement from the meeting would be presented to the Supreme Court, in a bid to secure the release of the accused from detention. On December 30 last year, a mob led by some local clerics, vandalised the temple and an adjoining ‘samadhi’ and set it on fire in Terri village of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The attack had drawn strong condemnation from activists and the minority Hindu community leaders, prompting the Supreme Court to order its reconstruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-hindus-forgive-temple-vandalisers/article34070071.ece
15 March 2021||Beirut,||A decade of war in Syria killed over 388,000: monitor||The overall death toll for Syria's civil war has reached 3,88,652 since it began a decade ago this month, a war monitor said on Sunday. The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said the figures includes almost 1,17,388 civilians, among them more than 22,000 children. Attacks by the Syrian regime and allied militia forces accounted for the majority of civilian deaths, said the Britain-based monitor, which relies on sources inside Syria for its reports.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-decade-of-war-in-syria-killed-over-388000-monitor/article34070067.ece
15 March 2021||Tehran,||Zaghari-Ratcliffe back in Iran court on 'propaganda' charges||British-Iranian dual national Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe appeared in a Tehran court on Sunday to face new charges of “propaganda against the system”, a week after she finished serving a five-year sentence, her lawyer said. The hearing has dashed hopes for a swift release of the 42-year-old, in a case that has heightened tensions between London and Tehran. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said it was “unacceptable that Iran has chosen to continue a second wholly arbitrary case”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/zaghari-ratcliffe-back-in-iran-court-on-propaganda-charges/article34070075.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Forestalling a cyber Pearl Harbour||The threat posed to key Indian entities by antagonistic forces such as China is beginning to merit critical attention in all the right quarters. This follows revelations by the U.S.-based cyber security firm, Recorded Future, which were carried by the media in the United States.  Infrastructure as target According to a despatch by The New York Times (https://nyti.ms/2OW0jze), in the lead-up to the India-China border clashes, Recorded Future had found an increase in malware attacks targeting the Indian government, defence organisations and the public sector. Also that, coinciding with Chinese incursions in Eastern Ladakh, certain Indian power facilities had been targets of a cyber attack. Furthermore, that there was still some evidence of ongoing intrusions, though the intensity of the activity appeared to have ceased by mid-February 2021.  A needless controversy did erupt in the wake of these disclosures, as to whether the October 2020 blackout in Mumbai was directly linked to this cyber attack. State authorities in Maharashtra attributed the blackout to the attack by the Chinese cyber group, but authorities in Delhi blamed it on human error. Far more crucial than merely assigning blame, and what should have been of real concern, is that key infrastructure facilities, such as the power sector, were now in the crosshairs of a hostile China, which appeared intent on deploying cyber weapons to target India. China’s intention evidently is to keep India in thrall, while outwardly demonstrating a conciliatory posture, such as vacating some of the areas in Eastern Ladakh that it had occupied post April 2020.  The reported events are a wake-up call for India, and it would be a grievous error if India were to underestimate the extent of the cyber threat posed to it by China. Indian government agencies, such as the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) may have more information on China’s aggressive cyber campaign, but if what Recorded Future has indicated is true, viz. , ‘that since early 2020, there has been an observation of a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organisations from Chinese state-sponsored groups’ concentrating on infrastructure targets, including the power sector and ports, then India needs to be on its guard.  At least 10 Indian distinct power sector organisations are said to have been targeted, in addition to two Indian ports. What adds verisimilitude to these revelations is the identification of the network infrastructure viz. , AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, whose servers are known to be used by RedEcho, a China-linked activity group, that targets India’s power sector, and facilitates the employment of a malware known as ShadowPad. ShadowPad is a network intrusion malware affiliated to both the Chinese Ministry of State Security and the People’s Liberation Army. ShadowPad is depicted as a “back-door ‘Trojan’ malware which creates a secret path from a targeted system to a command and control server to extract information”. If indeed the future is digital, and if China has indeed embarked on an all-out offensive of this nature, India needs to adopt comprehensive measures to forestall a potential ‘Cyber Pearl Harbour’, as far as India is concerned.  An offensive by China Across the world, Beijing does appear to be engaged in a major cyber offensive, directed not only against countries like India but against many advanced nations as well. In attempting this, what China is doing is essentially exploiting to perfection the many vulnerabilities that software companies (essentially those in the West), have deliberately left open (for offensive purposes at an opportune time). Exploiting this loophole, and also turning matters on its head, it is companies in the western world that are now at the receiving end of such antics, having ‘left vulnerabilities for future exploitation’.  Chinese cyber espionage sets no limitations on targets. Towards the end of 2020, and as the world prepared for large-scale deployment of COVID-19 vaccines, their attention was directed to vaccine distribution supply chains around the world. A global ‘spearphishing campaign’ targeting organisations responsible for vaccine storage and transportation was reportedly unleashed, and while concrete evidence as to which country was indeed responsible for this is not available, the shadow of suspicion has fallen mainly on Chinese hackers. Their objective seems to have been targeting vaccine research, gaining future access to corporate networks, and seeking sensitive information relating to COVID-19 vaccine distribution.  Cyber warfare by others Very recently in 2021, several thousands of U.S. organisations were hacked in an unusually aggressive Chinese espionage campaign. The Chinese group, Hafnium, which has been identified as being responsible for this breach, exploited a series of flaws in the Microsoft software, enabling attackers to gain total remote control over affected systems. Each hour of the day, thousands of Microsoft servers were compromised as a result, till the breach was discovered.  While Chinese cyber espionage may be the flavour of the month, what must be recognised is that many other countries, including the U.S. and Russia, do engage in the same kind of cyber warfare. Little is publicised about western cyber espionage, and while these may not match that of either China or Russia, it does happen. The U.S. has extensively publicised Russia’s cyber antics from time to time. Best known are accusations of Russia’s cyber interference in the U.S. presidential elections in 2016, which approached the level of a major scandal. Russia is currently the prime suspect in one of the greatest data breaches concerning the U.S. Federal government, involving the Departments of Defence, Energy, State, Homeland Security, Treasury, etc. Headlined SolarWinds, the late 2020 breach is a prime example of the damage that can be caused by a cyber attack.  Sharpening attacks Cyber attacks and cyber espionage could rewrite the history of our times. We are witnessing only the tip of the iceberg at present and most nations are truly unaware of the extent to which breaches are taking place. Nations should beware and be warned about how cyber attacks can bring a nation to its knees. This was well demonstrated way back in 2016, when a major attack on Ukraine’s power grid took place and set an ominous precedent in this respect. The attacks were carried out by skilled cyber security professionals, who had planned their assaults over many months, testing the quality of the malware, carrying out detailed logistics planning, and conducting a very sophisticated operation. The Ukraine example should be a wake-up call for India and the world, as in the intervening five years, the sophistication of cyber attacks and the kind of malware available have become more advanced. India, could well be blindsided by Chinese cyber attacks on critical infrastructure if the latter sets out to do so, unless prophylactic measures are taken in time.  There are no readymade solutions to counter the cyber offensive emanating from different quarters. No nation can hope, or can claim, to be insulated from such attacks. The U.S. seemed to fully wake up to the cyber threat only in 2017 when U.S. security tools were hacked, having preferred for long to indulge in a kind of ‘active defence’ by seeking to hack enemy networks. U.S. President Joe Biden is now understood to have included a sum of over $10 billion for cyber security in his COVID-19 Relief Bill, which is clearly intended to improve U.S. ‘readiness and resilience in cyber space’.  Part of Beijing’s world view From an Indian perspective, the Chinese cyber threat could prove to be truly daunting. The reasons for this are many. China’s analysis of the state of current relations between China and India is that they remain antagonistic to the point of ‘de-coupling’, and the confrontation between Chinese President Xi Jinping’s ‘Community with shared future for mankind’ and India’s current posture could lead to a ‘long period of volatility’. As India grows closer to the U.S., this gap between the two key Asian nations can be expected to become still wider.  Under Mr. Xi, China has forged a firm nexus between authoritarianism, global ambitions and technology, and is determined to transform the global order to advance its interests. ‘Cyber’ could well be one of China’s main threat vectors employed against countries that do not fall in line with China’s world view. China’s 2021 Defence Budget (amounting to $209 billion) gives special weightage to the Strategic Support Force (SSF), which embraces cyber warfare — an ominous portent that bodes little good for countries that posit a challenge to China’s ambitions, such as India. Drawing up a comprehensive cyber strategy, one that fully acknowledges the extent of the cyber threat from China, has thus become an imperative and immediate necessity. M.K. Narayanan, a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal, is currently Executive Chairman of CyQureX Pvt. Ltd., a U.K.-U.S.A. cyber security joint venture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/forestalling-a-cyber-pearl-harbour/article34070048.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Making sense of Rahul Gandhi’s politics||For the past seven years, a vibrant cottage industry has emerged in India that can be divided into two unequal halves: the first offering political advice gratis to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the second vigorously writing him off into political exile. However, this industry has failed to help us understand why the Gandhi scion continues to remain a danger to the evolving empire of the BJP. In part, this is because most commentators lack a big picture view of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘New India’ — a picture that is only now revealing itself and must be grasped in 3D. New India First, Mr. Modi’s preferred political model is Chinese-inspired. Like the Communist Party of China, the BJP wants total domination of the political landscape. What we are seeing, therefore, is the quest for ‘comprehensive politics’ that either silences the Opposition or makes it irrelevant. This ‘take no prisoners’ political approach is expected to culminate with the completion of the Central Vista project. The new Parliament building will not only physically displace Lutyens’ Delhi but will also becomes the grand venue with double the number of parliamentarians after a fresh delimitation exercise. Those familiar with the Chinese National People’s Congress (NPC) would know that it has about 2,980-odd members, many of whom are part-time and work pro bono. The NPC functions as a rubber stamp mostly because the numbers make it unwieldy for debate and discussion. The end result is that power has been centralised within a fraction called the Central Committee, which is further distilled into an even tinier faction comprising seven members called the Standing Committee. The exercise of actual power is thus highly centralised and concentrated. There is every possibility that the Central Vista project could mirror the preference for this ‘made in China’ political arithmetic and geometry with an Indian variant of the standing politburo comprising only Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah — a two-part ‘partly free’ democracy. The second dimension, the economy, draws from the South Korean strategy for cultivating Chaebols — family-owned conglomerates that are backed by unstinted state support. In a recent article, journalist Harish Damodaran describes how barely a couple of Indian conglomerates have now come to dominate the entire economic landscape. This Indian Chaebol version, in fact, has already been ‘imaged’ in the world’s largest cricket stadium at Ahmedabad, with both the bowling and batting ends unabashedly acknowledging the alliance of government and the two great conglomerates of India. There is, however, a catch. The South Korean Chaebols were primed for global competition and much of their success and prestige depended on conquering global markets and supply chains. Alas, that does not seem to be the case, as of yet, for the Chaebols of New India. Instead, what one witnesses — from demonetisation, implementation of the Goods and Services Tax and the introduction of farm laws — is the steady transfer of the ‘generalised wealth’ held by the many (small and medium industries, traders, shopkeepers, middle farmers, etc.) to the few — notably New India’s Chaebols. No surprise that the wealth of Indian billionaires rose 35% during the pandemic year, even as much of the earnings and savings of the working population were decimated. Put bluntly, a steady transfer of wealth prior to the COVID-19 outbreak got accelerated during the lockdown. The third and final part of the 3D involves injecting Hindutva into the life blood of India’s complex, heterogeneous and historically layered social worlds. These social engineering efforts — peaking with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the reading down of Article 370 — aimed hard at the cultural simplification of India. One is either Hindu or Muslim, vegetarian or a meat eater, bhakt or anti-national, and so on. The otherwise tangled colourful histories of overlap, nuance and ambiguity are now making the Indian a dull humourless monochromatic citizen.  In sum, New India appears as an all-out Asian endeavour that forges China (politics), South Korea (economics) and India (Hindutva society) into a single national bloc. But is this the case? Should we give the BJP under the leadership of Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah all the credit for carrying out this remarkable political script? Not necessarily. Since 2011, global politics has sharply swerved towards a ‘right-wing populist’ turn. Starting with Viktor Orban’s election in Hungary, populism was unleashed in Brexit Britain, Donald Trump’s U.S., Rodrigo Duterte’s Philippines, Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s Turkey and Jair Bolsonaro’s Brazil. This populist wave, as pointed out by the Dutch scholar Cas Mudde, was about how strong men (all men, no women) learnt to game political fault lines within liberal democracies. And at the heart of their play was the ability to re-purpose information technology and the social media for dismantling institutions, throttling dissent and gutting democratic society. In other words, Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah were global but not original. It is only within this big picture that one can meaningfully locate Mr. Gandhi’s persona and tactics. Mr. Gandhi strives to ‘hold the centre’ in Indian politics. The BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and their affiliates have populated and overwhelmed every conceivable political niche on the hard right with ruthless efficiency and total domination tactics. In contrast, the Congress, which always held the centre, aimed for gradualism, negotiation, adjustment and compromise — it essentially aimed for a moderate social temperature for governance. The Modi-Shah combine, in contrast, have broken this thermostat and now relentlessly churn society and create conditions for a ‘permanent bawal (tumult)’ — intense politicking and constant popular mobilisation. The centre can hold Given such a hard shift to the right, the most important strategy for a party occupying the political centre has to be about holding the line. And here, despite Mr. Gandhi’s acts of omission or commission, he has nonetheless been able to make sure that the Congress has not suffered annihilation by making a hard swerve either to the right or the left. Holding the centre, as political analyst Sushil Aaron recently wrote in The Wire , has been critically dependent on how Mr. Gandhi has over the years sustained ‘an ethic of decency’, while also ‘offering a vision for a social democratic India’ — behaviour and ideas that he has been good at articulating and keeping alive, despite the impossibly hostile political environment. In other words, the message has become louder than the messenger and it makes Mr. Gandhi the carrier of a legacy rather than a mere inheritor of a dynasty. Increasingly, as the standing politburo of Modi and Shah accelerate the transfer of general wealth to the Indian Chaebols through the Hindutva orchestrated tactics for permanent bawal, there might emerge a blowback or even a yearning for a centre that can restore institutional checks and recover public decency. If there are hopes for such a future, then Mr. Gandhi’s legacy as the message will remain relevant, if not urgent. Rajesh Mahapatra is a current affairs and public policy commentator; and Rohan D’Souza teaches at the Graduate School of African and Asian Studies, Kyoto University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-sense-of-rahul-gandhis-politics/article34070059.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The job crunch and the growing fires of nativism||The Haryana government has recently passed legislation that mandates companies in Haryana to provide jobs to local Haryanvis first, before hiring people from outside the State. The unemployment rate in Haryana is the highest of all States in India, as per data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, or CMIE (https://bit.ly/3tnokOx). A whopping 80% of women in Haryana who want to work cannot find a job. More than half of all graduates in Haryana are jobless. The jobs situation in Haryana is staggeringly dismal. Many factors control jobs Politically, 11 out of the 18 million voters of Haryana do not have a regular job. World history warns us that when such a vast majority of adults are jobless, it inevitably leads to social revolutions and political upheavals. So, it is entirely understandable that the democratically elected Haryana government panicked and chose to reserve the few available jobs for its own voters. Haryana is not alone in this quandary. The cabinet of the government of Jharkhand approved similar legislation to reserve jobs for Jharkhand residents. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Tamil Nadu announced a similar proposal to reserve jobs for Tamils in its manifesto for the upcoming Assembly elections. Many States in India have embarked on this nativism adventure to protect the interests of the vast number of their jobless locals. Predictably, this has attracted criticism from economists and commentators, as it militates against their liberal idea of a free economy. ‘Focus on creating more jobs, not on reserving the few available ones’ is the popular refrain. But, it is a false binary. Creation of new jobs is not entirely in the control of State governments. It is a complex interplay of multitude of factors. States and key parameters Job creation is obviously an outcome of the performance of the larger economy. If say, the American giant retailer, Amazon, believes that the Indian economy is poised to grow robustly, it may choose to expand its operations in India. The Chief Minister of a State in India has limited control over the management of the larger economy and thereby, attract new investors and businesses who can create jobs. When Amazon, enticed by a buoyant Indian economy, decides to expand its Indian operations, then presumably, the State governments can compete to lure Amazon to their State and help create new jobs. Ostensibly, Amazon needs abundant high quality skilled and unskilled labour, land at affordable prices, uninterrupted supply of electricity, water and other such ‘ease of business’ facilities for its expansion. State governments in India can theoretically compete with each other on these parameters to attract Amazon to set up operations in their State. Further, any tax advantages that a particular State can provide vis-à-vis others will increase its attractiveness for Amazon. In fact, this is exactly what happened in America in 2018 when Amazon decided to build its second headquarters and various States, towns and cities publicly competed with each other to woo Amazon and its jobs to their area. But, realistically in India, in very few of these parameters can a poorer State compete against a richer State to attract Amazon. Critical factors An elected State government can certainly, during its five-year tenure, attempt to provide high quality local infrastructure to attract new businesses. State governments also have the ability to provide land at affordable prices or for free to attract investments. However, the availability of skilled local labour is a function of many decades of social progress of the State and cannot be retooled immediately. After the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), State governments in India have lost their fiscal autonomy and have no powers to provide any tax concessions to businesses. So, while State governments have the ability to use land and local infrastructure as tools to attract businesses, they do not have control over immediate availability of skilled manpower or to use taxes as a tool to lure. In America, States compete against each other vigorously using tax concessions and land offers to bring new jobs to their States. But, beyond all these, the most critical factor in the choice of a location for a large business is what economists term as the ‘agglomeration effect’ — the ecosystem of supply chain, talent, good living conditions and so on. A State with an already well-established network of suppliers, people, schools, etc. are at a greater advantage to attract even more businesses than the States that are left behind. Put simply, if Amazon’s competitor Walmart is already established in Karnataka, then there is a greater incentive for Amazon to also locate itself in Karnataka to take advantage of the established ecosystem. This leads to a cycle of the more prosperous States growing even faster at the expense of the lagging States. The ‘3-3-3’ danger This phenomenon is already evident in India’s increasing economic divergence among its States. In previous published joint research, I have called this the ‘3-3-3’ effect — the three richest large States (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka) are three times richer than the three poorest large States (Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh), in per-capita income, compared to 1.4 times in 1970. This gap between the richer and poorer States in India is only widening rapidly and not narrowing, due to the agglomeration impact of modern economic development paradigms. Subnationalism In the absence of a level playing field and with no fiscal autonomy, it is enormously difficult for developing States in India to attract new investments and create new jobs. In this context, an elected government that operates on a five-year electoral cycle, confronted with a powder keg of millions of jobless voters will understandably resort to seemingly ‘ paisa wise, rupees foolish’ appeasement policies to salvage whatever it can of an ominous employment situation. After all, how is the Haryana government’s policy to restrict labour movement into its borders and protect jobs for locals any different from the Prime Minister’s ‘self-reliant India’ initiative to restrict goods movement into India’s borders and protect local jobs? The potent combination of widening inter-State inequality, a ‘rich States get richer’ economic development model, an impending demographic disaster and shrinking fiscal autonomy for elected State governments in a politically and culturally diverse democracy will inevitably propagate nativistic sub-nationalism among the various States of India. Until the economic playing fields for the various States are levelled and much greater fiscal freedom provided to the States, “don’t protect but create jobs” will only remain a topic of a hollow lecture and moral sermons. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office bearer of the Congress party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-job-crunch-and-the-growing-fires-of-nativism/article34070050.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Who pays the piper||Last Wednesday, a Chennai-based reader, M.D. Menon, came up with an interesting proposal regarding my salary as the Readers’ Editor. He felt that half my salary should be paid by the readers or at least a group of readers who want the institution of the Readers’ Editor and the other half by The Hindu. He even worked out a tariff that had an annual member category and a life member category. He also suggested that the cost of the paper should be raised by 25 paise on the days the paper publishes the ‘From the Readers’ Editor’ column. He wrote: “I believe that as long as you are paid by one party [alone], there is a conflict of interest.” We need to contextualise the role of an ombudsman in the news media. Though an ombudsman is appointed by the management of the news organisation,  the management provides independence and autonomy to the Readers’ Editor while he or she examines complaints and queries from the readers. Further, to ensure accuracy, there should be a formal visible correcting mechanism. Course correction is binding on the news organisation. Double billing I have been part of the ethical journalism debate since 2005 and I have worked closely with Aidan White, the founder of the Ethical Journalism Network. He said all the revenue in the media is from the readers. They pay to buy a newspaper, their subscription drives the advertising revenue, and even governmental support for the public interest media is funded through tax revenue, which is essentially readers’ contribution. From the management to the editorial, everyone in the news business is paid only by the readers. The Readers’ Editor is no exception. In the judiciary, though the salary for judges comes from governments, we know that the money is from the people in the form of either direct or indirect taxation. Hence, to charge readers for doing my job would amount to double billing. One of the major lessons that I learned from working closely with Mr. White is how to serve and be effective in a fast-changing world without losing any of the core values that define journalism. He observed: “In a landscape where global media and supranational organisations are weakening the grip of the nation state, when politics is scarred by extremes and corruption, when many in the media business have lost all sense of mission, we have to rethink our attitudes on how media and journalism contribute to democratic life. How can journalism properly empower a public who are starved of the information they need to hold governments to account, while at the same time overwhelmed by a surfeit of information from the trivial to the surreal?” Role of an ombudsman Mr. White said increasingly, we are permitting media output to become the fast food of the mind: ubiquitous, colourful but of doubtful provenance or nutritional value. The role of an ombudsman is to bring back that missing nutritional value and make clear the provenance of anything that is published in the newspaper. From social media frenzy to intolerant governments and a legal and regulatory framework that is unashamedly tilted towards the executive, there are multiple factors that hamper good journalism. At the Highway Africa conference in Grahamstown, South Africa, in 2012, I spent nearly four hours discussing with Mr. White the way forward. While dealing with complaints from readers, along with the written terms of references and various published codes for ethical journalism, I have often drawn from that engaging conversation. Mr. White made a distinction between remarkably sensitive yet non-sensational journalism and the harm-inducing shrill reportage which ends up as a force multiplier for the government. Force multiplier journalism sacrifices the citizens’ right to know at the altar of executive diktat and contributes to the shrinking of democratic space. Mr. White taught me to do the simple things right: promoting open debate, providing reliable information, exposing wrongdoing, and explaining the impact of events on the world in which we live. The bedrock of democratic pluralism is provided by open governments, political freedom, an effective judiciary and the imperatives of ethical journalism. In this context, it is very clear that there is no clientelist relationship between the management and the Readers’ Editor. Hence, I have to decline Mr. Menon’s generous offer. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/who-pays-the-piper/article34070054.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Future force for future wars||While addressing the country’s top military leadership in Gujarat’s Kevadia recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the top commanders to develop the military into a future force while taking note of the rapidly changing technological landscape. He also called for an approach that focuses on breaking down civil-military silos and on expediting the speed of decision-making besides shedding the legacy system. Changing nature of war Earlier, wars used to be easy to define. We could say with confidence whether we were at war or at peace. We could identify whom we were fighting with and at which front. The character of war was demonstrated depending upon the norms and ideology of society, technology, and anonymity. Now, new terms denote changes in the definition of modern war. These include ‘hyper’, ‘hybrid’, ‘compound’, ‘non-linear’, ‘fourth-generation’, ‘next-generation’ and ‘contactless’. Military theorist Carl von Clausewitz recognised the changing character of war incredibly early when he stated that war was practically limitless in variety. Such being the unpredictability, how do you modernise a force and make it ready for the future? War, at its core, is organised violence, waged for political purposes. The real purpose is domination. If humans are naturally political animals, war will be the proverbial state of nature and peace, the aberration. For peace to prevail or be enforced, development of future force capability based on a Third Offset Strategy was announced by the U.S. in 2014. It consists of cutting-edge technology, exploration of new operational concepts for utilising such technology, and retaining the best and brightest in human resource to achieve the objective of peace. Although still in its inchoate stages, it focuses on promising technology areas such as robotics and system autonomy, miniaturisation, Big Data, and advanced manufacturing. It provides for autonomous learning systems, collaborative decision-making between humans and machines, assisted human operations, advanced manned-unmanned systems operations, network-enabled autonomous weapons, and high-speed projectiles. Technologies like these can be expected to cause unprecedented effects and disruption by impacting cognitive and perceptional domains through weapons, soldiers, robots, and cyborgs. Tactical actions undertaken through these can be expected to cause strategic effects. Force employment It will be the way the effects are directed for employment that will most significantly change warfare. Strategists reared in Western-Style liberal democracies, who are used to thinking in terms of an orderly Westphalian world, are slowly being forced to come to terms with anomalies in the existing paradigm. In India, the Chief of the Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, is preparing the future force. He admits that ‘force on force’ concepts are difficult to tide over but is positive about the future. What do military developments mean for political and democratic decision-making? Democracies work slowly. To prepare for accelerated future wars, they need to master the ‘hybridised effect’ of warfare that our adversaries are increasingly adopting. Operating below the threshold of out-and-out hostilities, effects caused by anonymous threats bypass frontiers without challenging national sovereignty. Our understanding of war on the other hand has remained the same: organised campaigns, orchestrated by domain-led central staff against an enemy that conforms to preconceived notions of logical and rational actions. Confluence technology and a whole-of-government approach, which are absent, need to drive new strategies and tactics. Perhaps the most important political trend affecting armed conflict in the 21st century will be in the relationship between civilians and those who fight on their behalf. This is what the Prime Minister said needs to change when he asked for breaking of civilian-military silos. Lt General Anil Chait is former Chief of Integrated Defence Staff and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Central Army||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/future-force-for-future-wars/article34070055.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Summit spirit||The virtual summit that brought together leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, last week, contained both broad substance and deep symbolism. Countering any perception that the Quad is merely a “talk-shop”, the outcomes announced by U.S. President Biden and Prime Ministers Modi, Morrison and Suga include a vaccine initiative and joint working groups to cooperate on critical technology as well as climate change. The vaccine initiative comes with an ambitious deadline: a billion vaccines by the end of 2022, made in India with U.S. technology, Japanese funding and Australian distribution networks to reach as many Indo-Pacific countries as possible. The four Quad countries will ensure emissions reduction based on the Paris accord as well as cooperate on technology supply chains, 5G networks, and biotechnology. Mr. Biden, who hosted the summit, managed some powerful atmospherics, by coordinating a joint statement — and a first — called “The Spirit of the Quad”, and a joint article by the four leaders that committed to an open Indo-Pacific “free from coercion”. The leaders are expected to meet later this year, at the G-7 summit. For Mr. Biden, the early push for the Quad engagement is part of his promise that “America is back” in terms of global leadership, reaffirming regional alliances, and taking on the growing challenge from China. For similar reasons, and due to maritime tensions with China, trade and telecommunication issues, Australia and Japan are keen on taking the Quad partnership to deeper levels of cooperation. For India, the new terms of the Quad will mean more strategic support after a tense year at the LAC, as also a boost for its pharmaceutical prowess, opportunities for technology partnerships, and more avenues for regional cooperation on development projects and financing infrastructure, especially in South Asia, where China has taken the lead. It would be a mistake, however, to portray the Quad summit as a “throwing down of the gauntlet” to China. The new U.S. government is still exploring its own relationship with China; its first engagement with Beijing’s top diplomats is in Alaska, on Thursday. For Japan and Australia, China remains the biggest trading partner, a relationship that will only grow once the 15-nation RCEP kicks in. India, given its own ties with China, sensitivities over ongoing LAC disengagement talks, and its other multilateral commitments at the BRICS and SCO groupings, also displayed caution in the Quad engagement, keeping the conversation focused on what Mr. Modi called making the Quad a “force for global good” rather than pushing plans for a militaristic coalition. In that sense, the Quad’s new “summit avatar” has given India yet another string to its bow, broadening India’s interests on its geopolitical horizons even further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/summit-spirit/article34070043.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Salutary reminder||With just over two weeks left to the March 31 deadline for the government and RBI to complete the quinquennial review of the current inflation target under the monetary policy framework, the latest Consumer Price Index (CPI) reading provides a salutary reminder for policymakers to maintain a ceaseless vigil over price stability. Retail inflation, measured by the CPI, accelerated to a three-month high of 5.03% in February, data released by the National Statistical Office on Friday showed. The jump of almost 100 basis points from January’s 4.06%, while partly attributable to a base effect given that price gains had relatively eased in February 2020, is a clear signal that food and fuel costs continue to pose a threat to broader price stability in the economy. Specifically, the RBI’s early February prognostication of continuing pressures in the prices of pulses and edible oils has been borne out by the last two months’ CPI data. Inflation of both essential food products has persisted in the double digits during the period, and in the case of the latter, accelerated disconcertingly to 20.8% last month. Price gains with respect to two other key sources of protein, meat and fish and eggs, also remain stuck above 11%. And the deflation in vegetable costs, which had helped offset the generalised pressure in food inflation, also waned considerably in February to minus 6.7% from minus 15.8% in January. The upshot was that food and beverages as a combined category, with a weight of 54.2% in the CPI, witnessed an almost 160 basis points quickening in inflation to 4.25% last month, from January’s 2.67%. Another equally worrisome source of inflationary pressure is the continuing upward trajectory in the prices of petroleum products. Transport and communication, which directly reflect these prices, saw inflation rocket by more than 200 basis points to 11.4% in February, from 9.3% the preceding month. Diesel, the main fuel for freight carriage, is now hovering around Rs. 85 per litre in many parts and will most certainly feed into the costs of everything requiring to be transported. Brent crude oil futures have surged by close to 40% in the three-month period through March 11 in the wake of output cuts by major oil producing nations, another worrying portent for inflation. With the RBI’s own researchers having so cogently laid out the case for persisting with the current flexible inflation targeting regime of ensuring that price gains stay within the 2% to 6% band in the central bank’s first Report on Currency and Finance in eight years, policymakers must stay laser focused on keeping price stability front and centre of their fresh framework for the next quinquennium. Any effort to dilute the focus in a purported bid to prioritise growth, risks putting the economy on a perilous path that may secure neither objective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/salutary-reminder/article34070044.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A plot of land. (From an Editorial)||We cannot congratulate the Madras Corporation on its resolution passed yesterday to relinquish a good portion of land in Napier Park for the purpose of the Suguna Vilasa Sabha building a theatre on it. The plot is an extremely valuable one, and should be reserved for the benefit of the public in general and especially of the poorer classes of people in the city. The arguments against the motion were put forcibly before the meeting by Mr. Devadoss, Rev. Mr. Leith, Major Russell, Mr. Vyasa Rao, Dr. Kamath and others, and it is regrettable that they did not prevail. The resolution was carried by a narrow majority, 15 Councillors voting for and 14 against it. Among the former were, it is said, a number of members of the Suguna Vilasa Sabha. During the discussion Major Russell pointed out that the Councillors who were members of the Sabha would do well to refrain from voting on the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-plot-of-land-from-an-editorial/article34070051.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Rival claims for forming Govt. in WB||Both the Congress (R) and the marxist-led United Left Front in West Bengal to-day staked their claims to form a coalition Government in the State after the verdict of Wednesday’s Assembly election showed that no single party or Front has secured an absolute majority in the 280-member House. With results for only four of the 277 seats still outstanding, the Congress (R) has captured 105 seats and the ULF 121. Election for three seats has been countermanded. The break-up of the ULF tally is: CPM: 109; RCPI 3; Biplabi Bangla Congress 1; Forward Bloc (Marxist) 2, ULF-supported Independents 4, and Workers Party 2. The ULF at an emergency meeting this evening decided to request the Governor, Mr. S.S. Dhavan, to invite it to form a Ministry by virtue of its being the largest single bloc in the new Assembly. The meeting elected Mr. Jyoti Basu as leader of the Front and said in a statement that the ULF was prepared to form a Government on the basis of its programmes. The statement expressed the hope that the need for such a Government in West Bengal would receive the most serious attention of other parties, groups and individuals outside the Front which had adopted an “anti-Congress stand”. Asked at a press conference whether the ULF was prepared to initiate discussions for a coalition with other parties, Mr. Basu said “we will definitely discuss with them if they came forward to find meeting points”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rival-claims-for-forming-govt-in-wb/article34070052.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am 26 and a soldier. I earn Rs. 35,000 per month. I wish to begin investing. How should I start?  Kahinur Das  A.First, thank you for your service. If you are a fresher to investment, you can start with simple products such as Public Provident Fund (PPF) and recurring deposits in banks. A PPF account can be opened in all major banks and post offices. Since bank rates are low, keep the tenure at 1 year and lock for the longer term when interest rates go up. Once you get familiar with this, you can choose small sums (viz. 20% of your savings) in index equity funds — choose a Nifty 100 index fund — where you need not track the stock market nor try to check which fund manager is good. You can do a regular systematic investment plan (SIP) in this. This should be a good start. Q.I am 22 and have recently joined an IT firm. I earn Rs. 25,000 and plan to give Rs. 5,000 to my family. Could you please guide me on short-term investments (less than 5 years), mid-term investments (5-10 years) and long-term investments (greater than 10 years)?  Vaideesh  A.It is heartening to know that you have different time frames in mind for your goals. If these goals are quantifiable try to put a number to them so that you know how much to save. We are not sure what you can save post your expenses. However, as it may not exceed Rs. 20,000, you can focus on the immediate goal (less than 5 years away) and put away 15-20% in equity index funds such as the Nifty 50 using the SIP route. For the remaining sum, use a combination of recurring deposits, ultra-short debt funds and short-duration funds. Get the help of a financial adviser to ensure you do not choose funds with high credit risk. For the 5–10-year goal, you can invest 40% in equities using a combination of Nifty 50 index fund, Nifty 500 index fund and an international fund that mimics the U.S. index — S&P 500. For debt, use the above said categories of funds along with corporate bond funds. For your goal targeting 10 years, consider putting about 50-70% in equity depending on how well you can handle the losses in equity when it falls (and it will fall). If you have the right guidance, use some actively- managed funds across flexi-, mid- and small-cap categories in addition to index funds. For the debt portion, if your goal is for retirement, you can consider opening an NPS account (if your tax-saving need goes up with a rise in income in a few years) and use the government (G) and corporate bond (C) option alone. Otherwise, choose the same combination of debt options suggested for the 5–10-year goal. Q.I am 25 and a government employee. My salary is Rs. 30,000. I spend about Rs. 10,000-Rs. 12,000. Please provide suggestions to invest systematically. I wish to focus on high growth for over 10 years. Also, I’m interested in the stock market but don’t know enough. Please suggest the best mutual fund company.  Pratap S. U.  A.As a government employee, you will likely already have an NPS contribution. In addition, consider the SIP route to investing in the Nifty 500 index fund and Midcap 150 index fund, given that you want high growth. Since you are new to investing, it is easier to use index funds than look for the ‘best managed’ active equity fund. You will also not be mis-sold any products in the index fund space. Please note that there will be short-term losses in these funds too as that is the way equity operates. Use the SIP route to invest steadily. As for stocks, please study and read up regularly about the market and after a few years, consider setting aside a small sum to invest. Let mutual funds be your primary route to investing. You can also use simple products such as PPF to protect your wealth from the ups and downs of equity.  (The author is Co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article34070041.ece
15 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||Ishan and Kohli help India pull level||Virat Kohli (73 n.o., 49b, 5x4, 3x6) pulled himself out of a mini-slump, while Ishan Kishan (56, 32b, 5x4, 4x6) made it a debut to remember in India’s seven-wicket win over England in the second T20I here on Sunday. Stylish self Kohli, who had three ducks in his last four international visits to the crease, was back to his stylish self, guiding India past a tricky 165-run target. The captain brought up his 26th T20I fifty with a lovely straight six, walking down the track to pacer Tom Curran. Kishan, who opened the batting in place of Shikhar Dhawan, was fearless in his strokeplay. He brought the big crowd to its feet with four huge sixes. Two of them came off successive deliveries from Adil Rashid, but the leg-spinner had the last laugh when he trapped Kishan leg-before in the same over. The southpaw did receive a reprieve on 40, when Ben Stokes dropped the simplest of chances at long-on. Kishan cashed in, bringing the required rate down to a manageable 7.1 at the time of his dismissal. Next man Rishabh Pant was keen to keep the momentum going, tonking Rashid into the midwicket stands off just the fourth ball he faced. Pant struck another maximum off Chris Jordan, before a helicopter shot landed in the hands of Jonny Bairstow at deep mid-wicket. Kohli, who completed 3000 T20I runs with this knock, and Shreyas Iyer (8 n.o.) took India home with 13 balls to spare. After being put in, England pushed hard on a slow surface to make a respectable score. Opener Jason Roy (46, 35b, 4x4, 2x6) led the way, followed by useful contributions from Dawid Malan (24), Eoin Morgan (28) and Ben Stokes (24). Roy relied heavily on the reverse-sweep to counter the spinners Yuzvendra Chahal and Washington Sundar. With third-man and point inside the circle, Roy fancied his chances. He got mixed results, often missing, and sometimes making good contact. Washington fired it in, while Chahal used flight to make it difficult for the batsmen. The Indian pacers, Shardul Thakur in particular, made good use of the slower deliveries. With the ball stopping and keeping low, the visitors found it tough to play the big shots. The best example of clever bowling came from Shardul, who got Morgan to completely mistime a shot. Morgan committed much too early to a slower length ball outside off, and chipped it high to wicketkeeper Pant. Shardul, Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Hardik Pandya did a brilliant job at the death, conceding just 35 runs in the last five overs. Washington and Shardul — both finished with figures of two for 29 — were the most successful bowlers. The Indian fielding, however, was error-prone. Debutant Suryakumar Yadav dropped a catch to give Bairstow a life on 13, while Bhuvneshwar, Shreyas and Hardik conceded runs with clumsy misfields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ishan-and-kohli-help-india-level-series/article34070133.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tare, Shaw power Mumbai to fourth title||When needed the most, the mighty Mumbai’s batting came good and blew away Uttar Pradesh by chasing down the target of 313 runs with six wickets and 51 deliveries to spare. The reward for this power-hitting display was a fourth Vijay Hazare (50-over) title, at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground on Sunday. Having reached the final by riding mainly on the shoulders of skipper Prithvi Shaw’s belligerent form, Mumbai covered the distance against UP by smashing 37 boundaries and eight sixes in 41.3 overs, once the young skipper set the pace.  Shaw ensured that UP’s joy of setting a challenging target was short lived. Dropped by rival skipper Karan Sharma when on five, Shaw raced away to a 39-ball 73 (10x4, 4x6) and ended the competition with a record aggregate of 827 runs. He perished after top-edging an attempted-pull into the waiting hands of deep square-leg. The whirlwind opening stand of 89 off 9.1 overs put Mumbai ahead of the required run-rate and the side was never again seriously challenged by UP. Thereafter, it was former captain Aditya Tare all the way. He hit an unbeaten 118 (107b, 18x4) and stitched two 88-run innings-building partnerships. For the third-wicket, Shams Mulani (36, 43b, 2x6) kept Tare company before being replaced by Shivam Dube (42, 28b, 6x4, 1x6) during the fourth-wicket partnership. Earlier, opting to bat, UP managed to reach 312 for four — in spite of scoring just seven runs off the bat in the first seven overs — after opener Madhav Kaushik changed gears to score an unbeaten 156-ball 158 (15x4, 4x3). Century stand For the opening wicket, Kaushik and Samarth Singh (55, 73b, 4x4, 2x3) raised 122 in 26 overs after seeing off disciplined opening spells of Dhawal Kulkarni and Tushar Deshpande. Kaushik put on another 128 runs with the more experienced Akshdeep Nath (55, 40b, 4x4, 3x6) for the fourth wicket. The absence of an injured Kulkarni during the death-overs played its part in UP getting past the 300-run mark. But once Shaw and Tare held centrestage, by turns, the target appeared increasingly small.  The scores:   UP 312/4 in 50 overs (Madhav Kaushik 158 not out, Akshdeep Nath 55, Samarth 55) lost to Mumbai 315/4 in 41.3 overs (Aditya Tare 118 not out, Prithvi Shaw 73, Shivam Dube 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tare-shaw-power-mumbai-to-fourth-title/article34070178.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Yuvan strikes it rich||K. Yuvan, all of 14 years old, did well in the recently concluded Tamil Nadu State shooting championships by bagging a rich haul of eight medals inclusive of two gold (team), four silver (team) and two bronze (one team & one individual) medals. A student of Chettinad Vidyashram, Yuvan did equally well in the 12th South Zone championship that concluded here recently. He scored 265/300 in the 25m sports pistol junior men category, thereby qualifying for the Nationals to be held in New Delhi in April. Yuvan has already earned qualification for participating in the Nationals in the 10m air pistol youth men, 25m sports pistol junior men. He is being trained at the River View Shooting Club and the Brigade Shooter’s Club, Chennai.  Yuvan’s medals at the TN State shooting championships: Air pistol 10m youth men gold; free pistol 50m junior men gold; sports pistol 25m junior men (team) silver; standard pistol junior men (team) silver; free pistol 50m junior men (team) silver; 25m standard pistol junior men (team) silver, air pistol 10m junior men (team) bronze and an individual bronze in the 25m standard pistol junior men .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvan-strikes-it-rich/article34070246.ece
15 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Fencer Bhavani books a ticket to Tokyo||C.A. Bhavani Devi became the first Indian fencer to qualify for the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. The sabre fencer secured a spot in the World Cup in Hungary after the host lost in the quarterfinals of the team event, allowing Korea to progress to the last four. Bhavani qualified through the Adjusted Official Ranking (AOR) Method. Two individual spots were up for grabs for the Asia-Oceania region based on the world rankings as of April 5, 2021. She is ranked 45th and occupies one of the two available slots based on the ranking. The 27-year-old’s qualification will be confirmed when the rankings are made official on the aforementioned date.  “It’s been my dream. I have been working hard for the last five years for this. My special thanks to my (late) father and mother for believing in me. “I take this opportunity to thank my sponsors, Fencing Association of India and the media. “Though I lost early in the round of 96 at the World Cup in Budapest, I was able to maintain the points I got in the World Championship last year. “By remaining in the top-2 in Asia by virtue of my points, I was able to make the cut for Tokyo.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fencer-bhavani-books-a-ticket-to-tokyo/article34070180.ece
15 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||Virat told me to play freely: Ishan||Ishan Kishan, who won the Man-of-the-Match award on his international debut, stated that skipper Virat Kohli encouraged him to enjoy the occasion. “Virat told me to go out there and play freely without pressure. He told me to stick to the same process that I do when I play in the IPL,” Ishan, who scored a 32-ball 56, said on Sunday. Playing alongside a star like Kohli is a learning experience, he added. “It was a great feeling to play with Kohli. I’ve seen his energy and batting style only on television so far. But seeing it in person, on the same field, is a different feeling altogether. There are so many things to learn from him. Batting with him was also great, because he took the pressure off me,” Ishan said. The MI nets He revealed that playing fiery fast bowlers like Trent Boult and James Pattinson in the Mumbai Indians nets helped him prepare for international duty. “In the IPL, when you play international pacers like Boult, Pattinson and Nathan Coulter-Nile, you get used to facing high speed and swing. It definitely helped my game a lot. The same applies to the India nets too. We bat against great fast bowlers and our side-arm specialist, who bowls at 150 kmph. Quality practice before matches is very helpful,” Ishan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/virat-told-me-to-play-freely-ishan/article34070154.ece
15 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||South Africa takes unassailable lead||South Africa pulled together as a team, better in every department, to cruise past India by seven wickets in the fourth one-day international, and took an unbeatable 3-1 lead in the women’s cricket series at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana stadium on Sunday. South Africa won the toss for the third time in the series and chased the highest target of 267 with remarkable composure. The top four batswomen shared the burden with half-centuries. That put into shade the unbeaten 104 of Punam Raut and her century partnership with skipper Mithali Raj (45), who became the first woman in the world to score more 7,000 runs in one-dayers. India took the field without strike bowler Jhulan Goswami, and had replaced opener Jemimah Rodrigues with Priya Punia who did well to score 32, after Smriti Mandhana fell early. When Harmanpreet Kaur smashed 54 off 35 balls to take India to its best total in the series, the team did have a chance despite the amiable batting conditions. However, Lizelle Lee and Laura Wolvaardt ensured the optimistic thoughts of the Indian camp evaporated quickly, with a 116-run partnership. Balance tilted What tilted the balance in favour of the visitors was the manner in which left-hander Lara Goodall and ‘player-of’the’match’ Mignon du Preez hammered the bowlers around, with a century partnership. More than the personal award, du Preez was thrilled that her team beat India in India in a series after 2014. It was the third series win for South Africa against India. Even though it was Marizanne Kapp who closed out the match with successive boundaries off Radha Yadav, it was Goodall who stamped her authority in the climax, by reverse-sweeping Deepti Sharma for two boundaries in the 48th over.  Mithali has become the first woman to score than 7000 runs in ODIs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-women-take-unassailable-3-1-lead/article34070143.ece
15 March 2021||LEICESTER,||Iheanacho ’tricks||Kelechi Iheanacho scored his first Premier League hat-trick as Leicester beat Sheffield United 5-0 on Sunday to help its quest for Champions League qualification. Ayoze Perez’s strike and an own-goal from Ethan Ampadu also helped Leicester return to second place in the standings. However, Manchester City only needs to win five of its remaining eight games to secure the trophy after a 3-0 victory over Fulham.   The results: Premier League: Arsenal 2 (Odegaard 44, Lacazette 64-pen) bt Tottenham 1 (Lamela 33); Leicester 5 (Iheanacho 39, 69 & 78, Perez 64, Ampadu 80) bt Sheffield United 0; Southampton 1 (Adams 27) lost to Brighton 2 (Dunk 16, Trossard 56).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 0 drew with Athletic Bilbao 0; Granada 1 (Sanchez 52) bt Real Sociedad 0.   Serie A: Parma 2 (Mihaila 9, Hernani 54-pen) bt Parma 0; Torino 1 (Sanabria 70) lost to Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 62-pen, Martinez 85); Bologna 3 (Barrow 27, Svanberg 41, Soriano 70) bt Sampdoria 1 (Quagliarella 37); Cagliari 1 (Simeone 61) lost to Juventus 3 (Ronaldo 10, 25-pen, 32).   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Schick 85) lost to Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Doan 17, Okugawa 57).   Saturday: Premier League: Fulham 0 lost to Manchester City 3 (Stones 47, Jesus 56, Aguero 60-pen); Crystal Palace 1 (Milivojevic 37-pen) bt West Brom 0; Everton 1 (Calvert-Lewin 32) lost to Burnley 2 (Wood 13, McNeil 24).   LaLiga: Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 73, 90+1) bt Elche 1 (Calvo 61); Osasuna 0 drew with Real Valladolid 0; Getafe 0 drew with Atletico Madrid 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 2 (Brandt 54, Moukoko 90+1) bt Hertha Berlin 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iheanacho-tricks/article34070144.ece
15 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Keep working and stick to the given plan: Bajrang||Cutting out distractions, polishing every aspect of his game and exploring the best option for vaccination, ace wrestler Bajrang Punia is seriously into the Tokyo Olympics preparatory mode. Following a long pandemic-induced break, Bajrang trained in the USA for two months and then returned to competition at the Matteo Pellicone event in Rome, where he won a gold medal, earlier this month. “In the lockdown I prepared (myself). In these two events I tested myself. Yes, these events were the first events after a long break and it helped me gain some perspective about my training,” Bajrang told The Hindu . Before the Asian championships in Almaty, Kazakhstan, in mid-April, Bajrang has suspended his social media accounts to train his focus solely on ‘Mission Olympics’. “It is a distraction. There is always something going on and I need my undivided attention right now. I have more time to dedicate to my training and recovery now. More (I do that) the better (for me).” Following coach’s advice For Bajrang, the No.1 wrestler in men’s freestyle 65kg category, his coach Shako Bentinidis’s advice is his success mantra. “You never stop working on anything. We keep working on everything. My coach says, ‘You must work, especially on important things. And everything is important.’” Like everyone else, Bajrang wants to “keep working and stick to the given plan” for the Olympics in August. The 27-year-old’s hard work has helped him improve his leg defence, which allowed a few of his opponents to snatch some crucial points in the past. “There is some improvement and there is more to work on (it). Practice, practice and practice, that’s the goal.” Along with his preparations, vaccination is a vital subject for Bajrang in the run-up to the Olympics. “I am doing some research on which is the best option available. I will take some suggestions from my physician and plan it accordingly.” In this important journey, the newly-married Bajrang is fortunate to have the support of his wrestler wife Sangeeta Phogat. Home support “We were athletes before getting married and it still remains the same. We discuss various techniques and look at videos together. It’s like getting married to a colleague. It is interesting and fun,” said Bajrang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/keep-working-and-stick-to-the-given-plan-bajrang/article34070605.ece
15 March 2021||LONDON,||FA Cup final could see more than 10,000 fans||The FA Cup final could see the biggest English football crowd since the start of the pandemic with the government hoping for more than 10,000 fans at the Wembley Stadium. The May 15 showpiece has been lined up as a pilot to assess how supporters could return to venues with them being tested in advance for the virus and potentially without social distancing. The government will assess the scientific data from the Cup final that could pave the way to large-scale crowds on a more widespread basis from June 21, including the rescheduled European Championship, with the semifinals and final in July among seven games at Wembley. The FA Cup final will take place two days before the government already plans to ease restrictions to allow 10,000 fans but with social distancing at sports. But testing the crowd for COVID-19 in advance at Wembley is set to allow for a far bigger crowd at the 90,000-capacity stadium. The FA Cup semifinals in April could also be part of the pilot scheme, although it is unclear if the League Cup final between Tottenham and Manchester City on April 25 will be included to prevent the game being played in an empty stadium. Indoor events are also part of the pilot scheme, including the world snooker championships in Sheffield in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fa-cup-final-could-see-more-than-10000-fans/article34070606.ece
15 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Juliette completes hat-trick with emphatic Indian St. Leger win||Juliette, piloted by A. Sandesh, completed a hat-trick by winning the Darashaw Indian St. Leger (Gr.1), while Miracle (P.S. Chouhan up) also made it three wins in a row by claiming the Poonawalla Breeders’ Multi-Million (PBMM) (Gr.1), the two main attractions of the races held here on Sunday (March 14). Karthik Ganapathy-trained Juliette is owned by M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust, while Miracle is the property of Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo and trained by Pesi Shroff. Thanks to the guidance of Sandesh, Juliette, who was racing third till the bend, cruised past the leader Wizard Of Stocks and drew away to register a fashionable victory by a fair margin. Jockey Chouhan had confidently kept Miracle sixth near 600m and as the field entered the straight, this wonder filly manoeuvred her way and came up with gigantic strides to score a comprehensive win. Miracle also set a new course record for 1400m (back stretch) by winning the PBMM in 1m, 23.15s.  1. HONG KONG JOCKEY CLUB TROPHY (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: SUPER GIRL (T.S. Jodha) 1, Little More (Kaviraj) 2, Dowsabel (Merchant) 3 and Isinit (Nadeem) 4. 10-1/2, Sh and 1-3/4. 57.88s. Rs. 13 (w), 10, 18 and 11 (p). SHP: 31, FP: 34, Q: 63, Tanala: 93 and 46. Favourite: Super Girl. Owner: Mr. Champaklal Zaveri. Trainer: S.S. Shah.  2. KUMAR R DALAL GOLD TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: TRULY EPIC (C.S. Jodha) 1, Lightning Bolt (Trevor) 2, Magistero (Bhawani) 3 and Trouvaille (Neeraj) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 40.04s. Rs. 59 (w), 17 and 11 (p). SHP: 35, FP: 129, Q: 32, Tanala: 407 and 383. Favourite: Lightning Bolt. Owners: M/s. Hemant S. Dharnidharka & Dinesh G. Virwani. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  3. HONG KONG JOCKEY CLUB TROPHY (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: DESERT FIRE (J. Chinoy) 1, Waverunner (Ayyar) 2, Thea’s Pet (Nazil) 3 and Divija (C.S. Jodha) 4. 3-1/4, 5 and Sh. 58.77s. Rs. 50 (w), 11, 19 and 47 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 122, Q: 227, Tanala: 8,315 and 2,376. Favourite: Noble King. Owners: M/s. Amit Kumar Magotra & Rakesh R. Bhojgadhiya. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  4. ISN’T SHE SPECIAL PLATE (2,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: MANDEVILLE (Chouhan) 1, Brazos (Parmar) 2, Memorable Moments (Dashrath) 3 and Multistarrer (Sandesh) 4. 3-3/4, 3/4 and 1-3/4. 2m, 03.06s. Rs. 18 (w), 12, 23 and 30 (p). SHP: 53, FP: 125, Q: 95, Tanala: 805 and 383. Favourite: Mandeville. Owners: Mr. Shomenath Roy Chowdhury, Mr. Gautam Lala rep. Gainsville Stud & Agl Farm Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Achuthan Siddharth, Jeet Banerjee, Joydeep Datta Gupta & Prashant S. Deshpande. Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. FLORRIE & FREDDY SOPHER GOLD TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: MENILLY (Sandesh) 1, Ms Boss (T.S. Jodha) 2, Aegon (Trevor) 3 and Belenus (Ayyar) 4. Not run: Memorable Memories and Joaquin. 1, 2 and Nose. 58.30s. Rs. 34 (w), 11, 36 and 11 (p). SHP: 113, FP: 797, Q: 503, Tanala: 598 and 128. Favourite: Aegon. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi & Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  6. INTERVALVE POONAWALLA LTD TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: PETRONIA (Zervan) 1, Alastair (Chouhan) 2, Multiencrypted (Parmar) 3 and River Song (Trevor) 4. 1/2, 2-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 11.61s. Rs. 18 (w), 13, 23 and 19 (p). SHP: 63, FP: 111, Q: 71, Tanala: 339 and 168. Favourite: Petronia. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Hosidar Daji.  7. POONAWALLA BREEDERS’ MULTI-MILLION (Gr. 1) (1,400m), (Terms), 3-y-o only: MIRACLE (Multidimensional-Khalila) (Chouhan) 1 , ALLAMANDA (Speaking Of Which-Analeah) (Neeraj) 2, SPINOZA (Air Support-Showin’off) (Akshay Kumar) 3 and ASCOVAL (Excellent Art-Star Of Venus) (Trevor) 4. 3, 2-1/4 and Lnk. 1m 23.15s. (record time). Rs. 28 (w), 15, 49 and 29 (p). SHP: 134, FP: 914, Q: 752, Tanala: 4,616 and 761. Favourite: Miracle. Owners: Mr.Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. DARASHAW INDIAN ST. LEGER (Gr.1) (2,800m), (Terms), 5-y-o only: JULIETTE (Musketier-Gimmesumsugar) (Sandesh) 1,  WIZARD OF STOCKS (Speaking Of Which-Margarita Rita) (Neeraj) 2, PARISIAN (Champs Elysees-Anywaysmile) (Chouhan) 3 and ANJEZE (Win Legend-Angelique) (Trevor) 4. 7-1/2, 1/2 and 6-1/4. 2m, 57.56s. Rs. 16 (w), 13 and 46 (p). SHP: 41, FP: 156, Q: 62, Tanala: 121 and 23. Favourite: Juliette. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  9. DR. GOOLAM E VAHANVATI TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: DIVINE HUNT (Akshay Kumar) 1, White River (C.S. Jodha) 2, Dreams (Trevor) 3 and Black Cherry (J. Chinoy) 4. Nose, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 25.59s. Rs. 46 (w), 15,22 and 12 (p). SHP: 49, FP: 263, Q: 382, Tanala: 546 and 162. Favourite: Dreams. Owner: Mr. Ashok Ranpise. Trainer: Altaf Hussain. Jackpot: (i) 70%: Rs. 1,277 (149 tkts.) and 30%: 183 (446 tkts.); (ii) 70%: 2,713 (183 tkts.) and 30%: 149 (1,424 tkts.). Treble: (i) 485 (15 tkts.), (ii) 136 (113 tkts.), (iii) 404 (52 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 2,245 (11 tkts.) and 30%: 114 (93 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juliette-completes-hat-trick-with-indian-st-leger-win/article34070244.ece
15 March 2021||Hyderabad:,||Consigliori should make amends||Trainer L V R Deshmukh’s ward Consigliori, who ran third in his last start, should make amends in the Sultan Phiroze Plate, the main event of Monday’s (Mar. 15) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  BABY BELLE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.45 p.m.: 1. Arrowtown (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 2. City Of Blessing (1) Chouhan 56, 3. Dream Station (8) Mukesh 56, 4. My Master (6) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Paladino (2) Afroz Khan 56, 6. Pedro Planet (7) Kiran Naidu 56, 7. Angelita (3) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 8. Goldrun (5) Koushik 54.5, 9. Hot Seat (9) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 10. Siri (4) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. HOT SEAT, 2. CITY OF BLESSING, 3. DREAM STATION   DILAWAR PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.20: 1. Aintree (2) N.B. Kuldeep 62, 2. Gusty Look (10) Rohit Kumar 61, 3. Green Turf (9) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 4. Coastal Cruise (6) B.R. Kumar 55.5, 5. Always Success (5) Santosh Raj N R 55, 6. Elmira (4) Afroz Khan 55, 7. Tiger Of The Sea (8) Surya Prakash 55, 8. Mt. Davidson (3) P. Sai Kumar 54, 9. Team Player (1) Nakhat Singh 54, 10. Thrill Of Power (7) Akshay Kumar 54 and 11. That’s My Speed (11) Md. Ismail 50.  1. AINTREE, 2. THRILL OF POWER, 3. ELMIRA   BABY BELLE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) (Maiden), 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.55: 1. Campania (5) Chouhan 56, 2. Dream Jewel (3) Koushik 56, 3. Gurbaaz (7) Kiran Naidu 56, 4. Sorrento (4) Kuldeep Singh 56, 5. Space Walk (9) B.R. Kumar 56, 6. Aarya (6) Afroz Khan 54.5, 7. Georgia Peach (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Golden Amaris (2) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 9. Golden Lady (10) A.A. Vikrant 54.5 and 10. Good Tidings (1) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5.  1. CAMPANIA, 2. GEORGIA PEACH, 3. AARYA   ABBOTS ROYAL PLATE (Div. II), (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.30: 1. Mr. Shanghai (10) Rohit Kumar 62.5, 2. Nova Scotia (1) N.B. Kuldeep 62, 3. Dancing Doll (8) Gaurav Singh 61, 4. Unstoppable (13) Deepak Singh 60.5, 5. Cincia Azzurra (12) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 6. Alta Vita (4) B.R. Kumar 59, 7. Solo Winner (5) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 8. Platinum Claasz (9) Koushik 58, 9. Blickfang (7) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 10. Aibak (3) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 11. Jo Malone (2) Afroz Khan 52.5, 12. Super Act (6) P. Gaddam 52.5 and 13. Minnelli (11) Surya Prakash 50.  1. DANCING DOLL, 2. NOVA SCOTIA, 3. MINNELLI   JAIDEV PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 4.05: 1. Alluri’s Pride (Ex: Shivalik Meadow) (3) Gaurav Singh 62, 2. Belle Springs (6) N.B. Kuldeep 62, 3. Shivalik Bright (8) R.S. Jodha 62, 4. Charcoal (1) Mukesh Kumar 61, 5. Proud Legacy (11) Rohit Kumar 61, 6. Queen Blossom (14) Kiran Naidu 61, 7. Tapatio (2) Surya Prakash 61, 8. Lorena (7) Deepak Singh 60, 9. Hip Hop (12) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 10. India Gate (4) A.A. Vikrant 59.5, 11. Kintsugi (5) B.R. Kumar 58.5, 12. Moka (9) Koushik 57.5, 13. Diesis Dream (13) Md. Ismail 56.5 and 14. Royal Avenger (10) Afroz Khan 53.5.  1. BELLE SPRINGS, 2. KINTSUGI, 3. HIP HOP   ABBOTS ROYAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.40: 1. Call Of The Blue (3) B.R. Kumar 62.5, 2. Rhythm Selection (1) Surya Prakash 62.5, 3. Ulysses (5) Mukesh Kumar 61.5, 4. Ashwa Arjun (10) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 5. Explosive (2) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 6. Gazebo (8) Kuldeep Singh 60, 7. Buttonwood (12) Koushik 58.5, 8. Flamingo Fame (11) Santosh Raj N R 58, 9. Promiseofhappiness (9) A.A. Vikrant 58, 10. Dillon (4) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 11. Bedazzled (6) Afroz Khan 53.5, 12. Sun Dancer (7) N.B. Kuldeep 53.5 and 13. Sputnic (13) P. Sai Kumar 52.5.  1. CALL OF THE BLUE, 2. RHYTHM SELECTIONS, 3. EXPLOSIVE   SULTAN PHIROZE PLATE (1,600m), rated 80 & above (Cat. I), 5.15: 1. Consigliori (6) Chouhan 61, 2. Victory Parade (2) Deepak Singh 60.5, 3. Nayadeep (11) P. Sai Kumar 57.5, 4. Phenomenal Cruise (4) A.A. Vikrant 57, 5. Titus (3) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 6. Premier Action (9) Afroz Khan 51, 7. Reno Star (5) Nakhat Singh 50.5, 8. Yours Forever (10) P. Gaddam 50.5, 9. Sovet Pride (7) Akshay Kumar 50, 10. Havelock Cruise (1) Ajeeth Kumar 50 and 11. Prince Valiant (8) Surya Prakash 50.  1. CONSIGLIORI, 2. SOVET PRIDE, 3. PREMIER ACTION   JAIDEV PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 5.50: 1. Battle Ready (5) Deepak Singh 62, 2. Berkeley (2) N.B. Kuldeep 62, 3. Flying Queen (---), 4. Hurricane (10) B.R. Kumar 62, 5. That’s My Star (9) Akshay Kumar 62, 6. Red River (6) Santosh Raj N R 61, 7. Turf Monarch (1) Kuldeep Singh 61, 8. Sacred Lamp (3) Mukesh Kumar 60, 9. Big Day (11) Nakhat Singh 59, 10. Kapell Bruke (7) A.A. Vikrant 59, 11. Cephalonia (13) Aroz Khan 57, 12. Millennia (4) Gopal Singh 57, 13. Sheldon (12) Kiran Naidu 55.5 and 14. Moment Of Silence (8) P. Sai Kumar 50.  1. THAT’S MY STAR, 2. BERKELEY, 3. RED RIVER  Day’s Best: CONSIGLIORI  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8 Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/consigliori-should-make-amends/article34070175.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||We don’t play well on slow wickets: Morgan||Eoin Morgan felt that his team’s weakness got exposed on a wicket that lacked pace compared to the one that was used in the first match. “We don’t play well on slow, low wickets. We were right in the game, we did a lot of the structure of our innings really well. But when we tried to accelerate, we managed to lose wickets at different stages,” Morgan said after the heavy loss on Sunday. “Have to give India some credit there. I thought they bowled particularly well, having adapted and recognised what worked well on that wicket. “Debutant Ishan Kishan played pretty well and managed to take the game away from us,” Morgan said. “We could have been a bit more accurate with the lines and lengths that we bowled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-dont-play-well-on-slow-wickets-morgan/article34070155.ece
15 March 2021||Doha,||Basilashvili triumphs||Nikoloz Basilashvili downed Roberto Bautista Agut 7-6 (5), 6-2 in the final of the Qatar Open for his fourth ATP title. The Georgian earned the first two break points at 3-2 in the second set, and he took his chance before going on to close out the match in 90 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/basilashvili-triumphs/article34070613.ece
15 March 2021||Dubai,||Muguruza’s two-year wait ends||Garbine Muguruza ended her almost two-year wait for a title with a 7-6 (6), 6-3 win against Barbora Krejcikova in the final of the Dubai Championships on Saturday. “It means a lot,” the ninth-seeded Muguruza said, “it's never easy to win.” The former No. 1 hit seven aces and saved seven of the nine break points she faced. It’s the 27-year-old Spanish player’s first title since winning in Monterrey in April 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muguruzas-two-year-wait-ends/article34070615.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bhambri in Dubai main draw||Yuki Bhambri beat compatriot Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-5, 5-7, 6-2 in the second and final qualifying round to enter the main draw of the $2,048,855 ATP tennis tournament in Dubai on Sunday.  Other results: Qualifying: Singles (second and final round): Yuki Bhambri bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-5, 5-7, 6-2. Doubles (first round): Lorenzo Sonego & Andrea Vavassori (Ita) bt Yuki Bhambri & Divij Sharan 7-6(7), 7-5.   Rohan Rathi’s 80 and three wickets each by Mayank Dagar and Prince Yadav helped Sporting Club beat Delhi Challenger by 63 runs to enter the quarterfinals of the RM Singh memorial tournament.  The scores: Sporting Club 266/6 in 40 overs (Rohan Rathi 80, Saurav Dagar 60, Rishabh Drall 55) bt Delhi Challenger 203 in 36.1 overs (Chetan Bisht 87, Vikas Kumar 42, Mayank Dagar 3/36, Prince Yadav 3/41) .    Anshul Sehrawat picked up four wickets and top-scored with an unbeaten 79 as Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat KN Colts by six wickets in the Harcourt Butler Under-15 tournament.  The scores: KN Colts 168 in 39.4 overs (Zeeshan Khan 46, Anshul Sehrawat 4/39) lost to RRG 172/4 in 34.1 overs (Anshul Sehrawat 78 n.o.) .    Nitish Rana’s 105 and Amit Rana’s 59 saw Cricfine Wonders beat Anand Sports by two wickets in the One X Challenger Trophy.  The scores: Anand Sports 268/3 in 40 overs (Ashish Kumar 113, Subhav Kumar 74, Naman Taneja 34) lost to Cricfine Academy 269/8 in 34.1 overs (Nitish Rana 105, Amit Rana 59, Prabhat Chandra 45, Vishesh Kumar 3/23) .    Third seed Laura Pigossi of Brazil recovered from 1-5 down in the decider to beat fifth-seeded Marianna Zakarlyuk of Ukraine 6-0, 3-6, 7-6(5) in the KPIT $25,000 ITF women’s tennis final.  The results (final): Laura Pigossi (Bra) bt Marianna Zakarlyuk (Ukr) 6-0, 3-6, 7-6(5) .    USA’s Zane Khan survived a match point before winning a thriller 6-7(8), 7-6(6), 7-6(4) in the final against third seed Aidan Mchugh of Britain in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhambri-in-dubai-main-draw/article34070173.ece
15 March 2021||PATIALA,||Fed. Cup athletics from today||The trend of big names skipping action despite a year-long absence of competition continues at the Federation Cup starting here on Monday with Neeraj Chopra remaining the biggest draw. The five-day event will see several big names missing. The ones who will be in action, though, are expected to finetune their performances instead of going all-out for an attempted qualification. Chopra, who has not only already qualified but also bettered his own national record a fortnight ago during the Indian Grand Prix, will again be in the spotlight. Chopra and other throwers have been experimenting with different javelins and techniques under coach Uwe Hohn in the last few months and the results are gradually visible. Slew of youngsters While he will have a slew of youngsters for competition — Abhishek Drall, Rohit Yadav, Sahil Silwal —the other Olympic-qualified thrower Shivpal Singh will skip the Fed Cup with an ankle niggle. Among the women, the big showdown is expected in the 100m with both Hima Das and Dutee Chand entering the fray. Hima, who has shifted to sprints from 400m in the last two years — for injury reasons — will also run the 200m. The big focus will clearly be on the quartermilers. Recent reports of a star runner being caught in doping has put the women’s 400m — and the 4x400m relay by extension — in a tricky situation. With Hima not running the distance, Anjali Devi continuing to play hide-&-seek (she participated in the 200m in IGP 1) and another under cloud, the one-lap event faces uncertainty. The names that continue to be on the entry list include Kiran Pahal, veteran Jauna Murmu, Poovamma and Vismaya VK. It will be competitive among men, though barring Noah Nirmal Tom due to injury. National record holder Mohammed Anas, Arokiya Rajiv, Amoj Jacob, Dharun Aiyyasamy, Jeevan KS have all confirmed participation. Triple jumper Arpinder Singh continues to elude but Praveen Chithravel, Karthik U and Eldhose Paul will be expected to push each other. The absence of Sudha Yadav from the 3000m steeplechase is likely to see a clash between UP statemates Chinta Yadav and Parul Chaudhary for the top spot even as Avinash Sable would be hoping to overcome the double whammy of the death of Belarussian coach Nikolai Sneserev 10 days ago and coach Ambrish in isolation after testing COVID-positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fed-cup-athletics-from-today/article34070176.ece
15 March 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Rashid’s day out||A career-best wicket-haul by leg-spinner Rashid Khan helped Afghanistan level the two-match series against Zimbabwe with a hard-fought victory in the second Test in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. The 22-year-old continued his fairytale rise at international level with 7-137 in a marathon 62.5 overs effort to end Zimbabwe’s resistance-packed second innings on 365, soon after lunch on the final day. That gave Afghanistan 108 runs to win in 45 overs which it achieved for the loss of four wickets.  Rashid’s record Rashid set a record for bowling the most number of overs in a single Test in the 21st century. He sent down a total of 99.2 overs.  The scores: Afghanistan 545/4 decl. & 108/4 (Rahmat Shah 58) bt Zimbabwe 287 & 365 (Sean Williams 151, Donald Tiripano 95, Rashid Khan 7/137).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afghanistan-levels-series/article34070139.ece
15 March 2021||DOHA,||Manika, Sutirtha advance; Sharath loses||Manika Batra and Sutirtha Mukherjee won their first round matches but A. Sharath Kamal lost in the second round of the World table tennis singles qualification tournament for the Tokyo Olympics, here on Sunday. Manika defeated Bulgaria’s Maira Yovkova 11-5, 11-7, 11-4, 11-0 to set up a clash with Uzbekistan’s Rimma Gufranova. Sutirtha got past Belgium’s Lisa Lung 11-3, 11-5, 11-7, 12-10 and will meet Russia’s Polina Mikhailova in the second round. Second seed Sharath, who gained a first-round bye, could not get his act together against Italy’s Niagol Staynov and lost 9-11, 11-6, 11-8, 11-4, 8-11, 12-10. Sathiyan, who also received a first-round bye, will face another Italian Mihai Bobocica.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-sutirtha-advance-sharath-loses/article34070137.ece
15 March 2021||KOCHI:,||MAFA blanks Golden Threads||Mar Athanasius Football Academy (MAFA), virtually Kothamangalam’s MA College and the lone college team in the event, blanked Golden Threads 3-0 in the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Sunday. It was MAFA’s second straight win in Group B while the Threads were playing their opener. All the goals came in the first-half. At Thrissur, Luca SC and SAT, Tirur, played out a goalless draw in Group A.  The results:   Group A (Thrissur): Luca SC, Malappuram 0 drew with SAT, Tirur 0.   Group B (Kochi): Mar Athanasius FA, Kothamangalam 3 (S. Fajil 9, Mohammed Rafi 16, M. Junaid 45+1) bt Golden Threads, Kochi 0 .      Palakkad (39 points) won the overall title in the 442nd State junior Greco Roman wrestling championships held at the Central Stadium here on Sunday. Palakkad won only one gold medal but its wrestlers finished third in almost all weight categories which enabled it to win the title ahead of host Thiruvananthapuram which came second with 31 points.  The results (finals): 55kg: V. Akshay (Knr) bt R.S. Vighnesh (Tvm); 60kg: Muhammed Shafi (Mlp) bt B. Devanand (Alp); 63kg: C. Mufeed Ramin (Mlp) bt M. Abhilash (Wyd); 67kg: P. Muhammed Rifan (Mlp) bt A.M. Muhammed Nihal (Mlp); 72kg: Abhinav Ajith (Knr) bt C. Mohammed Naswith (Mlp); 77kg: Alan Raj (Knr) bt B. Bijoy (Tvm); 82kg: A. Alavudeen (Pkd) bt Y.R. Anojdas (Tvm); 87kg: J.B. Jithin (Tvm) bt A. A. Adhith Aslam (Ekm); 97kg: Sayyid Rinshid Ibnu Rasheed (Mlp) bt Ashick Soyan (Ekm); 130kg: Anshadhu (Alp) bt K.K. Adhikrishna (Ekm) .      The Kerala Basketball Association (KBA) has decided to resume basketball activities in the State this month. The annual general body of the KBA which met here on Sunday decided to conduct the junior and youth State championships to enable players to get grace marks. The tournaments will be held on a knock-out basis. The 44th junior State championships will be held at Carmel CMI Public school floodlit court in Vazhakulam on March 25 and 26. Players born on or after 1-1-2002 are eligible to take part in this event. The 37th State youth championships will be held at the St. Ephremes HSS, Mannanam, on March 27 and 28. Players born on or after 1-1-2004 are eligible to take part in this event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mafa-blanks-golden-threads/article34070512.ece
15 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Chanti scalps five||Kondapalli Cricket Club scored a nine-wicket win over Railway in the final league match of the KDCA A-Division (one-day) league championship for the Katragadda Madhusudhana Rao memorial Trophy at Mulapadu on Sunday. Batting first, Railway was bowled out for 106 in 37.2 overs with pacer G. Chanti returning with a five-wicket haul. In reply, Kondapally romped home in the 15th over thanks to an unbeaten 68 from A. Anant Karthikeya. Welcome Cricket Club has already won the championship by virtue of topping the table.  The scores (final round):   A-div.: Railways 106 in 37.2 overs (B. Sudha Kiran 34, G. Chanti 5/17) lost to Kondapalli 110/1 in 14.2 overs (A. Anant Karthikeya 68 n.o.).   B-div. (T20 league): Abhis 133/9 in 20 overs (Ganga Sai Ram 70) bt Amaravathi 102 in 18.1 overs (Kiran 4/11).   Royal Strikers 153/4 in 20 overs (Abdul Rasheed 42, Basith 50) lost to Gaming Hub Stars 155/4 in 17.4 overs (Akhil 61, P.B.V. Prasad 48).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chanti-scalps-five/article34070673.ece
15 March 2021||DINDIGUL:,||Harivarna proves unbeatable||P. Kumaresan's five-wicket haul set up National Sports School CA's six-wicket win over Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya in the CDCA sixth division league.  The scores:   II div.: RKS CA 146/9 in 50 overs (K. Baladharan 36) bt Wings 77/9 in 31.1 overs (K. Pon Muralikrishnan 3/23, G.K. Balasubramani 3/18).   III div.: Seahawks 180 in 38.4 overs (K. Karthik Kumar 36, S. Prakash 35, M. Arunkumar 43, M. Syed Ibrahim 4/37, R. Ashwin 3/40) lost to Kovai Tuskers 181/5 in 36.5 overs (R. Chandra Mouli 46, Karthik Shankar 51 n.o., S. Vinothkumar 35, B. Nandha 3/22).   Suryabala Cricketers 162 in 34.5 overs (S. Muthumurugan 46, N. Vinoth 4/37 , M.N. Hari Kumar 3/55) lost to Arumugam 163/5 in 36 overs (K. Venkatesh 61, S. Mahaveer 3/9).   V div.: Srii 247/8 in 50 overs (R. Ram Kumar 95, P. Arun Kumar 50 n.o.) bt KF 143 in 38.1 overs (M. Yuvaraj 38, V. Prasanna Venkatesh 4/27).   VI div.: Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya 173 in 42.1 overs (K. Sundarraj 35, K. Sathya Narayanan 58, P. Kumaresan 5/25) lost to National Sports School CA 178/4 in 35.5 overs (R. Suresh Babu 85 n.o., K.P. Aadhithyan 41, S. Hari Dev 3/34).   CDCA Junior Colts 84 in 32.5 overs (S. Sanjay Kumar 32, R. Senthil 4/17, S. Naveen Raj 4/36) lost to Indian Sports 88/5 in 17.1 overs (M. Somasundaram 34 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kumaresan-does-it-for-national-sports-school-ca/article34070317.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA round-robin (under-19) tournament, Team I vs Team II (Stag ground); Team III vs Team IV (Magna College ‘A’); Team V vs Team VI (Magna College ‘B’), 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34070239.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Son of Aditi and Kashyapa||When Aditi, wife of sage Kashyapa, observes payo vrata, as instructed by her husband, Lord Narayana appears before her. The kingdom of the celestials, who were her sons, had been usurped by Mahabali. The Lord assures her that He will help them get back their kingdom. When Aditi sees the Lord, she falls at his feet. She sheds tears of joy. She praises Him and says that He is the One celebrated through yagas. When one does a yaga, havis is offered to devas, and He is the antaryami of the devas. So in fact, we are offering havis to Him, explained Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. She says that if His names are recited, all sorrows will vanish. He is complete, lacking nothing. He is beyond time, space and geographical limitations. He is responsible for dharma, artha and kama. Whatever Purushartha people ask Him for, He grants it to them. The Lord says to her, that an amsa of Him will be born to her and to sage Kashyapa. In due course, Aditi bears Kashyapa’s child, in this case an amsa of the Lord Himself. Brahma praises the foetus that she is carrying. He says that Aditi was called Prishni in her previous birth, and the Lord was born to her and was called Prishnigarbha. Brahma says to the foetus, “You are the beginning, middle and end of everything. You created this world. You protect it and also are responsible for its dissolution.” Brahma’s words here are similar to what is said in the Upanishads. It is a lakshana vakhya, that is, it is a definition of the Supreme Brahman. He is witness to events of the past, the present and the future. He is kala roopa. When Dritharashtra cries over the death of his sons, Lord Krishna tells him that no one lives beyond the time of their exit, which is predetermined. All lives on the earth end. Paramapada alone is beyond time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/son-of-aditi-and-kashyapa/article34070129.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 07:13 IST,||Sudoku — March 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-15-2021/article34070777.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Share your hair||In the months before joining college, 17-year-old Rishita Marripalli shaved her head. Her inspiration was her 21-year-old sister Priya, who was motivated after seeing her aunt go through the treatment for cancer. “Rishita watched me cut my hair to donate for a cause and decided, on the spur of the moment, to do it too. But she went a step ahead and shaved her head completely,” says Priya, from Hyderabad. While Rishita’s was a spontaneous decision, 20-year-old Vinitha Madhav’s was not. “Two of my cousins and I decided to donate our hair, so we grew it through the lockdown. The feeling is awesome,” she shares, from Bengaluru. These hair donations are helping NGOs produce wigs to be given free of cost to people with cancer. Hair loss is a common side effect of cancer treatment that includes chemotherapy and radiation. Wearing a wig to conceal the loss may restore some sense of normalcy. However, wigs made with natural hair can cost up to Rs. 45,000 depending on the length, an added expense for people who may already be burdened with the cost of treatment. A synthetic wig, though cheaper, can be uncomfortable. Thanks to social media and word and mouth, there has been an increased awareness about hair donation, and this is helping NGOs scale up their production of wigs. Lockdown experiments Hairstylist Shiva Kumar who founded the Hyderabad Hair Donations for Cancer Patients in 2014, says, “I’ve been campaigning for hair donations for years, but there’s been a four or five times rise in donations in the last few months.” While working at his salon in Chandanagar, Hyderabad, Shiva felt the hair that went into the bin could be put to better use. That’s when he started sending hair to an organisation in Mumbai that makes wigs for underprivileged people with cancer, free of cost. However, during the lockdown when logistics came in the way of delivering the wigs, Shiva decided to do it himself in Hyderabad; he spends his own money to make them. He criss-crosses the city and the nearby districts to visit donors at their homes, to cut their hair, give them a new look and come back with the donated locks. “I do not charge anything, but if if the donors wish, they can pay towards the making of a wig, which costs Rs. 3,000,” says Shiva,.who has collected hair from 400 people and delivered 37 wigs to the needy. When mechanical engineer Harish Kannadhasan, based in Bengaluru, was moved by a video of a child undergoing cancer treatment, he threw himself into researching chemo-caused hair loss. In 2018, he started a Facebook page called Hair Donation Bangalore (HDB) to take forward the campaign. The donations he generates are sent to The Cherian Foundation in Chennai. “We guide donors on the rules of cutting and packing their hair for this purpose. We maintain a register of the donor details. Often, we pay for the courier charges,” says Harish who receives at least two calls a week from Electronic City, Bengaluru, as well. “Not many courier companies function here, so most donors send their hair through Dunzo and we courier them to Chennai.” Spaces that facilitate ‘Gift Hair Gift Confidence’ is an ongoing campaign by The Cherian Foundation, spearheaded by one of its trustees Sarah Benjamin Cherian. Started on February 4, 2014, to mark World Cancer Day, the Foundation’s first donor was a student of the Women’s Christian College, says Vijay Charles Wesley, senior project coordinator of the Foundation in T Nagar, Chennai. “Our campaigns have been mostly in colleges, schools, corporates; till today we have donated 700 wigs to underprivileged cancer patients free of cost in collaboration with Adyar Cancer Institute,” says Charles. The lockdown saw a surge in donations and in October and November 2020, Cherian Foundation donated 200 wigs. Hyderabad-based business development professional DBS Uday Kumar is a familiar sight at the Adyar Cancer Institute in Chennai every month. He hands over parcels of hair to Dr Surendran V at the oncology department, video records every stage of the transaction and on his return, presents a certificate of appreciation to his donors. Uday and his friend Venkat started the Hyderabad Hair Donation (HHD) after a close friend succumbed to cancer. “I watched him struggle to cope with the trauma of losing hair along with the weakening of the body. After he passed away, I registered HHD and started raising awareness. I visit all parts of Telangana and AP to collect hair,” he says. His services are free, but recently when the hospital said there were no funds to make wigs, Uday started collecting Rs. 200 from each donor towards courier charges and handing over that money to the hospital. He is happy that during the lockdown, many young boys came forward to donate their hair. Twenty-three-year-old Rakesh Guntoj learnt that his male colleagues at the workplace were growing their hair for a cause, and decided to join in. He’s happy he could donate his hair in July 2020 after growing it to a length of 15 inches. The longer the hair, the more wigs can be made, realised 32-year-old Rojee Devarapalli who didn’t think twice before donating her 38-inch-long hair along with her school-going daughter Shreeja’s. “When you think of the happiness it gives to those who are already suffering, sacrificing our hair is no big deal. Hair will grow back in no time,” says Rojee, smiling.   This is how you do it  Length of the hair should be at least 10 to 12 inches. The hair should be washed, braided and secured with a rubber band. Cut an inch above the band. The cut braid should be wrapped in a newspaper and placed in a polythene bag before being despatched. Based on the thickness of the hair, it should be divided into different ponies before cutting. Normally, one person’s hair lends to two ponies and it takes six to seven ponies to make one wig. Often the split ends of the hair go waste, hence not all of your hair goes into the making of a wig. Some organisations accept coloured and grey hair too.   To donate hair or ask for a wig, contact:  Hyderabad: Shiva Kumar, at Hyderabad Hair Donations for Cancer Patients’ Facebook page, or DBS Uday Kumar, at Hyderabad Hair Donation’s Facebook page  Bengaluru: Harish Kannadhasan on Instagram, @Hair Donation Bengaluru  Chennai: The Cherian Foundation, visit cherianfoundation.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/share-your-hair/article34070587.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Weighted blanket||Weighted blanketslook like regular one, but are heavier as they are filled with glass beads or plastic pellets instead of light-weight feathers or slightly heavier cotton. The weight creates even pressure on the body. “Most of the blankets available in our market weigh 16 kilograms and can create a snug feeling. But some people can find it uncomfortable because of its weight too,” says Dr M S Kanwar, senior consultant and advisor in sleep medicine and critical care at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, New Delhi. House ofCharu Weighted blanket is available for Rs. 5,499.00 from Amazon.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weighted-blanket/article34070583.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The deltoid has never been so in focus?||Until a season ago, vaccinations were associated with babies and their bottoms. Then the COVID-19 vaccine was accelerated into development and everyone pulled up their sleeves to get a shot. Specifically, they thrust out the deltoid muscle for a jab and a snap: President Ram Nath Kovind, having folded up a staid long sleeve; Stephen Fry, who showed the shoulder not getting vaccinated; Arnold Schwarzenegger, who got his through the car window. And everybody’s parents. In a life starved of going out, and of selfies in front of waterfalls, there hasn’t been much to report on after the initial frenzy of bread baking and online yoga class taking. Now, there is the registration, the process of going to a hospital to get it, and the thrill of being a part of something important, something that changed the way we live. Showing off the deltoid symbolises both a culmination of a year of restriction and the end of fear. For a change, we haven’t bothered with toning our deltoids, or putting makeup on it, or even dressing it up with a pretty shirt. It’s a fleshy or bony deltoid that the PR people just didn’t have the time to get in on. We have honestly — after a long time on social media — put out pictures that don’t look so flattering. But they do carry a social message that says ‘I got the vaccine, and you should too.’ In a politically charged country, we have chosen to air a part of ourselves as proof that we’ve been responsible, like pictures of the indelible ink marked pointing finger on voting day. It’s a choice people have made to avoid politicizing an act: on social media, people have pictures of taking the shot rather than of the provisional certificate with the Prime Minister’s picture eyeballing you. Mostly though, it is a symbol of belief in the healthcare system that despite all its glitches and corruption, still manages to draw people who hope for a healthier tomorrow. It’s exactly what the doctor ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-deltoid-has-never-been-so-in-focus/article34070575.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Revenge Bedtime Procrastination||During the lockdown many of us may have binge-watched TV shows, craving for entertainment. Or, we got so caught up with work during the day and found no free time that we delayed sleep just to unwind. Sacrificing sleep hours when you are rushing against a deadline or partying is something we are all occasionally guilty of. But when we stay up later than intended without a valid reason, even when we know the next day begins early and the lack of sleep may affect our work or mood, it is called Revenge Bedtime Procrastination (RBP). Doctors say COVID-19 stay-at-home orders ushered in lifestyle changes and many people engaged in RBP without realising how it slowly and silently turns into a habit, taking a toll on their health in the long run. Dr Pavan Yadav, Consultant (Interventional Pulmonology, Sleep Medicine and Lung transplantation) with Aster RV Hospital, Bengaluru, puts it simply: “Bedtime procrastination is viewed as getting ‘revenge’ on a daytime that gives us no leisure hours.” It is an emerging concept in sleep science and the debate on the psychology behind the voluntary sleep reduction is still on, he says and adds, “It is not an established clinical condition requiring treatment unless it becomes really serious.” In fact, the word 'revenge' was added to the concept of ‘bedtime procrastination’ on social media when people from China expressed how frustrating their long stressful hours were with no time for personal enjoyment and it found resonance. Dr Yadav confirms an increase in the number of sleep disruption or deprivation cases, which could also be attributed to factors such as anxiety. While RBP can be tempting in the moment, when sleep debt leads to brain fog and poor emotional regulation, the issue needs to be addressed. Behaviour associated with RBP is easy to identify: It’s the conscious delaying of going to sleep; the absence of a valid reason for staying up late and remaining glued to electronic gadgets — all this while being aware of the consequences of insufficient sleep.  Future research may lead to a deeper understanding on the whys of RBP, but all docs are in agreement that sleep – both quality and quantity — should not be compromised upon. “Sleep hygiene is the key to happiness, better memory and concentration, reduced irritability and fatigue,” says Dr Yadav In this column, we demystify the buzzwords in wellness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/revenge-bedtime-procrastination/article34070576.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||A matter of light and death||Kunal Shrivastava, who works with a Gurugram-based MNC, had a narrow escape on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway last Monday. He was driving when the flashlights of an onrushing car blinded him for a split second. It took him five seconds to regain vision, and in that nowhere moment, he nearly crashed onto the divider. Using high beam is prohibited in city limits, but due to a lack of awareness and absence of technology to stringently monitor the violation, drivers go scot-free, putting the lives of others at considerable risk .  According to Delhi traffic police, in January and February, they had fined 82 drivers for using high beam. The prosecution figure was 427 in 2020, 3,427 in 2019 and 5,710 in year 2018. While 2020 was a washout year for most activities, these numbers show a declining trend and even by those standards, an abysmally low prosecution rate this year. “Using high beam is an offence punishable under Motor Vehicles Act. We fine car drivers for Rs. 500 for first offence and Rs. 1,500 for second and subsequent offences. Traffic policemen deployed at various junctions keep check on violation and educate drivers if they are unaware of traffic violations like high beam,” said a traffic police officer. Accident prone The officer added that high beam lights including modified ones can temporarily blind drivers, especially elders, coming from the opposite direction and might cause accidents. Rohit Baluja, head of the Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE), said that Central Motor Vehicles rule clearly defines the deflection of lights but most drivers don’t abide by it. The driver should always use a low beam and police should carry a drive to enforce the rule strictly, he asserts. “Under the new Motor Vehicles rule, any modification to the vehicle is to be fined by the transport department but it never happened. Any type of modification should follow Automotive Industry Standard [AIS] and Bureau of India Standards [BIS]. Motorists using chunky headlamps should be fined heavily and vehicles should be impounded,” said Mr. Baluja.  Need for technology He added that large numbers of road accidents are happing due to this violation, especially at night. The reason for road accidents due to high beam never gets mentioned in any police FIR or accident report. Hit and run cases are the most common road accidents caused due to high beam.The enforcement authorities should come up with the latest technology to fine drivers involved in high beam violation, besides creatingan awareness drive,” said Mr. Baluja. Another driver Gaurav Singh said that expensive cars come with projector headlights for more brightness, which often creates trouble for two-wheeler drivers like him. “I can bet upon that 90% of the drivers will be unaware of the rule regarding the prohibition of high beam within city limits. Car drivers use intense bright headlamp in narrow lanes in areas like Karol Bagh, Kirti Nagar and other internal roads. Only self awareness is the way out,” said Mr. Singh. Not just the high-beaming cars coming in from the opposite direction, but those from behind too can make life difficult. The illumination reflects into the eyes of the person driving the vehicle in front through rearview mirrors or side view mirrors, said Mukesh Rana, a cab driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-matter-of-light-and-death/article34070356.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Heat and harvest result in dwindling protesters||Queues at langars for food has thinned at the Ghazipur border protest site as most of the protesters have left to their villages for harvesting work at their farms after the farmers’ leaders went to poll-bound States for campaigning. Gurnam Singh, who works at a langar , said they only prepare food for around one hundred people during breakfast. “Less number of takers and shortage of storage capacity of cooked food are the two reasons for preparing less food. We can’t hold cooked food for long during this season. Around a month ago, they used to prepare food for around 350 people during single shift. It is just a routine thing as protesters will come back after harvesting season,” said Mr. Gurnam. There are more than 15 functional langars at the Ghazipur protest site preparing food, apart from snacks and tea, in three shifts. Still strong Manpreet Chaudhary, a protester said that the crowd will come back when their leader Rakesh Tikait, who is busy strengthening their movement in other States, returns. “Around 500 protesters are still at the Ghazipur protest site at any time of the day. Farmers haven’t called off their protest; they have just gone home for harvesting and other household work. More than 10,000 farmers are on standby and will march to Delhi in case of an emergency,” Manpreet said. The remaining protesters have shifted to under the flyover during day time to beat the heat. They said they will also construct mud house or pucca house like the one in Singhu and Tikri border after Rakesh Tikait returns from West Bengal. “Due to the hot weather there are just a few protesters at the main stage. The crowd swells during morning and evening when temperature is moderate. We have placed drinking water coolers at several points. To avoid protesters falling sick, we have maintained rotation of people at the site,” said Gopal Singh, a farmer. No shortage Protesters said there is no shortage of supplies but they can’t stay away from farms for a lengthy spell. After harvesting rabi crops, they have to prepare their farms, which is a long process and requires a lot of human involvement and expertise. “We have to maintain a balance between protest and farms. If they leave farms for protest then what will we eat and how will we earn. It is a cycle that we have to take care. We support farmers’ protest and demand repeal of laws but can’t afford to ignore our farms,” said Hanuman Rathi, a farmer.  Around 500 protesters are still at the Ghazipur protest site at any time of the day. More than 10,000 farmers are on standby and will march to Delhi in case of an emergency  Manpreet Chaudhary  A protester||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/heat-and-harvest-result-in-dwindling-protesters/article34070360.ece
15 March 2021||March 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘BJP can transform Kerala to its original glory and splendour’||For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that is using all the tactics in its armoury to increase its tally in the Kerala Legislative Assembly, Elattuvalapil Sreedharan , the legendary “Metroman”, is a prize catch. The 89-year-old Dr. Sreedharan, who recently joined the BJP, says he expects a sizeable number of votes to swing to the BJP.  Isn’t it risky to step into partisan politics after six decades in public life with an excellent track record? When one is passionate about serving his own State and the way for it needs entering into politics, any risk in achieving my objective is worth it. This would perhaps be the last opportunity I would get to serve Kerala. Why did you choose the BJP? The CPI(M) [Communist Party of India (Marxist)]-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) have been in power alternatively for about two decades. Is there any tangible benefit to the State that we could boast of? Ever since Narendra Modi came to power as the Prime Minister, I was admiring the way he had raised the status of the country. Naturally, that led me to join the BJP. What ails Kerala? What are the solutions? Kerala which was God’s Own Country is no more so now. There have been hardly any infrastructure projects completed, except the Kochi Metro. During the past 20 years, not even one industry has come here. Some of the good industries started by persons such as Kochouseph Chittilappilly were forced to shift to other States due to militant labour. The work culture, the militant trade unionism, high cost of labour, unreliable and costly electric energy, unaffordable cost of land and governmental lethargy in protecting and nurturing industries [are the issues]. [Also,] high degree of corruption and nepotism at every level, no governance, government is only for party people. [And] poor delivery of development projects. A BJP government will erase corruption at all levels of the government, bring an entirely new work culture, and bring industries which can create wealth and job opportunities, and bring good revenues to the government. Kerala needs development in five important areas — infrastructure, industry, health, education and tourism. Kerala must have a stable and dynamic government to ensure development in all areas mentioned above and I feel the BJP can provide this. The BJP has not been able to make inroads as expected in Kerala due to divisions in the party. Do you see a change in this? There is no division in the party whatsoever. These are all media creations. Can you show a single example of a BJP party man leaving the party and joining any other party? During the past five years, the percentage of votes has increased significantly in favour of the BJP. With the LDF and the UDF now standing totally discredited, I expect sizeable votes to swing to the BJP, and I expect the BJP to win with a majority. Has Kerala missed the development bus? Where do you want Kerala to be in 10 or 20 years from now? Compared with other advanced States, Kerala is now at least 10 to 15 years behind. With the BJP coming to power, Kerala will be transformed into a modern and benevolent State. BJP will be able to work with the Government of India, whereas the other two parties are always in confrontation. Within 10 years, the BJP can transform the State to its original glory and splendour. What will be your campaign style? I will not be adopting the usual style of vote-seeking like campaign[ing] house-to-house or shop-to-shop. I will inform people digitally and through the media [of] my plan of action and leave them to support me if they have trust and confidence. I will attend one or two meetings a day. There will not be any drumbeating or loud music shows. My campaign will not trouble the public. I will not allow the partymen to disturb the people.  I expect sizeable votes to swing to the BJP, and I expect the BJP to win with a majority||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-can-transform-kerala-to-its-original-glory-and-splendour/article34070062.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC to resume full physical hearing from today||The Delhi High Court will on Monday resume full physical hearing of all its Benches a year after it started restricted functioning of courts due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Apart from full physical hearing, the High Court will also consider request of parties to join the court proceedings through videoconferencing in “exceptional cases”. This hybrid form of hearing is one, where some of the parties or their counsels may be physically present in the courtroom when the matter is taken up by the court for hearing, while others may participate through the online mode. Judges’ discretion “As to what would constitute exceptional cases, would have to be left to the discretion of the Judge/Judges before whom the cases are listed, and before whom the request for videoconference hearing is made,” the High Court said. The High Court also said it would be appropriate that such a request is permitted to be made at least one working day in advance, so that it is considered by the Judges and a decision is communicated to the counsel and parties well in advance. The senior counsels appearing for Delhi High Court Bar Association, Bar Council of Delhi and Co-ordination Committee of All District Bar Association have supported the full-fledged resumption of physical hearing from Monday and have also supported the decision that the hybrid system of hearing should be permitted only in “exceptional cases”. After the imposition of the first nationwide lockdown, the court had started conducting hearings through video conferencing from March 24 last year to contain the spread of the virus. Over five months later, the High Court resumed physical hearing of courts proceedings initially with five of its Benches on a rotation basis from September 1. The number of Benches conducting physical hearing was increased gradually. “Considering the fact that the number of COVID-19 cases has declined considerably, and more and more services and facilities have been opened in the last few months, including schools, colleges, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools etc.; it is high time that the courts should also resume physical hearing,” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said. “A beginning has to be made and the fear that has gripped people, including the advocates, has to be shaken off. It also appears to us that some amount of complacency has crept in, and a large number of people have found comfort in working from home, and do not wish to get out of their comfort zone,” the Bench said. “At the same time, there can be no denial to the fact that with an increase in intermingling and congression of people, there is a possibility of a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases,” it remarked. As far as district courts here are concerned, since the infrastructure to put hybrid form of hearing is not in place, a similar arrangement cannot be directed for the district ccourt for the time being, the High Court said.  Considering that the number of COVID-19 cases has declined considerably, and services and facilities have been opened in the last few months, it is high time that the courts should resume physical hearing High Court Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-to-resume-full-physical-hearing-from-today/article34070349.ece
15 March 2021||COIMBATORE,||Just a thimbleful of orders in Tiruppur||Election campaigns usually bring in a fresh flow of orders to several industries in Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu, as political parties buy flags, T-shirts, caps and other campaign staples. The demand comes from Tamil Nadu and other States and is not just for the Lok Sabha or Assembly elections but even for the local body polls. The parties and local leaders buy them with party symbols and images of candidates and leaders printed. Though the election season is now on in several States, including Tamil Nadu, the companies in Tiruppur have not seen a buoyant response so far. The enquiries are good, even from States such as West Bengal. But conversion of enquiries to orders is yet to gain momentum, says Mayilsamy of Fibre to Fashion. His company makes customised T-shirts. The parties in Tamil Nadu have announced the candidates. “We hope orders to pick up soon,” he says. Mahalingam of Sri Kamatchi Tex, who has been in the business for 30 years now, says parties and local leaders buy flags in bulk. “Earlier, people had to come to Tiruppur to buy. Now, flags are printed across the State. During elections, we focus on flags and keep some stock for last-minute demands. But the response so far this year is slow,” he says. “We will know in a week how the actual demand will be.” This year, the companies are offering printed masks too. There were enquiries from Kerala. But customised masks have not been a fast-moving product, says a manufacturer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/just-a-thimbleful-of-orders-in-tiruppur/article34070064.ece
15 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Plasters peel off, cracks appear in beams of NBCC construction in Gurugram||Harish Pant, a retired senior Central government official, spent around Rs. 8 lakh on the interiors of his three-bedroom flat at ‘NBCC Green View’ group housing project in Sector 37 D here in January last year so he could shift to his “dream home” with his family. But it has been more than a year since, and his dream to spend his retired life in his own home still eludes him. The lockdown caused the delay and then when he visited the flat in August, he was left aghast to see its condition. “I was shocked to see large cracks on two walls of the living room. The moulding tiles in the adjoining bedroom had come off on its own. The cracks only widened during subsequent visits. I have got them repaired now, but still in a fix whether to shift or not,” said Mr. Pant, former Director, Federation of Indian Export Organisations. He claimed that he also wrote to the NBCC chief twice, but there was no response. Though it has been a little over three years since the sprawling 18-acre housing project of National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Limited, a blue-chip Government of India Navratna enterprise, was completed in 2017-end, it is hard to miss large patches of plasters peeling off the towers and walls exposing the rusted reinforcement and the cracks in beams, columns and slabs. It does not just make the buildings look dilapidated, the residents said that they were too scared to live in the “dangerous” structures. Lintels near the lift areas and a couple of balconies too have been given support to prevent them from collapsing. The basement area, big enough to accommodate around 1,000 cars, lies empty. Instead, it is inundated with foul-smelling water due to leakage and seepage. Groundwater oozes out in the substation area and is pumped out round-the-clock to prevent it from flooding. Deepak Jain, Treasurer, Association of Apartment Owners (AOAO), explained that the ground-water table was high in this part of the city, but the water-proofing work for the society was not done. “If the water from the sub-station is not pumped out, it may get flooded in no time posing a big threat to the residents,” said Mr. Jain. G. Mohanty, president, AOAO, said that cracks appeared in the walls, the floor, and the columns of his flat as well soon after the interior work. “When I wrote to the NBCC, they advised me to get it repaired. But the cracks appeared again and this is the story with almost all flats in this society,” said Mr. Mohanty. He added that the residents, all retired Central government employees, feel cheated by the government and wanted their money back. Randhir Singh, general-secretary, AOAO, said that the residents wrote over a hundred letters to the company, the Ministry and other related agencies, but nothing concrete was done so far. After a virtual meeting with the Minister in August last, the NBCC hired IIT-Delhi team to “advise on the condition of the buildings”. “The scope of the Delhi-IIT team was limited to “virtual inspection”. It was an eye-wash. The letter says that ‘complete proof checking of the structural designs of the building’ is not part of its scope. The team was told to peruse the reports already available,” argued Mr. Mohanty. CVC report A Central Vigilance Commission report on the matter, two years ago, pointed out poor planning and structural design with regards to basement, no monitoring over quantity of cement during construction, not providing its team details of technical staffers deployed during construction and not complying with the specific conditions stipulated in the Environmental Clearance. It also observed that water-proofing work was not done.The CVC said that it proved poor quality of work. When contacted, the NBCC argued that the residents were staying in the housing society for the last four years without any major issue and “in last 4 years, Delhi-NCR has witnessed more than 30 earthquakes and building is safe without any distress”. NBCC (India) said that the scope of IIT-Delhi covered everything that was required. On the technical examination by CVC, the NBCC maintained that its report had not pointed out poor planning and structure design and environment clearance and other statutory approvals, including Occupation Certificate were obtained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plasters-peel-off-cracks-appear-in-beams-of-nbcc-construction-in-gurugram/article34070352.ece
15 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Environmentalists, residents against legalisation of mining in Aravalis||Ahead of the hearing of a petition by Haryana government seeking permission for mining in Aravalis in Gurugram and Faridabad in the Supreme Court, environmentalists and the residents are strongly opposed to mining being legalised and demand that forest cover be increased in the State. In an email campaign to the Chief Justice of India, the residents have been demanding that no mining and real estate be allowed in the Aravalis. Instead, the government should come out with a three-year roadmap to take the legal native forest cover in the State to 20%, as per the Haryana Forest Department policy target and an all-India average. The other demands include demolition of all illegal construction in the Aravalis, planting of native sablings, notifying 50,000 acre of the Aravalis as deemed forest and retaining the Aravalis in South Haryana as Natural Conservation Zone. Pollution issue The residents, in the email, argued that destruction of the Aravalis would worsen the air pollution situation in the NCR and the mountain range is the only natural barrier against desertification. The Aravalis, with their natural cracks and fissures, have the potential to put two million litres of water per hectare in the ground every year. Besides, the mountain range is a biodiversity hotspot with 400-odd species of native trees, shrubs and herbs; 200-odd native and migratory bird species;  100-odd butterfly species; 20-odd reptile species and 20-odd mammal species, including leopards, says the email. As per the Economic Survey of Haryana 2020-21, as many as 58 mines out of the total 119 have been allocated. More than 26,000 cases of illegal mining, including 1,358 till September 2020 for the current financial year, have been reported. Besides, the collection from mining for 2020-21, till January, is Rs. 770.00 crore – the highest since 2005-06.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/environmentalists-residents-against-legalisation-of-mining-in-aravalis/article34070351.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||DUTA seeks V-C’s mediation in running colleges||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association wrote to interim Vice-Chancellor P.C Joshi on Sunday to intervene into the functioning of 12 colleges of the university that are fully funded by the Delhi government. The DUTA wrote: “The future of these colleges and their status appears to be in serious jeopardy. We seek your immediate intervention and request you to urgently discuss the matter in the Executive Council,” the DUTA said. The teachers’ body has been on strike over the issue of salary not having been paid to the staffers of the 12 colleges funded by the Delhi government. They have alleged that insufficient funds have been released and have decided to go ahead with a university shut down. ‘Insufficient grants’ “We have taken cognizance of the fact that the Delhi government has released Rs. 82.79 crore under salary head and an amount of Rs. 9.50 crore under other than salaries’ head on March 12. However, the grants released are insufficient, and, in most colleges, will find requirements for payment of salaries only up to January,” the DUTA said. The teachers also alleged that the Governing Bodies of the 12 colleges are being asked to adopt a document called Pattern of Assistance issued by the Directorate of Higher Education, to redefine association of these 12 colleges with Delhi University and divest Delhi government of its funding responsibility.  Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minster Manish Sisodia directed the Directorate of Higher Education to set up an inquiry committee to look into alleged financial irregularities in these 12 colleges. The Minister said that stringent action shall be taken against responsible officials if irregularities are found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duta-seeks-v-cs-mediation-in-running-colleges/article34070358.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for cheating plot buyers of Rs. 8 crore||Two men were arrested for allegedly cheating buyers of industrial plots after posing themselves as Delhi State Infrastructural Industrial Development Corporation (DSIIDC) officials, police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Vikram Saxena, a resident of Dehradun in Uttrakhand and Mithun Bhatnagar, a resident of Saharanpur in UP. They have cheated victims to the tune of Rs. 8 crore, they said. Police said that one Naresh Jindal and fourteen others have given them complaints. Jindal had applied for industrial plot of DSIIDC in 1998 in the reallocation scheme, but his application form was rejected, police said. In 2018, accused Vikram Saxena and Ajay Saxena met him and introduced themselves as employees of DSIIDC. They showed him their identity cards and his original application form, which had been rejected earlier by DSIIDC, a senior police officer said. They lured him to take his rejected plot in lieu of extra expenditure. They also guided him to tell other known persons to get their allotted plots, police said. Later, the complainant and his six other known persons were ready to pay extra money to get their plots, police said. “Vikram and Ajay asked them to deposit money for file and other charges. The complainant gave Rs. 7 lakh to the alleged persons, but did not get his plot,” DCP (Economic Offences Wing) Mohammad Ali said. Worked as DSIIDC agent The accused were arrested on Saturday. Interrogation revealed that Vikram used to work as an agent at DSIIDC and help the persons to complete their file work. He came to know that in 1996, DSIIDC launched a scheme for industrial plots in Patparganj and at that time, the name of the DSIIDC was DSIDC, the DCP said. In order to cheat people, they started a company Dev Sewa Income Development Company (DSIDC) and opened a bank account in the name of DSIDC, police said. They got the list of names and addresses of rejected applicants of this scheme from the official website of DSIIDC. Thereafter they contacted the rejected applicants, the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-cheating-plot-buyers-of-rs-8-crore/article34070361.ece
15 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC takes into account age, quashes case against youth||The Delhi High Court has directed a 21-year-old youth, who had stabbed a man on his stomach, to do community service at Bangla Sahib Gurdwara here for a month while quashing the criminal case against him. Justice Subramonium Prasad while coming at the decision noted that the accused Mohd Umair is “a 21-year-old youngster having entire life ahead of him” and also that he and the victim has entered into a settlement. “The accused has expressed regret in the court. The complainant [victim] who is present in the court also states that the life of the youngster would get spoiled if proceedings continue,” Justice Prasad said. The incident took place on March 26 last year at Jama Masjid area when the victim while on his way to a friend’s home in the locality found Umair arguing with his mother on the alley. When the victim asked Umair not to argue with his mother, Umair started abusing him and started fighting with him. Umair then took a knife from a vegetable vendor and stabbed the victim. Umair has already spent about a month in custody and is currently on bail. “The petitioner is a youngster of 21 years having entire life ahead of him. The parties are living in the same area. There are no criminal antecedents against the petitioner. He has not absconded,” the court said while cautioning Umair “not to indulge in such activities and repeat the offence in future”. “The youngster must learn to control his anger and keep in mind that he cannot take law in his hands,” Justice Prasad said, ordering the accused to do one month community service at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib from March 16 to April 16. The High Court also imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on Umair. In case of any absenteeism or default on Umair’s part, the court asked Gurdwara Bangla Sahib to inform the SHO concerned, who shall in turn inform the public prosecutor, for bringing it to the notice of the court.  The youngster must learn to control his anger and keep in mind that he cannot take law in his hands Justice Subramonium Prasad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-takes-into-account-age-quashes-case-against-youth/article34070353.ece
15 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||One dead, 2 hurt in 3 separate firing incidents in north-east Delhi||A 47-year-old man was shot dead and two others got injured in three separate firing incidents in north-east Delhi in the last two days, police said on Sunday. In the first incident on Friday, Suhail and Gazi fired four rounds at a bike mechanic Al Tasleem over some repairing issue in Jafrabad, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-dead-2-hurt-in-3-separate-firing-incidents-in-north-east-delhi/article34070362.ece
