16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 60% OBC, SC posts vacant in IIMs||More than half of the faculty positions reserved for the OBCs in Central institutions of higher education are vacant while about 40% of those reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Tribes also remain unfilled, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ told the Lok Sabha on Monday in a written response to a question from three Congress MPs. The situation is particularly acute in the elite Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs), where more than 60% of SC and OBC reserved positions are vacant, while almost 80% of positions reserved for the STs have not been filled. This means that out of 24 positions reserved for the STs, only five have been filled. For the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), data has only been provided for non-faculty positions. Both the IITs and the IIMs have been lobbying for exemption from such faculty quota requirements. Assistant prof. posts filled Mr. Nishank’s response to another question from Congress MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy showed that within the Central Universities, vacancies were higher at the level of professors. Of 709 assistant professor positions reserved for the STs at the 42 universities, more than 500 have been filled. However, when it comes to professors, only nine have been filled of the 137 reserved for the ST candidates. This means that 93% of these posts remain unfilled. Less than 1% of the 1,062 professors in Central universities are from the ST communities. Similarly, 64% of the 2,206 assistant professor positions reserved for the OBCs have been filled in the Central Universities. However, less than 5% of the 378 professor positions reserved for the OBCs have been filled. Despite the high levels of vacancies, Mr. Nishank’s written response to the first question claimed that, “Now, after implementation of ‘The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act, 2019’, the OBC reservation has been implemented at all levels.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-60-obc-sc-posts-vacant-in-iims/article34079098.ece
16 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Judges, scribes, bank employees can get vaccine in Ludhiana||Judges, journalists, bank employees, NGO workers and advocates are among those who can now get the COVID-19 vaccination in Punjab’s Ludhiana. A decision regarding adding new groups of people in the COVID-19 vaccination list was taken by the district administration on Monday. Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar announced the decision of expanding the vaccination ambit. ‘Front-line workers’ According to the order, all journalists, employees of all government and private banks, government and private schools, workers of foodgrain agencies, judicial officers, court employees, advocates, NGO members who have worked to check the spread of COVID-19, can get the vaccine by registering themselves as “front-line workers”. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the novel coronavirus cases in recent weeks. The State's infection count has reached 1,97,755, with 6,072 fatalities so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/judges-scribes-bank-employees-can-get-vaccine-in-ludhiana/article34079632.ece
16 March 2021||Mumbai,||Antilia scare: NCP backs Home Minister||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday ruled out the possibility of resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister and party leader Anil Deshmukh. is unlikely to face the heat. The NCP chief Sharad Pawar held a meeting with party ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) where the issue of arrest of Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze by National Investigation agency (NIA) in the case relating to explosives found outside the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani was discussed. Mr. Deshmukh has come under fire from the Opposition over the sloppy handling of the matter. Speaking to reporters, NCP State unit president Jayant Patil said there is no question of changing the Home Minister. “NIA is investigating the case of explosives found outside Mukesh Ambani’s house while state ATS is probing the death of Mansukh Hiren. All three parties in the government stand united on a position that no guilty will be spared. Whoever is found guilty will be punished,” said Mr. Patil. Mr. Patil said that Mr. Pawar also met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. “But it was about functioning of the government. They did not discuss anything else,” he said. When asked about Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who had said in Assembly that he is in possession of Hiren’s call data records, Mr. Patil said, “If he really has those CDRs then he should come forward and submit those to the ATS.” Replying to whether the government’s image has taken a hit, Mr. Patil said the BJP is making false charges about the law and order situation. “They seem bent on tarnishing the government’s image. They are only politicising the issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/antilia-scare-ncp-backs-home-minister/article34079695.ece
16 March 2021||Pune,||Cases increasing, but fatalities declining, says Health Minister||While acknowledging that the rapid rise in COVID-19 cases across Maharashtra was a matter of grave concern, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday clarified that the situation did not warrant a lockdown in the State as yet. Instead, Mr. Tope clarified the government would be increasing the number of restrictions to preclude mass congregations and these would be strictly enforced. The Minister also observed that despite the sudden spike in cases in the past fortnight, the mortality rate was declining. Triple formula “We are continuously working on the triple formula of tracking, contact-tracing, and sample testing. We have severely curtailed all social and governmental activities. In some places, we have also imposed night curfews and lockdowns. However, while the Chief Minister and senior functionaries are naturally worried, there is no reason for imposing one either in Mumbai or in the State,” Mr. Tope said. As evidence of the government’s reluctance to impose a lockdown, Mr. Tope said that even Mumbai’s new railway timings had been tweaked to ensure there is no crowding. He said despite the progression of the infection, its growth rate was nevertheless lower than in the past. “While infections are on the rise, fatalities have not, fortunately, risen correspondingly. We still have enough hospital beds to cope with emergencies. But the rate of vaccination needs to be increased,” he said. Mr. Tope said 30 lakh people in the State had been inoculated so far. Vaccination a must Stressing the need for physical distancing, Mr. Tope said wearing masks was mandatory and that the Mumbai civic body and other municipal corporations across Maharashtra had collected fines to the tune of lakhs of rupees till now from errant citizens flouting pandemic norms. Mr. Tope said it was imperative to vaccinate as many senior citizens as possible. “The supply of vaccines is getting better and a quarter of a million people are being vaccinated every day in the State. Private hospitals, too, have been tasked with carrying out a large number of vaccinations. So, I appeal to citizens over the age of 60 to get themselves vaccinated as soon as possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-increasing-but-fatalities-declining-says-health-minister/article34079696.ece
16 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Lathika Subash to contest in Ettumanur as Independent||In a major jolt to the United Democratic Front (UDF), Lathika Subash, just-resigned president of the State Mahila Congress, on Monday announced her decision to contest as an Independent from the Ettumanur Assembly segment, her home turf. The announcement was made at a convention organised by her supporters at her residence in Ettumanur in the evening. Earlier in the day, Ms. Subash had tendered her resignations to the All India Congress Committee and the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee. The other day, she had shaved her head sitting at the front courtyard of the party office in the State capital as a mark of protest for being denied the ticket. Addressing the convention, Ms. Subash said she had been denied a seat despite expressing interest to contest the elections to senior leaders, including Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala, and Mullappally Ramachandran. Follower of party “None of these senior leaders, for whom I had stood for decades on end, even bothered to reach out when I resigned from the Mahila Congress. I have been working for the Congress since the age of 16 and I still remain a follower of this party. However, taking into account the sentiments of the party workers and my well-wishers, I have decided to contest as an Independent candidate,” she said. She accused the Congress leadership of insisting the Kerala Congress faction led by P.J. Joseph to take over Ettumanur even though the latter was not quite keen on the seat. Soon after the announcement, Ms. Subash kick-started her campaign by visiting shops, offices and other commercial institutions in the region. A huge battery of supporters, mostly workers of the Congress, accompanied her. Earlier in the day, Congress Working Committee member A.K. Antony called the protesting leader and requested her to desist from contesting the elections as a rebel candidate. She, however, stuck to her decision. Prince Luckose, the UDF candidate in Ettumanur, too visited her with the same request, though to no avail. Calls of support Meanwhile, several Congress leaders, including former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran, senior Congress leader P.J. Kurien and former Congress leader P.C. Chacko, were learnt to have expressed their solidarity with Ms. Subash. Among those who visited her during the day also included Kerala Khadi and Village Industries Board vice chairperson Sobhana George.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lathika-subash-to-contest-in-ettumanur-as-independent/article34079296.ece
16 March 2021||Chennai,||Palaniswami, Stalin file nominations||With Tamil Nadu poised for a five-cornered Assembly election, AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin, other prominent leaders and several Ministers filed their nomination papers before the Returning Officers of their respective constituencies on Monday. Mr. Palaniswami, the chief ministerial candidate of the ruling party, filed his nomination in the Edappadi constituency in Salem, from where he made his electoral debut in 1989. He has since represented the constituency thrice — 1991, 2011 and 2016. Mr. Stalin, who also entered the Assembly for the first time in 1989 from the Thousand Lights constituency, submitted his nomination papers before the Returning Officer of the Kolathur constituency, from where he was elected in 2011 and 2016. After filing his nomination, he headed to Tiruvarur, which elected his father and former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, and commenced electioneering. He had begun his most recent Parliamentary election campaign, too, from there. MNM founder Kamal Haasan, who is making his electoral debut, filed his nomination in the Coimbatore South constituency, where he will face BJP and Congress candidates. His allies – the AISMK and the IJK – are contesting 40 seats each. AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran, who has allotted 60 seats to the DMDK and counts the AIMIM and the SDPI among his allies, filed his nomination in the Kovilpatti Assembly constituency, where he will take on Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju. NTK founder Seeman, the only leader in Tamil Nadu to have distributed seats equally among male and female candidates, filed his nomination for the Tiruvottiyur constituency. Many Ministers and prominent second-line leaders of various parties also filed their nominations on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-file-nominations/article34079136.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Accused gets death for killing inspector in Batla House||A Delhi court on Monday awarded the death penalty to Ariz Khan for the murder of inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who died while leading the raiding police team at Batla House in Delhi in 2008, terming the offence as “rarest of the rare case”. “Convict (Khan) on account of his despicable act has forfeited his right to live. After balancing mitigating circumstance against aggravating circumstances, it is concluded that it is a rarest of rare case where convict deserves maximum sentence provided under the law,” additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav said. The Special Cell of the Delhi Police had arrested Khan along the India-Nepal border on February 13, 2018, after a decade. Two suspected Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorists were killed and two were arrested when a team of the Special Cell raided a hideout of bomb blast suspects at Batla House on September 19, 2008. Khan and another alleged IM operative Shehzad were also present at the hideout but had managed to escape. “It has been proved on record that convict along with his accomplices fired at police officials on duty without any provocation. It is pertinent to mention here that the police team led by deceased Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma had gone to the place of occurrence only to nab the persons involved in Delhi blast cases,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accused-gets-death-for-killing-inspector-in-batla-house/article34079093.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED launches probe into Bengal Ponzi scheme||The Enforcement Directorate has launched a probe into West Bengal-based Surana group and the associated entities in connection with the allegations of cheating a large number of investors, mostly senior citizens, through a Ponzi scheme. A senior agency official confirmed that investigations into the allegations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act were under way. However, the official refused to comment on the extent of the alleged scam at this stage. The case has been registered on the basis of the FIRs lodged by the victims with the local police. It is alleged that the accused persons collected funds from the investors, including senior citizens, from 2008 till 2018. While multiple FIRs have been filed, no significant action has allegedly been taken so far by the police. Some investors have alleged that several financial institutions were also taken for a ride by mortgaging the properties, acquired using the collected funds, for loans that turned non-performing assets. The process of auctioning the mortgaged properties was also allegedly influenced in collusion with bidders. One of the victims, in a complaint, alleged being cheated of Rs. 11 crore. In a case registered at the Topsia police station, another victim has alleged cheating of Rs. 1.85 crore on the pretext of selling properties in an upcoming building project. There are at least eight more FIRs involving huge amounts, ranging from Rs. 25 lakh to Rs. 3.30 crore. According to the victims, in 2008, the group in question had floated an investment programme for senior citizens. They have identified about 20 companies associated with more than a dozen accused persons. The fund corpus till then was stated on paper to be around Rs. 300 crore, of which about 55% was said to have been invested in the real estate, 25% in gold/jewellery, 15% in shares/stocks and 5% in cash or cash equivalent. In three years, the corpus as claimed in the group’s purported newsletter went up to Rs. 1,100 crore with 70% investment in the real estate. In 2014, it reached to Rs. 1,600 crore and then Rs. 1,900 crore in 2017. As alleged, lured by the prospect of high returns, the victims invested huge amounts. However, they did not get their money back. Having registered the case, the ED has sought details about the FIRs related to the suspects from the local police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-launches-probe-into-bengal-ponzi-scheme/article34079321.ece
16 March 2021||Staff reporterMumbai,||COVID-19: Restrictions return in Maharashtra||In what could be termed as the return of partial lockdown in the State in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra government announced that all cinema halls, hotels and restaurants will run on 50% capacity only. According to new guidelines issued on Monday, entry in cinema halls, restaurants, shopping malls will be allowed only to those wearing masks. Establishments have been asked to make adequate arrangement of santisiers and additional personnel to strictly enforce the rules. In case of violations, these will be closed down till further notification. The guidelines bar all social, cultural, political and religious gathering. Not more than 50 people will be allowed at weddings and not more than 20 at funerals. The government has also announced rules for home isolation under which information should be provided to local authorities along with that of medical practitioners under whose supervision the patient is being operated. While stamps on the patients hands are being made mandatory, a board needs to be fixed on the door with information on 14-day isolation. Family members are also being asked to restrict movements. All offices except those related to health and other essential services will work at 50% capacity. Management trusts of all religious places are being asked to fixed maximum capacity per hour for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-restrictions-return-in-maharashtra/article34079693.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,||With ‘signs of second wave’, CM talks tough||With experts pointing out that the rising COVID-19 cases are a “sign of a second wave”, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday chaired a meeting in which the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)recommended measures, including keeping COVID Care Centres (CCCs) as standby and holding talks with private hospitals to treat patients as they did earlier and ramping up testing. The Chief Minister asked citizens to take precautions seriously if they did not want another lockdown. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Yediyurappa said that there was a need for the public, particularly in districts with high positivity rate, to exercise all precautionary measures such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Bidar, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Rural, Udupi, Tumakuru, Dakshina Kannada, and Bengaluru Urban districts have a high positivity rate, he said, adding, however, that the mortality rate in the State remained low. “I urge people of the State to exercise precautions, if they want to avoid another lockdown,” he said.  Though he announced some new directions, he did not announce many restrictions that were suggested by the TAC on Monday. Mr. Yediyurappa said that he would wait for the meeting of the Prime Minister with Chief Ministers that was scheduled on Wednesday before deciding the next course of action. He said that the officials had suggested that vaccination and the testing rates should be ramped up in districts where the positivity rate was high. Shopkeepers, bus operators and others who came in contact with a large number of people should be tested, he added. Among the measures he announced were increasing contact tracing, establishment of COVID care centres like earlier, and directing officials to get in touch with private hospitals to allocate beds for COVID-19 positive patients and ensure that the supply of oxygen was available.  Mr. Yediyurappa suggested that senior citizens who were to receive vaccination should be identified via voter lists. He also said that measures should be taken to vaccinate people in large apartments and voluntary organisations should be roped in to increase vaccination rates in slums and rural areas.  Atleast 3 lakh people should be vaccinated everyday, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-signs-of-second-wave-cm-talks-tough/article34079130.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CM launches Temple Management System||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated a comprehensive ‘Temple Management System’ on Monday, bringing all temples under one system of the Endowments Department. Information of temples, online services, pilgrim emergency services information, profiles of temples, details of assets of temples, festivities, income and expenditure, dashboard, staff details, calender and such other aspects will be part of the new system. Devotees can access the services by logging on to the website https://tms.ap.gov.in/ Devotees will have an opportunity to offer gifts through e-hundi through QR code. Union Bank’s role Union Bank of India will operate the online payment system, which was started initially in the Annavaram temple on a trial basis. Officials informed that the system will be made available in 11 major temples by the end of March. On this occasion, the Union Bank of India scanned the QR code and offered Rs. 10,116 to the Annavaram temple via e-hundi. Mr. Jagan said that the new system would help in eliminating corruption in temples besides ensuring clean and transparent policies. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Machilipatnam MP Vallabhaneni Balashouri, Principal Secretary, Endowments Vani Mohan, Endowments Commissioner Arjuna Rao, Union Bank of India MD and CEO Raj Kiran Roy G, SLBC convenor V. Brahmananda Reddy, SLBC AGM and coordinator E. Rajababu, Regional Head V. Ramesh were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-launches-temple-management-system/article34079000.ece
16 March 2021||Kolkata,||Will uproot all conspirators: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday resumed her campaign in districts with a strong message that she will uproot those who are “conspiring” against her. “My leg will heal in the next few years. I will see whether your legs can move freely on Bengal’s soil,” Ms. Banerjee said at Jhalda rally in Purulia. On the injury she sustained during her campaign in Nandigram on March 10, when she was allegedly pushed to the ground by miscreants, she said she is a “street fighter” and has suffered many injuries in life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-uproot-all-conspirators-mamata/article34079432.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Laxity in COVID-19 protocols is fuelling cases’||Cautioning that in India a few States currently account for more than 80% of the daily active new COVID-19 cases, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said, “Negligence towards COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is the main reason behind the rising cases. It is important to ascertain that COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is followed even after the vaccine is available.” He added, “We have to make COVID-19 vaccination programme aJan Andolanby increasing awareness about the COVID-19 appropriate behaviours and also about the vaccination.” The Minister was speaking at the inauguration of the sixth mega-health camp in Parliament House Annexe for super-specialist consultations for parliamentarians. 26, 291 fresh cases India, meanwhile, continued to register a rise in the number of cases with 26,291 fresh cases in the past 24 hours along with 17,455 recoveries and 118 deaths, according to data released by the Health Ministry. Overall, the country has registered a total of 1,13,85,339 cases, 1,10,07,352 recoveries, and has 2,19,262 active cases with a total death toll of 1,58,725. While the number of COVID-19 cases has shown a consistent declining trend over the past month, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana have reported a rising trend in infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/laxity-in-covid-19-protocols-fuelling-cases/article34079099.ece
16 March 2021||Vijayawada,||Industries to get desalinated water||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to provide desalinated water to industries in order to conserve freshwater. In a review meeting on the conservation of freshwater and supplying purified water to industries, on Monday, the Chief Minister suggested that desalination plants be promoted in coastal areas and recycled water supplied to industries through dedicated pipelines. He called for an action plan in this regard and ordered that the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation should take up the responsibility. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted surface waters in all the reservoirs and canals to be conserved. Ministers B. Satyanarayana, M. Goutham Reddy and P. Anil Kumar Yadav were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-to-get-desalinated-water/article34079095.ece
16 March 2021||Thrissur,||Permission for Thrissur Pooram granted||A high-level meeting convened by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy has given permission for conducting Thrissur Pooram with full rituals. The government agreed to the demands of the Devaswoms concerned with controls according to the COVID-19 protocols. A team led by the District Collector and the DMO will decide the number of people to be allowed for the Pooram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/permission-for-thrissur-pooram-granted/article34079479.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,||BIFFes postponed indefinitely||Citing a surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the Karnataka government decided to postpone the 13th edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) indefinitely. An order in this regard was issued on Monday. Prior to the government order, a core committee held a meeting in which all the stakeholders unanimously agreed to postpone the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biffes-postponed-indefinitely/article34079133.ece
16 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Kolkata nearby||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday said the NDA government gave Muslim women in the country the liberty they deserved by declaring triple talaq illegal. Claiming that the party has been working for Assam’s peace and prosperity, he alluded to “positive changes” in Jammu and Kashmir after the repeal of Article 370. “Triple talaq was unacceptable in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and many other Muslim countries, but in vogue in India because previous governments did not dare to touch it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article34079320.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘India will take up racism incidents with the U.K.’||External Affairs minister S. Jaishankar told the Rajya Sabha on Monday that India will take up incidents of racism with the United Kingdom “with great candour when required”. The Minister was responding to an incident of racism faced by an Indian student in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-will-take-up-racism-incidents-with-the-uk/article34079434.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Budget will push State into financial bankruptcy’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday termed the State Budget presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as an “unrealistic, anti-development one that would push the State towards bankruptcy in the coming years”. Initiating the debate in the Legislative Assembly on the Budget, Mr. Siddaramaiah expressed fear that the State was being pushed to the brink of bankruptcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/budget-will-push-state-into-financial-bankruptcy/article34079406.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway reopens||The carriageway of Delhi-Meerut Expressway, directed towards Ghaziabad from Delhi, reopened for motorists on Monday. The road was closed by the Delhi police following the violence on January 26. The other side of the carriageway is still blocked by protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-ghaziabad-carriageway-reopens/article34079634.ece
16 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Sachin Vaze suspended, challenges arrest in HC||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze moved the Bombay High Court on Tuesday challenging his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25.The petition said he was “wrongfully arrested without any notice, without providing a copy of the FIR, without explaining the reasons for arrest, and without informing him as per the Criminal Procedure Code.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sachin-vaze-suspended-challenges-arrest-in-hc/article34079698.ece
16 March 2021||Mumbai,||No coercive action against Sharjeel Usmani||The Bombay High Court on Monday recorded the statement by the Maharashtra government that it would not take any coercive action against Sharjeel Usmani, an alumnus of Aligarh Muslim University, as long as he appeared before the Pune police for allegedly making objectionable statements at the second Elgaar Parishad. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Usmani through senior advocate Mihir Desai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-coercive-action-against-sharjeel-usmani/article34079699.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,||Portion of inscription has eroded, says ASI||Erosion of the top portion of the Kannada inscription found on the Hoige Bazaar campus of the College of Fisheries makes it difficult to prima facie say what is the purpose of the inscription that relates to donation of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/portion-of-inscription-has-eroded-says-asi/article34079672.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruvarur,||Prove allegation on Jaya’s death: Stalin to CM||DMK president M.K.Stalin, on Monday, challenged CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami to initiate legal action and prove his allegation that the DMK was responsible for the death of former CM Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prove-allegation-on-jayas-death-stalin-to-cm/article34079193.ece
16 March 2021||Vijayawada,||15brief1||Banking services were hit across the State as around 25,000 employees and officers went on a two-day strike on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15brief1/article34079094.ece
16 March 2021||Kolkata,||Protests in Bengal BJP over candidates||Protests erupted at several places in West Bengal including in front of the State BJP office at Hastings in Kolkata. Supporters of the party held protests for hours at Hastings demanding change of candidates in many seats. They were upset with the candidates at Panchala, Udaynarayanpur and Raidighi Assembly seats. Senior leaders like Mukul Roy, MP Arjun Singh and Shivprakash had to face the protesters who broke barricades and also indulged in violence. In districts like Hooghly, the party office was attacked. On Sunday, the BJP supporters in Singur had protested against the nomination of 88-year Rabindranath Bhattacharya, a four-time Trinamool Congress MLA who joined the BJP only a few days ago. Most of the supporters protesting were against the nomination of leaders who joined the party from the TMC. State spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said the protests were isolated incidents and said as the BJP is growing the party has to deal with some “teething problems”. Former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his aide Baisakhi Banerjee had resigned from the BJP. Mr. Chatterjee, also a former Minister in Mamata Banerjee’s Cabinet, was among the heavyweight TMC leaders who had joined the BJP. The party on Sunday announced candidates for 63 of the 75 seats that are going to the polls in the third and fourth phases. Two-time TMC MLA Debashree Roy on Monday quit the party after being denied ticket. The actor-turned-politician wrote to TMC State president saying she will not be associated with the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-in-bengal-bjp-over-candidates/article34079325.ece
16 March 2021||Kannur,||Kerala CM Pinarayi files papers||For the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Dharmadom in Kannur is its invincible bastion where none other than its Polit Bureau member and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking re-election. While the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) election campaign in the constituency is already on, the United Democratic Front (UDF) is yet to commence the election work there as uncertainty continues over its candidature in the segment. The Chief Minister, who is contesting from Dharmadom for the second time, filed his nomination papers at the Collectorate here on Monday. Deemed a pocket borough of the CPI(M), Dharmadom epitomises for the party its sense of certainty about continuity of the LDF government. Whereas in the UDF, uncertainty still prevails as G. Devarajan of the All India Forward Bloc, an ally of the front, has reportedly refused to take on Mr. Vijayan in the constituency. Strong candidate Mr. Vijayan won the Assembly seat in 2016, defeating Mambaram Divakaran of the Congress with a huge margin of 36,905 votes. Mr. Divakaran has made it known to the party leadership that he was not interested in contesting in the constituency this time. Considering the need for a strong candidate in Dharmadom, some of the Congress leaders, including Mr. Divakaran, are learnt to have even suggested that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee working president K Sudhakaran be fielded against Mr. Vijayan. In sharp contrast to the UDF’s predicament in Dharmadom, the LDF’s campaign continues apace after Mr. Vijayan started his public meeting soon after his arrival in the constituency on March 8. A star campaigner of the LDF, he is expected to conclude his campaign tour there by March 16. He would be visiting the other districts in the coming days. Meanwhile, the BJP, which is yet to begin its campaign in the constituency, has decided to field 71-year-old C.K. Padmanabhan, former State president of the party. Mr. Padmanabhan is a native of Kannur. On Monday, Mr. Vijayan filed three sets of papers. He was accompanied by CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan and CPI national council member C.N. Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-cm-pinarayi-files-papers/article34079006.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to expand air bubble pact with more countries||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Monday told the Rajya Sabha that the government wanted to expand the “air bubble” arrangement with more countries and the priority would be Saudi Arabia, Kuwait in the west and Japan, China and Singapore in the east. “These are the countries where bubbles have not worked so well,” Mr. Jaishankar told the Rajya Sabha. Under the air bubble scheme, commercial airlines from specific countries are allowed to travel to and from India on a limited basis — an arrangement that was solely reserved for the Air India under the Vande Bharat mission — as full scale international commercial air operations are yet to resume after COVID-19 restrictions were implemented last year. The Minister made these remarks while informing both Houses of Parliament about the Narendra Modi government’s efforts in repatriating Indians, Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) and Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) during the corona pandemic. Calling it as the world’s biggest repatriation exercise that saw over 4.5 million people return home under the Vande Bharat Mission, Mr. Jaishankar said the focus had now shifted to Indians going back to their usual places of work, study and domicile and restoring employment opportunities abroad with the help of partner countries. He said, so far, air transport bubble arrangements had been concluded with 27 countries. The Minister said India was fully aware of the employment concerns of people working abroad and expects Gulf countries to facilitate the early return of those people who were compelled to return home due to the pandemic. “From our recent interactions, we have reason to expect that partner governments in the Gulf would be helpful in facilitating the early return of many who were compelled to go back because of the pandemic,” he told the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-expand-air-bubble-pact-with-more-countries/article34079012.ece
16 March 2021||Kolkata,||Will uproot all conspirators: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday resumed her campaign in districts with a strong message that she would uproot those conspiring against her. “My leg will heal in the next few years. I will see whether your legs can move freely on Bengal’s soil,” she said at the Jhalda rally in Purulia. On the injury she sustained during her campaign in Nandigram on March 10, when she was allegedly pushed to the ground by miscreants, she said some may have thought “I will not be able to go out at all with my broken leg, but [for me] people’s well-being is far more important than my own pain”. She said she was a “street fighter” and had suffered many injuries in life. ‘PM cannot run nation’ At another rally at Balarampur in the same district, she also raised the issue of the BJP nominating four sitting MPs in Bengal. She said they had done nothing for the welfare of the State and wondered if they would be “peddling lies and engineering riots”. Ms. Banerjee asked what the 18 MPs of the BJP had done for the State. She raised the issue of rise in fuel prices and disinvestment of PSUs. “Their Prime Minister cannot run the country, [he is] totally incompetent.” She also targeted Union Home Minister Amit Shah for addressing the rally at Jhargram virtually. She alleged that the rally was called off because of lack of response. “Had he requested, we would have sent some people to the venue,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-uproot-all-conspirators-mamata/article34079044.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,||‘Bee fences’ to ward off elephant attacks||Pitting the largest animal on land against a minute insect. That is how the authorities intend to mitigate human-elephant conflict that seems to continue unabated in Kodagu and other parts of the south Karnataka region. A pilot project launched in Kodagu entails installing bee boxes along the periphery of the forest and the villages with the belief that the elephants will not venture anywhere close to the bees and thus avoid transgressing into human landscape. This idea stems from the elephants’ proven fear of the bees. An initiative of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), Project RE-HAB (Reducing Elephant-Human Attacks using Bees) intends to create “bee fences” to thwart elephant attacks in human habitations using honeybees. The pilot project was launched at four locations around Chelur village in Kodagu district by KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena on Monday. These spots are located on the periphery of the Nagarahole National Park and Tiger Reserve, known conflict zone. The total cost of the project is Rs. 15 lakh and Project RE-HAB is a sub-mission of the KVIC’s National Honey Mission. The KVIC has set up 15 to 20 interspersed bee boxes at each of the four locations. The bee boxes are set up in the passage ways of human-elephant conflict zones to block the entrance of elephants to human habitations. The boxes are connected with a string so that when elephants attempt to pass through, a tug causes the bees to swarm the elephant herds and dissuade them from progressing further. Night vision cameras Bee boxes have been placed on the ground as well as hung from the trees. High resolution, night vision cameras have been installed at strategic points to record the impact of bees on elephants and their behaviour. The biggest advantage of Project RE-HAB is that it dissuades elephants without causing any harm to them. It is extremely cost-effective as compared to various other measures such as digging trenches or erecting fences, according to Mr. Saxena. Between 2015 and 2020, nearly 2,500 people have lost their lives in elephant attacks across India, of which 170 human fatalities have been reported in Karnataka alone, says the KVIC. The KVIC has roped in the College of Forestry under the University of Agriculture and Horticultural Sciences, Ponnampet, for impact assessment of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bee-fences-to-ward-off-elephant-attacks/article34079003.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC bats for Great Indian Bustard||The Supreme Court on Monday swooped-in to intervene on behalf of the critically endangered Great Indian Bustards over the birds falling dead after colliding with power lines running through their dwindling natural habitats in Gujarat and Rajasthan. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde will examine on a priority basis whether overhead power cables can be replaced with underground ones to save one of the heaviest flying birds on the planet. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Power Ministry, however submitted that only low voltage lines can go underground but not the high voltage ones. The court found further that an alternative mechanism — to install flight bird divertors — to guide the birds away from the power lines would be expensive. The court discovered that the divertors, with their recurring costs, would end costing more than installing and maintaining underground lines. But the court suggested treading the middle path. “Wherever there is high voltage power lines, they can use flight bird divertors even if the recurring costs are high. Wherever there are overhead low voltage lines, these lines can be placed underground,” Chief Justice Bobde remarked. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, appearing for some power companies, objected to the court passing any sort of blanket ban which would affect over 50 lakh jobs. Mr. Singhvi said the greater threat to the birds was from their diminishing habitat, flattened for agriculture. The court agreed to further hear the case next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-bats-for-great-indian-bustard/article34079025.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India’s arms imports down by 33%’||Arms imports decreased by 33% between 2011–15 and 2016–20 while India continues to remain the second largest arms importer after Saudi Arabia, according to a report from Swedish think tank Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). “The overall drop in arms imports between 2011–15 and 2016–20 seems to be mainly due to its complex and lengthy procurement processes, combined with its attempts to reduce its dependence on Russian arms by diversifying its network of arms suppliers,” the report released on Monday said.  Russia largest supplier The report said Russia was the largest arms supplier in both years. “However, Russia’s deliveries dropped by 53% between the two periods and its share of Indian arms imports fell from 70 to 49%.” The U.S. was the second largest arms supplier to India in 2011–15 but in 2016–20 India’s arms imports from the U.S. were 46% lower than in the previous five-year period, making the U.S. the fourth largest supplier in 2016–20. France and Israel were the second and third largest arms suppliers in 2016–20. “India’s arms imports from France increased by 709% while those from Israel rose by 82%,” the report said adding that combat aircraft and associated missiles made up more than 50% of arms imports. The report said as India perceives increasing threats from Pakistan and China and as its ambitious plans to produce its own major arms have been significantly delayed, it is planning large-scale programmes for arms imports. “Based on its outstanding deliveries of combat aircraft, air defence systems, ships and submarines, India’s arms imports are expected to increase over the coming five years,” it said. Pak. imports Arms imports by Pakistan between 2011–15 and 2016–20 decreased by 23%. China accounted for 61% of its imports in 2011–15 and for 74% in 2016–20. Like India, Pakistan too has several large outstanding orders for arms, according to the report. They are scheduled for delivery by 2028 and include 50 combat aircraft, eight submarines and four frigates from China and four frigates from Turkey, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-arms-imports-down-by-33/article34079031.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||No proposal to bring petrol, diesel under GST: Nirmala||Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Monday told the Lok Sabha that the Centre and the States should work together towards reducing taxes on petrol and diesel. He said the Centre was ready to discuss the issue of bringing petroleum products under the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). In a written reply, however, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Lok Sabha that “at present, there is no proposal to bring crude petroleum, petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas under GST”. However, while answering a supplementary question during the Question Hour, Mr. Thakur said the government was read to discuss the issue. “If any State feels that petroleum products should be brought under GST then the Centre has no objection in discussing it,” Mr. Thakur said. The Minister said while international crude prices in March 2020 stood at $19 per barrel, it was now $65 per barrel. “The Centre is ready to consider the idea of reducing the tax on petrol and diesel, the States should also consider it,” the Minister added. Targets Congress During the Question Hour, Mr. Thakur also hit out at the Congress and targeted the Gandhi family in the presence of Rahul Gandhi when Congress MP Ranveet Bittu asked Mr. Thakur about Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) contributing to the PM CARES Fund. “They [migrant workers] did not get the benefits they should have got. LIC gave its funds only to PM Cares. Why is it so?” alleged Mr. Bittu and asked the Minister not to give a “political answer”. Speaker Om Birla, in a lighter vein, remarked that “a political question will get a political reply”. “There were instances where someone donated the entire pension amount to PM Cares Fund. Even those who got wages through MNREGA scheme also donated money to the PM Cares Fund just to help others,” Mr. Thakur said. “But there is one family in the country who created the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation and did the job of filling their accounts...”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-proposal-to-bring-petrol-diesel-under-gst-nirmala/article34079018.ece
16 March 2021||Kolkata,||What about pain of kin of slain BJP cadre: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday broke his silence on the injury of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, wished her speedy recovery but asked why she can’t feel the pain of the families of 130 BJP workers killed in political violence during her regime. Mr. Shah was responding to Ms. Banerjee’s statement on Sunday, “I’m still in pain but I feel the pain of my people even more.” “Didi you are very upset after the leg injury. But I want to ask you if you feel the pain of the families of 130 BJP workers killed because of the politics of violence,” Mr. Shah said at a public meeting at Ranibandh in Bankura district. Mr. Shah said while the Trinamool Congress leadership claimed that there is a big conspiracy behind Ms. Banerjee’s injury, the Election Commission said it was an accident. “Only God knows what the truth is,” the Home Minister said. The Trinamool leadership had questioned the silence of senior BJP leaders particularly Mr. Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the injury. Ms. Banerjee was injured while campaigning in Nandigram on March 10. She was discharged from hospital on March 12 and started campaigning on March 14 on a wheelchair. Mr. Shah tried to woo the tribal population by promising among other things hassle free tribal certificate. “The TMC seeks cut money even for a tribal certificate. We will ensure the land rights of the tribals. The special focus will be on education, health and drinking water for the tribals in the area.” Mr. Shah was scheduled to address a rally in the Jhargarm district but could not make it physically to the venue after his helicopter developed glitches. Many Assembly seats located in Purulia, Jhargram and Bankura districts located in south-west Bengal will go to the polls in the first phase on March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/what-about-pain-of-kin-of-slain-bjp-cadre-shah/article34079042.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bill to define Delhi L-G’s powers moved in LS||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) moved a Bill in the Lok Sabha on Monday in which it proposed that the “government” in the National Capital Territory of Delhi means the Lieutenant-Governor of Delhi. The Bill gives discretionary powers to the L-G even in matters where the Legislative Assembly of Delhi is empowered to make laws. The proposed legislation also seeks to ensure that the L-G is “necessarily granted an opportunity” to give her/his opinion before any decision taken by the Council of Ministers (or the Delhi Cabinet) is implemented. Delhi is a Union Territory with a legislature and it came into being in 1991 under Article 239AA of the Constitution inserted by the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991. As per the existing Act, the Legislative Assembly of Delhi has the power to make laws in all matters except public order, police and land. Administrative matters The Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government has on many occasions challenged the BJP-ruled Central government regarding administrative matters in the Capital. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday by Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy. The Bill proposes to amend Sections 21, 24, 33 and 44 of the 1991 Act. The MHA’s statement on “objects and reasons” of the Bill stated that Section 44 of the 1991 Act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism for effective time-bound implementation of the said section. “Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to Lieutenant Governor before issuing order thereon,” the statement said. Section 44 of the 1991 Act says that all executive actions of the L-G, whether taken on the advice of his Ministers or otherwise, shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the L-G.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bill-to-define-delhi-l-gs-powers-moved-in-ls/article34079022.ece
16 March 2021||JAIPUR,||BJP slams Gehlot govt. over phone taps||The Rajasthan unit of BJP on Monday attacked the Congress government after it admitted that the telephone conversations of some leaders were tapped during the political crisis in July last year. The BJP demanded Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s resignation, while alleging that he had misled the State Assembly on the issue by “telling a lie”. BJP State president Satish Poonia said Mr. Gehlot had “crossed all limits” in the phone tapping incident after declaring that the practice of interception of phones of Ministers and MLAs did not exist in Rajasthan. “Mr. Gehlot wears a false mask of Gandhism and makes an entreaty for democracy... After the government’s acceptance, what will the Gandhi of Marwar answer?” Eight months after the leaked phone conversations between a Union Minister and Congress leaders in Rajasthan set off a political turmoil, the State government recently confirmed in reply to a question asked in the Assembly that the phones were intercepted. Mr. Gehlot had earlier refuted the Opposition’s allegation that the phones of dissenting politicians were being tapped.  Demand for CBI probe Holding Mr. Gehlot responsible for phone tapping as he was also holding the Home portfolio, Mr. Poonia demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the entire episode. Mr. Poonia said the Chief Minister had not only “hatched a conspiracy” against his own party members, but had also indulged in spying of the Opposition leaders in an “unethical manner”. After the former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion against the State leadership, the Congress had alleged that the BJP was helping him and his loyalist MLAs in an attempt to topple the State government. While Mr. Pilot along with 18 legislators camped at an undisclosed location in Haryana, the Congress MLAs were sequestered at a hotel in Jaisalmer. The Special Operations Group of Rajasthan police had registered two FIRs after the recordings of purported conversations between Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Congress MLAs Vishvendra Singh and Bhanwar Lal Sharma were leaked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-slams-gehlot-govt-over-phone-taps/article34079436.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Panchamasalis end stir on CM’s promise||In an attempt to put an end to the ongoing agitations for hike in reservation by various communities, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday informed the Legislative Assembly that the government would seek reports from the Karnataka Backward Class Commission and a committee headed by former Upalokauyukta Subhash B. Adi in six months and take a decision on increasing the quota for communities. Following the assurance from Mr. Yediyurappa, the Panchamasali leaders ended their agitation for quota at Freedom Park here. The Chief Minister made a statement in the House following BJP member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s demand that the government must set a deadline for granting reservation for the Panchamasali community under 2A for availing benefits of 15% quota in jobs and education in the OBC list. Now, the community is included in 3B and eligible for benefits under the quota of 5 per cent. Mr. Yatnal said he had accepted Mr. Yediyurappa’s assurance and the agitation by the community would be suspended for the next six months. Within the next hour, Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami, who led the stir, announced the end of the agitation. Last week, Mr. Yatnal had threatened to launch an indefinite agitation if the government failed to set a deadline for granting reservation for the community under 2A. Speaking to The Hindu, the Swami said that representatives of the government and leaders from Panchamasali community came to the venue of the agitation with the message from the Chief Minister and an appeal to end the agitation. “In consideration of the Chief Minister’s plea we have ended the agitation temporarily for six months. In case our demand is not met within the stipulated time we will be forced to launch a mega convention of the Panchamasali community in Bengaluru after six months and it will be more intensive agitation. In case of our demand is not being met, we will take the issue to the Prime Minister,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panchamasalis-end-stir-on-cms-promise/article34078993.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Approval for 5 reserved trains||The Railway Board has approved the introduction of additional five pairs of reserved weekly/bi-weekly special trains. Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Ernakulam Junction Biweekly Superfast Duronto Special (01223) will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on Tuesdays and Saturdays at 8.50 p.m. from March 16 to June 5 to reach Ernakulam Junction at 6.10 p.m. the next day. The pairing train (01224) will leave Ernakulam Junction on Wednesdays and Sundays at 9.30 p.m. from March 17 to June 6 to reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 6.15 p.m. the next day. Kanyakumari-Howrah Weekly Superfast Special (02666) will leave Kanyakumari on Saturdays at 5.30 a.m. from April 3 to reach Howrah at 11.55 p.m. on Sundays and the pairing train (02665) will leave Howrah on Mondays at 4.15 p.m. from April 5 and reach Kanyakumari at 10.50 a.m. on Wednesdays. Thiruvananthapuram Central-MGR Chennai Central Weekly Superfast Special (02698) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central on Saturdays at 7.15 p.m. from April 3 and reach MGR Chennai Central at 10.25 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, the train (02697) will start on Sundays at 3.10 p.m. from April 4 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 6.50 a.m. the next day. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Hazrat Nizamuddin Weekly Superfast Special (06001) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central on Wednesdays at 2.30 p.m. from April 7 to reach Hazrat Nizamuddin at 12.30 noon on Fridays. In the return direction, the train (06002) will start on Fridays at 7.15 p.m. from April 9 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 9. 45 p.m. on Sundays. Ernakulam Junction-Banaswadi Bi-Weekly Superfast Special (06129) will leave Ernakulam Junction on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4.50 p.m. from April 5 to reach Banaswadi at 4 a.m. the next day and the pairing train (06130) will leave Banaswadi on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7 p.m. from April 6 to reach Ernakulam at 6 a.m. the next day. Advance reservation Advance reservation has started for the five pairs of special trains, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-5-more-reserved-trains/article34079360.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC orders issue of notice to Karnataka in Sasikala case||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking a direction to submit final report on a criminal case registered on alleged corruption in providing preferential facilities to V.K. Sasikala in violation of prison rules when she was undergoing sentence in a corruption case against former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, passed the order on the petition filed by K.S. Gita, a 65-year-old social worker and an educationist from Chennai. The petitioner’s counsel pointed out that a retired IAS officer, Vinay Kumar, had conducted an inquiry and submitted a 295-page report with several findings on the allegations of preferential treatment to Ms. Sasikala and her sister-in-law, Ilavarasi, who was also undergoing sentence in the prison in the same case. The petitioner contended that a criminal case related to alleged corruption in the Bengaluru Central Prison for providing preferential treatment to Ms. Sasikala and Ms. Ilavarasi was registered but no final report on the probe was submitted so far. However, the Bench asked the petitioner’s advocate whether any First Information Report was registered under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, in connection with the case as the petition did not mention crime number. It is not possible to consider the prayer made in the petition to submit the final report based on the investigation sans registration of a FIR, the Bench observed orally. Following this, the advocate said he would find out the registration number of the criminal case and submit it to the court. The Bench adjourned further hearing till April 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-orders-issue-of-notice-to-karnataka-in-sasikala-case/article34078992.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,||Allow transgenders to enrol in NCC: HC||In a landmark judgment, the Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Centre and the National Cadet Corps (NCC) to amend the enrolment criteria under Section 6 of the National Cadet Corps Act and include transgender persons in it for their enrolment in the NCC Justice Anu Sivaraman ordered the Centre and the NCC to take steps to amend the Act in six months. The court issued the directives while allowing a writ petition filed by Heena Haneefa, a transgender student of University College, Thiruvananthapuram, seeking a directive to enrol her in the NCC unit of the college. The court observed that the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 recognised the right of transgenders to a life of dignity and prohibited discrimination against them. In fact, the provisions of the NCC Act could ‘not preclude the operation of the Transgender Rights Act, 2019.’ The Act was intended to give effect to the rights of transgenders under Articles14 (equality before law), 15 (prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth) 19 (freedom of speech) and 21 (right to life and personal liberty). In view of the specific provisions of the Act, a ‘transgender person has the right to be recognised not only as a transgender but also a right to self-perceived gender identity,’ the court added. “The fact that the NCC Act does not recognise the third gender or that detailed guidelines are required to be drawn up for integration of persons of the third gender into the armed forces or the NCC cannot be a justification to deny entry to the petitioner into the NCC,” the judge observed. The court said the petitioner ‘who has opted for the female gender and had undergone two SRS (sex reassignment surgeries) for aiding her self-perception as a member of the said gender will definitely be entitled to enrolment in the NCC unit reckoning her as a transgender and further as a member of herself-perceived gender, ie. female gender.” The court made it clear that the petitioner was entitled to participate in the selection process on the basis of her application. If she was successful, the petitioner shall be enrolled in the NCC senior girls division. The Centre and NCC had submitted that as per the existing policy, there was no provision for allowing transgender students to get themselves enrolled in the NCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allow-transgenders-to-enrol-in-ncc-hc/article34078998.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kerala Congress row: SC upholds EC order||The Supreme Court on Monday upheld Kerala High Court’s confirmation of an Election Commission order declaring a group led by Jose K. Mani as the official Kerala Congress (Mani) and granting it the official election symbol of ‘Two Leaves’. In a brief hearing, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde dismissed P.J. Joseph’s appeal, saying two Benches of the High Court had concurred to uphold the Commission’s order. Senior Advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for Mr. Joseph, submitted that the High Court erred in not examining whether the EC order was in accordance with the law. He said the Commission’s decision was “baseless”. “We do not agree with you,” Chief Justice Bobde responded. The Election Commission, by a 2:1 majority, had held that the group led by Jose K. Mani was the official Kerala Congress (Mani) and “is entitled to use the name and the reserved symbol ‘Two Leaves’ for the purpose of Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968”. Mr. Joseph had contended in the High Court that the Commission committed a mistake by straightaway going to test the majority without considering the test of the constitution. The majority test was conducted with a truncated body and was based on defective and irrelevant affidavits given by Mr. Jose. Mr. Joseph had submitted that the Election Commission had no right to allot a party to a person. The only jurisdiction vested with it was to allot symbols to a party. Besides, the Commission had not been authorised or empowered to decide internal issues of the party. The issue of name did not come under the symbol law. The party had acquired the name as per the provisions of the constitution of it and it forms the property of the party. The Commission should not have passed an order indirectly reversing a civil court order recognising him as chairman of the party. He was the elected working chairman of the party, discharging the functions and exercising the powers of chairman following the Constitution of the party, Mr. Joseph had contended in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-congress-row-sc-upholds-ec-order/article34079008.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Police book model in Zomato case||A city-based model and makeup artist, who accused a Zomato delivery man of attacking her over alleged delayed service, was booked by the police on Monday. Hitesha Chandranee has been charged with wrongful restraint, assault, intentional insult, and criminal intimidation based on a complaint by the delivery man. “An FIR was registered against Hitesha, who claimed to be attacked by a Zomato delivery man,” a police officer said. According to the officer, Zomato delivery man Kamaraj had stated that Ms. Hitesha had hit him with slippers, accused him of defaming her and hurled abuses at him on March 9. Ms. Hitesha, meanwhile, deleted her video from Twitter that went viral based on which the police had arrested Mr. Kamaraj on March 10. The model claimed in her video that she lodged a complaint with the Zomato customer care asking them to either deliver food free of cost or cancel the order after it was delayed. Zomato, which initially assured Ms. Hitesha that it would help her with the police investigation, later clarified it was also with Mr. Kamaraj, extending all possible support. “As per protocol, we have temporarily suspended Kamaraj,” Zomato founder Deepinder Goyal had said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-book-model-in-zomato-case/article34079085.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Railways ignored the plight of migrant workers: Opposition||The mass exodus of migrant labour on foot and the subsequent running of Shramik Expresses by the Ministry of Railways in the middle of India’s COVID-19 lockdown and logistical challenges in dealing with China figured as a recurring theme as the Lok Sabha took up the debate on demand for grants for the Railways. As Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal sat through the almost eight hours and more of debate, Opposition MPs said charging returning labourers from their work place to their home town on Shramik Expresses was not well done, while treasury benches lauded the provision of trains and their frequency. Congress MP Deepak Baij said the “government only woke up when the common man came on to the streets”. Anurag Sharma of the BJP, however, said the Lalitpur-Jhansi area saw the running of eight trains to transport nearly 4.5 lakh people returning home during the lockdown. Interestingly, BJP MP from Arunachal Pradesh Tapir Gao drew attention to the border face off with China. “In 2019, the government announced a railway line from Tezpur to Tawang, while China is constructing a line along the eastern border from Lhasa. We lost the war in 1962 because we did not have railway connectivity. I request the government to remove the clause of economic viability in the national interest for railway lines in the North-East region particularly Arunachal Pradesh,” he said. Mr Goyal will reply to the debate on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-ignored-the-plight-of-migrant-workers-opposition/article34079014.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Call for fresh polls if NOTA tops count||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the Election Commission of India to respond to a plea that fresh elections should be conducted in constituencies where the highest number of votes polled are NOTA (None Of The Above). The petition said candidates ‘rejected’ by voters should not be fielded again in the fresh polls. Right to reject During the hearing, Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde expressed doubts initially about the feasibility of the petition by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay to arm the electorate with the “right to reject” and nudge political parties to present voters with a better choice of candidates to pick from. Chief Justice Bobde said if voters kept rejecting candidates, Parliament/Assembly seats would continue to remain vacant, affecting legislative functioning. “It is a constitutional problem. If your argument is accepted and there is a certain number of NOTAs, then the constituency will go unrepresented in the Parliament... How will the Parliament function then?” Chief Justice Bobde asked senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, who represented Mr. Upadhyay. But Ms. Guruswamy replied that “if voters are given the power to reject, political parties will take care to field worthy candidates in the first place...” The petition noted how parties spent crores of rupees on the candidates. The CJI also flagged during the hearing the issue whether a political party could influence voters to not vote in a particular constituency. However, Ms. Guruswamy prevailed, which led the court to agree to examine the issue raised in the petition. “Political parties choose contesting candidates in a very undemocratic manner without consulting electors. That is why many times people are totally discontented with candidates presented before them. This problem can be solved by holding a fresh election if maximum votes are polled in favour of NOTA,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-for-fresh-polls-if-nota-tops-count/article34079034.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. opposes inclusion of judges, lawyers in vaccine priority group||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that prioritising COVID-19 vaccination on the basis of profession will amount to “discrimination” and is against larger national interests. It was responding to a PIL to include judges, lawyers and court staff in the “prioritised group of population who will get the COVID-19 vaccine first”. “Any specific classification, either based upon the nature of trade, profession or otherwise, is neither possible nor advisable,” the Union Health Ministry said in its affidavit. Those in the legal fraternity who were above 60 or between 45 and 59 and suffering from a very long and exhaustive list of comorbidities would in any case be covered by the vaccine drive, the government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, reasoned. SII, Bharat Biotech plea Meanwhile, appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Monday, vaccine makers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech said cases concerning vaccines and the inoculation drive had been filed in various High Courts. They urged the Supreme Court to transfer the cases to itself and decide the issue once and for all. “The situation brooks no delay. The issue has to be decided finally,” senior advocate Harish Salve, for the Institute, submitted. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Bharat Biotech, said it would become an impossible situation “if every High Court starts asking us questions about the vaccination — ‘like how much drug will you give, when will you give, etc, etc’. It will be better if Your Lordships call forth all the cases and decide them finally”. Chief Justice Bobde agreed to hear them on March 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-opposes-inclusion-of-judges-lawyers-in-vaccine-priority-group/article34079013.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI/KANNUR,||NIA raids 8 locations in Kerala terror case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted simultaneous searches at eight locations in Kannur, Malappuram, Kollam and Kasaragod districts on Monday in connection with an alleged case of terrorist activity. A group led by Mohammed Ameen, alias Abu Yahya, has been running various Islamic State (IS) propaganda channels on various social media platforms such as Telegram, Hoop and Instagram for propagating the ideology of the banned organisation and radicalising and recruiting new members to the IS module, according to a communication from the NIA. The agency has registered a case against seven persons under Section 17, 18, 18B, 20, 38 and 40 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Sections 120B, 121 and 121A of the Indian Penal Code. From early morning In Kannur, raids took place at four houses belonging to members of a family. The search operations began at 4 a.m. An NIA communication said the group of radicalised individuals under the leadership of Mohammed Ameen, who owed allegiance to the proscribed terrorist organisation IS, had identified certain individuals in Kerala and Karnataka for targeted killing. They had also planned to undertake Hijrat (religious migration) to Jammu and Kashmir for engaging in terrorist acts. Searches were conducted on the premises of Mohammed Ameen and his associates, the press release said. Mohammed Ameen had travelled to Jammu and Kashmir immediately after his return to India from Bahrain in March 2020. He had been camping in Delhi for the past two months for establishing connection with Jammu and Kashmir-based operatives having allegiance to the IS, the agency said. Laptops, mobile phones, hard disk drives and pen drives and incriminating documents were seized from them, the communication said.  The NIA says the radicalised group had identified certain individuals in Kerala and Karnataka for targeted killing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-raids-8-locations-in-kerala-terror-case/article34078999.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI books 17 Army officers in SSB scam||The CBI on Monday conducted searches at 30 locations across 13 cities in connection with a case against 23 people, including five Lieutenant Colonels, two Majors and others, for their alleged involvement in a recruitment scam in the Army. The case involving 17 Army officers and personnel has been registered on a complaint from the Defence Ministry’s Integrated Headquarters, alleging that they took bribes for the selection of officers and other ranks through the Service Selection Board (SSB). “Searches were conducted in Delhi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Bareilly; Kapurthala and Bathinda; Kaithal and Palwal in Haryana; Jaipur; Guwahati, Jorhat and Chirgaon in Assam and Visakhapatnam,” said a CBI official. The FIR identifies Naib Subedar Kuldeep Singh of the Base Hospital at Delhi Cantonment as the middleman. He allegedly sought the assistance of Lt. Col. MVSNA Bhagwan of the Army Air Defence Corps, currently on a study leave in Visakhapatnam, in helping some candidates clear SSB. Lt. Col. Bhagwan is accused of being the mastermind.  In its complaint, the Defence Ministry said there was sufficient evidence of culpability of the service personnel and others named. The racket was detected following an input received by the Army on February 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-17-army-officers-in-ssb-scam/article34079086.ece
16 March 2021||SALEM,||We will ask Centre to revoke CAA: T.N. CM||AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday said that if voted back to power, the party would insist on the Centre scrapping the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA), based on the request from minorities. Mr. Palaniswami filed his nomination papers for contesting in the upcoming Assembly elections from Edappadi constituency for the seventh time. He told presspersons that as an MLA, he has worked hard for the development of the constituency. Responding to a question on including withdrawal of CAA in the AIADMK election manifesto, after having voted in favour of it in Parliament, Mr. Palaniswami said that they had said in the manifesto that they would insist for withdrawal of CAA with the Centre based on requests from minorities. Mr. Palaniswami said the election manifesto had been welcomed by people from all walks of life. On the feasibility of implementing the announcements despite the debt burden of the State, Mr. Palaniswami questioned which State in India was not under debt burden. However, development works were progressing without any delay, he said. He said that the AIADMK-led alliance was strong and added that he would fufill demands of the public if he wins from the constituency. Mr. Palaniswami started his campaign in the constituency after offering prayers at Sendrayan Perumal Temple here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-ask-centre-to-revoke-caa/article34079237.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||One gets death for killing inspector in Batla House||Two others were arrested when a team of the Special Cell raided a hideout of bomb blast suspects at Batla House on September 19, 2008. Khan and another alleged IM operative Shehzad were also present at the hideout but had managed to escape. “It has been proved on record that convict along with his accomplices fired at police officials on duty without any provocation. It is pertinent to mention here that the police team led by deceased Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma had gone to the place of occurrence only to nab the persons involved in Delhi blast cases,” the court said. ‘No intention to kill’ “Police officials had no intention to kill the occupants of the flat,” the court said, adding, “This is clear from the fact that the deceased Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who was leading the police team, knocked the door at the flat and disclosed his identity saying ‘ darwaza kholo, police hai’ .” The court highlighted that some of the members of the advance team were not even carrying arms and that police officials did not fire at accomplice Mohd. Said, who had locked himself inside the bathroom and surrendered before the police officials. “It is, therefore, obvious that convict Ariz Khan, along with his accomplices, fired at police officials without being challenged, instinctively and while doing so killed one of the raiding police officials,” it said. ‘Crime against State’ “The offence proved against accused is not an ordinary act but a crime against the State. Convict, while committing offence acted like a dreaded and well-trained terrorist who does not deserve any leniency,” the court said. It also reminded that deadly weapons like AK-47 and two pistols were retrieved from the flat where the shoot out took place. “Considering the nature of devastation that these weapons can cause, it will be safe to conclude that these weapons were kept in the flat with a view to indulge in terrorist and anti-social activities,” the court said. The court also imposed a total fine of Rs. 11 lakh on Khan out of which Rs. 10 lakh will be released as compensation to the wife of the deceased officer. A trial court in July 2013 had sentenced IM terrorist Shahzad Ahmed to life imprisonment in connection with the Batla House encounter case. His appeal against the trial court's verdict is pending in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-gets-death-for-killing-inspector-in-batla-house/article34078990.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 60% of OBC, SC posts are vacant in IIMs||This means that 93% of these posts remain unfilled. Less than 1% of the 1,062 professors in Central universities are from the ST communities. Similarly, 64% of the 2,206 assistant professor positions reserved for the OBCs have been filled in the Central Universities. However, less than 5% of the 378 professor positions reserved for the OBCs have been filled. Despite the high levels of vacancies, Mr. Nishank’s written response to the first question claimed that, “Now, after implementation of ‘The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act, 2019’, the OBC reservation has been implemented at all levels.” In the second response, Mr. Nishank noted that the Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission continuously monitor vacancies, but put the final blame on universities themselves. “However, the onus of filling up the teaching posts lies on Central Universities, which are autonomous bodies created under Acts of Parliament,” he said. In fact, in June 2019, University Grants Commission had written to all Universities, giving them a six month deadline to fill up their vacancies, and warning that grants would be withheld if its directions were violated. According to the data presented in the Lok Sabha on Monday, there are now 6,074 vacant positions at the 42 universities, of which 75% are in reserved categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-60-obc-sc-posts-are-vacant-in-iims/article34079009.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Laxity in COVID-19 protocols fuelling cases’||Overall, the country has registered a total of 1,13,85,339 cases, 1,10,07,352 recoveries, and has 2,19,262 active cases with a total death toll of 1,58,725. While the number of COVID-19 cases has shown a consistent declining trend over the past month, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana have reported a rising trend in infections. “Five States of Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu cumulatively account for 78.41% of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours with Maharashtra reporting the highest daily new cases at 16,620 (accounting for 63.21% of the daily new cases). “It is followed by Kerala with 1,792 while Punjab reported 1,492 new cases,” said the release. It added that three States — Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab — cumulatively account for 77% of India’s total active cases and Maharashtra alone accounts for more than 58% of the total active cases in the country. The State also accounts for the maximum number of single day recoveries at 8,861. “Six States account for 82.20% of the new COVID-19 deaths and Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (50), Punjab followed with 20 daily deaths and Kerala reported 15 deaths in the last 24 hours. “Sixteen States/UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours,” added the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/laxity-in-covid-19-protocols-fuelling-cases/article34079010.ece
16 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mahajot loses sleep over new party in Assam||The Assam United Democratic Front formed by AIUDF leaders denied ticket has put up candidates against the Congress. Days after adding two more parties to its Mahajot or grand alliance, a new minority-based party has made the Congress and ally All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) lose sleep in a few constituencies. Denied tickets, some AIUDF leaders have formed a party with a similar name — Assam United Democratic Front (AUDF). They have put up two candidates in central Assam and are likely to field a few more in western Assam. Nurul Amil Choudhury, contesting the Rupohihat seat, said the AUDF candidates would be contesting as Independents but under the party symbol ‘key’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahajot-loses-sleep-over-new-party-in-assam/article34079032.ece
16 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Sachin Vaze moves HC challenging arrest||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze moved the Bombay High Court on Tuesday challenging his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25. The petition said he was “wrongfully arrested without any notice, without providing a copy of the FIR, without explaining the reasons for arrest, and without informing him as per the Criminal Procedure Code.” Advocate Sunny Punamiya, representing Mr. Vaze, says Vimala, wife of Mansukh Hiren, owner of the explosives-laden car, made certain false and concocted allegations against Mr. Vaze without any proof and had blamed him for the death of her husband. The death became a media sensation, following which the Anti-Terrorism Squad had filed an FIR on March 8, he said. Mr. Vaze has been remanded in NIA custody till March 25 after being arrested on March 13 for his “role and involvement in placing explosives laden vehicle near Carmichael Road.” Police said the vehicle was stolen on February 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sachin-vaze-moves-hc-challenging-arrest/article34079045.ece
16 March 2021||new Delhi,||Rs. 2,000 notes not printed since 2019, govt. tells LS||The government on Monday informed the Lok Sabha that Rs. 2,000 currency notes have not been printed in the past two years even as the quantum of the highest denomination currency note has come down. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said 3,362 million currency notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination were in circulation on March 30, 2018, constituting 3.27% and 37.26% of the currency in terms of volume and trade respectively. As of February 26, 2021, 2,499 million pieces of Rs. 2,000 notes were in circulation, constituting 2.01% and 17.78% of banknotes in terms of volume and value, respectively. Printing of banknotes of a particular denomination is decided by the government in consultation with the RBI to maintain desired denomination mix for facilitating transactional demand of the public. “During the years 2019-20 and 2020-21, no indent has been placed with the presses for printing of Rs. 2,000 denomination banknotes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-2000-notes-not-printed-since-2019-govt-tells-ls/article34079015.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Haryana, T.N. institutes get national importance tag||The Rajya Sabha on Monday passed the National Institutes of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2019, that confers the status of national importance on two food technology institutes at Kundli in Haryana and Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu. Congress leader L. Hanumanthaiah and DMK’s Tiruchi Siva expressed doubts over the implementation of the reservation policy in the institutions. Replying to the debate, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said all policies of national importance would be implemented and reservation would be applicable in the institutes. He also assured that all people working in food technology have representation. The law provides for Parliament to have a say in them too, Mr. Tomar said. “This bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha in February, 2019. Thereafter it was referred to the Standing Committee. There were certain amendments there which were approved by the Cabinet. Now it again came up for discussion in the House.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-haryana-institutes-get-national-importance-tag/article34079019.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD case: SIT issues notices to kin of suspects||While the search is on for three persons, including the woman seen in the footage, in the CD scandal, the SIT officials questioned several people to track them down and also issued notices to some of the family members of the suspects. The officials also raided a place in Bengaluru where the CD was allegedly edited. A person from Chikkamagaluru, who has allegedly done the voiceover, has also been questioned. Sources said that the woman is suspected to be in one of the neighbouring States of Karnataka. The prime suspect from Tumakuru and his associate from Devanahalli, who allegedly edited and hacked a Russian server to upload the video, are on the run and changing locations. It is a matter of time before they will be caught, sources said. The officials are concerned about the safety of the woman. Her statement will decide the fate and change the course of the investigation, the sources added. Former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who resigned over the alleged "sex for favours" scandal, had alleged a conspiracy to defame him and called the CD “fake”. The State government’s move to appoint a Special Investigation Team to probe the “conspiracy” angle to the sex scandal and not whether the woman in question was a victim of oppression also came under fire from women’s organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cd-case-sit-issues-notices-to-kin-of-suspects/article34079134.ece
16 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Follow 2015 rules for quota in panchayat polls in U.P.’||The Allahabad High Court on Monday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to implement reservation and allotment of seats in the panchayat polls as per the 2015 rules as it quashed a recent government order regarding reservation in the rural body polls. Th Lucknow Bench also directed the State government to complete the entire exercise of reservations by March 27 and hold the elections by May 10.  ‘Govt. order ignored’ The order was passed by the court on a PIL seeking quashing of the government order dated February 11 arguing that it proceeded to reserve seats by taking 1995 as the base year instead of 2015, ignoring the government order of September 2015. Counsel for the petitioner Ajay Kumar said that in the government order of September 16, 2015 it was indicated that due to substantial demographic changes in the districts of the State in the Gram panchayat and Kshetra Panchayat territories in view of the census of 2001 and 2011, it was no longer conducive to have 1995 as the base year for purposes of applying reservation as per Rule 4 of Rules of 1994.  Reservation cap breach It was also submitted by the counsel for petitioner that the provisions for reservation as brought by the fresh government order would result in more than 60% seats in a district being reserved, which would be violative of various judgments of the Supreme Court and that it would also violate the maximum cap fixed with respect to reservation of Backward Class, 27 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/follow-2015-rules-for-quota-in-panchayat-polls-in-up/article34079326.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||BJP meets Governor on Bhainsa violence||The Bharatiya Janata Party urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct Director General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy to submit a report on the recent communal violence in Bhainsa near Adilabad (Nirmal district) and book cases against the perpetrators responsible for arson and for breaking the law and order situation there. A delegation of the party headed by state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar and senior leaders like Chinthala Ramachandra Reddy, N. Ramchander Rao, NVSS Prabhakar and others met the Governor at Raj Bhavan on Monday afternoon and submitted a memorandum seeking her intervention since they consider that the TRS government has “completely failed” to prevent the communal violence and not acting strictly against those involved. Demanding a full fledged probe into the genesis of the violent incidents which occurred for the second time in the last six months, the party called for beefing up security presence to give security and instil confidence among people. The intelligence network should be strengthened to identify anti-social elements resorting to periodic burning of houses, vehicles and stabbings. Mr. Sanjay Kumar informed the Governor that Bhainsa has became a communal cauldron for the last few years and the Majlis-TRS administered municipality has become a haven for criminals and other anti-national elements from other States too. He also charged the police of foisting false cases against several innocent youth of a particular community, arresting them without any evidence and being subjecting to third degree interrogation. Such persons should be released immediately as they are trying to protect themselves against the attacks, he said. Explaining the sequence of events, the BJP leaders claimed that the town has seen frequent communal clashes and raised doubts of there being a sinister plan to change the demographic profile of the area. Several houses and shops were burnt wantonly on the night of May 7 and there were indiscriminate stabbings. Two seriously injured have been brought to the capital for treatment. There was another heinous incident of a minor girl violated but the police not taking action on time, they said. The police have been unable to act freely and fairly due to the political interference. Therefore, the party strongly feels that the current laxity of the government and local administration in dealing sternly with regard to communal violence would lead to anti-national forces raising their spectre and disturbing the communal harmony across the country, the memorandum added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-meets-governor-on-bhainsa-violence/article34078991.ece
16 March 2021||Srinagar,||‘Commander’ of JeM killed in Shopian||Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) ‘commander’ Sajjad Afghani was killed in Shopian in south Kashmir, as an encounter between terrorists and security forces entered the third day on Monday. “I congratulate the Shopian police and security forces for eliminating JeM ‘commander’ Sajjad Afghani in the Shopian encounter,” Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said. Afghani is the second militant to be killed in the operation, which is being carried out by a joint team of the police, the Army’s 34 RR and the CRPF. At least three houses were damaged during the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/commander-of-jem-killed-in-shopian/article34079016.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Key road in Ladakh being constructed’||The Centre has informed a parliamentary panel that a “standalone project” to build a critical road along the border with China in Ladakh is going on. The panel was also informed that all along the China border, the construction of 57 roads, construction and refurbishing of 32 helipads, development of 47 outposts and twelve staging camps for the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, and the construction of 18 foot tracks in Arunachal Pradesh were currently under progress. The details were mentioned in a department-related standing committee report on demands for grants for the fiscal year 2021-22 that was presented in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The committee is headed by Congress leader Anand Sharma. India and China are engaged in a face-off in various pockets in eastern Ladakh since April last year after China stopped Indian patrols in the Finger area of Pangong Lake. While the Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged from the north and south banks of the lake in February, the build-up continues at Depsang plains, Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla informed the panel that the Ministry of Home Affairs had focused on “border infrastructure” and in the 2020-21 fiscal, the government had sanctioned the Phase II of the Indo-China Border Road (ICBR-II) programme. “This programme covers many roads, foot tracks and border out posts,” the report said. The panel held sittings on February 16, 17 and 22, where officials apprised that there are 11 demands for grants administered by the Ministry. The report said till November 2020, the total length of road constructed along the China border stood at 538.50 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-road-in-ladakh-being-constructed/article34079020.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||10 lakh bank employees on two-day strike||Public sector bank employees under the banner of the United Forum of Bank Unions, an umbrella organisation of nine trade unions, on Monday struck work to protest against the government’s plan to privatise public sector banks. In a statement, the All-India Bank Employees Association said nearly 10 lakh employees, officers and managers began a two-day strike on Monday. “In view of the decision announced in the Budget that in addition to IDBI Bank, two public sector banks would be privatised, the UFBU has given the call for agitation and strike for two days on March 15 and 16,” the statement said, adding that talks with the government had failed. The union said privatisation of banks would lead to loss of employment. “The government says some of the public sector banks are in losses and hence it can no longer take care of them. The fact is that all public sector banks are earning operating profits. Because of provision for bad loans some banks are in net loss. So the priority is to take tough action on defaulters,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bank-employees-go-on-strike-against-privatisation/article34079028.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||BRO plans to open key pass to Leh ahead of schedule||For the first time ever, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has started work on reopening the crucial Baralacha Pass in Himachal Pradesh much before schedule to restore connectivity to Leh in Ladakh, an Army statement said. Amid the stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh last year, the BRO had kept crucial passes open for longer duration to enable the Army to undertake advanced winter stocking for the thousands of troops deployed in Ladakh. “The team has traversed a total distance of 20 km in super high-altitude conditions scrupulously crossing the Baralacha La in the Zanskar range on foot amidst sub-zero freezing conditions, frequent avalanches and slides with 15 to 20 feet snow accumulation,” the statement said. Adverse weather Stating that the air recce for air induction of the snow clearance team from Sitingiri to Sarchu was carried out on March 3, the statement said the aim of this induction was to clear Baralacha Pass using two attack points from Patsio and Sarchu side each to achieve connectivity to Leh. However, air induction of the team could not take place in the subsequent days due to inclement weather. To avoid further delay, it was decided to march the party on foot, with rations, spare parts and communication equipment. After two failed attempts, it finally reached the destination on March 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bro-begins-work-to-open-key-pass-to-leh-early/article34079029.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||SC begins hearing quota verdict case||The Supreme Court on Monday began a hearing on whether the landmark 1992 verdict in the Indira Sawhney case, which caps the quota at 50%, require a re-look by a larger bench. A five-judge Constitution bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, gave a week’s time to all the States to submit their brief note of submissions. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for petitioners, who opened the arguments on the question of reference to a larger bench, said there was no need to revisit the Indira Sawhney verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-begins-hearing-quota-verdict-case/article34079038.ece
16 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Reject her nomination, says Suvendu||Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP candidate pitted against Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, said on Monday that he had sought the rejection of the West Bengal Chief Minister’s nomination for not declaring the six criminal cases filed against her, while filing her papers. Mr. Adhikari, a former confidant of Ms. Banerjee, claimed that she had suppressed information about five cases filed in Assam and another lodged by the CBI in West Bengal. He said he had mentioned the case numbers in his complaint to the Election Commission (EC), but did not elaborate on the offences allegedly committed by the Trinamool Congress supremo. A senior EC official said the matter was being looked into. No immediate reaction was available from the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reject-her-nomination-says-suvendu/article34079040.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘India will take up incidents of racism with U.K.’||External Affairs minister S. Jaishankar told the Rajya Sabha on Monday that India will take up incidents of racism with United Kingdom “with great candour when required.” “I do want to say, that as the land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes, away from racism wherever it is, particularly, so when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora. As a friend of the U.K., we also have concerns about its repetitional impact,” the Minister said, responding to an incident of racism faced by an Indian student. BJP’s Ashwini Vaishnav mentioned during Zero Hour that Rashmi Samant was “cyberbullied” and forced to resign as president of the Oxford University Students Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-will-take-up-incidents-of-racism-with-uk/article34079023.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Citizens’ report casts doubt on autonomy of Election Commission of India||A report by a citizens’ group on Monday flagged concerns about “significant exclusions” of vulnerable sections of society from the electoral rolls, increasing criminalisation of politics and the autonomy of the Election Commission of India. The report by Citizens’ Commission on Elections looked at the question of whether elections in India are “free and fair”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citizens-report-casts-doubt-on-autonomy-of-election-commission-of-india/article34079026.ece
16 March 2021||Guwahati,||Former extremists take up arms again in Assam||Some leaders of the disbanded National Demo- cratic Front of Boroland have formed a new extremist group to revive the armed movement. They have also called for driving the BJP out of Assam. Leaders of the National Liberation Front of Boroland said the govern- ment’s indifference to the Bodo issue made them take up guns again for their rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-extremists-take-up-arms-again-in-assam/article34079033.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||PM to hold meet with CMs on COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with the Chief Ministers via videoconference on Wednesday over growing COVID-19 cases and the ongoing vaccination drive. Sources said the meeting was necessitated as the COVID-19 tally has been witnessing an upward surge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-hold-meet-with-cms-on-covid-19/article34079037.ece
16 March 2021||Lucknow,||BSP to contest assembly polls in 3 states, UT on its own||BSP president Mayawati said on Monday that the party would contest the Assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry on its own, saying it had a "bitter experience" of aligning with other parties in the past. Ms. Mayawati also stated that her party would go it alone in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election next year.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-to-contest-assembly-polls-in-3-states-ut-on-its-own/article34079039.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EVMs will be put under CCTV watch: Police Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Monday said strongrooms storing electronic voting machines were under the surveillance of closed circuit television cameras and armed police personnel till the time of counting. “There will be continuous surveillance at strongrooms with the deployment of police guards and monitoring through CCTV cameras. Officers will be deployed for round-the-clock monitoring. Any authorised entry into the strongrooms will be permitted only after a register entry,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Mr. Aggarwal, accompanied by Additional Commissioner, North, T. Senthilkumar and other officers, visited the places where polling booths will be set up and inspected the bandobust arrangements in the city. Later talking to the press, Mr. Aggarwal said Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu revenue districts fell fully or partially under the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai City Police. As many as 24 Assembly constituencies would be covered by the city police. “In our area, 2,078 polling stations are located and 11,852 polling booths are being set up. Compared to previous elections, we have set up 4,000 additional booths. After analysing circumstances and law and order problems in previous elections, we have identified 307 vulnerable locations that comprise 1,216 booths. We are going to provide extra security to them. Central Paramilitary forces and personnel of the Tamil Nadu Special Police will be deployed. We have identified 10 critical locations, where 30 booths are located,” he said. He also said that as per the orders of the Election Commission, 1,792 licensees had handed over their licensed weapons so far and only 18 weapons were yet to be deposited. 1,300 warrants issued The Commissioner said after the model code of conduct kicked in on February 26, around 1,300 non-bailable warrants (NBWs) were executed and special teams had been constituted to execute 645 NBWs, which were pending. Mr. Aggarwal said, “We have taken action against anti-social elements under preventive sections and so far, 1,916 cases have been booked. As many as 1,600 history-sheeters have been detained.” He said 77 cases had been booked for poll code violations and another 398 cases were booked for offences under the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act .  In the city limits , 77 flying squads and 77 static surveillance teams were on round-the-clock duty. In addition, 150 flying squads and 150 static surveillance teams would be deployed soon, Mr. Aggarwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evms-will-be-put-under-cctv-watch-police-commissioner/article34079605.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A highly industrialised, coastal region awaits answers||A long coastline and scores of industries have shaped the identity of Tiruvottiyur constituency. The latest infrastructural addition, the Metro, has undoubtedly changed the skyline of a segment of this constituency — starting from Kaladipet to Wimco Nagar — but at the ground level, a number of issues, such as industrial pollution and factors affecting the livelihood of fisherfolk, still remain unaddressed. Nearly 20 fishing villages and a number of highly industrialised areas make up a major portion of Tiruvottiyur in Tiruvallur. The constituency includes areas such as Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Chinnasekkadu, Ernavoor and Kathivakkam. The coastline extending from the fishing villages of Nalla Thaneer Odai Kuppam to Nettukuppam, Thalankuppam, falls in the constituency. With fisherfolk having a significant vote bank, the constituency will see a former councillor and a former Member of Legislative Assembly from the two Dravidian parties contest for the seat. K.P. Sankar, brother of DMK MLA and former Fisheries Minister K.P.P. Samy, who passed away in 2020 leaving the seat vacant, and K. Kuppan of the AIADMK are in the fray. Both candidates evoked a mixed response among a cross-section of residents, who will also see Naam Tamilar Katchi’s chief coordinator Seeman in the fray. How members of the fishing community vote would be one of the major deciding factors, leaders of the fishing community said. “The fishing community definitely has a big role. This constituency is among nearly 37 constituencies in 13 districts that has a high presence of fisherfolk. We need better representation as some of our issues remain unresolved. The Ennore Creek should be protected. There is indiscriminate discharge of effluents by industries and environment monitoring is poor. There is no denying that we need developmental activities but the Kattupalli port expansion project will hit the fishing industry badly here too,” K. Bharathi, president of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said. The port project, P.R. Mahendran of Nalla Thaneer Odai Kuppam, said, would have an adverse impact on their livelihood. “Already, the number of people taking up fishing have dwindled over the years. We get a good catch of crab and prawns every January. We call it the ‘Pongal bonus’ but if the port is expanded, it will be against the natural course, resulting in dwindling marine life. When will they understand that it is a question of our livelihood,” he said. Demands to deepen the Ennore estuary are still pending. The estuary was polluted with fly ash from industries. V. Desingh, of Nettukuppam, another fishing village, said it involved the livelihood of 30,000 to 40,000 fishermen. “Our lives are endangered, and materials, including fishing nets and boats, worth lakhs of rupees are damaged in tidal action, raising the need for deepening the estuary,” he said. Industrial pollution remains a cause of concern for residents in Manali, Tiruvottiyur and Ennore. Industrial pollution has not spared even the groundwater, added Annadurai of Manali. “We are purchasing water from private lorries. Applications for Metrowater connections for households have been pending for nearly seven years. Many say Manali, a highly industrial area, is an unfit place for people to live, and this is true on many grounds.” Palani, a shopkeeper in Wimco Nagar, said, “Tiruvottiyur has a number of private hospitals but many cannot afford to pay for healthcare. We need to visit Chinna Stanley (Government Peripheral Hospital, Tondiarpet) or the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Access to healthcare will improve if a government hospital is set up here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-highly-industrialised-coastal-region-awaits-answers/article34079610.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK’s stand on CAA has exposed the party’||The AIADMK’s stand on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in its manifesto has exposed the party, and all its promises are an attempt to fool the voters of the State, said Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri. In an interview on Monday, he insisted that the “ideological alliance” led by the DMK and its vote share would ensure a big victory for the front in the Assembly election. Edited excerpts:  Everyone in your party was insisting on getting a minimum of 30 seats from the DMK, but you finally settled for 25. What has been the reaction from party members? From a practical point of view, they have accepted it. Though there is a feeling that this is less, in the existing political scenario, it has been accepted. All parties in the alliance came to a decision at the last minute. Everyone [alliance parties] had asked for more seats, but based on the ground situation, everyone accepted what was given. Do you believe this is more of a political compulsion because the election was announced at such short notice? None of the Opposition parties expected that the election would be held this soon. The ruling party knew about it. But the manner in which the constituencies have been allotted to us, we have not faced any political compulsion. Nor did they [DMK] force us to take any seats. Some of your leaders are protesting the manner in which seats were given to candidates in the party. Will this not affect you? All parties in Tamil Nadu face this type of situation. We had 2,500 applicants for 25 seats. Obviously, except among the 25 people named as candidates, there is bound to be some disappointment among others. We cannot say this disappointment is not natural. It is the job of the leadership to address this issue and we have addressed it. They have understood it. There is also a charge that the Congress has given seats to relatives of leaders... We have not given seats to heirs of Congress leaders in all constituencies. We have given it to some. Thangkabalu [former TNCC president] did not ask nomination for his son, I did not ask for ticket for any of my family members. Just like how leaders work, their family members also work for the party. Three [heirs] of the 25 seats is a small number [actually, the party has fielded sons of five leaders and a relative of another]. It has not been given to the unworthy. Among those who are worthy of contesting, these people are ahead. That’s all. How much of the internal quota system for seat allocation was followed this time? For the first time, there was no quota system followed. Selection of candidates happened only by merit. Why is there not even a single female candidate? We are going to announce women candidates. We have four seats to announce. So will you announce four women candidates? We are giving… there is no difference of view point here. We will make an announcement soon. [But] it will not be in all four seats. Your numbers [in the alliance] have been reducing over the past few elections. From 63 in 2011, you are now down to 25…. Maybe in the next election, we will fight in 200 seats. Anything is possible. In politics, you will see victories, defeats, highs and lows. Our aim now is to ensure the victory of the alliance. We are engaged in fieldwork now. We have a plan of action. In the next election, we will have a larger presence. When talks were being held with the DMK, one of the key issues raised was your party’s “strike rate”. What is your expectation this time? In the Lok Sabha election, we won eight of the nine seats allotted to us. What is the strike rate there? That strike rate is high. Why are you harping on the past? Look at what happened recently. As per my calculation, we will win a minimum of 90% seats, although looking at the current electoral scenario, we will win all seats. What do you believe is likely to go in your alliance’s favour? The vote share in our alliance is bigger than the vote share of the AIADMK alliance. Even when we performed badly, our vote share was more than the vote share the AIADMK currently has. Plus, our alliance is an ideological one. Our manifesto — the DMK’s manifesto — is growth-oriented, will enhance agriculture, create jobs, help people on the margins of society, ensure social justice, bring in reforms in education… these were the expectations of the people and they have been addressed in the manifesto. What do you make of the AIADMK’s manifesto, especially its stand on CAA? The CAA was enacted only because the AIADMK supported the Bill in Parliament. They have made such a big mistake and are now saying they will take up the issue [seeking revocation]? Who are they trying to fool; the voters? Or are they talking against what factually happened? If you take this one point alone from the AIADMK’s manifesto, it shows that they are just making false promises on everything. Among other things, the party is also promising government jobs for one person in every family…. There aren’t many jobs in the government. These are all just electoral announcements. The Congress has not asked for a share in power when your alliance has been in power. Does the Congress have a way forward in Tamil Nadu? The BJP appears to be steadily increasing its presence... After the 2021 poll, we will decide on how to work on this. For now, it is not a policy decision to ask for a share in power in the [DMK] government that is going to be formed. That the BJP is growing in Tamil Nadu is a myth. If you want to know our party’s strength, all you need to do is look at the massive crowds that our leader Rahul Gandhi got during his tour recently. Do you believe that Coimbatore South will be a tough contest for you? Kamal Haasan [MNM] and Vanathi Srinivasan [BJP] might seem stronger on paper. But in the public forum, based on our alliance’s vote share, our candidate [Mayura Jayakumar] only will win.  For full interview check: http://bit.ly/AlagiriInterview   In politics, you will see victories, defeats, highs and lows. Our aim now is to ensure the victory of the alliance. We are engaged in fieldwork now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-stand-on-caa-has-exposed-the-party/article34079230.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Poll officials could contract virus’||The DMK on Monday told the Madras High Court that the Election Commission of India (ECI), by permitting COVID-19 patients to vote through postal ballot, is putting election officials and others at risk of contracting the virus. It would be better if those patients not come to polling booths and not vote at all, it said. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, senior counsel P. Wilson said there was no clarity on how a contingent of election officials, videographers, police officers and politicians would visit hospitals and those in home quarantine, and how they would give and take back the postal ballot papers from those in quarantine. “Even in the Madras High Court, we have been keeping every paper on quarantine for 24 hours before touching them. But When it comes to postal ballot, there is no clarity on who will meet the patients in quarantine and obtain the postal votes. It is better that COVID-19 patients not come to the polling booths and not vote at all,” he told the Bench. The arguments were made during the hearing of a case filed by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam challenging Section 60(c) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which empowers the ECI to create a new class of voters, including ‘absentee voters’, and give the option of voting through postal ballot to those aged above 80 years, the physically challenged, those suffering from COVID-19, etc. Earlier, senior counsel G. Rajagopal, representing the ECI, and Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan, representing the Centre, contended that the ECI was well within its powers to provide the option of voting through postal ballot to a select category of voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-officials-could-contract-virus-dmk/article34079264.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||836 more persons test positive in State||With 836 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 infection on Monday, the number of active cases rose to 5,149. As on date 8,60,562 persons have been infected in the State. In a day, another 553 persons were discharged after treatment from various health facilities taking the tally of those who have been discharged post-treatment to 8,42,862 persons. Death toll The State added four more deaths in the last 24 hours. Till date 12,551 persons have died of the infection, according to public health officials. In Chennai district, 317 more persons tested positive in a day and 266 patients were discharged from health facilities after treatment. The district also recorded one death. Currently 2,023 persons are under treatment, either in healthcare facilities or at home. The district has recorded 2,39,131 cases till date of which 2,32,929 persons have been discharged post-treatment. So far 4,179 deaths have been recorded in the district. Cases in districts Number of infections rose in the districts of Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur as well. In Chengalpattu, 81 new infections were reported and in Coimbatore 70 more persons tested positive. The district also recorded one death. In Thanjavur, 58 additional infections were noticed whereas in Tiruvallur 44 more persons had contracted the infection. All four deaths reported in the past 24 hours were among senior citizens aged 67 to 83 years, with pre-existing chronic diseases. Government and private hospitals recorded two deaths each. An 83-year-old man from Madurai who tested positive for COVID-19 on March 7 and admitted on the same day in a private hospital was a diabetic and hypertensive. Breathing difficulty He had complained of fever for a day and had expressed difficulty in breathing for 10 days. He had also complained of cough. He died on Sunday morning and doctors recorded his death as due to acute respiratory distress syndrome brought on by COVID-19 pneumonia. A 75-year-old man from Nagapattinam who was admitted on March 13 in Thiruvarur Medical College Hospital had tested positive for COVID-19 the same day. He died on the same day within two hours of admission. The hospital recorded his death as due to COVID pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome. In a day a total of 64,829 tests were done, including 64,645 persons who were tested for the viral infection Meanwhile, a public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Railway Board and the General Manager of Southern Railway to resume regular operation of passenger and suburban trains in the State after stopping the temporary arrangement of operating only special trains due to the threat of COVID-19. Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi has filed the case on the ground that there was no reason why train services alone should be restricted when air planes were being flown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/836-more-test-positive/article34079235.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pre-election surveillance in city improves with additional teams||Chennai District Election Officer G. Prakash on Monday launched additional flying squads and static surveillance teams ahead of the Assembly election. As many as 144 teams have started surveillance in various neighbourhoods of the city in the 16 Assembly constituencies. Cash amounting to Rs. 25.92 lakh was seized at two locations on Monday in Harbour and Egmore Assembly constituencies. A total of Rs. 20.98 lakh in cash was seized from a passenger at the Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR Central Railway Station on Monday. The officials have informed the Income Tax nodal officer. A total of Rs. 4.94 lakh in cash was seized from a motorist on Pulianthope High Road on Monday. Election officials conducted a meeting with officials from Bihar to study the models for COVID-19 management adopted during the election there a few months ago. Work on creating ramps for polling stations will start shortly. A total of 67 candidates have filed nominations in the 16 Assembly constituencies of the city district. On Monday, 63 candidates filed nominations. Those who filed nominations on Monday include 11 candidates in Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, four in Perambur, six in Kolathur, six in Villivakkam, two in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, two in Egmore, six in Royapuram, one in Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, two in Harbour, six in Anna Nagar, five in Virugambakkam, six in Saidapet, one in T. Nagar, two in Mylapore and three in Velachery. No candidate has filed nomination in the Thousand Lights Assembly constituency so far. A total of 21 candidates from the AIADMK and six candidates from the DMK filed their nominations on Monday. A total of 17 independent candidates filed their nominations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pre-election-surveillance-in-city-improves-with-additional-teams/article34079602.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light rain likely in some parts of south T.N. by weekend||Some parts of south Tamil Nadu may get a respite from summer heat towards the weekend. The Meteorological Department has forecast chances of light rain for two or three days around March 19. However, hot days are in store for the other parts of the State as dry weather will persist through the week. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the maximum temperature might rise two to three degree Celsius above normal temperature for the day in a few places. On Monday, the weather station in Nungambakkam experienced close to normal day temperature of 33.6 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature had climbed to 35.1 degree Celsius, a few notches higher than on the previous day. Chennai’s suburbs, which are away from the coast, felt the summer heat as the day temperature remained at 35.5 degree Celsius at the Meenambakkam weather station for the second consecutive day. This is nearly 2.5 degree Celsius more than the average temperature for the day. The same weather trend may continue till Wednesday and the city would experience a maximum temperature of around 35 degree Celsius, officials said. Day temperature had touched an all-time high for March at 40.6 degree Celsius on March 29, 1953, according to IMD records. Nights are also becoming warmer in the city as the minimum temperature recorded is around 24 degree Celsius due to the increase in humidity level. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said an easterly trough may influence light rain from March 19 in one or two places of south Tamil Nadu. Easterly winds are still prevailing over the region and this would largely help in preventing day temperature from increasing faster, particularly in coastal areas unlike in April or May. However, the maximum temperature in a few interior places like Erode and Karur have reached 37 degree Celsius. Moisture content becomes less as the easterly winds reach the interior areas, officials added.  Easterly winds will largely help in preventing day temperature from increasing faster  N. Puviarasan Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-rain-likely-in-some-parts-of-south-tamil-nadu-by-weekend/article34079493.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bank officers’ federation stages protest||Members of the All India Nationalised Banks Officers’ Federation staged a demonstration at the Canara Bank circle office in the city on Monday as part of the nationwide two-day strike opposing the Union government’s budget proposal to privatise two public sector banks. Perils of privatisation About 250 members participated in the demonstration. G.V. Manimaran, the federation’s general secretary, urged the participants to create awareness on the perils of privatisation among customers.  Pointing out the benefits of nationalisation, he said deposits of the banks had grown manifold in the past five decades. Public sector banks still command more than 70% of the market share in the banking system. Some demands of the federation include medical insurance to retired employees on a par with serving employees, allocation of staff welfare fund based on profits and additional increment to probationary officers as being paid by the State Bank of India. Besides updating pension for retired employees as per the Reserve Bank of India formula, it also wanted reimbursement of hospitalisation expenses to officers of all banks in line with the SBI. Operations hit Banking operations were badly hit on Monday as over 3,000 employees joined the strike in Puducherry. Though the strike, called by the United Forum of Bank Unions, was announced earlier, several customers were surprised to see the branches shuttered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-officers-federation-stages-protest/article34079490.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Resumption of suburban train services sought||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Railway Board and the General Manager of Southern Railway to resume regular operation of passenger and suburban trains in the State after stopping the temporary arrangement of operating only special trains due to the threat of COVID-19. Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi filed the case on the ground that there was no reason why train services alone should be restricted when planes were being flown with 100% seating capacity, Metro trains were being operated with capacity and cinema theatres had been permitted to play shows by filling all seats. Claiming that bus fares were almost 300% higher when compared to the train fare, the petitioner said passengers were being forced to shell out Rs. 35 to Rs. 50 towards bus fare to travel a distance of 55 km, which would otherwise cost only Rs. 15 on a train. He said a daily wager travelling from Manapparai to Tiruchi was being forced to pay Rs. 60 for bus fare because of the paucity of trains, which charge only Rs. 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resumption-of-suburban-train-services-sought/article34079495.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kattupalli fishermen protest again||A little over a month after their last protest, residents of the Kattupalli fishing hamlet in Tiruvallur district on Monday staged a protest, blocking access to a private port from land and sea, demanding that the jobs of 140 people from the village be made permanent. The villagers, who staged the blockade from the morning till well after noon, said the promised meeting between officials and workers did not happen after last month’s protest. “We need to be paid proper salaries since we have been shifted from our village and have lost our livelihood. We cannot survive on meagre salaries,” said Kannan, one of the fishermen. They were also protesting against the plan of the port, seeking to declare a large area as no-fishing zone. They withdrew the protest after Revenue Department officials intervened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kattupalli-fishermen-stage-protest-again/article34079492.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin milk turns dearer in several areas||At a time when the AIADMK and the DMK are promising to reduce milk prices after being elected to power, Aavin consumers in the city are made to pay 50 paise more than the maximum retail price per packet. Retailers in some areas have been telling their customers that prices have been revised from March 1 and packet prices have gone up by 50 paise or Rs. 1 each, said consumers. “I don’t buy milk daily; we buy according to our needs. Two days ago, I went to buy milk and the shopkeeper said the cost had gone up. Then I went to another area and asked shops there too and they said they had indeed increased prices. I was shocked since there was no formal announcement,” said K. Easwaran, a resident of Villivakkam. Aavin officials said that milk prices had not been increased. ‘Unfair practice’ G. Murugan of Mylapore said many shopkeepers sold Aavin milk above the MRP, which was an unfair trade practice. “It has been their usual practice to overcharge us and prices go up according to their whims and fancies. However, this is not the case with private dairies. Shops don’t over charge when it comes to private brands,” he said. S. Velayudham, a shopkeeper in Velachery, said that shopkeepers were forced to sell above retail price as they got milk at MRP from Aavin retailers. “We need to run the fridge throughout the day even if we have just two packets of milk. We don’t get any profit from the sale of milk. We get profit from the sale of other items such as bread, eggs and rice,” he said. Kamaraj, Tamil Nadu Milk Retailers and Employees Welfare Association, said they were forced to supply at above MRP rates to shops since they got only Rs. 1 per packet from wholesalers, who got Rs. 2 per packet. “We have to go pick up milk from wholesalers, supply to retailers, collect money from them again and pay the wholesalers. But these transactions happen as cash and carry. We are not given any bills. There are retailers, who sell milk worth about Rs. 50,000 a day and get Rs. 1,000 out of that. They employ one man and he is paid Rs. 400 a day. Petrol charges and leaks run to Rs. 250 daily. At the end of the day, they get Rs. 350 a day,” he said. Dealers have been demanding that Aavin do away with the system of wholesalers. “Private brands deal through just retailers, which reduces the commission being given to various persons down the chain and the advantage can be passed into the customers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-milk-turns-dearer-in-many-areas/article34079497.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decks cleared for mini IT parks in four districts||The Tamil Nadu government has cleared the decks for establishing mini IT parks in four districts identified in the first phase. Approving a proposal by TIDEL Park Ltd. to create mini IT parks with an area of 50,000 sq ft to 1 lakh sq ft based on market demand and assessment, the government agreed to take up the projects in Salem, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Theni districts. Collectors in these districts were directed to identify non-objectionable government land suitable for the project. ‘Steer growth’ Stating that the project had the potential to steer IT sector growth in tier 2 and 3 towns, TIDEL Park’s managing director, in the proposal, called for the formation of a separate Special Project Vehicle (SPV) between TIDEL Park Ltd. and the government or agency nominated for the purpose of implementing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decks-cleared-for-mini-it-parks-in-four-districts/article34079614.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Respond to AIADMK’s counter, Sasikala told||A city civil court has asked V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK, to respond to a counter filed by the party in a civil suit instituted by her challenging her removal from the party. It may be recalled that Ms. Sasikala recently announced that she would stay away from politics. In 2017, Ms. Sasikala filed a civil suit seeking to declare that AIADMK leaders Edappadi K. Palaniswami, O. Panneerselvam, Dindigul C. Srinivasan, S. Semmalai and E. Madhusudanan were not members of the party. She submitted that all actions taken by them in their capacity as the party office-bearers, removing her from the post of the interim general secretary were illegal and against the by-laws of the party. The case, which was originally filed in the Madras High Court, was transferred to a lower court on the count of jurisdiction a year ago. In the civil suit, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran was added as one of plaintiffs. The case was taken up for hearing by fourth city civil court judge A.R.V. Ravi. The court accepted a memo filed by counsel for Mr. Dhinakaran seeking to abandon the case since he had floated a separate party. Case adjourned The court adjourned the case to April 9 for further hearing. However, Ms. Sasikala’s counsel sought time. The counsel representing Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam had argued that the petition filed by her be dismissed. They submitted that the case was already dismissed by the Election Commission; this was also upheld by the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/respond-to-aiadmks-counter-court-tells-sasikala/article34079262.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor injured in robbery in Santhome||Personnel from the Mylapore police station on Monday arrested three accused for allegedly robbing a mobile phone from a doctor, who was cycling on Santhome High Road, after attacking him. According to the police, the complainant, Vivek Patel, 34, working in Adyar Cancer Institute, was cycling on Santhome High Road. Three unidentified suspects on a bike followed and attacked him from behind. They snatched his mobile phone and fled. He was injured and was admitted to hospital. While he was undergoing treatment, his wife Anjali Patel lodged a complaint. After investigation, the police arrested I. Pradeep, 23, of Mannady; P. Gokul alias Ajay, 20, of Triplicane; and Manoj alias ‘Pallu’ Manoj, 25, of Ice House. The trio had previous cases for assault and attempt to murder against them and were remanded in judicial custody. Personnel from the Madhavaram Milk Depot police station on Monday arrested three for allegedly robbing a transperson. The victim, Neena, 29, of Red Hills, was waylaid on Saturday by four persons on bikes. They fled the scene after robbing her. Another robbery was reported by a 70-year-old woman in M.G.R. Nagar. Bike-borne suspects attacked and snatched her gold  chain when she was walking on Nehru Nagar Main Road. As she caught the pillion rider, the suspects fell on the road. They attacked her in retaliation and escaped with the chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-injured-in-robbery-in-chennai/article34079501.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK expels former Minister, former MLA||The AIADMK on Monday expelled former Minister and Ramanathapuram district treasurer S. Sundararaj and former Thiru. Vi. Ka Nagar MLA V. Neelakandan, along with five others, from the party. According to sources in the ruling party, the action followed Dr. Sundararaj joining the DMK and Mr. Neelakandan joining the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) recently. The expulsion of the five persons was announced in a release, which was issued by Chief Minister and party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam. In a separate release, the AIADMK named P. Naseema and R.M. Dhanalakshmi for the Assembly constituencies of Mannarkad and Devikulam in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-expels-former-minister-former-mla/article34079238.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Dismiss plea on 26 verses in Koran’||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, said that a recent petition by the former Chairman of the U.P. Shia Central Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi in the Supreme Court, seeking removal of 26 verses from the Koran  on the grounds that they “promote violence and terrorism” should be dismissed. Stating that his attention had been drawn to reports about the same by members of the community, Mr. Ali said the petition had been condemned by eminent people and learned scholars from both the Shia and Sunni communities. “Such an absurd, frivolous and vexatious petition deserves to be dismissed at the outset,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dismiss-plea-on-26-verses-in-koran/article34079502.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCDW to join hands with e-commerce sites||To market products made by the 7.22 lakh women Self Help Groups (SHGs) in the State, the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women (TNCDW) has planned to tie up with popular e-commerce sites. “We are waiting for the election to get over. We are already in talks with some companies. All products made by these 1.06 crore women will find a place there. We have been seeing a lot of traction for their products as a result of exhibitions and sale through MaThi outlets,” said a source in the TNCDW. The Corporation would be marketing the products under the brand name MaThi, which is a short form for Magalir Thittam. Rakkipatti resident Lakshmi Ganesan, whose SHG makes hand pounded arappu thool from the leaves of the usalam tree, said such exhibitions had provided more visibility for their products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncdw-to-join-hands-with-e-commerce-sites/article34079510.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK releases fourth list||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) has decided to field its medical wing secretary, P. Kalidas, in the R.K. Nagar Assembly constituency, which is represented by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, the party’s founder-general secretary, in the outgoing Assembly. This marked a change in the AMMK position as Mr. Dhinakaran said in early February that he would seek re-election from the constituency. Six more constituencies In a list released on Monday, the party also named nominees for six more constituencies. The AMMK has allotted 73 constituencies to several allies, including 60 for the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-releases-fourth-list/article34079279.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 15 lakh vaccinated in State||A total of 15,01,940 people have been vaccinated against the COVID-19 in the State so far. On Monday, 49,050 persons over the age of 60 and 33,545 in the age group of 45 to 59 with co-morbidities were given the Covishield vaccine. As many as 10,152 healthcare workers and 18,281 frontline workers were inoculated. In the 142 sessions held to administer Covaxin, 612 healthcare workers and 558 frontline workers benefited. Whereas 1,322 persons in the 45 to 59 age group and 2,041 persons aged over 60 also opted for Covaxin on Monday. So far, 42,444 sessions have been held in which 4,87,591 healthcare workers and 3,58,149 frontline workers have been administered the vaccine. A total of 2,57,077 people with co-morbidities in the 45 to 60 age group and 3,99,123 people aged over 60 have received the vaccine, according to the data released by the Directorate of Public Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-15-lakh-vaccinated-in-state/article34079243.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parties’ own interpretation of ECI norms||The AIADMK and the DMK, which have promised numerous populist measures in their respective manifestos, have their own interpretations of the Election Commission of India’s requirement that poll promises must reflect the rationale and indicate the ways and means to meet the financial requirements for their implementation. Section 3 (iii) of paragraph VIII of the ECI guidelines on manifesto states: “In the interest of transparency, level-playing field and credibility of promises, it is expected that manifestos also reflect the rationale for the promises and broadly indicate the ways and means to meet the financial requirements for it.” DMK leader R.S. Bharathi said, “The promises made in our manifesto are only schemes. Where is the financial commitment in them? We have only announced after looking into the feasibility.” AIADMK legal wing joint secretary R.M. Babu Murugavel contended that there was no need for a party to spell out the ways and means for every announcement in the manifesto. He explained that the government’s recent waiver of farm loans to the tune of Rs. 12,110 crore was only based on the pending funds that the State government was set to receive from the Centre as GST compensation. Retired IAS officer and convenor of Forum for Electoral Integrity M.G. Devasahayam said, “These promises are likely to vitiate the purity of the election process or exert undue influence on the voters in exercising their franchise.” In the absence of rationale, the promises in the manifestos “would render impossible the holding of free and fair elections with a level-playing field,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-own-interpretation-of-eci-norms/article34079226.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur apparel industry shuts down demanding reduction in yarn prices||The one-day strike by garment industry and business in Tiruppur on Monday resulted in Rs. 200 crore loss, according to Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association. The garment industry and business in Tiruppur came to a standstill on Monday as the units and shops downed shutters demanding reduction in prices of yarn, the main raw material. The one-day strike was organised jointly by 30 industry associations and eight trade unions. Petition submitted Workers and industry owners staged a protest and representatives of the associations later submitted their demands to the Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association, said the aim of the strike was, "to register the plight of the industries and get the attention of the authorities concerned." The textile mills are not delivering the assured quantity of yarn at the assured prices. This is affecting the garment units, he said. The prices of yarn started going up in December. Usually, the hike will be temporary. However, this time it is on the rise frequently and availability is an issue, he said. According to the Tiruppur Exporters' Forum, the MSME units are the worst-hit because of the yarn price hike. The South India Hosiery Manufacturers' Association president A.C. Easwaran said in a press release issued here that the government should suspend export of yarn and fabric and bring yarn under Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-apparel-industry-shuts-down-demanding-reduction-in-yarn-prices/article34079623.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Time to boot out looters: Kamal||It was time to boot out the looters, who in the last 50 years had brought about a cloud of darkness over the State, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan said here at a public meeting on Monday. “It is the torch light (his party symbol) that can provide light to the people in this darkness. A few others are also claiming to show light to the people. But that is for them to loot more,” he said. Just as he wanted to take Indian cinema to the world level and had made attempts towards that, he wanted to develop Tamil Nadu by making it a one trillion dollar economy. His party, even if dubbed the third front, should not be taken lightly because AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran too had founded the party as a third front by demanding accountability in the DMK. Hitting out at those who questioned the MNM's vote base, the actor-turned politician said to those talking percentages that he would like to point at reports that 33% of the politicians were involved in one scam or the other and had been convicted. His politics was honesty and that was his strategy. All the candidates he had fielded in this election had already had some achievements to show and for them politics was service and not profession. After experiencing bad governance, people in Coimbatore South were ready for a change. And those questioning his choice of Assembly seat to contest would not do so again after seeing his performance over the next five years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-to-boot-out-looters-kamal/article34079260.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Fighting on my strength: Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan said he was fighting on his strength, which was honesty, and not weakness in the opposite camp. After filing his nomination, Mr. Haasan told reporters that he chose Coimbatore South Assembly constituency because there was an attempt to communally polarise the place. “'There are attempts to destroy communal peace here. I want to be a voice against it.” On BJP candidate Vanathi Srinivasan’s remark that Mr. Haasan would return to acting after the election results, the MNM president said as professionals there was nothing wrong in returning to acting or practising law or medicine. “For me, politics is duty, and that is to serve the people,” the MNM chief said, adding that for him, politics was not a profession, as it was for others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fighting-on-my-strength-kamal-haasan/article34079616.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two-day bank strike begins||Employees and officers of nationalised banks staged a protest here and took part in the two-day nation-wide strike against privatisation of banks on Monday. According to a press release from the All India Nationalised Banks Officers' Federation, almost 93% of bank branches in rural and semi urban areas are by public sector banks. "Privatisation will have a negative impact on all the good works being done by the public sector," it said. S. Meenkashisubramanian, general secretary of Coimbatore District Bank Employees Association, said regular business was affected in nearly 260 bank branches in and around Coimbatore on Monday because of the strike. The branches have almost 4,200 employees and officers. The employees and officers staged a protest in front of State Bank of India on Monday and will stage a protest on Tuesday in front of Indian Overseas Bank on Cross Cut Road. The nationalised banks are the ones that extend majority of the loans to MSMEs, farmers, and students. Privatisation will affect the service rendered by nationalised banks in rural areas and to these sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-day-bank-strike-begins/article34079621.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Body retrieved from tunnel||In a rare operation, a special team of the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) retrieved the body of a youth from a 773-metre-long tunnel of the contour canal of Parambikulam Aliyar Project, eight days after he was pushed into the canal by a man in an act of murder for gain. Based on requests from the police and TNFRS, the Public Works Department had stopped water supply to the canal on Sunday night to carry out the search operation early from Monday. Officials said that the body of the missing youth, A. Prasath (19) alias Purushothamman of Athiyur, was found stuck in one of the 10 tunnels of the 49 km-long contour canal which takes water from Sarkarpathy Power House in Coimbatore district to Thirumoorthy dam in Tiruppur district. On Saturday, the Vadakkipalayam police arrested J. Udayakumar (20) of Sethumadai who confessed to the investigators of having killed Prasath by pushing him into the canal. He allegedly committed the crime to steal Prasath’s motorcycle worth Rs. 2.45 lakh. District Forest Officer R. Jegadheesh said that a special team of the TNFRS carried out the searches with all necessary equipment,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-retrieved-from-tunnel/article34079627.ece
16 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP trying to split votes, alleges MP||The BJP is attempting to split the votes that are against the AIADMK-BJP alliance to prevent defeat in the Assembly elections, alleged Tiruppur MP and CPI leader K. Subbarayan on Monday. Speaking to mediapersons in Tiruppur, he claimed that the BJP is engaged in “political deceit” and further alleged that the Central and State Intelligence agencies have predicted the defeat of the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the elections. The Secular Progressive Alliance led by the DMK, of which the CPI is a part of, will defeat this alleged strategy of the BJP and win “more than 200 seats,” he asserted. He said that the CPI has agreed to be a part of the Secular Progressive Alliance “in spite of some disappointments” to ensure the defeat of the AIADMK-BJP alliance. Terming the assurances made by the AIADMK in its manifesto on Sunday as “baseless,” Mr. Subbarayan accused the AIADMK government of “bankrupting” the exchequer due to the State’s outstanding debt. On the strike held in Tiruppur on Monday condemning the hike in yarn prices, Mr. Subbarayan demanded a clear explanation from the Central government for the increase in the prices. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policy is to protect the interests of corporates and not that of micro and small industries,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-trying-to-split-votes-alleges-mp/article34079630.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant hit by train||A male wild elephant was severely injured after being hit by a speeding train near Walayar on the Tamil Nadu–Kerala border early on Monday morning. The tusker, aged around 25, was dragged by the train, the Thiruvananthapuram-Chennai Express (02696), for about 100 metres along the track before it fell to the slope on the left side. According to the Forest Department, the accident occurred around 1.30 a.m. on track ‘B’ through which trains move from Palakkad to Coimbatore. The Forest Department said that the accident location is situated outside the reserve forest area of the Madukkarai forest range of the Coimbatore Forest Division, close to the inter-State border as well as near a water body. A curve on the track reduces visibility of the loco pilot at the location, the Department said. After being informed about the accident, frontline staff of the Department, who were driving out five elephants in a nearby location, rushed to the spot and found the injured tusker. A veterinary team led by N.S. Manoharan, Regional Joint Director of Veterinary Services (retired), and veterinarian Prabhakaran examined the elephant. According to the veterinarians, the tusker’s hip was severely injured and it is unable to move its hind legs. “It could have also suffered internal injuries in the impact of the accident,” said Dr. Manoharan The Forest Department said late on Monday that it was planning to shift the elephant to Chadivayal elephant camp for treatment. The Palakkad Division of Southern Railway said in a statement that it has taken various measures to avoid incidents of trains hitting wild elephants. Signage boards to warn the loco pilots, speed restrictions (65 kmph during the day and 45 kmph during night), solar fencing, elephant ramps, solar lights and audio alarm with honey bee sound were among the measures it has taken.   According to District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, who was camping at the location, the injured tusker has already been profiled by the Department. As per the profile, it is the senior-most member of its herd and used to explore areas up to Mundur in Palakkad. The tusker was easily identified by its unique short tusks, pale head and trunk, the tip of which has been cut off due to some form of human interventions, officials said. The elephant was identified as a ‘main recruiter’, used to bring new individuals into private lands every year. It had crossed the inter-State highway several times and travelled up to Alathur in Palakkad alone, as per the profile. Though the Forest Department had installed an early warning system on a stretch of track ‘B’ which passes through the forest in 2018, it is currently defunct, confirmed an official. Cameras were set up between track locations 506A/1 and 506A/4 for the early warning system, in order to ensure elephants were not hit by speeding trains. A watchtower was also built at the location 606/A where there is a curve on the track, affecting visibility of the loco pilot, especially at night. The last time an elephant was knocked down by a train on the Tamil Nadu side of the railway track between Palakkad and Coimbatore, was in June 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-injured-after-being-hit-by-train/article34079278.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Confident of huge win: Velumani||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said after filing his nomination on Monday that he was confident of winning in Thondamuthur Assembly constituency by a huge margin as he had implemented several schemes. With the Smart Cities Mission, a combined drinking water supply scheme, roads and flyovers and a college in Thondamuthur, Coimbatore had witnessed in the last five years the kind of development it had not seen in the last 50 years. During the COVID-19 pandemic, he had worked hard to reach out to every family in the constituency. The AIADMK manifesto had several good schemes like free washing machine to every family, waiver of jewellery loan and free cable TV connection. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had cared for people from all strata of society, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/confident-of-huge-win-velumani/article34079617.ece
16 March 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Minister K.P. Anbalagan’s affidavit shows manifold increase in income of wife, son||Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan filed his nomination papers for Palacodde Assembly constituency on Monday. Mr. Anbalagan, a sitting MLA, has shown income of Rs. 13.75 lakh in 2020. But, the income of his family, especially that of his wife and his businessman son, has risen manifold between 2016 and now. His wife A. Malliga’s income has increased from Rs. 6.78 lakh in 2016 to Rs. 1.40 crore in 2020. His son A. Sasimohan has seen a rise in income from Rs. 9.38 lakh in 2018 to Rs. 1.74 crore in 2020. Mr. Anbalagan’s immovable property was valued at Rs. 1.49 crore, while his wife’s property was worth Rs. 15 lakh. Mr. Anbalagan has recorded Rs. 26.24 lakh as liabilities in loans, while his wife has recorded Rs. 2.81 crore as loans, which includes multiple MSME loans and COVID-19 loan. Mr. Anbalagan’s first son has a liability of Rs. 88.24 lakh, while his second son A.Sasimohan has a loan of Rs. 11.55 crore. Cash in hand of Mr. Anbalagan was Rs. 2,25,000, while that of his wife was Rs. 6.50 lakh. Mr. Anbalagan has recorded 200 gm of gold worth Rs. 5 lakh, his wife has recorded 600 gm of gold worth Rs. 15 lakh, son A.Chandra Mohan owns 400 gm of gold as marriage gift and second son A.Sasimohan owns 1280 gm of gold and 18.5 kg of silver as marriage gift and Sasimohan’s wife owns 1000 gm of gold as marriage gift, as per the affidavit. Son Sasimohan has also declared ownership of over 18 heavy vehicles - tipper lorries and a tanker. In a 2016 election affidavit, Mr. Anbalagan has recorded Rs. 16 lakh as cash in hand in the form fixed deposits. His wife had recorded Rs. 2 lakh as cash in hand, and his first son had recorded Rs. 1 lakh as cash in hand. Mr.Anbalagan owned movable property worth Rs. 50.95 lakh and his wife owned property worth Rs. 29.17 lakh, according to the affidavit. Mr. Anbalagan’s immovable properties were worth Rs. 86.37 lakh and that of his wife’s were Rs. 50 lakh. The liabilities declared by Mr.Anbalagan in 2016 was Rs. 10.78 lakh, his wife’s was Rs. 56.78 lakh and that of his son Chandra Mohan’s was Rs. 15 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-kp-anbalagans-affidavit-shows-manifold-increase-in-income-of-wife-son/article34079274.ece
16 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Candidates file papers in Dindigul, Theni and Ramanathapuram||The candidates of several political parties, including DMK, AIADMK, Naam Tamilar Katchi and Makkal Neethi Maiam filed their nomination papers on Monday. According to officials, 25 candidates, including I.P. Senthil Kumar (DMK) and Chakrapani (DMK), filed their nomination in Dindigul district. In Theni district, 16 candidates, including S.P. Syed Khan, A. Logirajan (both AIADMK) and A. Maharajan (DMK), filed their papers from Andipatti, Periakulam, Bodi and Cumbum. In Ramanathapuram district, DMK candidate Kadarbasha Muthuramalingam filed his paper for Ramanathapuram Assembly constituency. Six candidates from Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK), Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and other parties filed their niomination for Ramanathapuram and Paramakudi constituencies. In Sivaganga district, H. Raja of BJP filed his nomination for Karaikudi Assembly constituency. Candidates from NTK, DMK and other parties also filed their papers. Senthilnathan of AIADMK filed his nomination for Sivaganga constituency and sitting MLA S. Nagarajan for Manamadurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monday-sees-a-rush-for-filing-nominations-in-districts/article34079248.ece
16 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister charged with distributing cash for votes in Mulayur||Former Minister ‘Natham’ R. Viswanathan, who is AIADMK candidate for Natham Assembly constituency, was allegedly caught on camera distributing money to voters in Mulayur panchayat on Monday. As the video went viral on social media, agitated DMK functionaries raised objection to the absence of any officials at the spot. “Is this the way the Election Commission has issued guidelines,” Sanarpatti K. Vijayan, a DMK executive committee member, asked. He said the DMK would lodge a complaint with the Returning Officer and would approach the court if there was no action. The ill-gotten wealth amassed by AIADMK candidates were being distributed to the people. Such corrupt means of attracting voters would not be allowed. CPI(M) functionaries led by district secretary Sachidanandam criticised officials for being partial towards ruling party members. After May 2, the scenario would change for sure. The people would not be deceived by the AIADMK. When contacted, AIADMK election coordinator in Dindigul district said Mr. Viswanathan was yet to file his nomination. Denying that the candidate distributed money, the party functionary maintained that he had simply acknowledged the reception accorded to him by the villagers. It only showed that the opponents were afraid of losing the poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-charged-with-distributing-cash-for-votes/article34079246.ece
16 March 2021||Dindigul/Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Bank strike hits business transactions||The two-day bank strike, which commenced on Monday, has completely stalled the normal banking transactions in Dindigul district. The strike had been called by an umbrella of bank employees associations to protest against the proposals to privatise two public sector banks. The Union Finance Minister had announced about the plans in the budget tabled recently. Opposing this, the employees unions came together and appealed to the Union government to drop the plan. At a time, when the merger of banks had caused hassles and deepened the losses, privatisation may seal the existence of the PSUs, they apprehended. The employees unions staged a demonstration in front of the SBI here led by regional secretary Velmurugan. Other office-bearers including Joan Kingston and among others also participated. The agitators said that there were about 200 banks/branches in and around the district in which about 4000 employees had abstained. The total strike had affected banking transactions at least by Rs 500 crore, they claimed. Many ATMs in and around the bus stand and railway station had dried up as they could not be replenished due to the strike. The strike would continue on Tuesday also, the members said. The strike was also total in neighbouring Theni district, wherein the employees unions had staged an agitation and demanded the Centre to withdraw its proposal on privatisation of the two PSUs. All branches of nationalised banks and branches of private banks such as Lakshmi Vilas Bank and Karur Vysya Bank remained closed in Virudhunagar district as part of a nation-wide strike against privatisation move. “With officials in the cadre of managers to clerks taking part in the two-day strike, no banking transaction was possible on Monday,” said All India Bank Employees Association A. Sridharan. Nine associations under the umbrella of United Forum of Bank Unions had called for the strike opposing the Centre’s move to privatise two nationalised banks every year. “The Finance Minister has said that two nationalised banks will be privatised this year, without naming the banks. The private banks were nationalised in 1969 by the then Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, so that banking services were within the reach of the poor, farmers and middle class,” he said. However, if the banks were privatised, the poor would not have access to the services of the banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-strike-hits-business-transactions/article34079254.ece
16 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two Ministers, 24 others file nominations in Erode district||Two Ministers and a sitting AIADMK MLA were among the 26 nominees who filed their nomination papers to contest in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district here on Monday. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan filed his nomination for Gobichettipalayam constituency, while Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan filed his nomination for Bhavani constituency. AIADMK MLA K.V. Ramalingam filed his nomination for Erode (West) constituency, while Tamil Manila Congress candidate S. Yuvaraja, who is contesting in two leaves symbol, filed his nomination for Erode (East) constituency. In Perundurai constituency, S. Jeyakumar and R. Shanmugapriya of AIADMK, K.K.C. Balu of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi who is contesting in DMK symbol, and Chitrakala of DMK filed their nominations. In Anthiyur constituency, K.S. Shanmugavel of AIADMK filed his papers. K.S. ‘Govanam’ Thangavel, who filed his nomination as independent candidate for Modakkurichi constituency on March 12, filed another nomination on Monday. Candidates in Erode (West), Bhavani and Gobichettipalayam constituencies filed two nominations each, while candidates in other constituencies filed one nomination each. Nominations filed in each constituency were, Erode (East) – three, Erode (West) – six, Modakkurichi – three, Perundurai – eight, Bhavani – four, Anthiyur – four and Gobichettipalayam – six. So far, 27 nominations have been filed for the seven constituencies in the district, while no candidate has filed nomination in Bhavanisagar Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-ministers-24-others-file-nominations-in-erode-district/article34079267.ece
16 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Assets increase in five years||The assets of School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan have increased by Rs. 4.46 crore, while that of Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan have gone up by Rs. 1.16 crore in the last five years. The affidavit filed by Mr. Sengottaiyan declared the value of moveable assets at Rs. 5,68,46,017 and immoveable assets at Rs. 4,12,50,000. The affidavit filed by him in 2016 had declared the value of moveable assets at Rs. 1,80,94,232 and immoveable assets at Rs. 3,54,00,000. The 73-year-old Minister had borrowed Rs. 47,83,874 from banks and financial institutions. Mr. Karuppannan, aged 64 years, had declared the value of his moveable assets at Rs. 51,39,873 and immoveable assets at Rs. 8, 50,18,620. His affidavit filed in 2016 had moveable assets at Rs. 28,16,126 and immoveable assets at Rs. 7,56,75,209. The market value of the properties registered in his wife’s name had increased from Rs. 4,90,00,855 in 2016 to Rs. 8,52,84,700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assets-increase-in-five-years/article34079272.ece
16 March 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode sees 19 COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 19 new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,994. While 10 persons were discharged, 121 persons continue to be under treatment in the district. Salem district reported seven new cases, all indigenous.  Namakkal district reported six fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-sees-19-covid-19-cases/article34079268.ece
16 March 2021||Kodaikanal,TAMIL NADU||Teresa varsity staff get vaccine||Sixty-eight staff, including academic and non-academic members at Mother Teresa Women’s University, here were vaccinated on Monday. A team of doctors and nurses from Government Hospital, Mannavanur block, explained the standard operating procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-staff-get-vaccine/article34079249.ece
16 March 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK will finish off evil force and traitors, says Dhinakaran||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) will put an end to the the DMK, which is an “evil force”, and the AIADMK, or the “traitors”, in the upcoming Assembly election, party founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran said. Their party will provide a “clean administration”, he added. Speaking to presspersons after filing his nomination for the Kovilpatti Assembly constituency with Returning Officer Sankaranarayanan, Mr. Dhinakaran said the people of Tamil Nadu, while uprooting the DMK, would teach a fitting lesson to the AIADMK. Instead of giving freebies, the AMMK would ensure employment to every family by giving them jobs either in the government or by extending all possible help to make them entrepreneurs. “Giving jobs or making them entrepreneurs is our revolutionary promise... People don’t expect or want freebies from the government. They expect governance that can give them a sense of peace, security and equity,” he said. Though freebies uplift the social status of beneficiaries, it would not improve their living standards, he said. “Hence, we strive to give them jobs and make them entrepreneurs. The present government, which has already borrowed nearly Rs. 6 lakh crore, can never fulfil their freebie promise. What was the DMK doing when it was in power on five occasions?” he asked. Mr. Dhinakaran blamed the DMK for giving its consent for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the methane exploration projects in the Delta region, precipitating the Cauvery water dispute and giving Katchatheevu to Sri Lanka. “After 10 years, the power-hungry DMK wants return to power, which is impossible as the people will never pardon them,” he said while trashing poll predictions that the DMK would return to power. He said the people of Kovilpatti, irrespective of caste and religion, would accept him as the “son of the soil” and he would win the battle of the ballots with a thumping margin of over 50,000 votes. He rejected the argument that Kovilpatti was a “bastion of the Left parties”. “Like R.K. Nagar, our opponents will lose their deposits,” he said. Minister for Information and the AIADMK’s candidate for the Kovilpatti Assembly constituency, Kadambur C. Raju, also filed his nomination on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-will-finish-off-evil-force-and-traitors-says-dhinakaran/article34079206.ece
16 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized in Krishnagiri||A static surveillance team seized Rs. 4,64,270 in cash from a vehicle in Krishnagiri Assembly constituency on Sunday. Similarly, a flying squad seized Rs. 2,50,000 in cash in Thally Assembly constituency. As of date, a total of Rs. 45,43,510 has been seized. Of this, Rs. 11,38,600 has been released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized-in-krishnagiri/article34079265.ece
16 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Tusker translocated||The Forest Department tranquillised and translocated a lone tusker that was allegedly responsible for the deaths of three persons here to Urigam Forests on Monday. The elephant, aged between 14 and 16, from Bannerghatta national park had camped in the area since the past year and is said to have been responsible for the fatal attacks on three humans. Following demands from the public, a team of forest department staff and a medical team were engaged for the mission to translocate the animal to Biligal reserve forest. According to the District Forest Officer S.Prabhu, the mission to tranquillise the animal was cleared by the Conservator of Forests, Dharmapuri Forest division Deepak S. Bilgi and upon the recommendation of Collector V.Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy. The forest team was headed by Range Officer Hosur A. Ravi and forest veterinarian A. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tusker-translocated/article34079271.ece
16 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||35 nominations filed in Madurai district||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) Ministers and other candidates filed the nominations for the upcoming Assembly elections at their respective constituencies on Monday. As many as 35 nominations were filed on Monday, said district administration officials. Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, the sitting MLA of Tirumangalam constituency, once again filed nomination papers for contesting from Tirumangalam constituency. He will be contesting against M. Manimaran of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Earlier, while campaigning in Tirumangalam constituency, the Minister exuded confidence that AIADMK would retain Tirumangalam. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju filed his nominations for Madurai West constituency. Mr. Raju, who was elected as MLA for Madurai West constituency in the last two terms, will contest against C. Chinnammal of the DMK. Addressing mediapersons after filing the nominations, Mr. Raju said numerous developmental projects were carried out in Madurai in the last 10 years under the AIADMK rule. The sitting AIADMK MLA of Melur P. Periyapullan alias Selvam also filed his papers on Monday. G. Thalapathi of DMK filed the nomination to contest from Madurai North constituency. The incumbent AIADMK MLA of Madurai South S.S. Saravanan filed his nominations. M. Abbas of Naam Tamilar Katchi also filed his nominations for Madurai South constituency. K. Manickam, the sitting AIADMK MLA of Sholavandan constituency, filed his papers. P. Aiyappan of AIADMK filed his nomination for Usilampatti constituency. AIADMK leader V.V. Rajan Chellappa, who is the sitting MLA of Madurai North constituency, filed nomination papers to contest in Tirupparankundram Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-fiile-papers-in-madurai/article34079250.ece
16 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Behind the sheen of Madurai’s urban face are many warts||Drinking water issues, traffic woes, encroachments, lack of sewage treatment plants and inadequate sanitation facilities are some of the key issues that plague Madurai North Assembly constituency, one of the 10 Assembly segments in Madurai district. Some of the key areas that come under this constituency are Goripalayam, K. Pudur, Reserve Line, parts of Anna Nagar and Gomathipuram, and K.K. Nagar. A cross-section of the residents say though some development works have been taken up in these parts, more should have been done to address the grievances.“Earlier it used to take us 20 minutes to reach Madurai railway junction. Now it takes an hour and even more during peak hours,” says Raghavan of Gomathipuram. One of the long-pending demands of the residents is a flyover at Melamadai junction. This intersection, which connects Lake View Road with Anna Nagar, is used by a large number of vehicles bound for many districts in the eastern and southern parts of the State due to its proximity to the Ring Road. Not only is this key junction choked with traffic, but it remains in a bad shape for so long. Even roads in the interior parts of this area need repairs, the residents say. “When it rains, water stagnates on potholes. It takes a long time for the water to recede as there are no storm water drains. At such times, vehicle users and pedestrians have a harrowing time,” says a retired schoolteacher from K.K. Nagar. Following complaints, the potholes were filled but the roads were not relaid, he says. Some of the streets do not have adequate number of street lights, says P.K. Palanikumar, another resident. Next to roads, a major issue that haunts people of this area is water scarcity, though they live on the fringes of a sprawling Vandiyur ‘kanmoi.’ Had the authorities made efforts to rejuvenate this tank, groundwater table would have risen and the acute water crisis in many parts of Madurai North could have been addressed, the residents feel. AIADMK MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa of the AIADMK did take an initiative to make the best use of the tank waters. But, had more percolation pits dug up on the tank bed, they would have helped ease the drinking water crisis, the residents say. “Now we buy drinking water. Since agriculture operations around the tank have ceased long back due to urbanisation, Vandiyur tank can best serve as an alternative drinking water source,” says Mr. Raghavan. Though the city had a good monsoon last year, the rainwater could not be stored to the maximum, adds Mr. Palanikumar. Residents here want a sewage treatment plant in the area. Unlike the homogeneous rural parts, with people belonging to a particular caste remaining loyal to candidates of their ilk, a mostly urban Madurai North has a mixed population. And as such caste does not play a decisive role in the victory of a candidate. In the upcoming Assembly elections, G. Thalapathi, the Sedapatti MLA in 1996, is the DMK face for Madurai North. P. Saravanan, who switched camp recently, is the BJP candidate. Dr. Saravanan won the Tirupparankundram by-election under the DMK banner but was left out of the race this time by the DMK. Mr. Rajan Chellappa, the sitting MLA of Madurai North, is contesting from Tirupparankundram for the AIADMK. M. Alagar will contest for Makkal Needhi Maiam, and N. Anbarasi for Naam Tamilar Katchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/behind-the-sheen-of-madurais-urban-face-are-many-warts/article34079668.ece
16 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||People must be protected from evil forces: Minister||This election is a ‘dharma yudh,’ said AIADMK Tirumangalam candidate and Revenue Minister R B Udayakumar here on Monday. Speaking at an election rally after filing nominations before the Returning Officer, he compared the AIADMK’s poll manifesto to an ‘akshayapathra’ (an inexhaustible vessel), and that of DMK’s to ‘Neer vatriya kinaru’ (a well gone dry). Mr. Udayakumar said that the election was important for the AIADMK and the allies, as people should be protected from the clutches of evil forces who had been misleading the voters. In an apparent reference to DMK president M K Stalin, he said, “Some people have this habit of stepping out only during elections and remaining indoors when people face a crisis,” he said. In another context, he called the DMK an opposing force and AMMK betrayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-must-be-protected-from-evil-forces-minister/article34079661.ece
16 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Privatisation will not serve the public cause’||Operations in public sector banks here were completely paralysed on Monday as employees and officers commenced their two-day strike opposing the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks as announced in the Union Budget 2021. Members of United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), who took part in the strike, said that deposits in the nationalised banks have increased to around Rs. 146 lakh crore in the last five decades. If the banks were privatised, savings of the people would not benefit the country’s development programmes. Public sector banks had been instrumental in opening up Jan Dhan accounts, serving the economically disadvantaged, farmers, small and medium enterprises, and students. The government’s argument that private banks operated efficiently was incorrect. Although the public sector banks earned operating profits, stringent action was not taken against wilful defaulters. As a result, the profits earned by the banks were set aside for making provision for bad loans and to write off non-performing assets. C. Sridhar, Coordinator of UFBU, said financial transactions worth around Rs. 400 crore would be affected in Madurai in the two-day strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/privatisation-will-not-serve-the-public-cause/article34079663.ece
16 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Supermarket gutted||A popular supermarket on Trichy Road in Namakkal was gutted during the late hours of Sunday. According to police, the staff downed the shutters of the supermarket by 9 p.m. and went home. People residing near the supermarket noticed the fire from the building and alerted the Police and Fire and Rescue Services department. Fire engines from Rasipuram and Tiruchengode were brought to the spot. Fire-fighters battled for four hours to douse the flames. Namakkal police have registered a case and are investigating. According to police, goods worth over Rs. 2 crore were damaged in the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supermarket-gutted/article34079276.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AINRC chief to contest from Thattanchavady, Yanam||Founder president of All India N.R. Congress and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has decided to contest from the Thattanchavady and Yanam Assembly segments. He disclosed the decision to contest from two seats after filing nomination papers for Thattanchavady on Monday. “I will be filing the nomination papers for Yanam on Wednesday,” he told reporters after submitting papers at the office of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies. It might be recalled that while facing the 2011 Assembly poll a few days after founding the AINRC, Mr. Rangasamy decided to contest from Indira Nagar and Kadirgamam constituencies. Though he won both seats, he decided to retain the Indira Nagar. He won the Indira Nagar seat again in the 2016 poll. Former Minister’s invite Last month, former Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, who had been retaining the Yanam seat in the last five assembly polls, invited Mr. Rangasamy to contest from his constituency following his decision to quit electoral politics. Meanwhile, two other AINRC, Congress and AIADMK and three BJP members also filed their nomination papers on Monday, though their respective parties have not officially announced the candidate list. While former Minister K. Lakshminarayanan filed nomination for the Raj Bhavan seat as AINRC candidate, recently inducted member A.K.D Arumugham filed papers for the Indira Nagar constituency. G. Nehru, AINRC member, submitted papers for contesting from Orleanpet as an Independent candidate. Congress legislators R.K.R. Ananantharaman and T. Djeamourthy filed nominations for their respective Manavely and Ariankuppam constituencies. Even as the AIADMK was engaged in seat-sharing talks with the BJP, the Dravidian party’s two prominent members, Om Sakhi Segar and sitting legislator Vayyapuri Manikantan, also filed papers. Mr. Segar filed papers from the Nellithope constituency, which he had won previously. Mr. Manikantan submitted papers for his sitting Muthialpet seat. Interestingly, former Congressman turned BJP member John Kumar’s son, J. Vivilian Richiards, filed the nomination papers for contesting from the Nellithope constituency as a BJP candidate. Mr. Kumar, meanwhile, filed his papers from his Kamaraj Nagar constituency. BJP member P.M.L. Kalyanasundaram submitted papers for the Kalapet constituency, which he won while being an AINRC member. The DMK candidates who were the first to be declared officially also started submitting nominations. Party leader in the Legislative Assembly R. Siva filed papers for the Villianur constituency, leaving his traditional seat to the recently inducted S. Gopal. Mr. Gopal filed the nomination for the Orleanpet constituency. Former Minister and DMK convener (North) S.P. Sivakumar submitted nomination papers for the Raj Bhavan constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ainrc-chief-to-contest-from-thattanchavady-yanam/article34079504.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Namassivayam hints at shifting constituency||Former Minister A. Namassivayam, who was recently inducted into the BJP, on Monday, hinted at shifting from Villianur constituency, from where he won in the last two Assembly poll. “Because of certain political compulsions, I have to shift to another constituency. There are certain unavoidable political reasons behind my decision. Even if I shift, I will always work for the development of Villianur also,” he said while addressing his supporters gathered in front of his residence, near Villianur. Mannadipet constituency An aide close to him told The Hindu, that Mr. Namassivayam would be contesting from the Mannadipet constituency, which is now represented by AINRC’s T.P.R. Selvam. Mr. Namassivayam is expected to file his nomination papers on Wednesday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namassivayam-hints-at-shifting-constituency/article34079508.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI fields Sethu Selvam from Thattanchavady constituency||The Communist Party of India has decided to field the general secretary of the All India Trade Union Congress local unit, K. Sethu Selvam, from the Thattanchavady constituency for the Assembly election. CPI Puducherry secretary A. M Saleem announced the candidature at the party office in the presence of former Minister R. Viswanathan and former legislator Nara. Kalainathan. The 49-year-old trade union leader will be taking on former Chief Minister and the founder of the All India N.R. Congress N. Rangasamy. Mr. Selvam is also CPI executive committee member. During the 2019 by-election for the Thattachavady constituency, the CPI was keen on fielding its nominee for the bypoll. The Congress has allocated 13 of the total 30 seats to the DMK and one each to the CPI and the VCK for the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-fields-sethu-selvam-from-thattanchavady-constituency/article34079506.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records one death, 14 new COVID-19 cases||Puducherry recorded one more COVID-19 death to take the overall toll to 672. A 76-year-old male patient, who died in Jipmer from cardiogenic shock, had underlying diabetes mellitus and hypertension conditions. With this, the deaths by region are Puducherry (549), Karaikal (68), Yanam (45) and Mahe (10). Meanwhile, the Union Territory registered 14 new cases and 17 recoveries. No new cases The new cases were in Puducherry (12) and Mahe (two). No cases were reported in Karaikal or Yanam in the last 24 hours. The active cases stood at 186 — 95 in hospital and 91 in home isolation. The cumulative total of cases stood at 40,044 against 39,186 recovered patients. Of an estimated 6.46 lakh tests carried out by the Health Department, about 6 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 26,165 persons have been immunised with Covid vaccines to date in the Union Territory.  Eight fresh cases Cuddalore district reported eight fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 25,286. While 24,939 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 40. In Villupuram district, four persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,310. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 10,916.  26,165 persons have been immunised with Covid vaccines to date in the Union Territory. Of 6.46 lakh tests carried out, about 6 lakh returned negative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-one-death-14-new-cases/article34079511.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy has immovable assets worth Rs. 38.13 crore||Former Puducherry Chief Minister and AINRC founder N. Rangasamy has immovable properties valued at an estimated Rs. 38.13 crore as per the affidavit submitted along with the nomination filed on Monday to contest the Assembly election on April 6. He also has movable assets worth Rs. 26.22 lakh. In 2016, he possessed movable assets worth Rs. 14.3 lakh and immovable assets with an approximate market value of Rs. 29.38 crore. Mr. Rangasamy, who will be seeking election from the Thattanchavady and Yanam constituencies this time, has declared Rs. 66,000 cash, which is lesser than the Rs. 75,000 he declared while filing nomination in the 2016 Assembly election. His declared liabilities now are to the tune of about Rs. 1.15 crore. The AINRC supremo also owns two cars and two motorbikes. These, along with personal gold jewellery, constitute an estimated total value of Rs. 26 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-has-immovable-assets-worth-rs-3813-crore/article34079509.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Saris seized from BJP activist’s home||The Election Flying Squad on Monday seized silk saris worth Rs. 8 lakh from a house in Reddiayarpalayam in Puducherry. The team searched the house after they received a call on the toll free number that silk saris had been stored at the residence for distribution to voters. The squad found 30 bundles, each containing 50 silk saris in the house of an individual Suresh, a BJP activist. The seized materials were handed over to the Reddiayarpalayam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saris-seized-from-bjp-activists-home/article34079500.ece
16 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Students of Classes I to IX declared all pass||The Directorate of School Education has declared ‘all pass’ for all students of Classes I to IX in Puducherry on account of the disruption of the academic calendar by the COVID-19 pandemic. In a press note, Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud said “stress-free internal assessment” would be conducted for one day in the last week of March. The schools would function till March 31 for Classes I to IX and the summer vacation would commence from April 1. However, Classes for X, XI and XII standards alone would be conducted till the commencement of public examinations in the respective regions as per the schedule of the respective Boards. As far as Standards X and XI in Puducherry and Karaikal regions are concerned, students studying in schools affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Board have been declared ‘all pass’, and the guidelines issued by the Tamil Nadu Board would be followed. A few days ago, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had approved the Directorate’s proposal to grant all pass to students of the classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/directorate-of-school-education-declares-all-pass-for-students-of-classes-i-to-ix/article34079513.ece
16 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Campaign organised for 100% voting in Ramanathapuram, Theni districts||The district administration and the Fisheries Department jointly organised a special campaign to ensure 100% voting by involving fishermen on Monday. Inaugurating the campaign, District Election Officer and Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that the objective was to ensure that all eligible voters exercised their franchise in the Assembly elections on April 6. Taking forward the efforts made by the Election Commission of India to popularise and sensitise the voters, the fishermen volunteered to bring in their boats and stage a grand show on the sea. Watching the boats joining the campaign from the road bridge, Mr. Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and his team of officials distributed pamphlets to the public and tourists visiting the district. The fishermen took their boats for about 500 metres from north to south in Pamban, carrying messages urging voters to exercise their democratic duty without fail. The fishermen, at the end of the campaign, took a pledge to cast their votes on April 6, the officials said. Additional Collector M. Pradeep Kumar, DRO A. Sivakami and Deputy Director (Fisheries) Illamvazhuthi participated. In Theni, Collector H. Krishnanunni and Superintendent of Police Sai Saran Tejaswi launched the campaign at the bus stand by pasting stickers on mofussil and town buses. The officials said the campaign was to educate the people on the importance of casting their votes. A total of 280 TNSTC buses plying to various destinations from here and 120 private buses and autorickshaws were given the stickers to display them prominently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-organised-for-100-voting-in-ramanathapuram-theni-districts/article34079577.ece
16 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Nominations filed in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri districts||A total of 36 nominees, including Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, filed their nomination papers in Salem district on Monday. While Mr. Palaniswami filed his papers for Edappadi Assembly constituency, DMK MLA R. Rajendran filed his nomination for Salem North constituency. Paatali Makkal Katchi nominee R. Arul filed his nomination for Salem West constituency. Namakkal In Namakkal, Minister for Electricity P.T hangamani filed his nomination for Komarapalayam Assembly Constituency and Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja filed hernomination for Rasipuram Assembly constituency. The others who filed their nominations were: AIADMK MLA K.P.P. Bhaskar (Namakkal), Kongu Makkal Desiya Katchi general secretary E.R. Eswaran (Tiruchengode) and AIADMK MLA Pon Saraswathy (Tiruchengode). A total of 29 nomination papers were filed in Namakkal, Tiruchengode, Rasipuram, Senthamangalam and Tiruchengode Assembly constituencies.   G.K. Mani files nomination Nominations were filed for the key constituencies in Dharmapuri on Monday. PMK leader G.K. Mani filed his nomination for Pennagaram constituency, while the party’s S.P.Venkateswaran filed his nomination for Dharmapuri constituency. AIADMK’s sitting MLA A.Govindasamy filed his nomination for Paapireddipatty constituency. Former minister and AMMK candidate P. Palaniappan filed his nomination for Paapireddipatty constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-filed-in-salem-namakkal-dharmapuri-districts/article34079269.ece
16 March 2021||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister charged with distributing money||Former Minister Natham R. Viswanathan, who has been chosen as the AIADMK candidate for the Natham Assembly constituency, was allegedly caught on camera distributing money to voters in Mulayur panchayat on Monday. As the video went viral on social media, DMK functionaries raised objection to the absence of any officials at the spot. “Is this the way the Election Commission of India has issued guidelines?” Sanarpatti K. Vijayan, an executive committee member of the DMK, asked. Mr. Vijayan said they would lodge a complaint with the Returning Officer. They would also approach the court if no action was taken, he added.  ‘Ill-gotten wealth ’ The ill-gotten wealth amassed by AIADMK candidates were being distributed to the public, Mr. Vijayan said. Such corrupt means of attracting voters would not be allowed, he added. CPI(M) functionaries, led by district secretary Sachidanandam, also criticised the officials for being partial with the ruling party. The scene would change for sure after May 2, they said, adding that the public would not be deceived by the AIADMK. When contacted, the AIADMK’s election coordinator in Dindigul district said Mr. Viswanathan was yet to file his nomination. Denying that he had given money, the party worker said the candidate had simply acknowledged the reception accorded to him by the villagers. “It only shows that the opponents are afraid of losing the election,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-minister-charged-with-distributing-money/article34079208.ece
16 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers may opt for NOTA if demands are not met’||Farmers may opt for NOTA (none of the above) if the political parties contesting the forthcoming Assembly elections fail to assure that the `just demands’ of the farmers would be fulfilled. Political parties have failed to consider the ‘just demands’ of the farmers such as increasing the procurement price to Rs. 3,500 per quintal for paddy and Rs. 4,500 per tonne for sugarcane, Sundara Vimalanathan, Secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Delta Farmers Protection Association, said in a statement Demands such as clearing of backlog in farm power supply connections pending for more than 15 years, allocation of adequate funds for construction of bed dams/check dams in the rivers throughout the State and sanction of pension of Rs. 3,000 to male farmers above 60 and women farmers above 58 years of age have also failed to attract the attention of the policy makers so far. If the contesting political parties continue to neglect these demands, the farmers would be left with no other option but to cast their votes in favour of NOTA in the forthcoming elections, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-may-opt-for-nota-if-demands-are-not-met/article34079210.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Monday sees a rush of nominations being filed in central region||State Ministers M. R.Vijayabhaskar, R. Kamaraj, O. S. Manian, and Vellamandi N. Natarajan of the AIADMK and former Minister V.Senthil Balaji and sitting MLA T. R. B. Rajaa of the DMK were among the prominent candidates who filed their nomination papers in the central region on Monday. Many of the AIADMK candidates filed their papers on Monday, considered an auspicious day. In Karur, the rival candidates of the DMK and AIADMK took out massive rallies in the town before filing their papers. In Tiruchi, Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan presented his papers before the Returning Officer at the office of Assistant Commissioner as an AIADMK nominee for the Tiruchi (East) constituency. R. Manoharan of AMMK also filed papers. Ku. Pa.Krishnan, former Agriculture Minister and the AIADMK's candidate for the Srirangam constituency filed papers at the Srirangam Taluk office. R. Chandrasekar of AIADMK was among the three candidates who filed nominations for Manapparai constituency. In Thuraiyur (Reserved) constituency, T. Indra Gandhi (AIADMK) and sitting MLA S. Stalin Kumar (DMK) were among the four candidates who filed for nomination papers. M. Paranjothi of AIADMK presented papers before the Returning Officer for the Manachanallur constituency. AIADMK candidate and former Tiruchi MP, P. Kumar filed his nomination at the Taluk Office in Tiruverumbur. V. Padmanaban of AIADMK was among the two candidates who filed papers for the Tiruchi (West) constituency. Karur In Karur, Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar and former Minister V. Senthil Balaji filed their nominations for Karur Assembly constituency on behalf of the AIADMK and DMK respectively. Mr. Vijayabaskar, in his affidavit, had declared movable assets worth Rs. 3.81 crore. They were valued at Rs. 1.39 crore in 2016. His wife Vijayalakshmi has movable assets to the tune of Rs. 4.45 crore, up from Rs. 96 lakh declared in 2016. The value of his immovable assets was Rs. 60 lakh. It was Rs. 1 crore in 2016. Mr. Senthil Balaji, in his affidavit, has declared Rs. 97.93 lakh of movable assets and Rs. 1.10 crore worth of immovable assets. His wife Mekala has Rs. 83 lakh worth of movable assets. He had shown immovable assets of Rs. 1.10 crore in 2016 when he contested as an AIADMK nominee in Aravakurichi constituency. The value of his movable assets was put at Rs. 1.05 crore in 2016. The value of movable assets declared in his wife's name in 2016 was Rs. 35 lakh. AIADMK candidate N. Muthukumar submitted his papers for the Krishnarayapuram (Reserved) constituency. Ariyalur Five candidates filed nomination papers for the Ariyalur constituency on Monday. Thamarai S. Rajendran of the AIADMK, who took out a rally along with his partymen and supporters, presented his papers with the Returning Officer in Ariyalur. S. Ganesan submitted papers as his dummy. K. Sugunakumar, K. Kumar of Naam Tamizhar Katchi, Durai Manivel of AMMK and Thanga Shanmugasundaram, Independent, also filed papers. K. Balu of PMK was among the two candidates, who filed nominations for the Jayankondam constituency. He presented papers with the Returning Officer at Uyadayarpalayam. N. Mahalingam of NTK was the other candidate who filed the nomination on Monday. Thanjavur Thirteen candidates filed their nomination papers for various Assembly segments in Thanjavur district. Prominent among those were DMK candidates Govi.Chezhian in Thiruvidaimarudur (SC), K.Anbalagan in Kumbakonam, Durai Chandrasekar in Thiruvaiyaru and M.Ramachandran in Orathanadu. The only AIADMK candidate to file his nomination in the district was V. Arivudainambi for Thanjavur constituency. BJP candidate S. Venkatesan also filed his papers for the constituency. AMMK candidates M.Rengasamy (Papanasam), Karthikeyan (Thiruvaiyaru) and S.D.S.Selvam (Pattukottai) also filed their papers. Tiruvarur In Tiruvarur, Food Minister R. Kamaraj filed his nomination papers for the Nannilam constituency. Besides an AIADMK dummy, two other Independents also filed their nominations for the constituency. AIADMK candidates A.N.R.Panneerselvam (Tiruvarur), Siva Rajamanickam (Mannargudi) and Suresh Kumar (Thiruthuraipoondi-Reserved) also filed their nominations. Sitting MLA of DMK, T.R.B.Rajaa filed his papers in Mannargudi. The AMMK candidate S.Kamaraj also filed his papers for the constituency. Poondi Kalaivannan of DMK filed his papers for Tiruvarur constituency. In all, 14 candidates filed their nominations for the four constituencies in the district on Monday. Pudukottai Ten candidates filed their nominations for different Assembly constituencies in the district on Monday. P.K. Vairamuthu former MLA and the AIADMK nominee for the Thirumayam assembly constituency and M. Palaniyappan of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam fielded from the Viralimalai assembly segment filed their nomination papers before the Returning Officer of the respective constituencies. Kumarasamy of the AIADMK filed his papers as a dummy candidate for the Thirumayam assembly seat. There were two papers filed on behalf of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam for the Thirumayam seat one filed by S. Muniyaraju and another by M. S. Ramachandran. R. Ramila and Sasikumar of the Naam Tamilar Katchi filed their papers for the Gandharvakottai (Reserved) and Pudukottai constituencies, respectively. D. Vidangar of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam filed his papers for the Alangudi assembly constituency. No nomination was filed for Aranthangi constituency on Monday, said official sources. Perambalur Sitting AIADMK MLA R. Thamizhselvan filed his papers for Perambalur constituency (Reserved). DMK candidate M. Prabhaharan and Naam Tamil Katchi nominee M. Maheswari also filed their papers. Nagapattinam State Minister O. S. Manian and sitting MLA P.V. Bharathi are among the prominent AIADMK candidates who filed their nomination papers before Returning Officers in the composite Nagapattinam district on Monday. Mr. Manian and Mr. Bharathi are seeking re-election from Vedaranyam and Sirkazhi constituencies respectively. AIADMK district unit secretary Thanga Kathiravan filed his nomination paper for Nagapattinam constituency. Perambalur Sitting AIADMK MLA and the party's candidate for Kunnam assembly constituency R. T. Ramachandran filed his papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monday-sees-a-rush-of-nominations-being-filed-in-central-region/article34079204.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It’s a long wait for senior citizens at Srirangam vaccination centre||Senior citizens who line up at the Srirangam Government Hospital to receive the COVID-19 vaccine are put off by the lack of facilities and long waiting time despite registering online. On Monday afternoon, many claimed that they had been waiting from morning and were yet to receive the jab. The Srirangam Government Hospital, one of the 32 session sites for the COVID-19 vaccine rollout in Tiruchi, sees at least 200 senior citizens queuing up daily for the vaccine. However, they claim that the hospital has not made the necessary arrangements to provide proper seating arrangements for them. The hospital is using the paediatric ward as a session site where the Covishield vaccine is being provided. Speaking to The Hindu , a resident of Melur Road said that he had registered through the Co-Win website a day in advance. Along with that, the hospital requires the senior citizens to get an out-patient slip, which has also been done. However, the hospital authorities make them wait for hours on end, he said. “We are all old and with many comorbidities. The doctors know that as diabetic patients, we must eat on time. If we spend till noon here, what if we faint?” one of them said. While half the patients were seated on stone benches outside the vaccine site, at least 50 of them were forced to stand for over an hour in the hot summer sun. “Since we registered at least a day in advance, the authorities would know that a certain number of people would arrive. Why can’t they arrange for seats and a temporary shelter?” they asked. Meanwhile, the staff at the hospital said that the long waiting time was due to technical glitches. “We have only one computer and have to verify the registration and Aadhaar number for all the patients. We require at least one more data operator and two more computers to work seamlessly,” they said.  We require at least one more data operator and two more computers to work seamlessly Staff Srirangam GH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-a-long-wait-for-senior-citizens-at-srirangam-vaccination-centre/article34079212.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sharp rise in positive cases||The central districts on Monday reported 117 fresh COVID-19 cases, 58 of whom hailed from Thanjavur district. A cluster has been reported at a college in Tiruchi as 15 students tested positive. This is the first time that over 100 cases were being reported in the region this year. A death due to the virus was reported in Nagapattinam district. Thanjavur reported 58 fresh cases on Monday, continuing the trend of reporting a spike in the number of patients testing positive. Among the 58 in Thanjavur were four parents of the students of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ammapettai. The patients were undergoing treatment at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, Tiruvarur Government Hospital and at private hospitals in the district. R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, visited the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and told reporters that the students who had tested positive were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. They would recover and return home in a few days, he added. Mr. Babu advised all those eligible to take the COVID-19 vaccine in phase three of the vaccine roll-out must take it. Adherence to protocol including wearing facemasks, maintaining personal distance and regular hand washing along with taking the vaccine would protect one from the infection, he said. Tiruvarur reported 19 fresh cases while in Tiruchi, 16 patients reported positive. The source of the infection was a student who had suffered from fever and was sent home last week, health officials said. The remaining 15 students who reported positive on Monday have been advised home isolation as all were asymptomatic. Meanwhile, 250 samples have been lifted from primary and secondary contacts of the student to ensure that the spread has been contained, senior health officials said. One teacher of a private school in Melapudur has also tested positive. Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts reported eight cases each, while Karur, five. Two patients tested positive in Permabalur district, and one in Ariyalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-rise-in-positive-cases/article34079215.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bank strike paralyses business operations||Operations in public sector banks here were completely hit on Monday as employees and officers commenced their two-day strike opposing the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks as announced in the Union Budget 2021. Employees and officers participated in a demonstration that was held in front of the State Bank of India main branch here opposing the privatisation of public sector banks. The demonstration was led by the All India Bank Employees Association district general secretary G. Ramaraj. Employees and officers belonging to five unions All India Bank Employees Association, All India Bank Officers Confederation, All India Bank Officers Association and the National Confederation of Bank Employees heeded to the nation-wide strike call. They termed the privatisation of public sector banks as ‘anti-worker’, ‘anti-people’ and a ‘anti-social’ step. The public sector banks had been built with the toil of lakhs of workers over the decades using public funds. If banks were privatised, it would be sold to big corporate business houses and handing over public money to them was not in the national interest, the AIBEA said. Further, if banks were privatised loans for agriculture and other priority sectors would be stopped. Private management of banks would attack trade union rights, employees’ jobs and job security, the association further said. The strike paralysed normal business operations in all public sector banks as employees and officers joined the strike which was total, said Mr. Ramaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-strike-paralyses-business-operations/article34079223.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Portion of road along Cauvery bank caves in||The Odathurai Road along the Cauvery riverbank was partially closed for traffic on Monday after a portion of the road caved in during excavation of sand for constructing a retaining wall. The work was being undertaken by the State Highways as part of a pending project to relay the road, when the excavation loosened the sand and caused it to cave in, officials of the State Highways said. A senior official of the State Highways told The Hindu that an earthmover was clearing the sand on the riverbed to facilitate construction of a retaining wall. “The road caved in during the work and the department has been quick to divert traffic and begin repair works”, he said. The official said that the road will be opened for traffic soon. P. Ayyarappan, a road safety activist, said that the excavation could have proved to be dangerous had there been high traffic in the area. “The engineers must keep close watch on the works to ensure such incidents do not happen,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portion-of-road-along-cauvery-bank-caves-in/article34079214.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||The passion that once drove the Nagarathar Chettiar community||In many ways, L. M. Lakshmanan is living his boyhood dream. “I got interested in automobiles because of my grandfather, who had a Standard Companion, (a 1955 estate car) with a big boot, and as children, we used to love travelling in it in and around Karaikudi. I used to feel sad that I didn’t have enough money to buy the car myself.” Decades later,Mr. Lakshmanan, who runs a security camera business with clients in Karaikudi and Chennai, owns a museum full of not just vintage cars, but also two-wheelers and three-wheelers. And as an extension of his love for other forms of classic technology, he has added toys, cameras and recording equipment to the collection at his Chettinad Vintage Gallery in Pillaiyarpatti, Tirupattur Taluk in Sivaganga district. Situated in the midst of a busy pilgrimage route that covers the historic local Karpaga Vinayagar temple and the nearby Kunnakudi Shanmughanathar Temple, Chettinad Vintage Gallery is a time capsule of the passions that once drove the Nagarathar Chettiar community of this culture-rich region of Tamil Nadu. “The Chettiars were among the first non-resident Indians (NRIs) of our State. They made their name overseas in finance and trade from the 1920s, and brought back beautiful things from wherever they travelled. Many of the old foreign goods in this region can be traced back to that period. I have even seen a 1920 Willys Overland car (made in Canada) in a nearby village,” says Mr. Lakshmanan. Chettinad today is a cluster of 60-70 villages mainly in the Sivagangai district, with a small portion in the neighbouring Pudukottai district. It is known for its stately homes furnished with Burma teakwood and other imported material. “The community was badly hit first by the repatriation from Burma following the Second World War and in the 1960s, and then in India by the ban on the pawnbroking business [among the main Chettiar occupations] during the Emergency. Many families started selling off their possessions to finance their children’s education and shift to bigger cities,” says Mr.Lakshmanan. Ironically, this led to a new line of business, in Chettinad antiques, and as a visit to Karaikudi’s famed flea market will show, nearly everything, from ornately carved cast iron furniture to teakwood doorways and ceramic cupboard handles plucked from the palatial homes in the region, is up for sale. “I sourced many of the things for my collection, especially the clocks, metal toys and some cars, from the Chettiar family homes in and around Pillaiyarpatti,” says Mr.Lakshmanan. “I was amazed to see the novelties that people collected in those days.” Auto history A framed driving licence from the 1950s greets visitors at the entrance. “Cars in those days were often passed down from father to son, like property,” says Mr.Lakshmanan, adding that his uncle inherited his grandfather’s Champion, and drove it well into the 1990s. Automobile lovers can take a closer look at several restored models here, ranging from a striking red Austin 10 Tourer 1933 convertible with wooden spoke wheels, bought from a restorer in Jaipur. Next to it is parked a 1951 Moris Minor made in England. “It took me two years to restore this car,” Mr.Lakshmanan says, as he turns on its distinctive pop-up ‘semaphore’ indicator lights. During lockdown, he has been working on the undercarriage of a 1956 baby blue Plymouth, bought from a film producer in Chennai. There is also a small line-up of scooters and auto rickshaws manufactured in the 1950s. Edison Phonograph On Mr.Lakshmanan’s desk is an Edison Phonograph, invented by Thomas Alva Edison in 1898, and considered to be the predecessor of record-players, bought from a collector in North India. The metal seal on the side reads: ‘Licensed by the Edison Bell Consolidated Phonograph Company for use except on the continent of Europe, Canada and USA. Not to be used in connection with an automatic or slot device.’ Mr.Lakshmanan’s tin toys have retained their lustrous paintwork; here too, miniature cars are in the majority. There are transistors and telephones, and some unique office equipment like a 1930s German Brunsviga (Brains of Steel) calculator salvaged from a shop. As a tribute to Karaikudi’s historical links with Tamil cinema production, the museum also has an enclosure devoted to vintage film cameras. It’s easy to lose track of time (despite all the clocks in the 4,000 square feet hall) in the Chettinad Vintage Gallery, but Lakshmanan is happy to have visitors linger. “We are so lost in our smartphones these days, that we often forget how we created so much technology.” he says. “My museum is for people, especially children, who want to relive the golden era when machines were not just functional but also beautiful.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-passion-that-once-drove-the-nagarathar-chettiar-community/article34079200.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Road to Viswas Nagar is riddled with potholes||Residents and commercial establishments on Viswas Nagar near Palpannai junction complain that the road lies in a dilapidated condition and it has worsened due to the recent rains. Heavy vehicles which frequent the road as several warehouses have been set up there make matters worse, residents add. The street that had been dug up for laying underground drainage pipeline last year, is yet to be restored. The locality, lies in close proximity to the Chennai Bypass Road and Thanjavur Road sees many heavy vehicles. Large potholes have formed across the length and breadth of the road. “We have lived here for over 10 years, but with an increasing number of commercial establishments and vehicles on the street, the road quality is becoming worse,” M. Murugananthan, a resident said. The damaged roads pose a threat to the safety of motorists, particularly during night as there are no street lights on the stretch. This has led to number of accidents. "I walk daily to the main road to purchase essentials and I have to be careful to avoid the potholes. At night, things get worse and on a daily basis senior citizens or children stumble and fall on the road,” says a resident of a nearby apartment. Residents claim that the authorities pay no heed to their complaints. “We live so near to the highways but we are being ignored. One can only imagine how bad it is in the interior parts of the city,” a resident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-to-viswas-nagar-is-riddled-with-potholes/article34079209.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cluster at Government Engineering College||Fifteen students of the Government Engineering College, Srirangam, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. A total of 253 samples were lifted from contacts of one of the college students who reported positive on Sunday, of which 15 turned positive, health officials said. The students, all hostel dwellers have been advised home isolation while the college has been declared a containment zone and has been closed for 10 days. District Collector S. Sivarasu inspected the college on Monday morning and said that stringent action would be taken against those violating COVID-19 protocol in the district. "We are seeing that the many among the public do not wear masks and fail to follow social distancing norms," he said. Mr. Sivarasu advised senior citizens to utilise the opportunity to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cluster-at-govt-engineering-college/article34079225.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Child marriage stopped||Timely information enabled the police in stopping a child marriage that was to be held at Darasuram in Thanjavur district on Monday. Police said the marriage of a 23-year-old man Nagaraj of Darasuram who works as a labourer in a workshop was to be held secretly with a girl who had not completed 18 years of age. On receipt of information about the child marriage, police personnel from Kumbakonam Taluk station rushed to the spot and stopped the wedding. Nagaraj and his parents as well as the parents of the girl were brought to the Kumbakonam All Women Police station where inquiries were conducted with them. After it was established that the girl had not completed 18 years of age, the parents of both sides were warned and sent away, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-marriage-stopped/article34079201.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Anti-social murdered in Tiruchi||A 34-year-old man against whom several criminal cases had been booked was hacked to death by unidentified persons at Mela Ambikapuram here in the late hours on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as P. Silambarasan. The murder took place a few metres away from the house of Silambaram when he had come out and was speaking over the mobile phone, said police sources. The identity of the accused was not known immediately. Police said there were murder and attempt to murder cases that were booked against Silambarasan against whom a history sheet had been opened. Police suspect that the murder of Silambarasan was a revenge killing for his alleged involvement in the murder of ‘cable’ Sekar, who was an AIADMK functionary, in 2011. The Ariyamangalam Police have registered a case of murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-social-murdered-in-tiruchi/article34079216.ece
16 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Party leader faces off against first-timer in Dharapuram||The voters of the Dharapuram (Reserved) Assembly constituency in Tiruppur district are set to witness a contest between the State president of the BJP and a first-time candidate from the DMK front in next month’s Assembly election. BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan is the candidate of the AIADMK front for the Dharapuram constituency which, incidentally, is the only reserved constituency in the Kongu region to have been allocated by the AIADMK to the BJP. He became the party’s State unit president in March 2020, and unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election in 2011 (from Rasipuram) and 2006 (from Sankari) as a member of the BJP. On the other hand, the DMK has decided to field Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, a functionary of the party’s women’s wing. According to sources, she has been a member of the DMK since 1996. Many long-standing demands of the voters of this constituency remain unaddressed. Agriculture being a predominant occupation here, the farmers have been demanding the release of an adequate amount of water into the Uppar dam in Kundadam for irrigating over 6,000 acres of agricultural land. R. Muruganantham, executive committee member of the Tiruppur District Uppar Farmers’ Protection Association, said the farmers had intensified their protest over the past two years, demanding the release of water from the Thirumoorthy dam into the Uppar dam. An official from the Public Works Department said only surplus water from the Thirumoorthy dam could be released, as per a government order. The surplus water was released for eight days in January, the official noted. However, Mr. Muruganantham said this would not be sufficient for irrigation. “There is no guarantee that the authorities will ensure the release of adequate water in the future,” he said. Education and health Within the Dharapuram municipal limits demands, including the setting up of a government arts college and better facilities at the Dharapuram Government Hospital, have been pending for over a decade. P. Kathiravan, former councillor of Ward 25 from the DMK, said students from Dharapuram were forced to go to Kangeyam and Udumalpet to pursue higher education. Similarly, patients from Dharapuram were seeking treatment at the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital due to the lack of facilities at the local government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/party-leader-faces-off-against-first-timer-in-dharapuram/article34079232.ece
16 March 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CM must prove allegation on Jayalalithaa’s death, says Stalin||Hitting the campaign trail in Tiruvarur, a constituency that was represented by his late father M. Karunanidhi, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday challenged Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami to initiate legal action against him and prove his allegation that the DMK was responsible for the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Mr.Stalin came down heavily on the Chief Minister for levelling unsubstantiated allegations. “If he has the guts, let him file a case against me,” he challenged. Taking a dig at the election manifesto of the AIADMK, Mr.Stalin described it as nothing but a photo copy of the DMK manifesto. The DMK, once voted to power, would resolve people’s problems within 100 days. The over 500 assurances held out in the DMK manifesto would be implemented definitely. The launch of the party’s election campaign from Tiruvarur in the 2019 Lok Sabha election had led to the party achieving a massive victory, he said and called upon the electorate to give such a strong mandate in the forthcoming Assembly election also. He expressed confidence that the party would sweep the elections. Introducing the DMK nominees Poondi K.Kalaivanan, T.R.B.Rajaa, S.Jothiraman and S.K.Vetharathinam for Tiruvarur, Mannargudi, Nannilam and Vedaranyam constituencies respectively and the alliance partner candidate, K.Marimuthu of CPI fielded at Thiruthuraipoondi on the eastern bank of Kamalalayam tank in Tiruvarur town, he sought an assurance from the Tiruvarur electorate that they would help him realise his ambition to return to Tiruvarur as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu after May 2. “I have visited this town in various capacities both in the party and in the State government, today I have come here as the Chief Ministerial candidate and standing before you. This is the happiest moment in my life”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-must-prove-allegation-on-jayalalithaas-death-says-stalin/article34079240.ece
16 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopardess, elephant calf found dead||A four-year-old leopardess was found dead near Sogathorai in Coonoor on Monday morning. S.M. Sasikumar, Forest Range Officer, Coonoor Range, said that the animal was found dead inside a tea plantation and was found by workers. Following information, District Forest Officer Guru Swamy Dabbala, along with veterinarians and forest staff arrived at the scene to carry out an investigation. Forest officials said that it seemed likely that the animal died after being attacked by another leopard. “It seems likely that there was a territorial fight between the two animals that resulted in the leopardess’ death,” said Mr. Sasikumar, who added that samples of the animal’s visceral organs have been collected and sent for forensic analysis. The carcass was later destroyed. In a separate incident, a female elephant calf was found dead near Kakkanallah in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Monday. Officials said that it seemed likely that the calf was killed by a tiger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopardess-elephant-calf-found-dead/article34079629.ece
16 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||No confusion between BJP and AIADMK in seat-sharing: C.T. Ravi||Stating that there was “no confusion” between the AIADMK and the BJP in contesting in the three constituencies of Thali, Udhagamandalam and Vilavangode, where the the BJP is yet to announce its candidates, C.T. Ravi, the BJP’s national secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu, said that the candidates for the three constituencies will be decided by the party’s parliamentary board in the coming days. Mr. Ravi, who was in Udhagamandalam on Monday, arrived by helicopter. He spoke to reporters shortly after landing. When asked whether the delay indicated any differences with its ally, the AIADMK in contesting in the three seats, Mr. Ravi said that there was “no confusion.” “The BJP will contest in this seat (Udhagamandalam), the other seats, today or tomorrow we will announce [sic],” he said. When asked if the AIADMK was pushing for its candidate to contest in Udhagamandalam, Mr. Ravi said, “It is settled. Both parties have already signed the agreement. No issues,” he said. Election officials also checked the helicopter in which Mr. Ravi was travelling to ensure that he was not carrying any gifts or cash that could contravene the Model Code of Conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-confusion-between-bjp-and-aiadmk-in-seat-sharing-ct-ravi/article34079261.ece
16 March 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Shanmugham||S. Prasad   Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Monday kickstarted his campaign in the Villupuram Assembly segment on an “auspicious” note. With the belief that for any activity to meet with success, it should begin from the “ eaasana moola ” (the northeast direction), Mr. Shanmugam visited Keezhperumbakkam before formally inaugurating his campaign. He prayed at the shrine of Draupadi Amman, seeking her blessings to retain the constituency in the April 6 election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shanmugham/article34079228.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Candidates of major parties file papers on Day 2||Thirty-one nominations were filed on Monday, Day 2 of the window period that the Election Commission of India had given for persons to file nominations to contest the 2021 Assembly elections. Data with the district administration showed that the Coimbatore North Assembly constituency saw five nominations – two by AIADMK nominee Amman K. Arjunan, two by his son and the fifth was the Naam Tamilar Katchi nominee B. Balendran. Coimbatore South Assembly constituency saw three nominations including Bharatiya Janata Party women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan, Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan and NaamTamilar Katchi’s A. Abdul Wahab, Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency saw five nominations including AIADMK nominee P.R.G. Arunkumar, and Mettupalayam Assembly constituency saw three nominations including AIADMK nominee A.K. Selvaraj and Independent O. Liakathali. Pollachi saw one nomination – that of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam nominee K. Sugumar, Sulur Assembly constituency three nominations – two by AIADMK nominee P. Kandasamy and one by dummy candidate K. Asokan, Thondamuthur Assembly four nominations – two by Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, one by Independent K. Ramasamy and another one by Ganasangam Party of India nominee M. Badran. Singanallur Assembly constituency saw seven nominations including that of Makkal Needhi Maiam vice-president R. Mahendran and AIADMK nominee K.R. Jayaram. No nominations were filed in Kinathukadavu and Valparai Assembly constituencies on Monday. In the Nilgiris, K. Ramachandran, the DMK candidate contesting in Coonoor constituency filed his nomination on Monday. Mr. Ramachandran, a former MLA from Coonoor, submitted his nomination papers to the Sub-Collector and returning office for Coonoor constituency, Ranjeeth Singh. R. Ketheeswaran, from the Naam Thamizhar Katchi also filed his nomination papers. Mr. Ketheeswaran is contesting in Gudalur constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidates-of-major-parties-file-papers-on-day-2/article34079620.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||45 nominations filed in four southern districts||Filing of nomination for the Assembly election gained momentum on Monday with 45 nominations received in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts. In Tirunelveli, AIADMK candidate for Nanguneri constituency Thatchai N. Ganesa Raja filed his nomination with Returning Officer Kuzhanthaisamy. Mr. Raja, who is AIADMK district secretary, was accompanied by BJP district president Maharajan. AIADMK candidate for Radhapuram I.S. Inbadurai, who was accompanied by BJP district general secretary Thamizh Selvan and AIADMK organising secretary A.K. Srinivasan, filed the nomination with Returning Officer Usha. Ruling party candidate for Palayamkottai K.J.C. Gerald filed his nomination with Returning Officer and Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan. Former MP P.H. Manoj Pandian submitted his nomination for Alangulam constituency with Returning Officer Raj Manoharan. Former Speaker R. Avudaiyappan, fielded by DMK in Ambasamudram constituency, filed his nomination with Returning Officer and Sub-Collector Pratik Tayal. Naam Thamizhar Katchi’s Shenbhagavalli also filed her nomination for the Assembly segment and the party’s candidate for Tirunelveli constituency Sathya filed her nomination with Sub-Collector, Tirunelveli, Sivakrishnamurthy. A total of 22 nominations — six for Radhapuram and Nanguneri, four for Palayamkottai, one for Tirunelveli and five for Ambasamudram — were received in the district on Monday. In Tenkasi district, sitting MLA and AIADMK candidate for Tenkasi S. Selvamohandas Pandian and Naam Thamizhar Katchi candidate Vincent Raj filed their nominations with Returning Officer Ramachandran. Panankaattuppadai Katchi coordinator and party candidate for Alangulam constituency A. Hari Nadar, who drew the atention of women voters by wearing gold ornaments weighing about 5 kg and came third in Nanguneri by-election held in 2019, also filed his nomination. In all, seven candidates, three in Tenkasi and four in Alangulam, filed nominations in Tenkasi district. In Thoothukudi district, 14 candidates, including four each in Kovilpatti, Vilaathikulam and Ottapidaaram (Reserved) constituencies and one each in Thoothukudi and Srivaikundam segments, filed their nominations. So far, 18 candidates have filed their nominations for the six constituencies. In Kanniyakumari district, DMK candidate for Padmanabhapuram Mano Thangaraj and AIADMK candidate for Kanniyakumari segment N. Thalavai Sundaram filed their nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-nominations-filed-in-four-southern-districts/article34079573.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK candidates file nominations in Virudhunagar||After a dull start on Friday with only one nomination received, offices of Returning Officers of all seven Assembly constituency saw a flurry of activity with filing of 40 nominations papers by 23 candidates. Heavy police force was deployed outside the offices to prevent unauthorised entry. A sterile zone was created with barricades put up 200 metres away from the offices. Only two vehicles were allowed with the candidates to go up to 100 metres before them. Similarly, officials instructed that only two persons could accompany the candidates into the RO’s chamber. With prior appointment sought by candidates, officials were able to allot time slots for the candidates. However, candidates of leading political parties arrived with a huge crowd up to the 200-metre mark boundary. AIADMK candidates for all six Assembly constituencies submitted their papers with the Returning Officers. Among them were K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji (Rajapalayam), S. Vaigaiselvan (Aruppukottai), R.K. Ravichandran (Sattur), E.M. Manraj (Srivilliputtur – Reserved), Lakshmi Ganesan (Sivakasi), and S. Rajasekar (Tiruchuli). Similarly, three DMK candidates, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran (Aruppukottai), Thangam Thennarasu (Tiruchuli) and A.R.R. Seenivasan (Virudhunagar), also filed their papers on Monday. Prominent among those who filed the nominations was Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Sattur Assembly constituency M.S.R. Rajavarman. Naam Tamilar Katchi candidates B. Abinaya (Srivilliputtur), R. Kangapriya (Sivakasi), P. Uma (Aruppukottai), and Desiya Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate N. Vikraman (Virudhunagar) also filed their nominations. Dummy candidates for both AIADMK and DMK and independents also filed their nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-candidates-file-nominations-in-virudhunagar/article34079257.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bankers’ strike paralyses financial transactions||Banking operations in Tirunelveli district were paralysed completely as employees began their two-day strike on Monday. The protesting bankers said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman, while presenting the Union Budget for 2021–2022, had announced that two nationalised banks would be privatised even as merger of banks had already caused irreparable damage to the banking industry. In protest against the proposal, 2,800 employees affiliated to 300 branches in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts abstained from work on Monday, which resulted in hitting around Rs. 2,000 crore-worth financial transactions. They staged a demonstration in front of State Bank of India’s Sripuram Branch in Tirunelveli junction. In Thoothukudi, Rs. 650-crore worth financial transactions were hit in view of the strike by 1,600 employees affiliated to 134 branches. In Kanniyakumari, around 2,000 employees working with 200 branches struck work and staged a demonstration in Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bankers-strike-paralyses-financial-transactions/article34079571.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Strike hits banking services in districts||The two-day nationwide strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions, an umbrella organisation of bank employees and officers, to protest against the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks, affected banking services in the districts on Monday. In the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two banks as part of Centre’s disinvestment proposal. The Unions had called for the strike to oppose the government’s move. In Erode, over 2,200 employees from 217 public sector branches participated in the strike affecting services such as deposits, withdrawals, cheque clearance and loan approvals. In many branches customers had to wait for long hours as only a few employees were present. Many branches wore a deserted look. Employees also staged a demonstration in the city condemning the proposal and wanted the Centre to drop the plan. They said that transactions to the tune of Rs. 550 crore were affected due to the strike. However, Automated Teller Machines were refilled on Monday by private security agencies. Many traders said that closure of banks for three days would affect their business and non-clearance of cheques would result in huge loss to them.  Krishnagiri Special Correspondent adds  The strike in Krishnagiri witnessed participation of employees from all major public sector banks and regional rural banks. According to the Bank Employees Federation of India, Krishnagiri chapter, the biggest crisis of the public sector banks was the non-performing assets. The Unions and Associations have been demanding the successive governments to strengthen and enact stricter laws for the recovery of bad loans. “The laws enacted so far are not effective to recover the non-performing assets, which may accrue to Rs. 9 lakh crore. Instead of addressing these concerns, the government’s move to disinvest public sector banks would be detrimental to the growth of the country,” the BEFI has said. According to S. Hari Rao, president, Indian Bank Employees Association, over 100 employees took part in protests at various places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strike-hits-banking-services-in-districts/article34079275.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Train service to Mettupalayam resumes||Train services between Coimbatore and Mettupalayam, which were stopped in March 2020 following the COVID-19 lockdown, resumed on Monday. Salem Division of Southern Railway announced that train no. 06009 Mettupalayam – Coimbatore mainline electrical multiple unit (MEMU) special train will leave Mettupalayam Junction at 8.20 a.m. to reach Coimbatore Junction at 9.05 a.m. Train no. 06010 Coimbatore – Mettupalayam MEMU will leave Coimbatore at 5.55 p.m. and reach Mettupalayam at 6.40 p.m. The special trains will be operated on all days except Sundays and will have stoppages at Karamadai and Coimbatore North Junctions. Resumption of the services will benefit college students and office-goers, said organiser of Namma Mettupalayam, an NGO, K.P. Rahman. “Since lockdown, they had to depend on cars and buses for the past one year,” he said. The service will also help in reducing traffic congestion on Mettupalayam Road, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-service-to-mettupalayam-resumes/article34079624.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helping-hand/article34079499.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM, Stalin file nominations||AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran, who has allotted 60 seats to the DMDK and counts the AIMIM and the SDPI among his allies, filed his nomination in the Kovilpatti Assembly constituency, where he will take on Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju. NTK founder Seeman, the only leader in Tamil Nadu to have distributed seats equally among male and female candidates, filed his nomination for the Tiruvottiyur constituency. Many Ministers and prominent second-line leaders of various parties also filed their nominations on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-stalin-file-nominations/article34079241.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Banking operations hit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banking-operations-hit/article34079580.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cash, gift items seized||The district administration has announced that materials and cash totalling over Rs. 18 lakh were seized from the eight Assembly constituencies of the district as of Monday. A sum of Rs. 7.73 lakh and a few materials such as gift items worth Rs. 10,66,440 have been seized and the total value was Rs. 18,39,440, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-gift-items-seized/article34079625.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AMMK will finish off evil force, says TTV Dhinakaran||The Amma Makkal Munnnetra Kazhagam will put an end to the “evil force”, the DMK, and the “traitors”, the AIADMK, in the upcoming Assembly polls, claimed its founder TTV Dhinakaran. He said his party would provide “clean administration”. Speaking to reporters after filing his nomination for Kovilpatti Assembly constituency with Returning Officer, Sankaranarayanan, Mr. Dhinakaran claimed the people of Tamil Nadu, while uprooting the DMK, would teach a fitting lesson to the AIADMK. Instead of giving freebies, the AMMK would ensure employment to every family by giving them job either in the government department or extending all possible helps to make them entrepreneurs. “Giving job or making them entrepreneur is our revolutionary promise… People don’t expect or want freebies from the government. They expect governance that can provide them sense of peace, security and equity,” he said. Though freebies uplift the social status of the beneficiary, it will never improve their living standards. “Hence, we strive to give them jobs and make them entrepreneurs. The present government, which has already borrowed nearly Rs. 6 lakh crore, can never fulfil their freebie promise. What was the DMK doing when it was in power on five occasions,” he asked. Mr Dhinakaran blamed the DMK for having given consent to the NEET and methane exploration projects in the delta region, precipitating the Cauvery water dispute, giving Katchatheevu toSri Lanka. “After 10 years, the power-hungry DMK wants return to power, which is impossible as the people will never pardon the party,” he claimed while trashing the poll predictions that the DMK would return to power. He exuded confidence that the people of Kovilpatti, irrespective of caste and religion, would accept him as the ‘son of the soil’ and hence he would win the battle of ballots with a thumping margin of over 50,000 votes. He rejected the argument that Kovilpatti was the ‘bastion of Left parties’. “Like R.K. Nagar, our opponents will lose their deposits,” he hoped. Minister for Information and AIADMK’s candidate for Kovilpatti Assembly constituency Kadambur C. Raju also filed his nomination on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-will-finish-off-evil-force-and-traitors-says-ttv-dhinakaran/article34079244.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: rise in daily caseload||Coimbatore district on Monday saw an increase in the daily caseload of COVID-19. The district reported 70 new cases of the disease against the 58 cases it had on Sunday. The daily caseload touched the 70-mark after a gap of several weeks. The district also had an increased number of active cases which stood at 421. As many as 49 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from the disease and got discharged from different hospitals. The Health Department said that a 63-year-old woman from the district who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on February 28 died of COVID-19 on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 29 new cases, which took the overall tally to 18,683. No deaths were reported and the toll remained at 224. As many as 18,260 patients have recovered and 199 were active cases. On Monday, 16 patients from Tiruppur district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, nine persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 8,451. The number of deaths in the district stood at 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-rise-in-daily-caseload/article34079628.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect||Over 150 participants attended an online workshop on ‘3D designing and facilitating experimental learning through Solid Works - a simulation software’, organised by the Department of Computer Science, Nehru Memorial College. Pon. Balasubramanian, president of the college, and Pon. Ravichandran, secretary, inaugurated the workshop. Balachandar Venkatachalapathy, Quality Engineer, Sunningdale Tech, Latvia, was the resource person. The workshop provided a chance to know about various job opportunities in designing at international level.    The Youth Red Cross of AIMAN College of Arts and Science for Women organised an election awareness rally. R. Vedarathinam, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic), and G. Rajasekaran, chairman, Indian Red Cross Society, flagged off the rally. The volunteers carried placards and raised slogans highlighting the importance of voting.    The Human Resource Development Centre of Srinivasan College of Arts and Science, Perambalur, organised a placement training programme for final year UG students. A. Srinivasan, founder-chairman, Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Group of Institutions, presided over the programme. Gokul Ragavan, CEO, Sri Raetna Solutions, and Kodeeshwaran, training coordinator, were the resource persons. Mr. Ragavan urged the students to develop communication skills, leadership qualities, work ethics, problem solving skills and interpersonal skills. Ability to communicate clearly and concisely will help students to have good rapport with the clients as well employers. Active listening would help in becoming a successful communicator and strong written communication is necessary to compose documents, he said.   The Bishop Heber College, Tiruchi, bagged the overall championship trophy at the International Technical Symposium – RENOVA ‘21 held at the Bon Secours College for Women, Thanjavur, recently. About 165 students from seven colleges participated in the symposium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article34079221.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Student wins medals in shooting championship||A Class 11 student of TVS School secured five gold medals, two silver medals and one bronze medal in the 46th Tamil Nadu State Shooting championship held in Chennai. Tanish Milind Salunkhe represented The Madurai Rifle Club. Club secretary S.V.S.S Velshankar trained him for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-wins-medals-in-shooting-championship/article34079670.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21.09%||votes polled by N. Nanjappan, an independent candidate in Pennagaram constituency in 1989, was the lowest ever vote share with which a candidate secured a victory in an Assembly election since 1967||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2109/article34079233.ece
16 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vaccine for over four lakh people in Belagavi district||The State government is making preparations for vaccinating around 8.1 % of the population in Belagavi district. The district has a population of around 55 lakh. Of these, over 4.47 lakh persons will be vaccinated. As many as 81,082 doctors, nurses, police and other department officials and some senior senior citizens have been vaccinated in the first phase. The government has set up or permitted 186 vaccination centres across the district. They are in 160 government and 26 private hospitals, clinics and health care centres. Revenue, gram panchayat and health department officials will coordinate in creating awareness about vaccination among the public and to ensure the smooth management of the process. The vaccine is available in all government hospitals from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. free. Private hospitals have been permitted to charge Rs. 250 per dose. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi and Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer H.V. Darshan received the first dose of Covaxin vaccine at the district hospital here on Monday. Mr. Hiremath appealed to the people to take the vaccine as it was safe, and the process was hassle-free. He said that no major side effects were visible in any of those vaccinated in the district till now. He said that all precautions are being taken to contain the spread of the epidemic. “We are insisting on COVID-negative certificates for those who enter Karnataka from Maharashtra. We have barred public gatherings, including village shandis, fairs and festivals. The gathering of people in Saundatti and Chincholi have been restricted,” the Deputy Commissioner said. Though the government regulations say that the vaccine is for senior citizens aged above 60 and those above 45 years with co-morbidities, senior officers took the vaccine to send a message to the public that the vaccine is safe. Also, being government employees, they are frontline corona warriors, a health department officer explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-for-over-four-lakh-people-in-belagavi-district/article34079285.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Budget will push State into bankruptcy: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday termed the State Budget presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as an “unrealistic, anti-development one that would push the State towards bankruptcy in the coming years”. Initiating the debate in the Legislative Assembly on the Budget, Mr. Siddaramaiah expressed fear that the State was being pushed to the brink of bankruptcy as the government had resorted to huge borrowings that had exceeded the allotted limit. “As against Rs. 1.06 lakh crore borrowed by our dispensation in five years from 2013 to 2018, Mr. Yediyurappa-led government has borrowed Rs. 1.41 lakh crore in the last two years alone,” he pointed out.  The government had presented a revenue deficit Budget for the first time since 2004-05 and the expected revenue deficit was to the tune of over Rs. 19,000 crore and Rs. 15,000 crore in 2020-21 and 2021-22 respectively, he said. Seeking to debunk the claims of the Chief Minister that the Budget was “pro-Dalit, pro-farmer and pro-women”, Mr. Siddaramaiah pointed out that allocation under the Special Component Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan for Dalits had actually seen a decrease though Budget size had increased. Observing that it was a violation of norms to reduce allocation, he urged the government to adhere to norms and increase the allocation for SCP/TSP. With respect to agriculture and allied sectors, Mr. Siddaramaiah pointed out that the allocation had reduced when compared to last year. “The farm sector has seen reduction in allocation in the Budget presented by the Chief Minister wearing a green shawl,” he taunted. Similarly, the allocation for women had reduced though the Budget had been presented on the International Women’s Day, he said.  ‘Not transparent’  He said the Budget had lost its sanctity as there was no transparency. “It is hiding more things than placing before people,” he alleged. He also took exception to more than a dozen development corporations getting a meagre allocation as against Lingayat and Vokkaliga development corporations getting Rs. 500 crore each. “I welcome the allocation made to the major communities. But show similar gesture towards the oppressed ones too,” he said. The government has not increased taxes because there was no scope for increase in taxes in the Budget since all types of taxes had reached a high point, he said. Stating that the government has been citing COVID-19 pandemic for economic slowdown, revenue deficit and decline in expenditure for development expenditure, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the State lost nearly Rs. 1.5 lakh crore funds from the Centre during the last five years. The Centre reduced the allocations to the State in the taxes collected by it, he pointed out. He urged the government to put pressure on the Centre to extend compensation to be claimed by the state under the GST for another five years. The Centre has decided to stop releasing compensation under the GST to States from June 2022. Nothing permanent On Mr. Yediyurappa asking what he (Mr. Siddaramaiah) would have done in his place, Mr. Siddaramaiah said: “We will come back to power... Those days are not far away. No one has occupied the seat of power permanently since 1947.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/budget-will-push-state-into-bankruptcy-siddaramaiah/article34079174.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||I will contest 2023 polls from Badami, says Siddaramaiah||Seeking to clear doubts on his future political moves, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday made it clear that he would contest the next Assembly elections and do so from Badami, which he is presently representing. “I will not run away from elections. I will contest again. Let there be no doubts in this regard in the minds of people,” Mr. Siddaramaiah remarked in the Legislative Assembly. This came in response to a query by Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri who said there was confusion among people on whether Mr. Siddaramaiah would contest the Assembly elections again. When Revenue Minister R. Ashok sought to know where he was contesting from, Mr. Siddaramaiah first said in lighter vein said that he would pick Padmanabhanagar (which is represented by Mr. Ashok). He later declared that he would stick to Badami. Mr. Siddaramaiah contested from two constituencies in 2018, Chamundeshwari in Mysuru and Badami in north Karnataka. While he won from Badami, he lost from Chamundeshwari. Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah denied allegations that he had ‘sent’ MLAs from the Congress to the BJP, resulting in the fall of the coalition government. This came in response when Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told Mr. Siddaramaiah in a lighter vein that he had ‘sent’ MLAs to BJP. “My political life is like an open book. I am ready to face facts. I will never stoop down to the level of sending our MLAs to the BJP,” he said. He further added to the CM, “If it is true that I have sent the MLAs to you, then you send them back to me now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-will-contest-2023-polls-from-badami-says-siddaramaiah/article34079186.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TAC makes a slew of suggestions, but govt. holds off on approval||Anticipating a further surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the coming days, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Monday recommended various stringent measures in six districts in the State where the positivity rate was above 1%. However, the State government has not yet accepted the recommendations. Some of the measures they suggested in six districts (Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, and Udupi) included the suspension of classes for all school students, except those of classes 10 and 12 (II PUC) for the next two weeks (till March 31). They also recommended that with some exceptions, all classes be held online. Another measure recommended was to have alternate seating in cinema halls for the next two weeks, with a maximum capacity of 50%. The committee also recommended that 20 contacts be traced for every positive case. Officials pointed out that they were waiting for the meeting with the Prime Minister scheduled on Wednesday to announce certain restrictions, as they did not want there to be any discrepancies between the national and State guidelines. Some accepted Some of the other measures, such as strict enforcement of COVID-19 behaviour and limiting people at weddings and other events were, however, approved bythe Chief Minister. Also approved were measures such as increased testing and vaccination. The committee has also categorically asked the government to review the status of COVID hospitals, oxygenated beds, ICU beds, and the establishment of COVID-19 care centres. It has suggested that dialogue be initiated with private hospitals for allocating beds for COVID-19 patients. The meeting chaired by the Chief Minister on Monday was attended by TAC members C.N. Manjunath, Giridhar Babu, Sudarshan, and V. Ravi. Ministers K. Sudhakar and C.N. Ashwath Narayan, besides Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar, were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-makes-a-slew-of-suggestions-but-govt-holds-off-on-approval/article34079156.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Rainwater is superior to treated water’||“When we build our dream house, we plan so meticulously that even small things are paid attention to in advance. But how many people actually give attention towards having rainwater harvesting structures?” asks well-known water conservationist N.J. Devaraj Reddy. Mr. Reddy, a hydrogeologist and rainwater harvesting consultant, says water woes would have been solved in most of the areas of the State if serious efforts had been made to create awareness about the importance of rainwater harvesting. According to him, Karnataka has a good potential for rainwater harvesting though there are differences in terms of average rainfall received by different regions. “But what is most important is that people should show interest in rainwater harvesting by recognising its importance,” he says. “Rainwater harvesting is not just about tapping nature’s precious resource and conserving water. The most important thing about rainwater is its quality and taste,” he said. “The quality of rainwater is superior to that of the treated water being supplied in any of the metros, including Bengaluru.” Mr. Reddy, who has helped a large number of individuals and organisations to adopt rainwater harvesting technology, prescribes a usage model too. “Since rainwater stands for quality, it should be used mainly for drinking and cooking purposes. It could be used for bathing too, only if you have adequate storage space. Through this, you can use rainwater throughout the year, including the summer, even without a big storage.” According to him, about 10,000 litres of rainwater is enough to take care of the drinking and cooking needs of a family of four or five throughout the year. He suggests that water supplied by government agencies such as Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board could be used for bathing and other requirements, while borewell water could be used for cleaning and gardening. “The idea is to ensure that the best-quality water — rainwater — is used for drinking and cooking,” he says. Roof space is not a constrain as even small Ashraya houses with an area of just 10x20 ft, given to poor families, can yield about 13,000 litres of rainwater even in the parched areas of the State that receive minimum rainfall, Mr. Reddy says. However, he expresses concern that the traditional builders generally quote higher prices for creating storage facilities such as underground sumps for rainwater harvesting. “The scheduled rates of the government prescribe the cost of sump construction at Rs. 20 a litre. But we have proved that it is possible to reduce it to below Rs. 5 a litre,” he says, referring to building a rainwater storage facility with a capacity of 2 lakh litres for Shantarama Thirthashrama Trust at Medehalli in Chitradurga recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rainwater-is-superior-to-treated-water/article34079152.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications for OC, CC moved online||A few months after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) started accepting only online applications for building plan approvals, applications for Commencement Certificate (CC) and Occupancy Certificate (OC) have also gone online. This is the latest service to go online under Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) in the BBMP. Apart from building plan approvals, CC and OC issued by the Town Planning Department, applications for trade licence and renewal, issued by the Health Department, are also accepted only online. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, on February 26, had issued a circular making it mandatory for the Town Planning Department to accept only online applications for CC and OC. According to a senior official, since then, the Town Planning Department had got only two applications for CC and none so far for OC. “There were some technical glitches. There still are some glitches for plan approvals, with the architects who are applying raising tickets. We are resolving these issues as and when they come up,” the official said and admitted that with the new online system, citizens will no longer have to visit BBMP offices. As per the circular issued by Mr. Prasad, any architect, engineer, supervisor, structural engineer, owner or developer may upload the requisite documents on the civic body’s website and make an online payment of the processing fee through any of the e-payment gateways. Within five working days, the junior or assistant engineer concerned of the BBMP will intimate via email to the applicant if any additional documents are required, and fix the time and date for spot inspection. The official added that as per the timeline fixed, the BBMP is expected to issue plan approvals within 15 days, CC within 9 days and OC within 18 days. However, as per the timeline given by Karnataka Udyog Mitra that is monitoring EoDB implementation in the State, plan approvals have to be given within 15 days, CC within 5 days and OC within 25 days. “We are planning to raise the issue with Udyog Mitra. While we do not need 25 days to issue OC, we will not be able to verify documents and issue CC in 5 days,” the official stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-for-oc-cc-moved-online/article34079143.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. promises clear policy to stop sale of medical seats||Karnataka will put in place a clear policy by next year to prevent illegal sale of medical seats by private colleges, assured Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday in the Legislative Council. He said the commission set up to study the problems had submitted its report to the government. “The current penalty for surrendering a medical seat is Rs. 5 lakh. This will be enhanced five times and made Rs. 25 lakh,” Dr. Sudhakar said. The Minister was replying to a question posed by BJP member N. Ravikumar, who sought to know what action had been initiated against erring private medical colleges. Mr. Ravikumar had posed the question in the context of income tax searches on 12 private medical colleges that yielded Rs. 402 crore undeclared wealth. The Minister said: “The seat surrendering issue has been there for some years now. Some medical colleges have been misusing the loopholes in law and interpreting the Supreme Court orders in their own way.” Karnataka has a total of 65 medical colleges of which 45 colleges are run by private managements. Earlier, Mr. Ravikumar said nearly 400 medical seats in private medical colleges are sold every year in violation of the rules. He pointed out that colleges identify meritorious students and get the seat filled by them. Later, the seat is vacated by paying a fine, which is then sold by the managements to others. “Genuine meritorious students are denied seats as a result,” he pointed out. He said that despite many seats being sold, the government had not issued notices to any medical college nor initiated action against RGUHS officials. Further, the BJP member also asked what action the government had taken against the 12 medical colleges where Rs. 402 crore has been unearthed. Dr. Sudhakar replied that the government cannot give notice since it is a black money case. “Investigation agencies have started their probe. Since black money is involved, the I-T Department is looking at it. Action will be initiated against colleges if they violate Acts under State jurisdiction,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-promises-clear-policy-to-stop-sale-of-medical-seats/article34079179.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. plans to enhance compensation for crop loss caused by animals||The State government is thinking of covering agriculture crops near the forests under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana, which will help enhance the compensation for crop losses caused by wild animals. Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali told the Legislative Council that the forest officials will speak to agriculture officials on whether this issue can be worked out. “Farmers have to pay just 2% of the premium amount while the rest will be equally shared between State and Central governments,” he said, The Minister also said that the current compensation of Rs. 10,000 for death of cattle due to attack of wild animals is being reviewed. “Under the calamity compensation, each head of cattle is given Rs. 30,000,” Mr. Limbavali said in his reply to a question by Congress member Veena Achaiah pertaining to three deaths reported recently due to tiger attack near Nagarahole. Ms. Achaiah had pointed out that while the Forest Department is using elephants to capture the tiger, this operation was costing coffee estate owners dear since elephants were damaging the coffee plantations too. “People are scared to go out in Ponnampet area,” she said. The Minister, in his reply, said he had resisted visiting Kodagu so as to not affect the operation currently underway to capture the tiger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-plans-to-enhance-compensation-for-crop-loss-caused-by-animals/article34079176.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister warns schools on classes for primary students||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education will initiate action against schools in the State that conduct physical classes for children in classes 1 to 5 without permission, said S. Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, on Monday. In a press release, he pointed out that following the recommendations of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, the State government had accorded permission to schools to conduct physical classes for students of class 6 and above. However, it was reported in the media that several schools across the State were conducting classes for students of lower standards. Taking serious note of this, given the spike in COVID-19 cases, Mr. Suresh Kumar directed the Commissioner of Public Instruction to constitute taluk-level monitoring committees to identify schools conducting classes for lower standards and to initiate stringent action against such school managements. He directed the Commissioner to issue a circular in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-warns-schools-on-classes-for-primary-students/article34079153.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Need to set an example’||Water conservationist N.J. Devaraj Reddy, who is also a member of the State planning board, has appealed to political and spiritual leaders as well as educational and government institutes to inspire others by adopting rainwater harvesting. Observing that the rainwater harvesting system adopted at the Vidhana Soudha did not appear to be functioning effectively or managed well, he says the Vidhana Soudha, being the State’s power centre, should lead the way. “Getting packaged drinking water bottles to Vidhana Soudha shows it in poor light. Vidhana Soudha must set an example by offering rainwater for drinking purposes,” he says. Pointing out that the rainwater harvesting system adopted in a few government schools on an experimental basis is working effectively, Mr. Reddy suggests more government schools should try it out so they get clean and quality water for drinking and midday meals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-to-set-an-example/article34079163.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSP seeks shorter version of Naada Geete||Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) has written to the Karnataka government urging that the duration of Naada Geete be shortened to 2.30 minutes, enforcing a resolution passed by the organisation in 2018. In a release on Monday, KSP president Manu Baligar pointed out that in 2018, KSP had in a meeting resolved that Naada Geete composed by Kuvempu (‘Jai Bharata Jananiya Tanujate’) be shortened to make it easier to render in public functions. The resolution was submitted to the government twice, but no action had been taken in this regard, he pointed out. KSP was reminding the government of the earlier resolution in the light of Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali saying that he would soon convene a meeting to discuss the issue of shortening the Geete. Currently some renderings go on from 8 to 10 minutes. Experts, musicians and academics at meeting had said the duration made it hard for the elderly and ailing to stand. They suggested that repetition of lines and alaap s introduced between stanzas be done away with, without cutting the length of the text.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksp-seeks-shorter-version-of-naada-geete/article34079184.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pension: NABARD ex-chiefs write to Finance Minister||A group of former chairmen and managing directors of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) wrote to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking resolution of their long-pending pension issues. Employees and retired employees of the organisation have been agitating for over 1.5 years seeking fulfilment of their demands. The United Forum of Officers, Employees and Retired Employees of NABARD (UFOERN) says employees of NABARD, which was carved out of the RBI by replacing three of its departments to focus on agriculture and rural development in 1982, were getting all benefits on a par with RBI staff. In the last seven years, RBI pension regulations underwent revisions with the approval of the Department of Financial Services, Union Finance Ministry. However, the DFS is yet to approve these for NABARD staff, creating disparity between those who had opted for NABARD and those who had opted to stay back in RBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-nabard-ex-chiefs-write-to-finance-minister/article34079183.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||EWS quota: State to make list of eligible communities||The State government will come out with a comprehensive list of communities that are eligible to get reservation under Economically Weaker Section quota announced by the Centre, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in the Assembly on Monday. Replying to a call-attention notice tabled by D. Vedavyasa Kamath, the Minister said the list would be notified by May/June when schools and colleges would reopen. He said the government would look at the possibility of including more communities as per the norms and eligibility criterion prescribed by the Centre. Earlier, Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri expressed concern that the scheme announced by the Centre was yet to reach people of Karnataka in an effective manner as the State was yet to include all eligible communities under the reservation list for EWS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ews-quota-state-to-make-list-of-eligible-communities/article34079171.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe property fraud: Ramesh||Congress member P.R. Ramesh on Monday urged the government to institute a comprehensive investigation into the plan sanctions, Commencement Certificate (CC) and Occupation Certificate (OC) that have been issued by planning department officials in Bengaluru. He said in the Council that it is pertinent that the investigation be conducted to find out how many of these documents have been issued by the planning departments in eight zonal offices, and the office of the joint director (South-North) that have issued these documents recklessly. His demand comes in the light of ACB searches on Town Planning Officer Devendrappa recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-property-fraud-ramesh/article34079180.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||For children of Mahime village, it’s a long walk to school||The Education Department is making efforts to establish transport facilities for Mahime village near Honnavara where children are struggling to reach the school walking about 20 km, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar assured the Council on Monday. His reply came to a question from Muniraju Gowda, who said that the lack of transport facility has led to high dropout among girls. Children have to walk through forests, sometimes after dark, to return home from school, he said. Drawing the attention of RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa to the similar plight of over a dozen villages in forests of Khanapura in Belagavi district, BJP member Mahantesh Kavatagimath said people in this hamlets have been denied fruits of development. He said that a gram panchayat member has to walk eight km to reach the office while people had to travel 50 km to vote in the recent GP polls. A similar situation exists in Bhimgad, which is now being considered tiger reserve, he pointed out. Mr. Eshwarappa said he would visit the areas shortly and find a solution to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-children-of-mahime-village-its-a-long-walk-to-school/article34079181.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Entries invited||The Indian Institute of Cartoonists (IIC) has invited entries for its 13th Maya Kamath Memorial Awards for Excellence in Cartooning 2020 competition. According to an IIC release, entries are invited in three categories -Best Political Award 2020, Best Foreign Cartoon Awards 2020 and Best Budding Cartoonists Award 2020. The last date for sending the entry is April 10. For details, contact IIC at No. 1, Midford House, Midford Garden, off M.G. Road, Bengaluru - 560001; call 080-41758540; or mailmkmawards@gmail. comorcarroonistsindia @gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entries-invited/article34079182.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Will you face fresh polls?’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday challenged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to dissolve the Assembly and face fresh polls if he was confident that his party enjoys the people’s support. He posed the challenge when the CM claimed that the State Budget presented by him recently had been received well and that he would win the byelections to Assembly and parliamentary seats on the basis of its popularity. “We know how bypolls are won. We too have won bypolls while in power. Dissolve the Assembly and face mid-term polls if you are so confident,” he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-you-face-fresh-polls/article34079188.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||932 fresh cases in Karnataka||The number of new COVID-19 cases continued to stay above the 900 mark in Karnataka, with the State reporting 932 fresh positive cases on Monday, taking the total cases to 9.61 lakh. Out of the 932 cases, as many as 550 were reported from Bengaluru Urban alone. Out of the total 8,860 active cases of COVID-19 in Karnataka, 125 patients are admitted in ICUs across different hospitals in the State. As many as 62,358 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Sunday. Of these, 59,799 tests were RT-PCR, while the remaining were Rapid Antigen Tests. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.49 %, while the Case Fatality Rate was 0.75 %. As many as seven COVID-19 deaths were reported on Monday, taking the total number of fatalities in the State to 12,397. Vaccination continues Meanwhile, a total of 1.25 lakh people were vaccinated. This included first and second doses of healthcare workers and frontline workers, as well first doses for people above 60 and those in the age group of 45 to 60 with comorbidities. With this, cumulatively 14.96 lakh people had been vaccinated as of Monday. No severe adverse effects following immunisation were reported in anyone on Monday. As many as 3,191 sessions were planned on Monday, and 3,188 were held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/932-fresh-cases-in-karnataka/article34079158.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Moneylenders Bill adopted||The Legislative Assembly on Monday adopted the Karnataka Money Lenders (Amendment Bill) that seeks to increase penalty and conviction term for violators in a bid to ensure strict adherence to the provisions of the legislation. The Bill piloted by co-operation Minister S.T. Somashekhar seeks to increase the conviction term, for first offence, to one year or with a fine of upto Rs. 50,000 or both. For the subsequent offence, the conviction term may be extended up to two years or with a fine of Rs. 1 lakh or both. The Assembly also adopted the Karnataka Municipalities (Amendment) Bill 2021 that seeks to remove discrimination against persons suffering from leprosy. On RTE Replying to a call-attention notice by Congress’ Yashwathrao Vittalgouda Patil, Minister S. Suresh Kumar said he would examine extending Right to Education Act till PUC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/moneylenders-bill-adopted/article34079172.ece
16 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Groundwater table dips to 2,355 ft||The owners of plots who are planning to drill borewells in Bengaluru, beware. According to water conservationist N.J. Devaraj Reddy, such is the fast depletion of the groundwater table in some areas of Bengaluru that it has plummeted to 2,350 feet in parts of Electronics City. “Recently, an individual drilled a borewell before building a house on a 30x40 ft plot in Electronics City. He got a meagre water yield of just a quarter inch, that too at a depth of 2,355 feet. For this, he ended up paying about Rs. 9.5 lakh as borewell and casing pipe charges. Considering such a huge depth, he would have spent another Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh on remaining things such as pump set, electric cable, and pipes, besides labour. Instead, he could have just spent about Rs. 5 lakh and stored much more rainwater than what would be available from his borewell of quarter inch yield,” he says. Mr. Reddy has advised others facing similar issues to think twice before investing on borewells, as they can dry up within a few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/groundwater-table-dips-to-2355-ft/article34079162.ece
16 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Leaders have not condemned injustice done to Teltumbde’||Writer and activist Anand Teltumbde has been in prison on false charges, but no parliamentarian has raised a voice against the injustice done to him, said H.M. Rudraswamy, a senior leader of the Dalit Sangharsha Samiti. He was speaking at a seminar organised in memory of one of the founders of DSS, B.V. Chandraprasad Tyagi, in Hassan on Sunday. The Kannada edition of a book on the Mahad Satyagraha, written by R.B. More and Mr. Teltumbde, was released onthe occasion. “The government has imprisoned Mr. Teltumbde after branding him a naxal. But, none of our parliamentarians protested this. We have our representatives, but they have lost their voice,” he said. Referring to the book released on the occasion, Mr. Rudraswamy said B.R. Ambedkar led the Mahad Satyagraha for access to drinking water. “This is equivalent to the Salt Satyagraha led by Mahatma Gandhi,” he said.  Recalling the struggles of Mr. Chandraprasad Tyagi, Mr. Rudraswamy said that the Dalit movement was strong under his leadership in Hassan district. He attracted many young leaders towards the movement and led struggles and succeeded in getting land granted to Dalits in Hassan. The programme was organised by the Dalit Hakkugala Samiti of Hassan district unit. Samiti president M.G. Pruthvi, artist K.T. Shivaprasad, DSS leaders H.K. Sandesh, Erappa, CITU leader Dharmesh, and others attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leaders-have-not-condemned-injustice-done-to-teltumbde/article34079419.ece
16 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Plantation worker dead||A plantation worker died after he came in contact with an electrical wire while harvesting pepper at Kolur, near Kottigehara in Mudigere taluk, on Monday. Mahalingam, 25, was harvesting pepper with the help of a metal ladder in an estate belonging to Chandre Gowda. The ladder came in contact with the wire, leading to his death. The Banakal police have registered an unnatural death report. His family has blamed negligence of the estate owner for the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plantation-worker-dead/article34079187.ece
16 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MP holds meet on revival of industries||B.Y. Raghavendra, MP, on Monday held a meeting with officers of the Industries Department in Bengaluru on the revival of Mysore Paper Mills and Visvesaraya Iron and Steel Limited in Bhadravati. According to a communique from the Shivamogga district administration, Secretary of Industries Department Gaurav Gupta, Commissioner of Industries Department Gunjan Krishna, Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar, and others attended the meeting. The tender process for inviting private investors for the revival of the MPM had begun. The MP had already held a discussion with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman on the revival of VISL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-holds-meet-on-revival-of-industries/article34079416.ece
16 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. will not allow goonda culture’||BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra has said the State government will not allow the goonda culture of the Congress to continue in Bhadravati. “BJP workers will put an end to the goonda acts of the Congress and its supporters,” he said. He spoke to media during his visit to Bhadravati on Monday. A Congress MLA and his supporters allegedly assaulted BJP workers during a kabaddi event. “It was a highly condemnable act. Nakul, a BJP worker, was beaten up in the incident. This is not new for BJP workers in Shivamogga district,” he said. He added that the workers should not lose confidence and join hands to put an end to the Congress culture in Bhadravati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-will-not-allow-goonda-culture/article34079417.ece
16 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Anganwadi workers protest against government ‘apathy’||Condemning the “apathy” of the State government towards their long-pending demands, scores of anganwadi workers and assistants staged a protest in Hubballi on Monday. Under the banner of the AITUC-affiliated Rajya Anganwadi Karyakarteyara Mattu Sahayakiyara Federation, members of the Hubballi Rural unit of the federation took out a protest march and staged a dharna in front of the mini-Vidhana Soudha. The protesters raised slogans against the State government and said that it had been apathetic towards their demands pertaining to increasing their honorarium and other incentives. They said the government had promised to take measures after their previous mega agitation. However, in the recent Budget, there was no announcement with regard to fulfilling their demands and nothing was offered to anganwadi workers as relief during the post-lockdown period. The members submitted to the Hubballi tahsildara memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister. They warned that the federation would be forced to launch an indefinite agitation if the government did not respond positively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anganwadi-workers-protest-against-government-apathy/article34079293.ece
16 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Customers face problems as bank employees go on strike in twin cities||Customers of various banks in the twin cities faced problems on Monday as banking services were affected following the two-day strike call given by bank unions opposing the proposed move of privatisation of banks and disinvestments. With those requiring cash lining up in front of ATMs, a majority of such kiosks ran out of cash soon causing hardships to bank customers. In both Hubballi and Dharwad, members of various bank unions took out protest marches and staged demonstrations raising slogans against the Union government and opposing the privatisation move and privatisation of public sector insurance companies. In Dharwad, bank employees gathered in front of the main branch of State Bank of India on College Road and raised slogans against the Centre. The protesting bank employees said that nine bank unions had given the call for strike opposing the new policies of the Centre which were detrimental to Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). They said that the bank unions want the Union government to roll back the disinvestment plan aimed at mobilising Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for the Exchequer. The protestors also raised slogans against the government for its decision on the merger of various public sector banks and termed the policy as retrograde. They said that the talks with the Union government had failed as the government had been firm on its privatisation proposal. The speakers said that the privatisation move would badly affect the banking sector and result in job losses. Union office-bearers S.R. Rao, Jagadish Alkatti, Pradeep Doddmani, Shankar Uppin, Satish Mokashi and others led the protest. A similar protest was staged in Hubballi with members of various bank unions staging a protest under the aegis of United Forum of Bank Unions. The protestors gathered in front of Union Bank near Ambedkar’s statue in Hubballi and opposed the privatisation move. Union office-bearer Stephen Jayachandra alleged that privatisation of bank meant looting of public savings and the move would put savings of poor people in risk. He termed the move as anti-people and anti-nation. Apart from bank union leaders, members of other organisations Mahesh Pattar, Devanand Jagadapur, Babajan Mudhol, Amruth Izare and others joined the protest. They said that the purpose with which the banks were nationalised was being nullified now with the privatisation proposal. With the bank strike scheduled to continue on Tuesday, bank customers are further likely to face problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/customers-face-problems-as-bank-employees-go-on-strike-in-twin-cities/article34079291.ece
16 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Fairs banned in Dharwad||With Dharwad recording an increase in COVID-19 cases in the last week, the district administration has geared up to impose further restrictions on movement of people as per the direction of the State government. Chairing a review meeting on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said the State government had on Monday has issued guidelines banning fairs and car festivals, urs, and to check crowding in public places and marriages. Mr. Patil said that the guidelines would be implemented strictly and those not following them would be dealt with strictly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fairs-banned-in-dharwad/article34079294.ece
16 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||House-to-house vaccine drive in Koppal||In a bid to convince people of the need to get vaccinated against COVID-19, the Koppal district administration has decided to take up a house-to-house campaign and help citizens rid of misconceptions surrounding the vaccine. Addressing a gathering at a COVID-19 Vaccination Task Force Committee meeting at his office in Koppal on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishor Suralkar directed the officials concerned to visit houses and convince senior citizens and those suffering from co-morbidities to get vaccinated against the pandemic. “Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) have already conducted a survey in the district and prepared a list of people suffering from chronic diseases such as diabetes, blood pressure, hypertension, heart and renal problems. People are not so keen on getting vaccinated. We have to visit their houses and convince them of the importance of getting vaccinated,” Mr. Suralkar said. Warning against any lethargy, irresponsibility and failure in discharging duties by government servants involved in the vaccination drive, the Deputy Commissioner said that officers concerned would be held responsible for any inadequacy or problem in the implementation of vaccination campaign and stringent action would be taken against such government servants. “We have formed COVID-19 Vaccination Task Force Committees in every taluk comprising Tahsildars, Taluk Health and Family Welfare Officers, Child Development Project Officers, Block Education Officers and other senior officers. These officers should work in proper coordination. The vaccination campaign would be successful only when all departments and officers worked passionately. The officers concerned would be held responsible if anything goes wrong and action would be taken against them,” he said. Registration for COVID-19 vaccination is available in all the 61 primary health centres in the district and the officers should give enough publicity for vaccination schedules in all villages and hamlets so that more people benefit from the drive, Mr. Suralkar added. Taking note of the arrival of the South African strain of SARS-CoV-2 in the neighbouring Ballari district, the Deputy Commissioner asked the officers to be more vigilant and stringent in enforcing containment measures, especially in the district’s borders. He also directed the officers to be strict in the implementation of COVID-19 guidelines at crowd-pulling events such as Jatras and literary festivals. “First, convince the people of the need to adhere to guidelines. If they do not follow norms, don’t hesitate to take action,” Mr. Suralkar said. Additional Deputy Commissioner M.P. Maruti, Zilla Panchayat Deputy Secretary Sharana Basavaraj, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Alaknand Malagi, District Surgeon S.B. Danareddy and other senior officers were present.  Registration for COVID-19 vaccination available in all 61 primary health centres in the district Officers told to give enough publicity for vaccination schedules in all villages and hamlets so that more people benefit from the drive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/house-to-house-vaccine-drive-in-koppal/article34079289.ece
16 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Good response to bank staff strike in Kalyana Karnataka||The two-day bank employees strike opposing the Union government’s efforts to privatise the banking sector received good response across the seven districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region on the first day on Monday. The strike call was given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), a conglomerate of All India Bank Employees Association, All India Bank Officers Confederation, National Confederation of Bank Employees, All India Bank Officers Association, Bank Employees Federation of India, Indian National Bank Employees Federation, Indian National Bank Officers Congress, National Organisation of Bank Workers and National Organisation of Bank Officers. Employees of all the major nationalised banks, including State Bank of India, Canara Bank, Corporation Bank (now Union Bank of India), Karnataka Bank and Bank of Baroda, participated in the strike by not reporting for duty forcing the banks to close their operations. People, who were unaware of the strike, were found going through difficulties in transacting their banking tasks. Though regular activities in almost all branches of nationalised banks in the region were disrupted, most of their ATMs functioned as usual. However, in some places, the machines had been rendered “out of order” due to unavailability of money. Private banks such as ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank functioned as usual. Hundreds of agitating employees staged demonstrations and agitations across the cities and towns in the region holding placards and banners opposing the Union government’s move. “The very purpose of establishing State-owned banks and nationalising private banks was to collect savings from the maximum number of people and distribute it among the maximum number of producers. Privatising banks essentially means collecting money from the maximum number of people and distributing it among a few big corporate houses. Banks without State control tend to collapse due to greed of a few and inflict irreversible damage on depositors. Already, 550 private banks have collapsed and most of the depositors have lost most of their savings. Privatisation of the banking sector would thus lead to the collapse of the banking sector and, in turn, the collapse of the economy,” a leader addressing the agitators outside a Canara Bank branch in the Supermarket area in Kalaburagi said. Many leaders who spoke on the occasion strongly criticised the Union government for its “disinterest” in strengthening the public sector while showing enthusiasm in selling government banks that were doing well to private players. “Banks in the public sector in India have never faced a serious crisisIt is the government’s responsibility to strengthen the public sector banks when they face a crisis,” another leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-response-to-bank-staff-strike-in-kalyana-karnataka/article34079287.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Portion of inscription has eroded: ASI||Erosion of the top portion of the Kannada inscription found on the Hoige Bazaar campus of the College of Fisheries makes it difficult to prima facie say as to the purpose of the inscription that relates to donation of land, said officials from Epigraphy division of Archaeological Society of India, Mysuru, here on Monday. Assistant Epigraphists J. Veeramanikandan and Shreedevi Thejaswini visited the Hoige Bazaar campus of the college on Monday for estampaging (taking copies of) inscriptions of Kannada and Portuguese on Map Lithopaper for detailed study. The Kannada and Portuguese inscriptions appears like those from the 11th and 17th century respectively, the ASI officials said. A third year Bachelor of Fisheries Sciences student Shreyash G. Bhandary noticed the inscriptions near the site where new Skill Development and Safety Training Centre is being built by Mangaluru Smart City Limited. These two inscriptions were found after an excavation in May last year following the demolition of the dilapidated Fisheries Training Centre building, which was constructed in 1959. Mr. Bhandary showed the images of the inscriptions to Dean, College of Fisheries, Senthil Vel, who forwarded them to the Prime Minister’s Office. Director General of ASI V. Vidyavathi directed K. Munirathnam, Director of the Epigraphy Division of ASI, Mysuru, to study the two inscriptions. Mr. Veeramanikandan and Ms. Thejaswini told reporters that the Kannada inscription belongs to Alupa dynasty that ruled Mangaluru and other areas between second century and 15th century. Only 11 lines of the inscriptions are visible while the top five lines are eroded. “This makes it difficult to right away say about the purpose of this donation and who made it,” Mr. Veeramanikandan said. This inscription is similar to the inscriptions from Adyar in Mangaluru and Udyavara in Udupi that were recently studied by ASI, Ms. Thejaswini said. The Portuguese inscription has an emblem and a few lines in Portuguese script. “It needs to be closely studied to decipher what it relates to,” Mr. Veeramanikandan said. These two inscriptions will feature in the ASI’s Annual Report of Indian Epigraphy that will come out in July. Experts from ASI will study inscriptions and their details will appear in South Indian Inscriptions. If the studies reveal about its link with dynasties, then it will be featured in ASI’s Epigraphica Indica, the two ASI officials told reporters. The College of Fisheries and the local authorities concerned have to take a decision on preserving the two inscriptions, the officials added.  Two inscriptions were found after an excavation in May last year following the demolition of the dilapidated Fisheries Training Centre building Images were forwarded to the Prime Minister’s Office after which Director General of ASI issued a direction for the study of the inscriptions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portion-of-inscription-has-eroded-asi/article34079680.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||6,000-km bicycle expedition to Imphal in Manipur flagged off||Tour operator Shravan Kumar (26) on Monday began his second ambitious expedition Pedal for Green, pedalling 6,000 km from Mangaluru to Imphal, the capital city of Manipur, to create awareness about climate change. He had pedalled 10,000 km from Kashmir to Kanniyakumari in 2018 to create awareness on Swatch Bharath Mission. Speaking at the flag-off, Mr. Kumar, a member of Junior Chamber of India (JCI) and a resident of Gurupura, said that through the ride, he intends to bring people closer to nature and motivate them to plant more and more saplings. He would also encourage people in urban areas to raise urban forests (Miyawaki Forest), Mr. Kumar said. District Rotary Governor Ranganath Bhat and JCI Zone president Soujanya Hegde flagged off the expedition from near Rotary Bal Bhavan in the city. Rotary International District 3181 and JCI India Zone XV would support support Mr. Kumar’s expedition. While insurance and other formalities were undertaken by Rotary Club of Hillside, his cycling kit was sponsored by Ganesh Nayak of Jyoti Cycle and Fitness, Kadri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6000-km-bicycle-expedition-to-imphal-in-manipur-flagged-off/article34079677.ece
16 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||TTEs get Point of Sale machines to collect excess fare or fine||Taking its digital transaction initiatives a step forward, the Southern Railway has been providing Point of Sale (PoS) machines to its travelling ticket examiners (TTEs) to collect excess fare as well as fine. About 40 such machines were provided to TTEs in Palakkad Division alone by the headquarters, said a senior official. Consequently, TTEs need not collect excess fare or fines in cash; instead, they could collect them through debit/credit cards using the PoS machine, he said. The Railways has already provided PoS machines at all its Passenger Reservation System (PRS) locations and parcel/goods locations. Due to these digitisation efforts, passengers could travel with Railways without carrying hard currency. Catering stalls, Food Plazas, etc., also accept debit cards/credit cards or payment through Unified Payment Interference (UPI). Cashless transactions were boon to passengers and other customers especially in the backdrop of the threat of COFID-19 still existing. Passengers need not wait for getting change. At the end of the shift or the day it was helpful to the staff in preparation of accounts and it avoids the hardships connected with the remittance of amounts to the banks. There was a steady increase in PoS and UPI payments and passengers were getting used to the new system. Railway was expecting the rise in digital transactions by 50% in the near future. In the weekly meeting, Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari has instructed officers to promote the use of digital modes of payments, the officer said. PoS machines were provided at three PRS terminals in Mangaluru Central and two PRS terminals at Mangaluru Junction to encourage cashless transactions. Cashless transactions were available for booking parcels at these two stations. Railway receipts Railway goods terminals in Mangaluru were also now functioning in digital mode. Placing of demand for generating of Railway Receipt has been digitised. The Receipt could now be transferred electronically by the customer and the transit delay was thus avoided. No physical exchange of RR was required between consignor and consignee. For freight customers also, digital transactions provided right from the initial stage of registering e-demand, payment of freight charges through bank transfer and transferring of Railway Receipt through e-TRR to consignee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ttes-get-point-of-sale-machines-to-collect-excess-fare-or-fine/article34079674.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shuttle buses to resume services today||Private bus owners operating shuttle services in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Monday decided to resume services on Tuesday after suspending them for a day opposing compulsory levy of toll on buses operated through Hejmady village road. As cautioned last week, bus owners did not operate services on Monday that put hundreds of people to inconvenience. By afternoon, Navayuta Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd., officials and representatives of Kinnigoli Valaya Bus Malakara Sangha organised a meeting to resolve the issue. Sangha president Durgadas Hegde, who is also vice-president of Canara Bus Owners Association, told The Hindu that the toll management authorities agreed to offer 60% discount in toll to private shuttle buses operating through the Hejmady village road to different destinations. Bus owners too agreed to the proposal and decided to resume their services on Tuesday, he said. Shuttle bus owners had opposed the erection of toll gate on the village road claiming that it was illegal; however, villagers had agreed to the move as it prevented unauthorised movement of heavy vehicles inside the village to avoid toll payment at the main toll plaza.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shuttle-buses-to-resume-services-today/article34079678.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||VHP to take out march in city on March 21||While urging the police to arrest those involved in recent incidents in which unwanted material were found in the hundis of Daivastanas and Devastanas, the Mangaluru unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad said that it will take out a march on March 21 to seek divine intervention for the arrest of the accused. Talking to reporters here on Monday, Vishwa Hindu Parishad Mangaluru Divisional Secretary Sharan Pumpwell said that the march will be taken out under the aegis of the Hindu Dharmika Kshetra Samrakshana Samiti, which was formed after a meeting of administrators of Daivastanas and Devastanas in the city on March 9. The march will start at 6 a.m. from the Kadri Manjunatha Temple premises and culminate at the Koragajja Aadi Kshetra in Kuthar at 11 a.m., with a public meeting. Mr. Sharan said that incidents in which unwanted items were found in hundis and premises of Devastanas and Daivastanas had been defaced continue to be reported in the city. On Monday, unwanted items were found in the hundi of Babbuswamy Daivastana in Sooterpet. “The police should catch the accused at the earliest,” he said and added that the VHP strongly condemns acts that hurt religious sentiments. The march on March 21 is to seek divine intervention for the arrest of the accused and also to ensure that such incidents of defacement do not continue, he said. On the question of installing CCTVs at Daivastanas and Devastanas as directed by police to prevent incidents of defacement, Mr. Sharan said that some administrators of these places of worship have expressed hardship in installing these devices for want of funds. “We will ask Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary to provide funds,” he said. Administrators of these places of worship have been asked to clear hundis at regular intervals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-to-take-out-march-in-city-on-march-21/article34079681.ece
16 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Book sand through app||The Udupi District Sand Monitoring Committee has decided to provide sand available in 11.9 acres of sand block in Gulvadi, Kavradi and Balkur villages and 5.7 acres of sand in Japti and Halnad villages to the general public and development works through the Sand App. Those intending to procure sand may get it through Udupi E Sand App, said a press release. Call Ph: 6366248666, 6366743888 or 6366871888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-sand-through-app/article34079682.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CFI protests police action||Activists of Campus Front of India (CFI) staged a protest accusing the Ullal police of committing excesses on fellow activists involved in the “zero dropout campaign”. The activists alleged that a group of activists involved in the campaign were attacked by people addicted to cannabis on Sunday. They said the police arrested the activists and assaulted them at the station. Accusing the local police of colludingwith those selling cannabis, the CFI activists sought strict action against the culprits. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that two groups, including CFI activists, were involved in a scuffle following an accident between two motorcycles. A case and counter-case were registered and the accused activists were brought to the police station. The injuries sustained by the activists were the result of the scuffle, and not as alleged by the protesters, he said. He, however, said an inquiry has been ordered into the alleged police excesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cfi-protests-police-action/article34079683.ece
16 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Advocate, two others booked||The Mangaluru East police have registered a case against advocate Praveen Pinto and two others of misbehaving with M.H. Rekhabai, Police Inspector, Women’s Police Station, Hassan, and stopping her from performing her duties. According to a compliant, Ms. Rekhabai had come on Monday to an apartment in Bendoor in which Mervin Gerard Savio Sequeira, anaccused in a case registered with the women’s police, stayed. The inspector had come to carry out a spot panchanama along with the complainant, two witnesses, and two personnel of Mangaluru Eastpolice. Mr. Sequeira, his mother Irene, and Mr. Pinto, who is an advocate for Mr. Sequeira, were accused of speaking with Mr. Rekhabai in a rude manner and asking the latter to shut her mouth. The three were also accused of threatening to get the officer suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocate-two-others-booked/article34079684.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Banking services hit in Mysuru||Banking services across Mysuru district were affected on Monday as employees demonstrated as part of a two-day strike, in response to a call from forum of bank unions in protest against the proposed privatisation of public sector banks. Barring some private banks, the employees of all other banks joined the strike. The employees staged demonstration on the SBI Zonal Office premises at T.K. Layout and demanded that the Centre stop the proposed privatisation of banks, disinvestment of LIC, and privatisation of insurance companies. H. Balakrishna, convener, United Forum of Bank Unions, Mysuru, told The Hindu that the strike on the first day was total with all employees joining the agitation. On Tuesday, the employees will assemble again at the Canara Bank regional office in Nazarabad, he added. A note from UFBU, Karnataka, stated that privatisation will mean handing the financial sector over to capitalists which, according to it, will result in endangering the savings of the common people, among others. The UFBU said the Union government, in its Budget, has made several announcements with regard to the financial sector reforms, including proposed privatisation of IDBI, and two public sector banks, disinvestment of LIC, among others. “All these are retrograde steps and need to be protested in the interest of nation and its wealth and all of us have to come together to protest against handing over the nation’s invaluable wealth to crony capitalists,” the forum’s Karnataka chapter said in its note. The strike has largely affected the public since the banks remained closed on March 13 (second Saturday) and March 14 (Sunday). With the strike on March 15 and 16, the banks will reopen only on March 17 (Wednesday). “The four-day closure of banks has caused inconvenience to the people,” said a few customers who visited a branch here. “The strike notice was issued long back and announcements were also made at the branches,” a bank employee added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banking-services-hit-in-mysuru/article34079408.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Madiwala community seeks inclusion in list of SCs||The Madiwala community, which has been seeking inclusion in the list of Scheduled Castes, staged a dharna in front of Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru on Monday to press for their demand. The dharna comes in the midst of the ongoing campaigns by different communities, including Kurubas and Panchamashali Lingayats, for reservation. Prashant S.J., leader of the Mysuru District Struggle Committee for inclusion of Madiwalas in SC, said the dharna on Monday was a symbolic protest seeking to draw the attention of the government. Representatives from the community from neighbouring districts and Bengaluru also had joined the protest, he said. In the coming days, the Madiwalas will organise similar dharnas at taluk levels. In Mysuru district, such demonstrations will be held at all taluk headquarters, Mr. Prashant said. The committee is also chalking out a programme to take out a padyatra to Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru and the date will be finalised shortly. The agitation was preceded by a meeting of the community leaders about three weeks ago in Mysuru under the leadership of Madiwala Gurupeetha seer Basava Machideva Swami from Chitradurga. Mr. Prashant claimed that Madiwalas were already part of Scheduled Castes in 18 States. However in Karnataka, the community figures in the 2A category along with over 100 other castes, which has deprived them of reservation benefits. Though a study, commissioned by the State government and carried out by Annapoorneshwari of University of Mysore, had submitted a report favouring their inclusion in SCs list in 2007-08, the government was yet to forward the recommendation to the Centre. According to Mr. Prashant, a study in 2007 revealed that the community comprised about 9 lakh members in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madiwala-community-seeks-inclusion-in-list-of-scs/article34079413.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Anti-party protest: Notices served on Tanveer Sait’s aides||The Mysuru City Congress Committee has served notices to eight supporters of Tanveer Sait, former Minister and MLA, seeking an explanation for their reported participation in an anti-party protest held in the backdrop of the Mayoral polls in Mysuru last month. The show-cause notices issued by Mysuru City Congress Committee refer to their alleged participation in an anti-party protest held in front of Mr Sait’s residence on February 26, where party workers shouted slogans against the party, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah, and former Assembly Speake Ramesh Kumar. The notices have sought an explanation from Mr Sait’s aides within seven days why action should not be taken against them for participating in anti-party activities that had affected the prestige of the party. Mysuru City Congress Committee president R. Murthy told The Hindu that the notices had been issued following directions from the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). The notices had been served to eight persons including president of party’s Azeez Sait Block Abdul Khader Shahid, KPCC member P. Raju, secretary of Azeez Sait Block M.N. Lokesh, vice-president of party’s District Congress Committee Anwar Pasha, member of party’s Mohammed Sait block Mohammed Irfan, treasurer of Sowcar Channaiah Block Congress Shahenshah, and executive committee member of Sowcar Channaiah Block Congress Habeeb. The notice said that their participation in the anti-party protests had appeared in the media and social media platforms. Two days after the Congress aligned with the JD(S) during the Mayoral polls in Mysuru by ceding the post of Mayor, trouble erupted in the party in Mysuru with Mr. Siddaramaiah taking serious exception to Mr Sait’s unilateral decision. Though Mr. Siddaramaiah, who also hails from Mysuru, had approved a tie-up with the JD(S) only on the condition that the Mayor’s post comes to the Congress, Mr. Sait’s decision to accept the Deputy Mayor’s post to keep the BJP out of power did go down well. As soon as it emerged that Mr. Sait had been summoned by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar to Bengaluru to be served with a notice, Mr. Sait’s supporters gathered at his house and started shouting slogans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-party-protest-notices-served-on-tanveer-saits-aides/article34079414.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||14 couples tie the knot atop Chamundi Hills||A total of 14 couples entered wedlock at a mass marriage ceremony atop Chamundi Hills in Mysuru organised by the Department of Muzrai on Monday. This was the first in a series to be organised every month under the Saptapadi Vivaha scheme of the government. The couples, who had registered, tied the knot in the presence of their parents and relatives before they were blessed by G.T. Deve Gowda, former Minister and MLA, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, and chief priest of Chamundeshwari Temple Shashishekar Dixit. Each bride was given a mangalsutra with 8 grams in gold and Rs. 10,000 while each bridegroom was given Rs. 5,000. Ms. Sindhuri said the programme was conceived over eight months ago, but got delayed due to COVID-19. The ceremony was, however, being held close on the heels of fresh guidelines issued by the State government amid a surge in the infections. The new guidelines restrict the gathering at marriages to 500 and the same will be strictly enforced from Tuesday, she warned, while appealing to the public to continue wearing masks and maintain social distance. She also appealed to the people aged above 60 and those aged above 45 having comorbidities to get vaccinated. Mr. Dixit said such programmes will be held every month in different temples, with the next one to be held at Nanjangud. It will also be held at the temples in Talkad and Mudukuthore in the coming months. Mr. Gowda called upon the youth to make use of the opportunity by the government to marry at such programmes. Instead of taking huge loans for organising lavish marriages, families should make use of the simple mass marriage programme, he said. Mr. Gowda claimed that his son tied the knot at such a mass marriage and that he had also arranged several mass marriage programmes in Hunsur for the poor families. He also called upon the newlyweds to stay together and face challenges by remaining united. He also asked them to respect their parents and their in-laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-couples-tie-the-knot-atop-chamundi-hills/article34079411.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||DC: Beware of those using fake COVID-19 certificates||Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Monday told health officials to alert the local police if they come across anybody trying to enter Kodagu using a fake COVID-19 negative report. With the spike in cases in Kerala, Kodagu has been put on alert with several checkposts set up on the border. In view of tough measures taken for controlling the spread of the infection from the neighbouring State, the Deputy Commissioner, at a meeting in Madikeri, told health officials to be cautious and inform the police if false negative reports are produced to gain entry into the district. If people fail to cooperate, cases can be booked under the Disaster Management Act, she said, asking the staff to tighten screening at the checkposts on the border. Ms. Somal gave directions for stepping up screening at tourist destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-beware-of-those-using-fake-covid-19-certificates/article34079409.ece
16 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MNGT gets new waste treatment facility||A new solid-waste management facility created at the Mysore New Goods Terminal (MNGT) was inaugurated here on Monday. The new facility is a measure to comply with the requirements of the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as per which the bulk generators should have their own segregation and treatment facility. 2 tonnes capacity The new facility has a capacity to treat 2 tonnes of solid waste per day and was commissioned by Ajay Kumar Singh, General Manager, South Western Railway. He said that being a bulk waste generator, Railways is obliged to create its own waste collection and processing facilities as per Solid Waste Management Rules. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru Division said the solid waste management facility covers 3,140 square metres. The facility has waste dumping area for collection, segregation area, and 18 compost pits to treat the wet waste into compost. The authorities said the biodegradable waste is converted into compost and the recyclable waste/plastic/e-waste is handed over to the Karnataka State Pollution control Board (KSPCB approved recyclers. The untreated non-biodegradable waste is sent to landfills as per Solid Waste Management rules. A contract has been awarded to carry out solid waste management activities at MNGT at a cost of Rs. 4.5 lakh per month for one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mngt-gets-new-waste-treatment-facility/article34079415.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||After a break, Compost Santhe is back||Like most other popular events, following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the popular ‘Compost Santhe’ had been suspended. It is only recently that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) started holding these santhes to promote composting, terrace gardening and decentralised composting. On Sunday, a ‘Compost Santhe’ was held at 5th Block, Sir M. Visvesvaraya Layout, under Ullal ward. Over 25 organisations providing solid waste management solutions had set up stalls during the Santhe where street plays were staged to create awareness among citizens on the importance of segregation at source. Create awareness These santhes are in line with the Karnataka government’s vision for the city, pointed out D. Randeep, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (SWM). He said that under Bengaluru Mission 2022, one of the main activities planned is encouraging in-house and decentralised processing of wet waste through local buy-back centres for compost. Towards creating awareness, under ‘Namma Kasa Namma Javabdari’ (our waste, our responsibility), it had been envisaged to set up Kalika Kendras (learning centres) in each zone. These are modelled after the Swachagraha Kalika Kendra in H.S.R. Layout. They would be responsible for IEC (information, education and communication) to the local communities on composting and zero waste homes. ‘Need suitable land’ Mr. Randeep said that setting up these learning centres may take longer than initially anticipated. “The zones have to take the initiative to identify suitable land for the centres. We will then float tenders and invite service providers to install models of their technology and solutions,” he said. The BBMP, meanwhile, was focusing on having various citizens’ outreach programmes every Sunday. “Though the segregation levels are seeing an improvement, we still have a long way to go to reduce dependence on landfills,” he said and added that wards where the new garbage tenders were in place had better segregation levels than the others. The civic body was initiating citizen participation programmes through training of SWM trainers and Shuchi Mitras (citizen volunteers) for effective micro and macro waste management planning and implementation. The official said that the BBMP, in association with Solid Waste Management Round Table, a citizens’ group, had identified citizen volunteers in around 120 wards in the city. “We will be issuing a notification to identify volunteers in the other wards,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-a-break-compost-santhe-is-back/article34079142.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Many toll plazas violating distance rule’||Opposition members in the Legislative Assembly on Monday urged the State government to remove toll plazas on State Highways, which are “unscientifically” established by violating distance rules. During Question Hour, senior Congress member G. Parameshwara said in his Koratagere constituency, toll plazas were set up at a distance of 21 km instead of 60 km as per regulations prescribed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). “Why are authorities allowed to charge toll when vehicle owners pay road taxes... This double taxation should end,” he said. Other members, including Raghavendra Hitnal of the Congress and Venkatarao Nadagouda (JD(S), Sindhanur) highlighted similar problems at toll plazas in their constituencies. They said two toll plazas were established at a distance of 7 km in their constituencies and urged the government to remove them. K. Srinivasa Murthy of the JD(S) said there were four toll plazas in a distance of 8 km in his constituency Nelamangala. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said many toll plazas were irrational. As per regulations, the distance between toll plazas should not be less than 60 km. However, many were found within short distances, he said. Meeting with NHAI PWD Minister and Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol said he would hold discussions with NHAI and take action to remove toll plazas established “unscientifically”. However, he said toll on the newly-developed roads were collected to recover the cost incurred for developing roads by borrowing from the World Bank and other agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-toll-plazas-violating-distance-rule/article34079170.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru International Film Festival postponed indefinitely||Citing a surge in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the Karnataka government decided to postpone the 13th edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) indefinitely. An order in this regard was issued on Monday. Prior to the government order, a core committee, headed by Principal Secretary of Information and Public Relations Department, held a meeting in which all the stakeholders unanimously agreed to postpone the event. In February, the Chief Minister had unveiled the logo of this year’s edition of the film festival and it was decided to conduct the event from March 24 to March 31. However, the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases forced the organisers to seek an opinion from the Health and Family Welfare Department on conducting the event. The department, in its response, said that the situation is not conducive to holding the event and if at all there is a need to conduct the event, strict guidelines should be put in place by allowing not more than 500 people. The film festival, being an international event, attracts thousands of people, making it difficult to follow the guidelines. It was estimated that more than 12,000 people, including some from abroad, would participate. Suneel Puranik, chairperson of the Karnataka Film Academy (KFA), in a press release, said that the next schedule of the event will be decided after consulting experts. “A large number of people were expected to take part in the event. In the wake of an increase in COVID-19 cases, a unanimous decision was taken to postpone the event,” a release from the KFA states. BiFFes is usually held earlier in the year. In 2020, it began on February 27. This year, the popular event was delayed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Films were to be screened in 11 screens at PVR in Orion Mall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-international-film-festival-postponed-indefinitely/article34079148.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bedlam in Council over questions||Congress members continuing to refuse asking questions to six Ministers, who went to court seeking restraint on airing of content in CDs that they said had been fabricated, led to an uproar in the Legislative Council with both treasury and Opposition Benches sparring. It all started when Congress Chief Whip M. Narayanaswamy refused to ask a question to Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. He asked if the Ministers had done no wrong and if so, why had they gone to court. The Congress has decided not to ask any questions to these Ministers, he said. This sparked angry reactions from the treasury Benches, including Mr. Sudhakar, Shivaram A. Hebbar, K.C. Narayan Gowda, and B.C. Patil, all of whom have approached the court. They pointed out that the Opposition cannot ask why they approached the court. Chairman Basavaraj Horatti intervened in the verbal duel and reminded Mr. Gowda that he was not a mere member to raise his voice, but a Minister, who has to maintain decorum in the house. However, the trading of charges continued from both sides, and the house drowned in a din. While the Ministers said the Opposition was raising the issue again and again, they also said that Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were also on bail, drawing angry reactions from the Congress. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil said that since the two leaders were not the members of the House, it was not proper to take their names. Mr. Horatti ruled it was the right of the member whether to ask a question or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bedlam-in-council-over-questions/article34079177.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Food delivery executive files plaint against customer||The food delivery executive accused of assaulting a customer has filed a counter-complaint accusing her of beating him with a slipper, and abusing and threatening him. Based on the complaint by Kamaraj, the police registered an FIR against Hitesha Chandranee on Monday charging her under Sections 341 (wrongful restrain), 355 (assault or use force to dishonour person), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Kamaraj, in his complaint, told the police that Hitesha was enraged over the delay in delivery of her order. She allegedly started hitting him with slippers. At some point, he resisted. In the melee, his left hand touched her right hand and her ring hit her nose, resulting in bleeding, he alleged,. He added that he is the only breadwinner in the family, taking care of his ailing mother. He had been working in Zomato for the past two years. He had earned appreciation and good ratings for his prompt work. Hitesha, a make-up artist, had posted a video online describing the alleged attack, which occurred on March 9. She filed a complaint with the police, who arrested Kamaraj. After questioning him, they released him on station bail. She claimed to have ordered food around 3.30 p.m. and delivery was expected within an hour. When the food did not arrive, she called the firm’s customer care number to lodge a complaint seeking a free delivery or cancellation of the order. She was on the phone when Kamaraj reached her house. An altercation broke out. She alleged that the delivery partner pushed the door open, barged into the house, placed the food on her table, punched her in the face and ran out. After the video went viral on social media, the company apologised and said it had delisted the delivery partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-delivery-executive-files-plaint-against-customer/article34079147.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Muslim delegation files complaint||Moulana Sageer Ahmed Rashadi, a religious head of the Muslim community in Karnataka, along with eight other scholars of Islamic organisations, met Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Monday and filed a complaint against Syed Waseem Rizvi for ‘deliberate and malicious intent to outrage the religious feelings of the Muslim community’. Shia leader Rizvi's move to approach the Supreme Court to seek removal of 26 verses of the Quran has caused a stir in the community. The petition submitted by the delegation stated that it was a “malicious act to promote enmity between different religions in general and within the Muslim community in particular, and projecting the followers of Islam as promoters of terrorism and violence in a deliberate and malicious act intended to outrage the religious feelings of the Muslim community”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslim-delegation-files-complaint/article34079144.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for phone theft||The Jalahalli police arrested a 29-year-old flower decorator on Saturday and seized 38 mobile phones worth Rs. 4.5 lakh from him. The accused Ravi M., a resident of Basaveshwaranagar, was arrested while moving around suspiciously near an electronics shop, the police said. He worked as an office boy for a few months before quitting to join a flower decoration firm. He lost his job during the lockdown. While looking for jobs, he stopped at a playground to watch a game. He noticed people visiting the ground keeping their mobile phones aside before going to play. He would dress up in a track suit and move around playgrounds to steal phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-phone-theft/article34079146.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||3 members of ISIS module arrested||National Investigation Agency (NIA), along with the local police, simultaneously searched 11 locations, including two in Bengaluru, in a case pertaining to alleged terrorist activities of a group led by Mohammed Ameen alias Abu Yahya from Kerala for his ISIS link. Three persons, who were allegedly part of the ring, were arrested on Monday. They are Mohammed Ameen alias Abu Yahaya, Mushab Anuvar and Dr. Rahees Rashid. Ameen was leading the module, according to a release. According to officials, the group has been running various ISIS propaganda channels on different social media platforms, and radicalising and recruiting new members. The NIA had registered the case against seven known and unknown persons under various sections of the IPC and Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act on March 5. The probe revealed that the group had identified individuals in Kerala and Karnataka for killing. Ameen had travelled to J&K after his return to India from Bahrain in March 2020. For the last two months, he had been camping in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-members-of-isis-module-arrested/article34079145.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Protests in the city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-in-the-city/article34079150.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rowdy held||The Deputy Commissioner of Police, East division cancelled the bail of a 25-year-old habitual offender for allegedly violating the bond and undertaking given to the police to maintain peace. The accused Zabiulla was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. He was directed to pay an amount of Rs. 1 lakh for breaching the bond. This is the first ever arrest for violating personal bond and undertaking. According to the police, Zabiulla was arrested by the D.J. Halli police under preventive detention last August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-held/article34079154.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New touch to old signal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-touch-to-old-signal/article34079160.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||400 water pots to quench thirst of animals||With the onset of summer, animal lovers and activists have launched an initiative to quench the thirst of birds and animals in the city. Named Water for Voiceless, the group distributed over 400 water pots free of cost on Sunday. According to Nandu Jain, founder-member, the organisation began distributing water pots around five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/400-water-pots-to-quench-thirst-of-animals/article34079165.ece
16 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘Lokame Tharavadu’ put off to April||Lokame Tharavadu, an art exhibition organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation (KBF), which was scheduled to begin here on Monday, has been postponed. The event was postponed after district authorities did not grant permission citing COVID-19 guidelines. Collector’s order “The KBF has decided to reschedule the inauguration following the District Collector’s directive to avoid gatherings in public places. We are thinking of organising it in the second week of April,” said, Bose Krishnamachari, president of KBF. He said that even as the formal launch of the exhibition had been rescheduled, production functions of the exhibition would continue unabated. “Artworks continue to arrive from across Kerala, other Indian States, and from overseas, as do artists, some of whom are creating bespoke site-specific works, especially for this show,” he said. Curated by Mr. Krishnamachari, the exhibition would feature artworks of around 270 Malayali artists from India and abroad, making it one of the largest art exhibitions ever to involve Malayali artists on a global scale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lokame-tharavadu-put-off-to-april/article34079403.ece
16 March 2021||Coimbatore,KERALA||Elephant hit by train on T.N.-Kerala border||A male elephant walking along a railway track was seriously injured when an express train hit it near Pudupathi under the Madukkarai forest range here on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala borer on Monday, railway sources said. The elephant, about 20 years old, was hit by the Thiruvananthapuram-Chennai Express from behind around 1.30 a.m., despite the train driver applying brakes on noticing it, they said. Railway personnel, alerted by the driver, and some local people, rushed to the scene and informed the Forest Department. First aid given Two veterinarians who examined the elephant said it had injuries in the front leg, abdomen and rear part. The elephant is lying on one side after falling under the impact of the collision. It was given first aid, they said. A crane has been requisitioned to lift the elephant and assess injuries on the other side following which the further course of action would be taken. It is suspected the elephant could have come to the area after taking bath and drinking water in Walayar river.  Local people said despite a warning board in the area, particularly on the Walayar-Ettimadai railway section, to go slowly in view of elephant crossings, especially in the early hours, train drivers sometimes do not slow down, leading to such accidents. Nearly 30 elephants have been killed in such incidents in the last 20 years, six in 2019 within a period of 20 days in and around Madukkarai area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-hit-by-train-on-tn-kerala-border/article34079405.ece
16 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Chennithala alleges nexus by LDF, BJP||Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has been trying to pave the way for the BJP to come to power in the State by fielding weak candidates in key constituencies. Speaking after inaugurating the Assembly constituency convention at Sulthan Bathery on Monday, Mr. Ramesh said that the move also targeted spoiling the prospects of the Congress party. “While the CPI(M) had fielded its senior leader V.S. Achuthanandan in Malampuzha in the 2016 Assembly polls, now the party has not fielded any prominent leader in the segment for the forthcoming polls”, Mr. Chennithala said, adding that the situation in Manjeswaram was no different. “Such a move reveals the nexus between the two parties in the forthcoming polls”, he said. In contrast, the UDF had announced the candidature of the senior Congress leader K. Muraleedharan in Nemom to defeat the BJP, he said. “The farming community in the State, especially in Wayanad and Idukki districts, is in a crisis after the declining prices of agriculture produce in the market, but the LDF government has failed to address the issue”, Mr. Chennithala said. Though the government had announced special packages for the coffee farmers in Wayanad and Idukki districts, it had failed to allocate any funds for the purpose, he said. Mr. Chennithala also inaugurated the constituency conventions at Mananthavady and Kalpetta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-alleges-nexus-by-ldf-bjp/article34079304.ece
16 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Multi-storey building tilts after truck rams pillars||A multi-storey building tilted to a side down after a cement-laden truck rammed its pillars on a hill slope at Vellaramkunnu here in the wee hours of Monday. Gautham, 69, of Nallalam in Kozhikode, the driver of the vehicle, suffered injuries and was admitted to a private hospital here. The incident occurred around 4 a.m. when the driver lost control of the truck while negotiating a sharp bend on the Kozhikode-Kollegal National Highway 766, the Kalpetta police said. The demolition work of the structure began in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/multi-storey-building-tilts-after-truck-rams-pillars/article34079306.ece
16 March 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||CPI(M) candidate files papers||M.S. Viswanathan, CPI(M) candidate for the Sulthan Bathery Assembly segment, submitted his nomination papers to District Collector Adeela Abdulla, who is also the District Electoral Officer, on Monday. Left Democratic Front leaders, including former MLA C.K. Saseendran and Sulthan Bathery municipal chairman T.K. Remesan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-candidate-files-papers/article34079309.ece
16 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tribesman declines BJP ticket||C. Manikandan, alias Manikkuttan, the candidate chosen by the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) for the Scheduled Tribe reserved Mananthavady Assembly segment, has refused to contest the election. Speaking to mediapersons at Mananthavady after the central committee of the party announced his candidature, Mr. Manikandan, the first MBA graduate from the Paniya tribe, the largest tribal sect in the State, said he did not yet wish to represent a political party. He said he had no clue about his candidature till he heard the news. “I am happy that the BJP chose me, but I am not interested in party politics,” he said. Mr. Manikandan, 31, is a teaching assistant at Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at Pookode in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribesman-declines-bjp-ticket/article34079395.ece
16 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Janu to contest from Sulthan Bathery||Tribal leader and chairperson of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Sabha C.K. Janu will contest as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate from Sulthan Bathery in the forthcoming Assembly polls . Pradeep Kunnukara, secretary of the party, announced the candidature of Ms. Janu here on Monday. Speaking to mediapersons later, Ms. Janu said she would strive to address the issues faced by tribespeople. Ms. Janu said rumours of her joining the Left Democratic Front were not true, but preliminary discussions in this regard were held. Ms. Janu, who is also the chairperson of the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha, said she was confident about victory in the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/janu-to-contest-from-sulthan-bathery/article34079396.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation told to explain violations at Brahmapuram||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) will issue show-cause notice to the Kochi Corporation asking it to explain the steps taken to address the violations detected at the Brahmapuarm waste dumping yard. The notice will be served based on the board’s findings gathered during the inspection held at the yard on March 3. Fire outbreaks The Corporation will be told to elaborate on the continuing incidents of fire outbreaks at the site, where heaps of waste have been lying idle for long. The local body had failed to contain the repeated fires that resulted in air pollution, besides triggering the possibility of causing harm to the public, said senior Board officials. A major fire occurred at the yard on March 5. The Chairman of the Board has asked the Ernakulam regional office to issue the notice to the Corporation Secretary, highlighting the violations found at the yard. Dioxin levels The Board recalled that the average dioxin levels observed in the ambient air following a major fire breakout in February 2019 were 50 and 10 times higher than the reference and field blank data respectively. The civic body has not yet implemented the recommendations made by the National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) that stated it was essential to set up modern solid waste treatment plants and clear dumping yards of waste by biomining to separate combustible and inert material. Food samples The contaminated ash separated during biomining should be moved to a sanitary landfill. Given the widespread burning of waste and dumping yard fires, analysis of dioxins in animal origin food samples such as milk, egg, meat and in human milk was recommended, said the report filed by the NIIST. The board found that no action was taken to install proper effluent treatment facilities at the site. The temporary plant provided was found to be non-functional. Septage treatment The claim made by the Corporation authorities that they were properly treating the leachate from the windrow sheds at a nearby common septage treatment facility was false. The septage treatment facility was not functioning properly. It was suspected that they were discharging untreated or partially treated sewage and effluents to a marshy area located 50 metres from the setpage plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-told-to-explain-violations-at-brahmapuram/article34079654.ece
16 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Seafood exporters seek steps to tide over crisis||From rising diesel price to shrinking supply of local raw materials for processing are hurting the seafood export industry in Kerala, which directly and indirectly employs thousands of people and earn around Rs. 6,500 crore annually in exports. Another round of elections to the State assembly is an opportunity to think of the negative and positive developments in the past that have affected the industry, the fortunes of which depend largely on wild catch now as well as imports from neighbouring States. The industry suffered major setbacks in the pandemic year during which operations virtually came to a standstill, fishing harbours closed and movement of workers was banned. The labour strike at the Colombo port as well as scarcity of containers in the later half of 2020 further affected the fortunes of the seafood export industry. Shifting operations The COVID-19 lockdown last March and subsequent restrictions saw fishing operations being curtailed extensively till the middle of August last year. The shortage of raw materials forced some processors in Kerala to shift their operations to Andhra Pradesh centres. The industry now wants the government coming to power to help it tide over problems like the high price of diesel, which has made fishing expeditions too costly. This is a major problem facing the industry now, said Alex Ninan of Seafood Exporters' Association, Kerala. He said the cost of diesel affected fishing activities and considerably reduced the availability of raw materials. Aquaculture He also said the State government should look into the possibility of exploiting the thousands of hectares of water space available for aquaculture. A rough estimate is that around 60,000 hectares are available and if the area can be utilised, it will give a big boost to raw material availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seafood-exporters-seek-steps-to-tide-over-crisis/article34079488.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||In Ernakulam, both fronts have a point to prove||When he began formally campaigning on Sunday, T.J. Vinod, the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in Ernakulam constituency, may have struggled to shrug away memories of a rainy day in 2019. Two years ago, on a day when it rained heavily and a majority of voters chose to stay indoors, the voter turnout in Ernakulam dropped to an all-time low of 56%. The results were a shock to the UDF as Mr. Vinod managed to get past his nearest rival by a margin of just 3,673 votes, the lowest winning margin for a Congress candidate from the UDF stronghold. Despair gripped the Left Democratic Front (LDF) camp as they lost the seat between the cup and the lip. This time, Mr. Vinod has a point to prove. He needs to impress his political rivals as well as his detractors in the party with a convincing margin to prove that the lacklustre win of 2019 was just one freak political incident, influenced by bad weather. Meanwhile, the LDF has fielded publisher Shaji George, a former vice president of the Kerala Regional Latin Catholic Council, hoping to wrest the seat from the Congress. The onerous task of improving the show awaits Mr. George, a well-known face in the constituency. Mr. George has the early bird advantage as the LDF announced his candidature last week and he was quick to begin door-to-door campaign. His campaign was inaugurated by Finance Minister and CPI(M) central committee member T.M. Thomas Isaac. Though Mr. Vinod had been busy with the groundwork for weeks, he formally launched his campaign on Sunday after the party released the list of candidates from New Delhi. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Padmaja S. Menon, the State secretary of Mahila Morcha, to contest from Ernakulam. This is the debut contest of Ms. Menon to the Assembly though she had tested her political fortunes by contesting the civic polls. Electoral history favours the UDF in the constituency as the LDF has succeeded only twice — first in 1987 and then in 1998 — to get its nominees elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-ernakulam-both-fronts-have-a-point-to-prove/article34079651.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MEMU trains resume service||Bringing respite to inter-district commuters and office goers, a pair of MEMU train services which link Ernakulam with Shoranur and Alappuzha respectively resumed service on Monday, almost a year after halting trips due to the pandemic. With UTS and other mobile-phone-based services yet to be restored, the Railway has opened UTS counters in stations where the trains have stops so that those wanting to travel on general tickets and season tickets could buy them. The MEMU trains are being operated as express trains, having limited number of stops, Railway sources said. Passengers of Guruvayur-Punalur Express unreserved train, which is slated to resume service from March 17, too can avail of this facility. Passengers in all other trains must reserve tickets before travelling. Five MEMU trains which had been withdrawn from service, will resume trips from Tuesday as special long-distance trains. Almost 60% of long-distance trains in the Thiruvananthapuram division have been restored. More trains will operate if need be, based on demand and the reservation pattern. Stops will also be restored in a phased manner. Meanwhile, passenger associations have demanded rescheduling of the Shoranur-Ernakulam MEMU service. As per the current timing, the train leaves Shoranur at 3.30 a.m., reaches Thrissur at 4.13 a.m. and Ernakulam at 6.50 a.m. “Regular commuters do not benefit from the service. The return timing is reasonable, since it leaves Ernakulam at 5.35 p.m.,” the Thrissur Railway Passengers’ Association said. Railway sources said that the Southern Railway headquarters had been apprised of the issue. But changes were unlikely in the short term since the coach links had been finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memu-trains-resume-service/article34079649.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IUML workers protest against decision to field Abdul Gafoor||A group of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) workers gathered in Kalamassery on Monday to register their protest against the party State leadership’s decision to field V.E. Abdul Gafoor for the upcoming Assembly elections from the constituency as the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate. A senior party leader said that around 500 IUML workers gathered on Monday morning to express their dissatisfaction against the State leadership’s decision. Though initial reports said that a protest rally was conducted, the IUML leader said there was no rally, in keeping with the party discipline. Mr. Gafoor is the son of V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, the sitting MLA. Mr. Kunju is one of the key accused in the corruption case related to the construction of the Palarivattom flyover. Senior party leader Ahmed Kabeer had, on Sunday, expressed willingness to contest from Kalamassery if the party leadership permitted. The Left Democratic Front is looking for a chance to wrest the seat from the UDF, which had comfortably won both the 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections. Mr. Kunju had won on both occasions, defeating CPI(M) stalwarts. However, the results of the recent local body elections have given new impetus to the campaign by P. Rajeev, the LDF candidate from Kalamassery. Mr. Rajeev, former Rajya Sabha member and former CPI(M)district secretary, is at present a party secretariat member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-workers-protest-against-decision-to-field-abdul-gafoor/article34079656.ece
16 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Adhidhi turns entrepreneur with CMFRI aid||Adhidhi Achyuth is delighted to be part of India’s fisheries sector to start an entrepreneurial initiative.  A transgender person who wanted to earn a regular income, Adhidhi opened a modernised fish vending stall at the Vennala market in the city on Monday, with the support of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). A communication from the institute claimed that Adhidhi was the first transgender entrepreneur in the country’s fisheries sector. The 36-year-old Adhidhi decided to become an entrepreneur after undergoing difficult and unpleasant experiences in securing a job. Adhidhi’s dream to be employed was realised with the CMFRI offering a modernised fish vending stall with the facility to sell live fish too. Under the Central government scheme of Scheduled Caste Sub Plan, the CMFRI spent around Rs. 5 lakh to set up the fish stall that has a deep freezer, fish display table with cooler, billing machine, weighing balance and other facilities for cutting and cleaning fish, along with the facility for maintaining fish in live and fresh conditions. Live fishes farmed in cage fish farms and biofloc units and captured marine fishes will be available at the stall, which was inaugurated by actors Harisree Ashokan and Molly Kannamaly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adhidhi-turns-entrepreneur-with-cmfri-aid/article34079653.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fresher at Maharaja’s College alleges ragging||A first-year undergraduate student of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, has lodged a complaint before the authorities alleging ragging by eight other students at the college hostel. The student alleged that he was physically assaulted after being locked up in a room by the students affiliated to the Students Federation of India. Mathew George, Principal, said on Monday that the complaint was forwarded to the Ernakulam Central Police station and the institution’s anti-ragging committee. The authorities said that a girl student had lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against the student, who had allegedly faced ragging. This complaint was also forwarded to the police and the anti-sexual harassment committee on the campus. Mr. George said that the committees will submit its report immediately and necessary follow-up action will be taken against those involved in the incidents. The Principal said that the first-year students had turned up at the campus despite clear directives that the offline classes will start only from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresher-at-maharajas-college-alleges-ragging/article34079657.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat, ICSI sign deal for academic collaboration||The Institute of Company Secretaries of India has signed a memorandum of understanding with the Cochin University of Science and Technology for academic collaboration in which three top students from the School of Legal Studies of the University will be bestowed with the ICSI Signature Gold Award to enable them to pursue a course offered by the institute free of cost. The MoU also enables the exchange of faculty members between the university and ICSI and enable them to attend national and international seminars organised under the aegis of both the institutions, said C.S. Nagendra D. Rao, president of the institute, here at a press conference. ICSI students will have the opportunity also to utilise the Cusat library. The ICSI has a total of 135 study centres in Kerala. There are five chapters across the State and five exam centres. There are also 354 members in Kochi. Across the State, the membership is 834, he said. MoUs with IIMs The institute has signed MoUs with several Indian Institutes of Management and is will soon sign an MoU with IIM, Kozhikode. The ICSI president said that academic collaboration with renowned universities in the country and abroad and other institutions had been one of the important missions pursued by the institute as part of offering diversified opportunities for students. Mr. Rao said an MoU had been signed with the Science Olympiad Foundation for conducting International Commerce Olympiad. The ICSI has developed digital, online and offline programmes and courses to enhance the professional competence and the personal well-being of practising students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-icsi-pact-for-academic-collaboration/article34079379.ece
16 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||632 recoveries, 119 new cases in district||Ernakulam recorded 119 new COVID-19 cases and 632 recoveries on Monday. The source of infection could not be traced in four cases. No new cases were reported among health workers. Eight people tested positive from Keezhmad, and five each from Edappally, Ernakulam North, Thrikkakara, and Vennala. Ernakulam South, Puthenvelikkara, and Fort Kochi saw four new cases each. Active cases A total of 12,779 people remain in quarantine, while 3,472 people are recovering from the infection. As many as 2,922 people are recuperating at home. A total of 4,926 samples were collected for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/632-recoveries-119-new-cases-in-district/article34079648.ece
16 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Prison Superintendent told to appear before HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Superintendent, Central Prison and Correctional Home, Thiruvananthapuram, to appear in person on March 16 for his failure to furnish a proper report on the health condition of a convict. The court issued the directive on a petition filed by Sasindran of Vamanapuram, a convict in a case relating to atrocities and sexual violence against women and children. He sought to suspend his sentence and release him on bail for three months on health ground. The court had directed the Superintendent to take the convict to Government Model Hospital, Peroorkada, and get him examined by the Superintendent of that hospital or any medical officer authorised by him and produce a medical report. The Public Prosecutor on Monday furnished a letter from the Superintendent along with a medical report. The court observed that the medical report, however, did not indicate anything except advice on consulting a urologist, taking USG abdomen, chest X-ray, and so on. The court issued the directive, dissatisfied with the manner in which the Superintendent had dealt with the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prison-superintendent-told-to-appear-before-hc/article34079480.ece
16 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||EMCC chief may contest in Kundara||Shiju Varghese, a Keralite heading EMCC International (India) Private Ltd., a U.S.-based MNC, is likely to contest as an Independent candidate from Kundara. Reportedly, he plans to convince the voters of Kundara how Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, the Left Democratic Front candidate there, deceived him in a deep-sea trawling project. Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala’s allegation about the LDF government signing a contract with EMCC had triggered a controversy. According to Mr. Chennithala, the Fisheries Minister had discussed the project with the company representatives in New York, which was later confirmed by the company. Minister’s denial But the Fisheries Minister had rubbished the allegations, insisting that her New York visit was to present the Edam housing project, her constituency development initiative in Kundara, at the United Nations headquarters in New York.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emcc-chief-may-contest-in-kundara/article34079387.ece
16 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||It’s a historic battle in Vaikom||As the storm triggered by the denial of party ticket to a woman Congress leader in Ettumanur continues to engulf the State’s political landscape, Vaikom, its neighbouring constituency, has set the stage for a rare battle between three women candidates. The Left Democratic Front (LDF), which currently holds the seat, has fielded sitting legislator and Communist Party of India leader C.K. Asha. She will be battling it out with P.R. Sona, Congress leader and former chairperson of the Kottayam municipality, and Ajitha Sabu, former president of the Kottayam district panchayat, who has joined the race as a candidate of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). With three women in the fray, the constituency is now set to witness a one of its kind battle in the election history of the State. But despite all candidates being women, issues faced by women do not feature prominently in the poll plank of the three coalitions. Instead, the campaigns revolve around the conventional subjects of development, inland fishery, tourism and farming, among others. “This is just because the parties here are using women as part of a convenient strategy to win the election and not as part of the principle of gender inclusion,” pointed out Kochurani Abraham, a feminist theologian. According to her, the political parties in Kerala are not trusting women enough, which in turn, make them to swim so hard against the current to become a leader. To back the point, she also pointed to an instance in which Akkamma Cherian, freedom fighter and leader of the State Congress, had to contest the election independently after being denied a party ticket in the Parliament election. “It has been almost seven decades but the picture of gender politics has not changed much. The parties have miserably failed to bring women into political space in Kerala,” she added. Vaikom, venue of the historic satyagraha for temple entry, has remained a reserved constituency since 1977. Of the 10 local bodies in the segment, seven panchayats are currently under the LDF rule while the remaining local bodies including the Vaikom municipality are governed by the United Democratic Front. Bharatiya Janata Party and the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena, two constituents of the NDA, too command a significant presence across the region. The constituency, first represented by K.R. Narayanan during the Assembly elections in 1957, leaned towards the Left three years later with P.S. Sreenivasan of the CPI winning it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-a-historic-battle-in-vaikom/article34079376.ece
16 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani, Kappan, George file nomination||Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] chairperson Jose K. Mani, Nationalist Congress Kerala leader Mani C. Kappan and Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) leader P.C. George were among those who submitted their nomination papers on Monday for the Assembly elections on April 6. Mr. Mani, accompanied by Pala municipal chairman Anto Jose Padinjarekkara and senior leaders of the Left Democratic Front, submitted the papers before Shymon Joseph, Block Development Officer in Llalam for the Pala constituency. Braving the scorching heat, several party workers had gathered in front of the block panchayat office to greet the KC(M) leader. Prior to filing the nomination, Mr. Mani offered prayers at the cemetery of KC(M) founder and his father K.M. Mani at the St. Thomas Cathedral Church, Pala. Mani C. Kappan, the sitting MLA in Pala who is contesting against Mr. Mani, submitted his papers at the same office by 11.50 a.m. He was accompanied by United Democratic Front committee chairman Satheesh Chellani and Roy Mathew Elipulikkattil. Poonjar MLA P.C. George submitted his papers before Vishnu Mohandev, Block Development Officer in Erattupetta. Mr. George was accompanied by party leaders, including his son Shaun George. In the Kottayam constituency, Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate K. Anil Kumar submitted his nominations to the Assistant Returning Officer at the District Paddy Office. Three in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta district, three candidates, including two sitting legislators, filed their papers for the election on the day. They are K.U. Janeesh Kumar, MLA, of the CPI(M); Aranmula legislator Veena George, also of the CPI(M); and K.K. Surendran, Independent candidate in Thiruvalla. In Alappuzha P.P. Chitharanjan and Saji Cherian, Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidates in the Alappuzha and Chengannur Assembly constituencies respectively, filed their nomination papers on the day. So far, four persons have submitted their papers in the district. The other two are Myna K. Gopinath of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) (Kayamkulam) and Vinu Kumar S. of Democratic Social Justice Party (Kuttanad).  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-kappan-george-file-nomination/article34079373.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Special project sought for Malabar’s development||A meeting of various organisations in north Kerala convened under the aegis of the Malabar Development Council in Kozhikode on Sunday demanded equal development opportunities for northern districts and has put forth 12 demands which they want to be included in election manifestos of political parties. A special project for the comprehensive development of Malabar has been sought. The stakeholders have specifically asked for the development of the Gwalior Rayons land in Mavoor. A film city or any-pollution free industry has been mooted. The development of Calicut International Airport is the another major demand. The government has been asked to facilitate it by acquiring land for the purpose immediately. The meeting has also proposed a Secretariat or a High Court Bench in north Kerala. The government should exclude cycles from GST, to encourage cycling. Cycle paths have been mooted on all new roads. To avoid traffic congestion, widening of roads and bridges besides construction of parking plazas in busy areas, circular buses in cities, and two-wheeler taxi and share auto system have been suggested. Tourism sector Another demand is to revive the Malabar Travel Mart and include major destinations in north Kerala in the Tourism Department’s list. The revival of water transport by developing Beypore and Azheekal ports besides several boat jetties, more KSRTC buses for north Kerala and mobility hub in Kozhikode have been mooted. The meeting has also demanded lifting of vehicle ban on S.M. Street. State film awards and film festivals, and other State-sponsored cultural programmes could be held in north Kerala as well. The government should exert pressure on the Ministry of Railways for establishing Thirunavaya-Guruvayur train route, Feroke-Angadippuram (via Karipur) route and the Nilambur-Nanjangud route besides a MEMU service for north Kerala, raising Kozhikode railway station to international standards and for the setting up of a coach factory in Kanjikode. The government should exert pressure on the GST council to include fuel tax under GST, they said. Representatives of Wayanad Chamber, All Kerala Consumer Goods Distributors’ Association, Confederation of All India Rail Users’ Association, Consumer Education Committee, Small-scale Soap Manufacturers’ Association, Small-scale Resort Owners’ Association, Small-scale Building Owners’ Association and District Merchants’ Association took part in the meeting. MDC president C.E. Chakkunni presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-project-sought-for-malabars-development/article34079307.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rising ‘sons’ on the political horizon||Perhaps, it is not a surprise to see that around 20 nominees of major political fronts for the upcoming Assembly polls are related to veteran leaders. While some have enjoyed full-time patronage during their career, a few others made it on their own, and there are others who naturally joined politics as their father’s successors. Any debate on dynastic politics in Kerala is incomplete without the name of the late Congress leader K. Karunakaran. His son, K. Muraleedharan, Vadakara MP, and daughter, Padmaja Venugopal, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) secretary, are being fielded from Nemom and Thrissur respectively. P.M. Niyas, the Congress candidate from Beypore, is the son of former trade union leader and Karunakaran loyalist K. Sadirikoya. K.S. Sabarinathan, MLA, son of the late Speaker G. Karthikeyan, is contesting from Aruvikkara again. Sumesh K. Achuthan, Congress candidate from Chittur in Palakkad, is the son K. Achuthan, former MLA from the same seat. Offsprings of communist leaders jumping into the poll fray is also not rare. C.P. Pramod, CPI(M) candidate from Palakkad, is the son of E. Padmanabhan, former Sreekrishnapuram MLA, and the grandson of M.P. Kunhiraman, former Malampuzha MLA. K.D. Prasenan, who is seeking re-election from Alathur, is the grandson of R. Krishnan, who represented the seat earlier. P.S. Supal, CPI candidate for Punalur, is the son of the late Minister P.K. Srinivasan. Mr. Supal had represented the same seat between 1996 and 2006. V.R. Sunil Kumar, incumbent MLA from Kodungalloor who will contest again, is the son of the late Minister V.K. Rajan. Jose K. Mani, who now leads the Kerala Congress (M), is contesting from Pala, a seat held by his father, the late K.M. Mani. M.K. Muneer, Indian Union Muslim League leader, is the son of the late Chief Minister C.H. Mohammed Koya. He is now being fielded from Koduvally. V.E. Gafoor, IUML candidate from Kalamassery, is the son of the former Minister V. K. Ebrahim Kunju. Left Democratic Front candidate from Chavara Sujith Vijayan is the son of the late MLA Vijayan Pillai, who was elected on the Communist Marxist Party ticket. Dr. Vijayan is pitted against Revolutionary Socialist Party’s Shibu Baby John, son of the late Minister Baby John. Babu Divakaran, son of the late RSP leader T.K. Divakaran, is being fielded from Eravipuram. M.V. Shreyams Kumar, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) State president, who is contesting from Kalpetta, is the son of the late M.P. Veerendra Kumar. K.P. Mohanan, who is contesting from Koothuparamba on the LJD ticket, is the son of the late socialist leader P.R. Kurup. Anoop Jacob, Kerala Congress (Jacob) candidate from Piravom, is the son of the late party leader T.M. Jacob, and K.B. Ganesh Kumar, who is being fielded from Pathanapuram, is the son of Kerala Congress (B) founder R. Balakrishna Pillai.  Around 20 nominees of major political fronts for the upcoming Assembly polls are related to veteran leaders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rising-sons-on-the-political-horizon/article34079365.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF’s uncertainty in Vadakara continues||Suspense over the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in the Vadakara Assembly segment continued on Monday. While Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala declared in Malappuram that K.K. Rema, wife of slain Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader T.P. Chandrasekharan, had expressed her willingness to contest from there, UDF convener M.M. Hassan said in the day that the Congress would field its own candidate. Though the UDF had indicated quite ahead of the candidate selection process that it would support the RMP in Vadakara if Ms. Rema was the candidate, there were also reports that the party’s choice was N. Venu, State secretary. There was also some confusion within the RMP if the UDF support was unconditional or not. Earlier this month, Ms. Rema tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and was under treatment. According to sources, there was no official communication between the UDF leadership and the RMP, due to which the party was apprehensive about the Congress fielding its nominee. These developments reportedly delayed the RMP’s official candidate announcement. Ms. Rema was unavailable for comments.  In 2016 polls Now, the party is expected to come up with a name on Tuesday. A UDF-supported RMP candidate would be involved in a direct fight with Manayath Chandran of the Loktantrik Janata Dal, a new ally in the Left Democratic Front (LDF). In 2016, Mr. Chandran, whose Janata Dal (United) was the with the UDF, was defeated by C.K. Nanu of the Janata Dal (Secular). Ms. Rema was pushed to the third spot, but she had secured over 20,000 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udfs-uncertainty-in-vadakara-continues/article34079386.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Women lack equal opportunities: IIM survey||A staggering 35% of alumnae and students from 20 Indian Institutes of Managements (IIMs) in the country say that they do not have equal opportunities for career growth as the men in their organisations. The response was based on the second Pan-IIM survey on ‘Women in the Workplace’, an initiative of IIM Kozhikode, which is celebrating its silver jubilee year. However, the figure has shown a decline (49%) from the previous edition of the survey held last year, said a press release here on Monday. The survey received over 350 responses from alumni and students across the 20 IIMs, with the majority of the respondents working at mid to senior management levels across industries. Sharing the thought behind conducting the survey, Director of IIM Kozhikode Prof. Debashis Chatterjee said that business schools are a microcosm of the larger society which form the larger ecology of business. “Business is no longer an only male prerogative. Our move to bring in 54% women in 2013 radically transformed the 50-year-old IIM tradition wherein earlier no more than 8% to 10% of the classroom were women,” he said. This game-changing process in turn signalled a major shift across women representation not only in B-schools but also in businesses. “With this survey, we attempt to go a step further to decode and give a voice to women from IIMs who continue to challenge stereotypes and break new grounds,” Prof. Chatterjee said. Biases About 58% of the respondents said that they encountered gender stereotyping and bias at workplace. The most commonly encountered biases are ‘Prove it again’ and ‘The Tightrope’. Nearly 26% encountered the ‘Prove it Again’ bias where women are held to a higher standard than men and must continually prove themselves. Women are promoted on performance, while men are promoted on potential. Another 23% encountered ‘The Tightrope’ bias where professional women are seen as too weak or too assertive — and in response, must try to balance between the two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pan-iim-survey-reveals-lack-of-equal-opportunities-for-women/article34079299.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kunhammed Kutty chosen CPI(M) candidate in Kuttiyadi||After digging in its heels following protests by its supporters, the CPI(M) has zeroed in on party district secretariat member and former Kozhikode district panchayat president K.P. Kunhammed Kutty to fight the Assembly polls from the Kuttiyadi segment. The development comes after the Kerala Congress (M) decided to withdraw its candidate. Kuttiyadi was allotted to the KC(M) as per a seat-sharing pact in the Left Democratic Front (LDF). However, the arrangement had led to protests by CPI(M) workers in Kuttiyadi last week. KC(M) decision Initially, the CPI (M) leadership refused to bow to the pressures, but the KC(M) decided to return the seat to the senior partner. The decision of the CPI(M) district committee was endorsed by the party State committee. Incidentally, posters of Mr. Kutty had also appeared in Kuttiyadi seeking his candidature. Such a proposal was considered before the seat-sharing talks. Now like in the 2016 polls, it would be a direct fight between the CPI(M) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kuttiyadi. Last time Parakkal Abdulla wrested the seat from the CPI(M) in a keenly watched contest. Earlier, the CPI(M) had not succumbed to protests by cadres in Ponnani after the candidature of CITU leader P. Nandakumar was announced. However, the party withdrew after protests the move to field P.K. Jameela, wife of Minister for Law A.K. Balan, at Tarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunhammed-kutty-chosen-cpim-candidate-in-kuttiyadi/article34079385.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panchayat asked to stop construction||The Kerala High Court has directed the Olavanna grama panchayat in Kozhikode to stop the construction of a comfort station on the banks of the Kallai river until the petition filed by the Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samithi is disposed of. The court has in turn directed the District Collector and the Secretary of the panchayat to file counter affidavits, along with supporting documents within two weeks so that the court could consider hearing the petition. The directive from the court came recently on the basis of a writ petition filed by T.V. Rajan, State secretary of the Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samithi, alleging that the comfort station was being constructed on puramboke land and that it was encroaching on the river. In the petition, the Samithi had asked the Collector and the Secretary to survey and demarcate the puramboke land before proceeding with the construction of the comfort station at Olavanna. It has also asked for the demolition of the existing structure. However, the panchayat had claimed in court that the structure was only a retaining wall. However, the comfort station will be built on the three-cent plot sanctioned by the District Collector, under the guidance of the State Suchitwa Mission. It is part of the government’s ‘Take a Break’ project. The Collector had sanctioned the land to the panchayat considering the emergency nature of the project. The Samithi had carried out a slew of protests against the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-asked-to-stop-construction/article34079308.ece
16 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Hindutva is BJP’s main poll plank’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) considers both the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) as adversaries in a do-or-die battle in the upcoming Assembly elections, party State president K. Surendran has said. Unlike the previous Assembly polls, the Congress-led coalition would not make any electoral impact this time. “That is why the BJP has emerged as the main opponent to the ruling LDF that has failed in all spheres of activity,” he tells The Hindu in an interview. He reiterates that the party needs only 35 seats to form the next government in Kerala. Stressing that Hindutva would be the central plank of the BJP in the polls, he says the electioneering would primarily hinge on the vengeful attitude taken against Ayyappa devotees during the Sabarimala agitation. “The people have not easily forgotten the brutal police action on the devotees at the behest of the CPI(M) leadership,” says Mr. Surendran, who spearheaded the recent agitation against the Supreme Court verdict that allows the right of women aged between 10 and 50 years to enter the Lord Ayyappa temple. Support This apart, he says, the BJP will focus on the various denominations of the Christian community which are wholeheartedly supporting the BJP. “The party has fielded eminent personalities in the Assembly polls. The list of candidates reveals the importance the party has given to the minorities, especially Christians,” says Mr. Surendran, who is contesting from the Manjeswaram and Konni Assembly constituencies. Extremism The Congress and the CPI(M), Mr. Surendran says, have been encouraging extremist outfits for political and electoral gains. “The Left government has withdrawn cases against the Ayyappa devotees and the agitators of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) simultaneously. This is sheer nonsense. The Ayyappa devotees were fighting for preserving a tradition while the anti-CAA protests were anti-national in nature,” he says. He says both coalitions also attach utmost importance to their communal agenda. This had been a determining factor in the selection of candidates all these years though these parties swear by secularism. Confidence Exuding confidence of emerging victorious in as many as seats across the State, as well as retaining the Nemom segment, Mr. Surendran said that multiple issues from gold smuggling case to backdoor appointments , from nepotism to defalcation of government funds will also dominate the campaign in the polls in the coming days. Certainly this Assembly election will be a game changer , he said. Mr Surendran also said that he will be actively campaigning in both the assembly constituencies. Mr Surendran also said that he will be actively campaigning in both the Assembly constituencies from where he is contesting.  The list of candidates reveals the importance the party has given to the minorities, especially Christians||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hindutva-is-bjps-main-poll-plank/article34079363.ece
16 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||334 recoveries, 117 new cases in Kozhikode||Only 117 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday, reportedly due to a decline in the number of lab tests. According to the District Medical Officer, only 3,539 samples were tested on the day and the daily test positivity rate was 3.3%. Of the fresh cases, 112 were locally acquired infections and the source of four others was not known. As many as 334 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 3,377. COVID vaccination camps would be held at the community health centres at Thalakkulathoor, Narikkuni, and Orkkatteri, and at Anugraha Auditorium at Olavanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/334-recoveries-117-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article34079300.ece
16 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Arya Vaidya Sala opens surgery clinic||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala made a historic move by opening its first surgery unit at Kottakkal on Monday. The surgery clinic, known in Ayurveda as Shalya treatment, will focus on anorectal treatment. Chief physician and trustee P. Madhavankutty Varier and Chief Executive Officer G.C. Gopala Pillai inaugurated the clinic functioning at the OP wing of Arya Vaidya Sala. Specialist doctors The clinic will offer specialised treatment for haemorrhoids or piles, fistula, anal fissures, leg wounds caused by varicose vein and diabetes, and plantar fasciitis or heel pain. Arya Vaidya Sala officials said specialist doctors such as P.P. Praveen and Jithin K. Nair would be available at the clinic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arya-vaidya-sala-opens-surgery-clinic/article34079310.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,KERALA||Jose K. Mani’s is official KC(M): SC||The Supreme Court on Monday upheld Kerala High Court’s confirmation of an Election Commission (EC) order declaring a group led by Jose K. Mani as the official Kerala Congress (M) and granting it the official election symbol of ‘two leaves’. In a brief hearing, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde dismissed P.J. Joseph’s appeal, saying two Benches of the High Court had concurred to uphold the poll body’s order. Advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for Mr. Joseph, submitted that the High Court erred in not examining whether the EC order was in accordance with the law. He said the poll body’s decision was baseless. “We do not agree with you,” Chief Justice Bobde responded. The EC, by a 2:1 majority, had held that the group led by Mr. Mani was the official Kerala Congress (M) and ‘is entitled to use the name and the reserved symbol ‘two leaves’ for the purpose of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968.’ Mr. Joseph, who leads a rival faction of the KC(M), had contended in the High Court that the EC committed a mistake by straight away going to test the majority without considering the test of the constitution. The majority test was conducted with a truncated body and was based on defective and irrelevant affidavits given by Mr. Mani. ‘EC jurisdiction’ Mr. Joseph had submitted that the EC had no right to allot a party to a person. The only jurisdiction vested with it was to allot symbols to a party. Besides, the EC was not authorised to decide internal issues of the party. The issue of name did not come under the symbol law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jose-k-manis-is-official-kcm-sc/article34079389.ece
16 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||9 LDF candidates file nominations in Palakkad||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates filed their nominations for the Assembly elections in nine of the 12 constituencies in the district on Monday. M.B. Rajesh, the LDF candidate from Thrithala, submitted his nomination papers to deputy election officer Hydros Pottengal. K.D. Prasenan filed his nomination from Alathur. P.P. Sumod filed his papers from Tarur. He was accompanied by Minister for Welfare of Backward and Scheduled Communities A.K. Balan. Former district panchayat president K. Santhakumari filed her nomination from Kongad, while P. Mammikkutty filed from Shoranur, K. Prem Kumar from Ottapalam, A. Prabhakaran from Malampuzha and K. Babu from Nenmara. CPI candidate K.P. Suresh Raj also filed his nomination, from Mannarkkad on Monday. LDF candidates K. Krishnan Kutty and C.P. Pramod are expected to file their nominations from Chittur and Palakkad respectively on Tuesday, while the CPI’s Mohammed Muhsin will file his nomination from Pattambi on Wednesday. Meanwhile, United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders said that they would file nominations after Wednesday. The BJP candidate in Palakkad, E. Sreedharan, is expected to submit his nomination papers on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-ldf-candidates-file-nominations-in-palakkad/article34079486.ece
16 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A tonsure unveils an unequal equation||Gender equity appears to remain a chimaera in Kerala politics. Former Mahila Congress State president Lathika Subash’s ‘tonsure act’ in front of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters at Indira Bhavan on Sunday seems to suggest so. The ‘mutinous deed’ has pushed women’s equality to the forefront of the electoral debate. Out of the 2.67 crore voters in Kerala, around 1.37 crore are women. However, their representation in electoral politics has remained disgracefully low. For one, the 14th Kerala Assembly had only eight women members out of 140. The Congress had none till Shanimol Usman won the Aroor Assembly byelection in 2019. Quota on paper The V.S. Achuthanandan government’s decision in 2009 to reserve 50% of local body seats for women was a watershed in Kerala’s history. Last year, an estimated 36,305 women contested the local body polls. However, the adoption of a minimum of 33% gender quota for Assembly and Lok Sabha elections has remained mainly on paper. Ms. Subash’s singular protest has had a profound effect on several powerful women influencers. In Tamil Nadu, actor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Khushbu Sundar said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi routinely paid lip service to gender equality. But, he has done nothing for the cause. Ms. Subash was a casualty of Congress’s misogynist politics. Annie Raja, Communist Party of India (CPI) leader and general secretary of the National Federation of Indian Women, said gender parity in electoral politics remained a pipe dream. KPCC vice president and former State Women’s Commission chairperson K.C. Rosakutty said Ms. Subash had dared the dominant ideology of patriarchy in politics. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said the Congress had passed over several eligible women for elected office. Shobhana George, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] fellow traveller and vice chairperson of the Kerala Khadi and Village Industries Board, said she knew from experience that the Congress leadership rarely accommodated women in leadership positions. No tectonic shift here Major political parties in Kerala had at the outset of the electoral campaign announced a tectonic shift in candidate selection. The new political landscape demanded more youth and women in the fray, they said. However, the promised change never came. The CPI(M) and the BJP have fielded 12 women each. The Congress has nine women in the contest so far. Critics have termed the ‘meagre’ allocation mere tokenism.  The 14th Kerala Assembly had only eight women out of 140 members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tonsure-unveils-an-unequal-equation/article34079398.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All-out fight in high-profile triangular contest||Nemom, the southern gateway to Kerala’s capital city, threw up a result that stunned the entire State and led to discussions even at the national level following the Assembly elections of 2016. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) finally won a seat in the Assembly, after years of being an also ran, even when they were in the heights of powers at the Centre. CPI(M)’s V. Sivankutty, who defeated BJP’s O. Rajagopal in the previous elections in 2011, lost to him in 2016 despite increasing his votes from 50,076 to 59,142 in five years. The Congress, which won the constituency with 60,884 votes in 2006, gave the seat to United Democratic Front ally Janata Dal (United), whose candidate V. Surendran Pillai could poll only 13,860 votes in 2016, leading the Left to accuse the UDF of handing over the constituency in a platter to the BJP. However, by fielding a heavyweight like K. Muraleedharan this time, the Congress is seeking to counter this accusation this time. The BJP, meanwhile, used the foothold it gained here to consolidate its position, with Kummanam Rajasekharan gaining a lead in the Nemom segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which Congress candidate Shashi Tharoor won. This could be a confidence-booster for Mr. Rajasekharan, going into the Assembly elections. The BJP also managed to win 11 wards out of 21 wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation in the Nemom segment in the recent local body elections. The Left Democratic Front won eight wards and the UDF two. When Mr. Sivankutty contests from here for a third time, the LDF is hoping that the Congress polling all its votes using a strong candidate could work to the Left’s advantage. Two seats The Nemom constituency came to the limelight for the first time in the 1982 Assembly elections when Congress leader K. Karunakaran contested from two seats. After winning both Mala and Nemom, he decided to resign from Nemom, leading to a byelection, which was won by V.J. Thankappan of the CPI(M). Thankappan went on to score a hat-trick, retaining the constituency till 1996. In the first elections from here in 1957, the CPI’s A. Sadasivan won against Praja Socialist Party’s (PSP) P. Vishwambharan. The results reversed in the next election with Vishwambharan becoming an MLA from here in 1960. In the first five elections from the constituency, only the Left or the Socialist parties had won. The Congress first made its mark in the elections of 1977 when S. Varadarajan Nair defeated CPI(M) candidate Pallichal Sadasivan. Varadarajan Nair, who contested as a candidate of the Congress (U) in 1980 after the split in the party, was defeated by Congress (I) candidate E. Rameshan Nair. The constituency was won by the UDF and LDF twice each in the four elections since 1996 until the BJP won in 2016. Congress’s N. Sakthan managed to retain the constituency for two terms after winning in 2001. The elections in 2011, after delimitation of the constituency, threw up favourable results for the LDF, but the gains were soon lost owing to BJP’s growth and the weakening of the Congress in some of the areas. With both the LDF and the UDF keen to regain the seat, and the BJP fighting hard to retain their sole seat in the Assembly, Nemom is one constituency where the results can be unpredictable due to a tight triangular contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-out-fight-in-high-profile-triangular-contest/article34079367.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A Left citadel that indulged Congress too||A land known for its historical struggles against social oppression, Nedumangad has for time immemorial been a fertile ground for Left movements. While its past had been closely intertwined with the growing influence of the Left front in Kerala, the Assembly segment has been witnessing an erosion in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) vote base over the past three decades with its political opponents looking to seize the opportunity. Since the elections to the first Assembly in 1957, the quaint hilly region has sent nominees of the Communist Party of India (CPI) to the House consecutively until 1991. During the over-three-decade ‘Left reign’, Nedumangad had been represented by N. Neelakantaru Pandarathil (twice), K.G. Kunjukrishna Pillai (twice), Kaniyapuram Ramachandran and K.V. Surendranath (thrice). Interestingly, S. Varadarajan Nair, a former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, won the seat in 1965. However, the elections were nullified after none of the parties or coalitions could win a commanding majority to form government. The region witnessed a shift in its loyalties from 1991 when CPI decided to replace its three-time MLA K.V. Surendranath with K. Govinda Pillai, who lost to Congress candidate Palode Ravi by 939 votes. Mr. Ravi, who had lost to Surendranath in 1987, cemented his position by defeating Mangode Radhakrishnan by 4,246 votes in 1996. Mr. Radhakrishnan, however, wrested the seat back for the LDF in 2001, albeit with a slender margin of 156 votes. He managed to hold on to the seat five years later by edging past Mr. Ravi by 85 votes. The CPI move to field its then district secretary P. Ramachandran Nair backfired in 2011 when Mr. Ravi won again by a handsome margin of 5,030 votes and went on to become the Deputy Speaker. Congress’ joy was short-lived as he was subsequently defeated by CPI veteran C. Divakaran by 3,621 votes in 2016. Nedumangad brought solace to the LDF camp though A. Sampath lost to Adoor Prakash in the Attingal Parliamentary constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Mr. Sampath, the then incumbent MP, garnered 759 votes more than the Congress leader in the Nedumangad constituency, while the LDF candidate fell behind in all other Assembly constituencies, viz., Varkala, Attingal, Chirayinkeezhu, Vamanapuram, Aruvikkara and Kattakada. The constituency comprises Nedumangad municipality, Manikkal and Karakulam grama panchayats in the Nedumangad taluk, Andoorkonam, Pothencode and Vembayam grama panchayats in the Thiruvananthapuram taluk. The LDF won over 21,000 votes more than the UDF in the region during the recent local body elections. BJP’s presence The BJP, whose vote share remained below 5% until 2016, has been witnessing a surge in the past five years. While BJP’s current district president V.V. Rajesh won 23.22% of the votes polled during the 2016 Assembly polls, State vice president Sobha Surendran managed to win 24.2% votes from Nedumangad in the general elections held three years later. The constituency has an electorate of 2,03,229 votes, including 96,472 males, 1,06,755 females and two transgenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-left-citadel-that-indulged-congress-too/article34079711.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strike hits banking services||Banking services were affected on Monday after 40,000 bank employees across the State took part in a two-day nationwide strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella organisation of nine bank unions, against the proposed privatisation of public sector banks. Clearances of cheques, demand drafts, and other payment instruments came to a standstill as employees of public sector banks and scheduled banks abstained from work. Some new generation banks functioned as there was no forced closure by the agitating unions. The strike that commenced on Monday morning will end on Tuesday midnight. The public faced much hardship as Saturday and Sunday were also bank holidays. Agitating employees took out marches demanding scrapping of the move to privatise two public sector banks announced in the Union Budget. In the State capital, a march was taken out by the unions to the SBI main branch near the Secretariat. In Ernakulam, a march was taken out from the South railway station to the SBI Metro branch on M.G. Road. A meeting was later held. 10 lakh staff nationwide Stating that the strike was a success, C.D. Josson, State convener, UFBU, said banking services in the State had come to a standstill as the clearing houses could not function due to the strike by 10 lakh bank employees across the country. The All India Bank Employees Association, All India Bank Officers’ Confederation, National Confederation of Bank Employees, All India Bank Officers’ Association, Bank Employees Confederation of India, Indian National Bank Employees Federation, Indian National Bank Officers Congress, National Organisation of Bank Workers and National Organisation of Bank Officers are participating in the stir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strike-hits-banking-services/article34079392.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caring hands that helped her have a safe delivery||The timely intervention of the Kaniv 108 ambulance workers and two Junior Public Health Nurses (JPHN) ensured that a 26-year-old pregnant woman who had collapsed on the way to the hospital had a safe delivery. The incident happened in Anakudy, near Vamanapuram, on Monday when Lakshmi Chandran was being rushed to the hospital by her relatives. Since the main road was situated a little away from the house, she had to walk with the help of her husband to hail an autorickshaw. Nurses to the rescue On the way to the main road, she collapsed. JPHNs S. Sofia and D.K. Deepa of the Anakudy family health centre, who were returning after collecting the COVID-19 vaccine doses for the centre, came to her rescue. A message was relayed to the Kaniv 108 ambulance team that rushed an ambulance from the Kanyakulangara community health centre. Lakshmi gave birth to a baby boy, with the aid of the JPHNs, by the time the ambulance reached the spot. Lakshmi and the baby were later shifted to the SAT Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caring-hands-that-helped-her-give-birth-safely/article34079568.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Eight more file nomination papers for Assembly polls||Eight candidates filed nominations in the district on Monday for contesting in the upcoming Assembly elections. The candidates who filed their papers included A. Neelalohithadasan Nadar of the Janata Dal (Secular) who is contesting from the Kovalam segment and V. Joy of the CPI(M) who is contesting from Varkala. V.K. Prasanth of the CPI(M) and Antony Raju of the Janadipatya Kerala Congress, the LDF candidates who are contesting in Vattiyurkavu and Thiruvananthapuram respectively, also filed their papers on Monday. Others Other candidates who filed their papers on Monday are independents Ebinu S. (Nedumangad constituency), A. N. Susheel and Abhilash Vadakkan Davis (Thiruvananthapuram), and Christopher Shaju (Parassala). Monday was the second day of filing the nominations for the April 6 polls. Two SUCI candidates filed their papers on Friday. March 19 is the last date for filing the nominations.  ‘Follow guidelines’ District Collector Navjot Khosa urged political parties to adhere to the guidelines prescribed by the Election Commission. Only two persons should accompany the candidate for the filing of the nomination papers. Not more than five persons, including the candidate, are permitted for door-to-door campaigns. Only five vehicles are permitted for road shows. Loudspeakers are permitted only between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m.  Control room A special control room for election-related clarifications is operational at the Collectorate. It can be contacted on 1950, 0471-2732255.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-more-file-nomination-papers-for-assembly-polls/article34079708.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Letter writing contest||The Department of Posts will conduct an international letter writing competition on March 27 from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. with the topic ‘Write a letter to a family member about your experience with COVID-19’. The competition is open to school-going children up to 15 years of age, as of March 31, 2021. The letter should not exceed 800 words and should be in English or any other language listed in the Constitution’s 8th schedule. There are cash prizes at the circle level and national level. The best entry at the national level will qualify as India’s official entry for the international-level competition for which the Universal Postal Union (UPU) will choose the award winners. The competition will be held at selected schools/postal division under each region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/letter-writing-contest/article34079377.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vote Vandi begins tour of the district||A ‘Vote Vandi’ has begun touring the district as part of spreading voter awareness ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls. District Collector Navjot Khosa flagged off the vehicle at the Collectorate on Monday. The ‘Vote Vandi’ was rolled out as part of the activities under the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme. The vehicle has a mock polling booth for acquainting voters with electronic voting, an LED wall displaying an election message by the District Collector, and announcement systems. It also carries on board pamphlets on the election process. The ‘Vote Vandi’ will tour all 14 State Assembly Constituencies in the district till April 4. It will also stop at educational institutions, hospitals and offices to spread awareness about the elections. Ms. Khosa urged voters in the district to understand the importance of elections and exercise their right to franchise. SVEEP is the flagship programme of the Election Commission of India for spreading voter awareness and promoting voter literacy. Apart from the 14 constituencies, the vehicle will visit the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Women’s Polytechnic at Nemom, the Kerala University campus at Kariavattom, Technopark, Agricultural College, and the Central Polytechnic College at Vattiyurkavu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vote-vandi-begins-tour-of-the-district/article34079706.ece
16 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BTech exam centre change||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has permitted third-semester BTech students to apply for a change in examination centre. The deadline for seeking a centre change through the KTU portal is March 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/btech-exam-centre-change/article34079393.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rights panel’s notice to PSC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered the Public Service Commission (PSC) to carry out recruitments in the Non Joining Duty (NJD) category in the assistant post in the Finance Department under the PSC category number 49/2015. The rank list was earlier published, with 23 candidates on the main list and five in the supplementary one. Advice memos were issued to three candidates. One of them had joined the Excise Department and the second person who received the memo did not report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panels-notice-to-psc/article34079394.ece
16 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,054 new cases in State||Kerala reported 1,054 new cases of COVID-19 when 38,410 samples were tested, taking the total cases to 10,92,324 on Monday. There were 3,463 recoveries. The test positivity rate dipped below 3% for the first time to register 2.74%. The addition of 11 deaths to the official list took the cumulative toll to 4,407. Ernakulam and Kasaragod reported two deaths each while one death each was reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur. Thiruvananthapuram reported the most number of new cases at 130, followed by Malappuram 124, Ernakulam 119, Kozhikode 117, Kollam 116, Kannur 74, Alappuzha 70, Thrissur 70, Kottayam 68, Palakkad 50, Pathanamthitta 42, Kasaragod 29, Idukki 25, and Wayanad 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1054-new-cases-in-state/article34079400.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Domestic help arrested||The Medical College police have arrested a 44-year-old domestic help who allegedly fled after robbing her employer. The accused, Ranjana Thomas of Vallicode in Pathanamthitta, used to work as a maid and home nurse in a doctor’s house at Ulloor. She has been accused of lacing the doctor’s tea with sedatives and stealing ornaments weighing one sovereign and Rs. 1,500 after ensuring her employer was in slumber. The incident took place on March 12 at 11 a.m. She was nabbed from her rented house in Jawahar Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-help-arrested/article34079704.ece
16 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ICSET 2021 trains focus on ‘new normal’||The fifth edition of the International Conclave on Skills, Engineering and Technology (ICSET) 2021, organised by the ICT Academy of Kerala, took off on a virtual platform with a formal inauguration by R.A. Mashelkar, former Director-General, CSIR, on Monday. In his inaugural address, Dr. Mashelkar highlighted the importance of science and technology in the post-COVID-19 times and the role of education in determining the future. Speaking on the occasion Dr Tony Thomas, Chairman of the ICT Academy stressed the importance of digital technology and the gig economy in the new normal. He also pointed out the importance of specific micro-skills required for freelancing work as a part of the gig economy. Domain experts in IT, Engineering, and Management are scheduled to lead sessions at the two- day event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ict-academy-conclave-on/article34079378.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||98 file nominations||Ninety-eight nominations, including those of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Ministers KadannappallyRamachandran and K. T. Jaleel, were filed on Monday for the upcoming Assembly elections in the State. The Chief Minister, who is contesting from Dharmadam, has movable assets worth Rs. 2,04,048.51 and immoveable assets worth Rs. 16.60 lakh to his name, according to the affidavit filed by Mr. Vijayan. His wife Kamala, a retired teacher, owns Rs. 29,76,717.61 in movable assets and Rs. 35 lakh in immoveable assets. The candidates who filed their nominations on Monday also included A. Neelalohithadasan Nadar of the Janata Dal (Secular) who is contesting from Kovalam. On Monday, the highest number of nominations was filed in Palakkad - 30. Twelve nominations each were filed in Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam districts, 11 in Ernakulam, seven in Thrissur, eight in Kollam, five in Alappuzha and Kannur, four in Pathanamithitta, two in Malappuram and one each in Wayanad and Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/98-file-nominations/article34079370.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Commemoration||The Department of Malayalam at Kerala University organised a commemorative programme to mark the first death anniversary of its former member and celebrated poet-linguist Puthussery Ramachandran on Sunday. Linguist Naduvattom Gopalakrishnan delivered the memorial lecture at the online meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/commemoration/article34079703.ece
16 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Birth registration: date extended||The State government has issued an order extending the last date till June 22, 2021, of birth registration for children born before June 23, 2015. Those who have not yet made the registration should do so before the last date, said a press release from the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birth-registration-date-extended/article34079705.ece
16 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fight violence, fascism: Venugopal||The Congress workers in the State have to take up the twin mission of fighting against political violence of the CPI(M) and the BJP’s fascism, AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal said here on Monday. Addressing an election convention of Padmaja Venugopal, the UDF candidate in Thrissur, Mr. Venugopal said the sole objective of the CPI(M) and the BJP was to destroy the Congress. ‘Corrupt politics’ “People’s agitations were dealt with violence in the past five years. Eligible candidates were ignored and jobs were provided for close relatives of party leaders. LDF leaders cheated the candidates in the PSC list,” said Mr. Venugopal. He said that a government that created record in corrupt politics is ruling the State. People’s will should be developed against it. The Centre and the State governments are exploiting the people through fuel price hikes. Both are not willing to reduce taxes, he added. Mr. Venugopal alleged that an amount of Rs. 62 cr had been spent in the last one year to improve the image of the Chief Minister. The State government, which was busy finding money for PR exercise, forgot to reduce fuel tax to minimise the burden on the people, he said. Addressing the meet, T.N. Prathapan MP said that people would wholeheartedly receive Padmaja Venugopal, who has strong roots in Thrissur. Election Committee Chairman I.P. Paul presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-violence-fascism-venugopal/article34079482.ece
16 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Ready to contest against Kadakampally: Sobha||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sobha Surendran has said that she is ready to contest from the Kazhakuttam Assembly constituency in the coming election. Addressing the media here on Monday, she said she was ready to contest against Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who “had hurt the sentiments of Sabarimala devotees.” “I want to take up the mission to defeat the Devaswom Minster. I had observed a hunger strike for two weeks to protect Sabarimala custom. The Minister charged false cases against hundreds of Ayyappa devotees,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-contest-against-kadakampally-sobha/article34079390.ece
16 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Mithra awards presented||The Mithra Awards instituted by the Consumer Federation of India (CFI) were presented at a national seminar organised at Wadakkanchery on Monday. Kerala Kalamandalam Vice Chancellor T.K. Narayanan presented the Rashtra Mithra and the Desha Mithra awards to Eyyachery Kunjikrishnan and consumer activist and poet Gandivan (Adv. William John) at the function. CFI national vice-chairman C.V. Antony delivered the key-note address on ‘Consumer Laws and Solutions’ in connection with the observance of National Consumer Day. CFI national chairman Prof. Punnakkal Narayanan presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mithra-awards-presented/article34079483.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wooing voters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wooing-voters/article34079302.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sticking to the code||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sticking-to-the-code/article34079402.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For people’s mandate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-peoples-mandate/article34079382.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking votes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-votes/article34079384.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the safer side||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-safer-side/article34079372.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Time for tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-for-tradition/article34079713.ece
16 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP, YSRCP in race to grab Tadipatri chairperson’s post||Even as the TDP has won the majority of wards (18) in Tadipatri Municipality, leaving 16 wards to the YSRCP’s kitty, hectic political activities are on in both the camps to win the chairperson post. The TDP is trying hard to keep its newly-elected council members together, while the YSRCP is leaving no stone unturned to seize the chairperson’s post through the votes of the ex-officio members. The CPI has sent one member to the 36-member municipal council. An Independent candidate also won the polls. Both of them have supported the TDP. Hence, the YSRCP was trying to win the chairperson’s election, to be held on March 18, by making three of its MLCs from the district opt for the ex-officio member of the council, in addition to Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah and Tadipatri MLA Kethireddy Peddareddy. However, the hopes of the party got dashed on Monday when the applications of the MLCs to the Tadipatri Municipal Commissioner to include them as the ex-officio members of the municipal council were rejected, along with that of the TDP MLC Deepak Reddy. What the rules say “Under the Rule 5-2 (4a), an MLC can opt for becoming the ex-officio member of the local body, in which his/her vote exists at the time of getting elected to that post. The application of Mr. Talari Rangaiah was accepted, while that of Vennapoosa Gopal Reddy, Pamidi Samanthakamani, Shaik Mohammed Iqbal, and Deepak Reddy were rejected,” Municipal Commissioner P. Narasimha Prasad told the media on Monday. If all the YSRCP MLCs could have become the ex-officio members, they could have got their candidate elected as the chairperson of Tadipatri Municipal Council, as their strength would have gone up from 16 to 21 and that of the TDP including its allies and supporters would have been 20. If Mr. Deepak Reddy also could have become an ex-officio member, it would have been a tie at 21-21. As on date, the strength of the YSRCP is 18 including the ex-officio members. Meanwhile, the TDP has kept its flock of newly-elected councillors together at a camp in an undisclosed place and all of them are likely to arrive at Tadipatri only on March 18, just before the scheduled time for the election of the chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-ysrcp-in-race-to-grab-chairpersons-post-in-tadipatri/article34079455.ece
16 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Registrar assumes office in SKU||A. Krishna Kumari, Geography professor at Sri Krishnadevaraya University(SKU), has been appointed the new Registrar. She assumed office on Monday. A release from the university said that Ms. Krishna Kumari joined the SKU as an assistant professor in 1989 and was head of the department of Geography prior to the appointment. University Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy and other officials greeted the new Registrar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-registrar-assumes-office-in-sku/article34079102.ece
16 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUA plans centre for research on green vehicles||The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University(JNTU-Anantapur) on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) with Mahaa Rana Green Energy and Smart Infrastructure Solutions Private Ltd.(MRGE&SI) for the establishment of the Centre of Excellence on Green Transportation. University Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhan and company representative Rana Pratap exchanged the MoU documents. Creating an atmosphere for research on electric and hydrogen-fuelled vehicles would be the aim of the centre and mentors from various places in the world would train the students on new technologies being developed in Europe in the production of ‘green’ vehicles. Students would be able to get hands-on training in the industry atmosphere as the company was establishing its unit at Palasamudram in Anantapur district. The centre would provide an opportunity to the students to get a certificate course and continue with higher studies or get placements in the industry. Registrar M. Vijay Kumar and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntua-plans-centre-for-research-on-green-vehicles/article34079100.ece
16 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flash inspection of public places mooted to check virus||As the rise of COVID cases in the district is causing alarm, the COVID-19 Task Force officials have mooted flash inspection of the cinema halls, shopping malls, private and government hospitals in order to check the growing incidence of people becoming lax towards guidelines imperative to quell the spike. Following a sharp increase in the cases in Chittoor district, that touched 90 on Friday, the task force officials had convened a meeting at the Tehsildar office at Puttur and was attended by revenue, police, medical and health, and education department staff. Special Officer (Task Force) P. Ravi Raju and Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant said that despite the repeated appeals to the public to wear masks in public places, many continue to ignore the same, putting others at risk. The officials warned that a laid-back attitude towards the guidelines would only make matters worse for the district which leads the State’s chart with highest daily tally. They said people in the eastern mandals of Satyavedu, Nagalapuram, Pitchatur, Puttur, Nagari and Nindra, which border with Tamil Nadu, should be extra careful while stepping out. The task force officers appealed to the managements of cinema halls and other commercial outlets to strictly discourage public entering the premises without masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flash-inspection-of-public-places-mooted-to-check-virus/article34079104.ece
16 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Villagers seek protection from jumbos||Around a hundred villagers of Gandhi Nagar hamlet, abutting the Koundinya wildlife sanctuary under Palamaner forest range, staged a protest in front of the Forest Range Officer at Palamaner on Monday demanding protection of their crops and homes following the movement of a four-elephant herd close to their habitation since a fortnight. The villagers said that the herd of four elephants, who strayed in from the Koundinya project, had been camping close to Gandhi Nagar hamlet since a fortnight, regularly raiding the standing crops at nights and retreating into the forests at daybreak. The villagers alleged that in spite of their repeated appeals to the field staff to initiate steps for driving them back into the sanctuary, no action had been taken so far. The villagers expressed anguish that the movement of the jumbos close to human habitations had posed a grave danger to people, particularly the elderly, women and children. Palamaner police rushed to the spotwhen the villagers’ protest led to a traffic jam at the busy tri-State junction towards Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and cleared the snarl with an assurance that the matter would be pursued with the forest officials. Forest Range Officer (Palamaner) G. Sivanna said that despite the efforts of the forest watchers and elephant trackers to drive the four wild elephants from Gandhi Nagar village, the animals were reluctant to move away. ‘Summer effect’ “We perceive that the herd is attracted to the fodder and water close to the village in view of the onset of summer effect in the forests. Due to the proximity of the national highway, we are cautious not to put them to any risk. We have also taken serious note of the damage to crops,” the FRO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/villagers-demand-protection-from-jumbos-near-palamaner/article34079446.ece
16 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fourteen woodcutters from T.N. nabbed near Tirupati||The Andhra Pradesh State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (APSRSASTF) personnel on Monday apprehended 14 woodcutters from Tamil Nadu at a forest location between Panapakam and Ithepalle villages, the entry points to the Seshachalam hills. Axes seized The police seized axes, provisions and liquor bottles from their possession. Addressing a press meet at the Task Force office at Tirupati, Deputy Superintendent of Police D. Muralidhar said that acting on reliable information that a batch of smuggling operatives was on the way into the reserve forest to cut red sanders trees, a combing party was pressed into action on Sunday night. The team which tracked the movements of the woodcutters could finally spot the batch close to the foothills when they were about to sneak into the forests in the early hours of Monday. Despite their efforts to escape from the location, the woodcutters were nabbed by the officials who also seized their belongings. The official said that by preventing the batch of woodcutters, several valuable red sanders trees were saved from their axes. The nabbed batch was identified as residents of Jamna Marattur village in Jawadi hills in Tiruvannamalai district of Tamil Nadu. A case was registered and they were sent for remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fourteen-woodcutters-from-tn-nabbed-near-tirupati/article34078994.ece
16 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Act of honesty gets jeep driver a pat from police||A Tirupati-based jeep driver was rewarded for his honesty by the police personnel here after he returned a bag, containing gold ornaments, to its owner as it is. The driver, Narayana(30), ferried a batch of pilgrims from Tirumala to the railway station at Tirupati in the early hours of Monday. After a couple of hours, he found that the passengers had left behind a bag in his vehicle. The bag contained about 80 grams of gold ornaments, worth Rs. 4.5 lakh, besides some cash and documents. In a telling example of honesty, the driver went straight to the traffic prepaid taxi counter at the railway station and handed over the bag to the constables on duty with all the contents intact. The duo in turn passed on the information to Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Mallikarjuna and Circle Inspector Suresh Kumar. The personnel at the Command Control points at Tirumala and Tirupati were instructed to identify the pilgrims who travelled in Narayana’s jeep. In the meantime, B. Pandheeswari, from Tamil Nadu, realizing that she had lost her handbag, had returned to Tirumala from the railway station and lodged a complaint with the One Town police there. Within a few minutes, the police identified the woman and was handed over the bag. SP (Tirupati Urban district) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu presented a cash reward to jeep driver, besides giving him a pat for his honesty. The SP also announced rewards to the traffic personnel who had successfully restored the lost property to its owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-of-honesty-gets-jeep-driver-a-pat-from-police/article34079466.ece
16 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare schemes help YSRCP sweep elections||The YSR Congress Party juggernaut swept to power in the elections held to municipal corporations and municipalities across the State riding on a host of welfare schemes. The ruling party won all 11 municipal corporations and 73 out of 75 municipalities in the State. The YSRCP secured 52.76% vote share, while the TDP’s slid to 30.08%, while the Jana Sena Party had to contend with 4.08% and the BJP 2.41%. The YSRCP won 427 out of 671 divisions, while the opposition TDP could manage to win in just 78 divisions. The Jana Sena Party won in seven divisions, while the CPI(M) won in two, the CPI in one and the BJP in one, thus indicating that the entire opposition combined was no match to the scale of the ruling party’s thumping victory. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy was modest in his response and attributed the party’s victory to the people of the state and said that the massive victory had increased his responsibility of ensuring good governance. “I will strive to do more good to you as your family member and I thank every brother and sister for giving us this victory,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy tweeted minutes after the results were declared on Sunday. The effective delivery of a plethora of welfare schemes christened as ‘Nava Ratnalu’, the people-first centric approach in governance and the administration’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic are being seen as factors that contributed to the ruling party’s strong performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-schemes-help-ysrcp-sweep-elections/article34079715.ece
16 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subsidy for micro food processing firms||East Godavari Collector and District Food Processing Society chairman D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday said that the Central government would offer 35% credit-linked subsidy to micro food processing enterprises under the five-year plan (2020-25) of the Prime Minister Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises Scheme (PMFME). The society on Tuesday met here and discussed the potential to encourage micro food processing enterprises, offering them financial assistance for brand building, marketing and infrastructure development in the existing enterprises in the food processing sector. Interested firms and women entrepreneurs can register for financial assistance under PMFME through the website https://pmfme.mofpi.gov.in on or before March 25. Those interested can also get more details from the Divisional Revenue Office in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subsidy-for-micro-food-processing-firms/article34079515.ece
16 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haystacks razed in fire, 500 cows rescued||Twenty haystacks of Gayatri Goshala were destroyed in a fire on Monday evening, but 500 cows housed in the same compound were taken to safety. Fire-fighting personnel were battling with the blaze four hours after it began at 4.30 p.m. on the city outskirts. According to District Fire Officer V. Sreenivasa Reddy, the 500 cows in the goshala and its sheds were safe and four fire tenders from the city and Kodumuru were trying to put out the flames when reports last came. Situated in Ward No.28 along National Highway No.44, the cause for the fire is said to be irresponsible smoking by some persons. Panyam MLA Katasani Rambhupal Reddy rushed to the goshala and ensured all efforts were made to bring the fire under control. He was accompanied by newly elected corporators Naryana Reddy and Sudarshan Reddy of wards 28 and 29 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haystacks-destroyed-in-fire-500-cows-rescued/article34079464.ece
16 March 2021||MALIKIPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||8 students, 4 teachers from govt. school test positive||At least eight students and four teachers of a Mandal Parishad Upper Primary School at Malikipuram village tested positive for COVID-19 by Sunday evening, prompting district authorities to close the school till Thursday in East Godavari district. “As of Sunday evening, a total of 13 persons including eight students, four teachers and one Anganwadi worker have tested positive for COVID-19. The results of 170 persons, including parents of the students, is yet to come,” District Education Officer A. Abraham told The Hindu . "All the 70 students of the school have undergone the COVID test and the result is yet to come by Monday. The school has been shut down and likely to be reopened on Thursday based on the situation of the day", added Mr. Abraham. Health officials said all the patients are in a stable condition and are being treated in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8-students-4-teachers-test-positive/article34079467.ece
16 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local body elections a farce: Chinta Mohan||Congress Working Committee member Chinta Mohan on Monday alleged that the ruling YSR Congress Party had won the urban local body elections in the State by resorting to ‘gross misuse of official machinery’. “I have never in my long political career seen such an undemocratic election as was witnessed during the elections to municipal corporations, municipalties and nagar panchayats now,” he told reporters at Muthukur in Sarvelli Assembly segment of Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency in Nellore district. “The large number of unanimous wins in favour of the ruling party were achieved by forcing opposition party candidates to withdraw their nominations by threatening to foist cases on them by misusing the police,” the former Union Minister alleged. “The ruling party did not stop with that. In the divisions and wards where contests became inevitable, they directly threatened the voters that benefits of welfare schemes like Amma Vodi, old age pension etc. would be abruptly stopped if they did not vote for the ruling party,” he alleged. The State Election Commission, which was active in the beginning, had failed to ensure a level-playing field to the opposition parties, he charged. Dr. Chinta Mohan, who canvassed in Muthukur and Manabolu for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection, evoked a “good response” from people in Dalit colonies. They recalled the benefits of welfare schemes they got under late Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/local-body-elections-a-farce-alleges-chinta-mohan/article34079449.ece
16 March 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||City sees mass movement of butterflies||An unusual phenomenon was witnessed across certain pockets in the city on Monday when swarms of Indian common crow butterflies were seen in a mass movement. The phenomenon was observed from Thotlakonda till Naval Coastal Battery and was termed as ‘peculiar’ by researchers during this time of the year. Commuters on Beach Road were taken aback to see such kaleidoscope of butterflies moving in a direction, a phenomenon which occurred from morning till afternoon. “It almost felt like a wave of butterflies coming towards you. I could feel many brush past me,” said K. Sunita, who happened to pass by Beach Road at noon. Normally, before the onset of South West monsoons, the common crow and tiger butterflies move from Western Ghats to the forests of Eastern Ghats and eventually to the plains to avoid torrential rains. The reverse migration is seen in South India before the onset of North East monsoons (October-November) to Western Ghats.  ‘Population outburst’ “Such a kind of a mass movement at this time of the year is very peculiar. Various factors including favourable conditions on the feeding ground and good rains could have triggered the early migration. Another likely factor could be a population outburst. We will be able to ascertain if it was an early migration only by June -July,” M. Ram Murthy of Dolphin Nature Conservation Society told The Hindu . “Just like locust migration this could be a sporadic or local migration. This present probable migration may also be an indication of climate change,” he added. The Indian Common Crow Butterfly is a common butterfly found from South Asia to Australia. In thick forests, it is often seen moving along open tracks or following the course of a river. Along with other species such as tigers, the common crow is one of the most common migrating butterfly species. Males and females in equal proportions have been seen to migrate. Butterfly enthusiasts in the region have been recording the mass migration over more than a decade now, but it is the first time that such large-scale movement of common crows was reported at this time of the year from this region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-sees-mass-movement-of-butterflies/article34079728.ece
16 March 2021||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||IIIT students get their doubts cleared with IAS trainee officers||Budding engineers of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), Nuzvid IIIT, clarified their doubts with IAS probationary officers on how to prepare for civil services examinations. The students interacted with the IAS trainees during the latter’s visit to the IIIT campus on Monday. They visited the laboratories, solar power plant, classrooms, examination cell and other facilities in the university. Speaking on the occasion, RGUKT Vice-Chancellor K. Hemachandra Reddy said the university is providing all facilities to the students on the campus to achieve their goals. The trainee officers visited the Polavaram project in West Godavari district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiit-students-get-their-doubts-cleared-with-ias-trainee-officers/article34079109.ece
16 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco auctions begin on promising note||Auctioning of tobacco, the principal commercial crop in the drought-prone areas of Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts, began on an encouraging note on Monday. Inaugurating the auctions at Ongole II auction platform along with Tobacco Board Chairman K.Raghunatha Babu, State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy said the State government for the first time had directly entered the market in a crisis situation in the wake of a slump in the market. “We will not leave the farmers to fend for themselves in the event of any crisis,” he said, adding that the farmer-friendly government would closely follow the market condition and enter the market if needed to bail out the farmers, who were in debts for the last four years because of unfavourable climatic and market conditions. Demand for better average price The Tobacco Board had taken up the farmers’ demand for a better average price this time with the Indian Tobacco Association, Mr. Raghunatha Babu said. The demand-supply situation would work to the advantage of farmers this season as the crop regulator had cut down the crop size by about 15% taking into the coronavirus-induced global economic downturn, he said. The good grade out-turn with bright grade varieties accounting for about 70% of the produce and medium and low grade varieties 15% each also augured well for the farmers, he observed. YSR Congress Party farmers wing prakasam district president Mareddy Subba Reddy said farmers across the auction platforms would closely observe the market condition in the next 10 days. They would not hesitate to resort to stir if the traders turned inactive. All those who gave indents at the time of fixing of crop size should actively take part in the auctions from the beginning, he added. The traders lapped up the bright grade tobacco offered by the farmers from the traditional tobacco growing areas, offering an attractive price of Rs. 180 per kg on an average. A quantity of 5,600 kg was traded on the Southern Black Soil(SBS) auction platforms and 14,222.30 kg on the Southern Light Soil(SLS) auction platforms, including Kaligiri and D.C.Palli in SPSR Nellore district on the inaugural day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-auctions-begin-on-promising-note/article34079469.ece
16 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow labour codes, company told||Central Building and other Construction Workers Advisory Board Chairman V. Srinivasa Naidu on Monday made it clear to the management representatives of the United Breweries to follow Labour Codes and procedures to protect the interests of contract workers and other labourers. After receiving a complaint from BJP State executive committee member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao, Mr. Srinivasa Naidu conducted an inquiry in the industry located at Bantupalli of Ranasthalam mandal over the removal of contract workers. “The management should find an amicable solution to the grievances of the workers. Sudden removal of jobs will make life miserable for contract workers and others,” said Mr. Srinivasa Naidu. The industry Human Resources representatives Janardhan and C.S. Guruprasad were present during the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-labour-codes-company-told/article34079516.ece
16 March 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police launch free bus service in Maoist-hit belt in Agency||The district police launched a free bus service from Annavaram to Korukonda, which is a stretch of around 22 km, in Visakha agency on Monday. The bus will make three trips — morning, afternoon and evening — and will also make one trip to Chintapalli, daily, which is again over 20 km from Korukonda. There has been no bus service till date as the area is said to be affected by Maoists, said ASP Chintapalli A. Vidyasagar Naidu. The bus and the staff have been provided by the APSRTC and the police will bear the service cost. To facilitate smooth running of the bus, the district police also got repaired around 9 km stretch of road from Rallagadda. Inaugurating the bus service, Mr. Vidyasagar said it was a historic moment, as the tribals who have been walking all the way since the Independence will now have bus service. The project was launched on instructions from SP (Visakhapatnam) B. Krishna Rao. Earlier last year, the district police had launched a similar service in G-Madugula mandal. With the bus service, the mood is upbeat and tribals are now seeking more development and rejecting the ideas of the left wing extremism, he said. After the recent alleged murder of Korra Pilku (35) at Kothapalem village, a former militia member, by the Maoists in GK Veedhi mandal, the tribals had come out openly protesting the killing. They had earlier taken up similar protests after two tribals were killed in G Madugula in December last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-bus-service-in-maoist-hit-belt-in-agency/article34079283.ece
16 March 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP busy finalising candidate for GVMC Mayor post||Now that the YSR Congress Party has romped home by winning 58 of the 98 wards in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation polls, the party senior leaders are busy finalising the candidate for the Mayor post. The candidate’s name will be announced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, said Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath. The post is a prestigious one and all options including caste equations and personal qualities are being weighed. The election of Mayor is scheduled on March 17. One name that appears to be making the rounds even before the completion of the polls is Vamsi Krishna Srinivasa Yadav, the city president of the YSR Congress Party. He was elected from Ward no. 21. It may be remembered that he was not given the MLA ticket in the last minute in 2019 Assembly Elections. Ms. A. Vijaya Nirmala was given the ticket in Visakhapatnam (East) to fight it out against TDP sitting MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and she lost the elections. Since then Mr. Vasmi has been hopeful for a plum post and finally fortune may smile upon him in the form of the mayoral post. The YSRCP had made good inroads in Visakhapatnam (East) by winning about 15 out of 17 wards in the corporation polls and he might be rewarded for it, said party sources. Moreover, party sources say that he had been a loyal party worker from day one and is in the good books of party member in Rajya Sabha V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, who played a key role in the win in municipal elections. Though Mr. Vamsi seems to be the hot favourite for the mayor post, the race is open for the post of Deputy Mayor.  Deputy Mayor post At least four names are making rounds, which includes Vamsi Reddy, who is the son of Gajuwaka MLA Tippala Nagi Reddy, Anil Kumar Raju a close aide of K.K. Raju, who was the MLA candidate for Visakhapatnam (North), Barkat Ali, a leader from the YSRCP Minority cell, and finally Muttamsetti Priyanka, the daughter of Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao. If a candidate from minority is considered then Barkat Ali has a chance, who won from a ward in Marripalem area. Caste equation is another deciding factor and both the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor may be chosen from the BCs. Another speculation is that the tenure for both the posts may be split into two terms of two-and-a-half-years by the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister has already set such a system for the ministerial posts and may implement the same for posts in the municipal corporation, say senior leaders of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-busy-finalising-candidate-for-gvmc-mayor-post/article34079462.ece
16 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veda Patasala reports 10 new COVID cases||Six more students studying at SV Veda Patasala at Dharmagiri along with four other faculty members reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. All the infected students were asymptomatic and were taken to the SVIMS super-specialty hospital in Tirupati where they were admitted in a special ward. It was only last week that 57 Vedic students tested positive for the virus in the aftermath of the re-opening of the school after the lockdown. Sources attributed the reason for the outbreak of the virus to the sharing of hostel rooms, toilets and dining room by the students who had reached the campus from across the southern States. TTD Health Officer Dr. R.R. Reddy said all the students and faculty were safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veda-patasala-reports-10-new-covid-cases/article34079450.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cash transactions hit as bank employees go on two-day strike||Banking services were hit across the State as around 25,000 employees and officers went on a two-day strike on Monday, protesting the proposed privatisation of two public sector banks. The proposal was announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during her Union Budget speech in the Parliament. The bank employees owing allegiance to various constituent unions of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) boycotted their duties, in response to the nationwide strike call given by the UFBU. The bank employees also staged demonstrations across the State, opposing the move.  2,000 branches remain closed The strike paralysed financial transactions including that of treasury. Cash transactions were hit as around 2,000 branches of public sector banks in the State remained closed. The government treasury transactions could not be put through. In most of the places, clearing operations, especially outward clearing, was affected. The ongoing strike will be followed by a four-day break in banking operations as banks will remain closed on March 13 (second Saturday) and March 14 (Sunday). ATMs run dry The ATM kiosks went dry by the noon at many places as the cash was not replenished in tune with the requirements. The people were seen rushing from one ATM to another to withdraw money. Panic withdrawals were also seen at a few places. The bank employees staged protests at two different locations at the Dharna Chowk in Vijayawada. Krishna district bank employees’ coordination committee secretary Y. Srinivasa Rao said that the strike would continue on Tuesday. “The public sector banks being taken over by private vested interests should be stopped. The alarming rise in bad loans and nonperforming assets (NPAs) are ailing the public sector banks and a majority of defaulters are corporate firms. Instead of taking tough action against them, the government is out to whitewash the balance sheets by shifting these bad loans from the books. A Bad Bank has also been proposed for the purpose,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cash-transactions-hit-as-bank-employees-go-on-two-day-strike/article34079457.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF takes up cleanliness drive in Krishna||Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th battalion have taken up a cleanliness drive in Krishna river under the Swachhta Abhiyan programme. At least 300 personnel, along with Commandant Zahid Khan, Deputy Commandants Sukhendu Datta and Dilbagh Singh, participated in the drive at Sitanagaram village in Guntur district on Monday. They cleaned the river bank, bathing ghats at the village and removed the linen, garlands, puja material, coconuts, flowers and banana leaves struck in the river. “About 400 expert swimmers and deep divers from the force participated in Swachhta Abhiyan,” Mr. Zahid Khan said. With many devotees taking up holy dip in the river and performing pujas during Mahasivaratri, garbage was piled up at many places and on the bathing ghats. The garbage collected during the drive was shifted to the dumping yards through the vehicles arranged by Mangalagiri municipality and the NDRF Battalion, the Commandant said. “We request the devotees to not dump waste in rivers, and strive to keep them clean,” said Mr. Zahid Khan and praised the jawans for taking up the drive in a massive way to protect the environment. Mr. Sukhendu Datta said that NDRF would take up ‘Swachhta Abhiyan’ twice in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-takes-up-cleanliness-drive-in-krishna/article34079108.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lone COVID-19 death in State reported from Kurnool||The State reported one more coronavirus death and 147 new infections in 24 hours, ending Monday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 8,92,008 and the toll to 7,185. The lone death was reported in Kurnool district while the total death rate was put at 0.81%. With 103 patients being recovered in the past day, the active cases reached 1,443. The single-day tally and active cases has been on the rise for the past three weeks. The number of recoveries increased to  8,83,380 and the recovery rate came down to 99.03%. The daily positivity rate of the 22,604 samples tested in the past day was was put at 0.65%, the highest in the recent past. The overall positivity rate stood at 6.13% for the 1.456 crore samples tested thus far. With 35 new infections in the past day, Chittoor continued to report the highest single-day tally among the districts. East Godavari, which has witnessed a surge in infection of late, reported 31 new case. Guntur and Srikakulam districts reported 21 and 10 new infections repectively, followed by Anantapur, Kadapa, Krishna and Nellore (9 each), Visakhapatnam (7), Kurnool (4). Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts reported one case each. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,677), West Godavari (94,383), Chittoor (88,105), Guntur (75,932), Anantapur (67,866), Nellore (62,545), Prakasam (62,253), Kurnool (60,965), Visakhapatnam (60,257), Kadapa (55,476), Krishna (49,161), Srikakulam (46,310) and Vizianagaram (41,183).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lone-covid-19-death-in-state-reported-from-kurnool/article34079452.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling party secures 46% vote share in VMC elections||The YSR Congress Party which has won more than 75% of the 64 municipal wards in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has secured 2,09,660 votes, 45.85% of the 4.57 lakh valid votes polled. The ruling party has bagged a majority of more than 10% votes over the Telugu Desam Party and the Communist Party of India (CPI) alliance, which secured 35% vote share (1,60,059) and stood second in the list. The latter won only 14 wards. The Jana Sena Party which contested the civic polls for the first time secured 45,738 votes, a 10% vote share, while the Bharatiya Janatha Party (BJP) had only 10,671 votes (2.33%) in its kitty. The CPI(M), which has won only one ward, fared better than BJP and secured 2.42% votes. The Congress party, with only 2,977 votes polled in its favour, lagged behind the None of the Above (NOTA) option exercised by 4,679 voters. In the civic polls held in 2014, the TDP secured 39.67% of total 4.39 lakh valid votes polled, while YSRCP’s vote share was 29.72% then. The ruling party share has increased the vote share by more than 16% this municipal polls. The Congress was in third place with a vote share of 11.66%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruling-party-secures-46-vote-share-in-vmc-elections/article34079453.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||School students found to be ‘addicted’ to whitener||The police, education and excise officials have decided to conduct a counselling session for the students of a government-aided school in Tadepalli, who were found to be addicted to whitener, an intoxicant. The issue came into light when two students were found to have consumed whitener recently and the staff lodged a police complaint. Guntur Urban Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammireddy said that the police personnel visited the school and confirmed that more than 30 students were using whitener regularly. Inquiry begins “We alerted the Education and Prohibition and Excise Departments. They visited the school. The students and their parents will be counselled on Tuesday,” Mr. Ammireddy said.  Meanwhile, the police have launched an inquiry to identify the persons who were selling whitener to the students. “The shop owners in Tadepalli have been warned of severe action if they sell whitener to students,” he said, adding that the parents, village elders were made aware of the issue. The students will be explained about the ill-effects of using whitener and other drugs. Parents should keep a watch on their children, the SP said.  No case registered The education officials also submitted a report to the government. “No case has been registered considering the future of the students. The teachers have been told to the keep a vigil on the students,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-students-found-to-be-addicted-to-whitener/article34079717.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 102.50 crore for desilting work at Prakasam Barrage||The State government on Monday sanctioned nearly Rs. 102.50 crore for undertaking the desilting works in the Krishna river upstream of Prakasam Barrage, said a G.O. issued by Secretary (Water Resources) J. Syamala Rao on Monday. Plans are afoot to remove around 50 lakh tonnes of silting material which would be used in priority works. The Water Resources Department and Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) have been mandated to obtain certification from the competent technical authority that the desilted material is suitable for the the works proposed and to ensure compliance with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the G.O. said. The APMDC will bear the entire cost incurred by the desilting works and the value derived from the sale of the desilted material should exceed the cost of survey, excavation, transportation and etc. and result in a net profit for the government. 12 packages The desilting works have been divided into 12 packages and the Chief Engineer of the Krishna Delta system has been instructed to take the necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-10250-crore-for-desilting-work-at-prakasam-barrage/article34079459.ece
16 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student kit to have English dictionary||The State government has decided to procure and include English dictionaries in the ‘student kits’ that will be supplied to students of government-run schools across the State under the ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ scheme. The initiative is part of the government’s thrust on English-medium education and is intended to help hone the language skills of students and bolster their confidence by providing a ready reference guide whenever they come across a new word hitherto unknown to them. Dictionaries play an important role not only in assisting students in learning vocabulary, but also in providing information on the derivation of words, their meanings and pronunciation. The government has, therefore, resolved to make dictionaries an integral part of the paraphernalia of students in order to equip them with a better knowledge of English, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-kits-to-have-english-dictionaries/article34079460.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People taught a lesson to Naidu in GVMC polls, says Anakapalle MLA||The people of Visakhapatnam have taught a lesson to TDP national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu, by defeating the party in the recently concluded GVMC polls, said Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath, here on Monday.Addressing a press conference, Mr. Amarnath said even during his two-day campaign Mr. Naidu spoke badly about the three capital idea and people had rejected him. YSRCP’s win substantiated the fact that people of the city want the Executive Capital here and had rejected Mr. Naidu, Mr. Amarnath said. Appreciating YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, he said that the MP led from the front and secured the win. The Chief Minister and Mr. Vijaya Sai will soon take a call on the mayoral candidate, he said. Mr. Amarnath said that people of the State have voted for development and YSRCP has fulfilled all the promises made in the 2019 election manifesto. “If the dates for the MPTC and ZPTC elections are declared, we will also win those elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-taught-a-lesson-to-naidu-in-gvmc-polls-says-anakapalle-mla/article34079720.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ward volunteers campaigned for YSRCP, alleges TDP||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Parliamentary District president Palla Srinivasa Rao has said that the party will abide by the verdict of people in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections. Addressing a media conference along with party leaders Lodagala Krishna, Sanapala Panduranga Rao and GITAM president Sribharat here on Monday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the TDP would play the role of a responsible opposition in the GVMC. He, however, thanked the people for giving a respectable total of 30 seats in the GVMC to the TDP unlike other corporations and municipalities in the State. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party government had advantage of the services of volunteers to campaign for the party candidates in the wards. They had worked like YSRCP activists in the wards, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. He also attributed the defeat of the TDP to the inducement of voters by the ruling party with liquor and cash. He alleged that the YSRCP leaders had threatened voters with withdrawal of welfare schemes as they had power in their hands. He attributed this to the defeat of TDP candidates in the wards, in the Assembly constituencies held by the party MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ward-volunteers-campaigned-for-ysrcp-alleges-tdp/article34079718.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Privatisation of PSBs will affect priority sector lending, say staff||The proposal of the Union government to privatise public sector banks (PSBs) will affect priority sector lending and thereby hit small farmers, traders, rural and cottage industries and small industries, which are the mainstay of the national economy, said leaders of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU). The government was planning privatisation of PSBs on the plea of mounting non-performing assets (NPAs) and to improve efficiency of banks. The laws for recovery of NPAs should be tightened and large corporate stressed assets should be made to pay up. Wilful default of loans should be made a criminal offence, UFBU State convener L. Chandrasekhar told the media here on Monday. All the unions NCBE, AIBEA, BEFI, INBEF, INBOC, NOBW, AIBOC and NOBO are participating in the bank strike, being observed, on the banner of the UFBU, on Monday and Tuesday (March 15 and 16). Mr. Chandrasekhar said that the Centre had proposed to privatise two of the 12 PSBs. The Central union leaders were called for discussions on March 12 but the government had failed to give any assurance on dropping the privatisation plan. He attributed the NPAs to advancing of loans to corporates without collateral security and loan waivers announced by the governments from time to time. The UFBU leader refuted the contention that the private sector was efficient.SBI Staff Union, Visakhapatnam Module, deputy general secretary A. Sushma, also spoke. Later, the union leaders participated in a rally from the Saraswathi Park to the Gandhi statue near the GVMC, where they staged a protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/privatisation-of-psbs-will-affect-priority-sector-lending-say-staff/article34079723.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of special trains extended till June-end||The railways have decided to extend the services of special trains till June-end for the benefit of the travelling public. The services of trains extended include: 02851 Visakhapatnam-Nizamuddin biweekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Mondays and Fridays, will be extended up to June 28, 02852 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam biweekly express, leaving Hazrat Nizamuddin on Wednesdays and Sundays, will be extended up to June 30 , 02887 Visakhapatnam-Hazrat Nizamuddin weekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, will be extended up to June 30, 02888 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Visakhapatnam weekly express train, leaving Hazarat Nizamuddin on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, Mondays and Tuesdays, will be extended up to July 2. Similarly, train no. 02869 Visakhapatnam-Chennai weekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Mondays, will be extended up to June 28 , 02870 Chennai Central-Visakhapatnam weekly special express, leaving Chennai Central on Tuesdays will be extended up to June 29, 02857 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus via Rayagada weekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Sundays, will be extended up to June 27, 02858 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Visakhapatnam via Rayagada weekly special express, leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on Tuesdays, will be extended up to June 29, 08501 Visakhapatnam-Gandhidham weekly special express, leaving Visakhapatnam on Thursdays, will be extended up to June 24, 08502 Gandhidham-Visakhapatnam weekly special express, leaving Gandhidham on Sundays, will be extended up to June 27 , 07488 Visakhapatnam-Cuddapah daily special express, will be extended up to June 30, 07487 Kadapa- Visakhapatnam daily special express train will be extended up to July 1, 02831 Visakhapatnam- Lingampalli special train, leaving Visakhapatnam daily will be extended up to June 30 and train no. 02832 Lingampalli-Visakhapatnam daily special train will be extended up to July 1. Similarly, the services of train no. 08479 Bhubaneswar-Tirupati weekly special express, 08480 Tirupati-Bhubaneswar, 02839 Bhubaneswar-Chennai Central, 02840 Chennai Central-Bhubaneswar weekly special express, 02845 Bhubaneswar-Bangalore cantt special express, 02846 Bangalore cant- Bhubaneswar weekly special, 02898 Bhubaneswar-Puducherry weekly special, 02897 Puducherry-Bhubaneswar weekly, 08496 Bhubaneswar-Rameshwaram weekly, 08495 Rameshwaram-Bhubaneswar weekly, 02859 Puri-Chennai Central weekly and 02860 Chennai Central-Puri special Express have all been extended. Passengers are requested to strictly follow all the health protocols before undertaking journey in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. They are also requested to convey their accurate mobile number while purchasing a railway ticket to receive SMS alert on time, if there is any update about the train like cancellation and change of timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-special-trains-extended-till-june-end/article34079475.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI conducts searches in Visakhapatnam||Officials from CBI, New Delhi, conducted searches in Visakhapatnam and 12 others cities across the country such as Kapurthala, Bhathinda, Delhi, Kaithal, Palwal, Lucknow, Bareili, Gorakhpur, Jaipur, Guwahati, Jorhat and Chirangon, on Monday. About 30 places including base hospitals, cantonment, other army establishments and civilian areas were searched and several incriminating documents were seized. The searches were conducted as part of a case based on a complaint filed from the office of Additional Directorate General, Discipline & Vigilance, Adjutant General’s Branch, Integrated HQ of Ministry of Defence (Army), DHQ PO, New Delhi. Cases were also booked against 17 Army officials, including Lt. Col., Major, Naib Subedar, Sepoy and others, and six private persons and others on the allegations pertaining to bribery and irregularities in recruitment of officers and other ranks through Service Selection Board (SSB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-conducts-searches-in-visakhapatnam/article34079721.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘If Centre can bail out Yes Bank, why not VSP?’||Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Committee chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao has condemned the statements of Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) had been incurring losses for the past several years and for how long would it have to be supported by the taxpayers. He asked if the Centre could bail out the loss-making YES Bank, a private firm, why the same benefits was being denied to the VSP. In a statement on Monday, he said there was no truth in the statements of the Union Minister that the plant was incurring losses for the past several years. Mr. Narasinga Rao alleged that the Centre had allotted captive mines to many private and PSU steel units in the country. It, however, has failed to extend the same benefit to VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/if-yes-bank-can-be-bailed-out-by-centre-why-not-vsp/article34079716.ece
16 March 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||6% gap in YSRCP, TDP vote share in city||In the just concluded GVMC polls, the YSR Congress Party has secured 58 out of total 98 wards and TDP secured 30 wards. The difference in vote share between the arch rivals is around 6%. The total voters in the GVMC were 17,26,258 of whom 10,25,758 had exercised their franchise. After segregating the invalid votes of 23,458, the total votes secured were 10,02,300. Of the total votes polled, the YSRCP polled around 4.34 lakh, thus garnering about 42% of the vote share. On the other hand votes polled by the TDP was about 3.71 lakh, giving it a vote share of around 36%. The Jana Sena Party which polled 77,865 votes, stood in the third place with 7.5% and its alliance partner BJP could garner only around 36,953 votes with a vote percentage of 3.6. While NOTA’s share was 10,207, the 160 odd independents got over 33,000 votes and could also win four wards. In some of the wards the fight between YSRCP and TDP was close down to the wire. While BJP-JSP combine together garnered about 1.17 lakhs votes taking a share of around 11.7%, it was the JSP that fared better, in all the 51 wards where it fielded its candidates. In the final tally, the JSP could bag 3 wards and BJP 1. The CPI contested from six wards and secured around 4,000 votes, winning in ward no 72. The CPI (M) fielded their candidates in 19 wards and secured the 78th ward and in total polled around 8,100 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-gap-in-ysrcp-tdp-vote-share-in-vizag/article34079476.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSEZ achieved record exports of Rs. 1 trillion: official||The 32nd Zone Formation Day of Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ), which has jurisdiction over the SEZs in A.P., Telangana, Chhattisgarh and the union territory of Yanam, was celebrated at the VSEZ premises at Duvvada here on Monday. VSEZ Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy appreciated the stakeholders for helping the zone achieving the landmark exports of Rs. 1 trillion during 2020-21, breaking all the records of the past 32 years and standing first in the country in terms of growth. The first Development Commissioner of VSEZ G. Venkanna was felicitated for his contribution in the initial phase. The representatives of units, which contributed exceptionally to exports from the VSEZ during the year, were presented mementoes. The units, which successfully implemented the Clean and Green concept (Swachhata) and the officials, who have rendered commendable service, were also honoured. A few saplings of sandalwood were planted to mark the occasion. Mr. Reddy said that VSEZ was set up at Duvvada in Visakhapatnam as an export processing zone, owned by the Union government. Popularly known as VEPZ (Visakhapatnam Export Processing Zone), it was set up over 360.5 acres of land on March 15,1989. Speaking on the performance of VSEZ during the lockdown, he said, software and services sector contributed to 66% and pharma and biotech 20%. M/s Laurus labs of APSEZ exported 11.47 million hydroxychloroquine tablets to USA, South Africa, Singapore, Malawi etc., he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsez-achieved-record-exports-of-rs-1-trillion/article34079474.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Raipur-Vizag NH project will be ready by 2024-25’||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Monday in Rajya Sabha said that Raipur –Visakhapatnam National Highway project, an economic corridor, had been approved under Bharatmala Pariyojana Phase-I. He was answering to an unstarred question raised by YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Mr. Gadkari said the project starts from Abhanpur near Raipur (Chhattisgarh) and ends at Sabbavaram in Visakhapatnam. (Andhra Pradesh). The entire stretch is a greenfield alignment passing through Chhattisgarh (124 km), Odisha (240 km) and Andhra Pradesh (100 km). The stretch has been notified as a national highway. He said the DPR in majority of the project portion had been ready and land acquisition, environment clearance were in different stages of approval. The bidding for a length of 42 km in Chhattisgarh and 214 km length in Odisha and 100 km in Andhra Pradesh has been initiated. The entire project is targeted for completion by financial year 2024-25, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raipur-vizag-nh-project-will-be-ready-by-2024-25/article34079463.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Jalashwa in Comoros to deliver rice||As part of Mission Sagar-IV, Indian Naval Ship Jalashwa arrived at Port Anjouan, Comoros, on March 14 to deliver 1,000 metric tonnes of rice. An official ceremony for handing over the food aid from the Union government to the government of Comoros was held on Monday. The ceremony was attended by Dhoihir Dhoulkamal, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, in charge of the diaspora, and Djae Ahamada Chanfi, Minister of Maritime and Air Transport of Comoros. The Indian side was represented by Captain Pankaj Chauhan, Commanding Officer INS Jalashwa. This is the second visit of an Indian Navy ship to the island country within a span of one year. Earlier, as part of Mission Sagar-I, in May-June 2020, the Indian Navy had then delivered essential medicines to the nation and had also deployed a specialist medical team to work alongside their counterparts and to render assistance for dengue fever related emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ins-jalashwa-in-comoros-to-deliver-rice/article34079135.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Research vessel leaves Vizag||A team of 30 scientists left the city by research vessel R.V. Sindhu Sadhana on Monday for a CSIR-funded study as part of a 3-year-project of the National Institute of Oceanography. The scientists will study marine organisms in different conditions, said NIO officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/research-vessel-leaves-vizag/article34079719.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DPIIT-IPR Chair sanctioned to AU||The Department for Promotion of Industries and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industries, Government of India, has sanctioned ‘DPIIT-IPR Chair’ to Andhra University, under the Scheme for Pedagogy and Research in IPRs for Holistic Education and Academia (SPRIHA). H. Purshottam, the former CMD of the NRDC has been appointed as the DPIIT-IPR Chair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dpiit-ipr-chair-sanctioned-to-au/article34079726.ece
16 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district records seven new COVID cases||The district recorded seven new COVID -19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative total to 60,769. No deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, thus keeping the count at 540. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons have recovered from the virus taking the total recoveries to 60,130.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-records-seven-new-covid-cases/article34079729.ece
16 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cheepurupalli abuzz with devotees for temple fest||Cheepurupalli town wore a festive look on Monday with the arrival of devotees from different parts of the North Andhra region to worship presiding deity Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi Ammavaru during the three-day annual festival. The entire stretch between Cheepurupalli and Subhadrapuram Road was jam-packed with continuous flow of pilgrims who attach a lot of significance to participation in kumkum puja. Special prayers Over 80,000 devotees offered special prayers and participated in the kumkum puja and other spiritual activities on the second day. The temple trust board chairman Ippili Suryaprakasha Rao, known as Govinda, said there would be a procession to the local temples, including Asiritalli, Bhagiradhamma Talli, Sri Yellamamba Talli and Santana Lakshmi Talli on Tuesday, the last day of the festival. Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar and other leaders will participate in the yatra and other events. “We are thankful to the police department for ensuring smooth traffic in spite of the heavy rush at the temple with the arrival of pilgrims from Srikakulam, Rajam, Vizianagaram and other places,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-throng-cheepurupalli-for-temple-fest/article34079472.ece
16 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Respect for all leaders will revive TDP’||Former Vizianagaram MLA Meesala Geetha on Monday urged the Telugu Desam Party high command to ensure respect for all leaders in Vizianagaram district to revive the party in the city as well as in the district. Along with former TDP MLA of Gajapathinagaram K.A. Naidu, Ms. Geetha addressed a press meet here in the backdrop of the TDP’s debacle in Vizianagaram where the party won only one ward out of 50. Ms. Geetha, who was unsuccessful in securing a party ticket for the 2019 Assembly elections, alleged that she was not being invited to party programmes in the district headquarters. “Lack of teamwork and coordination is the main reason behind the TDP’s failure in Vizianagaram. Some candidates failed to meet the expectations of the local people. The party needs to stay united and respect all of its leaders. Only then will it become a formidable force,” Ms. Geeta said. Mr. Naidu said that lack of planning and strategy led to the defeat in Vizianagaram although the party was able to win seats in Bobbili and Nellimarla nagar panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respect-for-all-leaders-will-revive-tdp/article34079518.ece
16 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unions protest VSP sale||AITUC district secretary Bugata Ashok on Monday urged people to join hands with the trade unions in protecting the national wealth, alleging that Narendra Modi government was planning to privatise even railways apart from public sector units like the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Along with leaders of various unions, he staged a protest at the railway station here. The sale of government properties was being done in a systematic way to benefit corporate companies owned by Gujarat families, he alleged. Leaders of various unions T.V. Ramana, Ommi Ramana, Modili Srinivasa Rao and P. Mallik took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-stage-protest-against-vsp-sale/article34079470.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pleasant surprise!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pleasant-surprise/article34079478.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cluster detected in Mancherial high school||A cluster of 15 COVID-19 cases has been detected in Zilla Parishad High School, Mancherial. Those found positive for the novel coronavirus include 13 teachers, a student and a cook. Health officials in the district came across the cluster after a teacher from the school was detected with the virus two days ago. As per standard protocol to know if more people are infected, 55 people from the school were examined on Monday. This measure helps in early detection of the infectious disease, early treatment, and containment of the virus. Mild symptoms Of those 55, as many as 14 tested positive for the virus. Macherial District Medical and Health Officer M. Neeraja said all 14 have mild form of COVID-19 and are directed to be in home isolation. Contacts of the teachers, cook and student were asked to undergo tests on Tuesday to gauge further spread of the virus. Two Health teams have been put on the task of collecting samples. Classes at the school had recently resumed for class 6 to 10 students. Officials of the Education department said classes were being conducted in two shifts. “Sixth and ninth standard students attend classes in the morning while seventh and eighth standard students come in the afternoon. Tenth standard students have regular timings. These measures were taken to maintain physical distancing,” explained District Education Officer S. Venkateshwarlu. He said only 60% of students have been attending classes since reopening. The school was closed on second Saturday and Sunday. The school has been shuttered in view of the present situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cluster-detected-in-mancherial-high-school/article34079529.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Act against polluting industries in Shastripuram, Tatanagar: HC||The Telangana High Court on Monday directed the State government to issue notices within two weeks to all industrial units causing environmental pollution in Shastrinagar and Tatanagar on city outskirts. Within a week of receiving the notices, the industries concerned should give explanation. The GHMC should initiate action against polluting industries within two weeks of receiving explanation from them, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The electricity authorities should stop supply of power to the industrial units against which the GHMC initiates action, the bench said. Owner of industrial units having any objections over GHMC taking action against them can approach the High Court, the bench said. The CJ made it clear that no lower court should pass any orders against the action initiated by electricity authorities or GHMC officials against polluting industrial units. In the past, some industrial units secured stay orders from civil courts against the orders passed by the GHMC. The bench, in its order, directed the GHMC to take steps to get such stay orders vacated by furnishing its directions in the civil courts. The GHMC should file a report with details like against how many industrial units closure notices were issued, how many of them had furnished explanations and how many units were closed. The directions were given by the bench while hearing a batch of PIL pleas and writ petitions relating to industrial units causing pollution in Shastripuram of Rajendranagar. The bench observed that authorities turned a blind eye when industrial units mushroomed in residential localities. They woke up only after PIL petitions were filed in the HC over the matter, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/act-against-polluting-industries-hc-to-ghmc/article34079556.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Budget session of Legislature to last 10 days till March 26||The Budget session of Telangana Legislature will last for 10 days till March 26 with the presentation of Budget for 2021-22 on March 18. There will be no sitting on March 19 and 21. Length of the seventh session of the second Telangana Legislative Assembly was decided at the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting held after Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan’s address to the joint sitting of the Assembly and Council on Monday. Chaired by Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, the BAC meeting was attend by representatives of AIMIM and Congress and several Ministers -- including V. Prashanth Reddy (Legislative Affairs) T. Harish Rao (Finance) on behalf of the treasury benches. As per the scheduled approved by the BAC, condolence motions would be taken up on March 16 to pay tributes to Nomula Narsimhaiah, who represented the Assembly from Nagarjunasagar constituency in the present House, and eight former members – members who represented House in the past. Discussion on the motion of thanks to the Governor’s address, including the reply by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao would be taken up on March 17. After the presentation of Annual Budget for 2021-22 by Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao on March 18, there would be no sitting of the House on March 19. General discussion on the Budget/Annual Financial Statement would be taken up on March 20 and 22 with no sitting on March 21 on account of holiday. Reply to the discussion on Budget would also be given on March 22. Similarly, discussion/voting of demands for grants and other government business and bills would be held on March 23, 24 and 25 and the appropriation bill along with other government business and bills would be taken up on the last day of the session on March 26. Meanwhile, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka demanded taking up debate on important issues such as three new farm laws made by the Centre to pass a resolution against them, on the gruesome daylight murder of the lawyer couple G. Vaman Rao as also on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project taken up by Andhra Pradesh stating that it would have severe impact on the riparian rights of Telangana, particularly on the erstwhile Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Khammam districts. However, there was no assurance on the Congress demand from the government. Ministers S. Nirajan Reddy, Koppula Eshwar, G. Kamalakar, Chief Whip D. Vinay Bhaskar, Whip G. Sunita Laxma Reddy and Ahmed Pasha Quadri from AIMIM also attended the BAC meeting. The Council would also sit till March 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/budget-session-of-legislature-to-last-for-10-days-till-march-26/article34079553.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank operations hit as two-day strike begins||Bank operations across Telangana, particularly services that customers access through branches, were impacted as thousands of bank employees participated in a two-day nationwide strike that began on Monday against privatisation. From making enquiries, opening accounts, deposit and withdrawal of cash to seeking loans, little work was possible as branches remained closed for customers in the backdrop of the staff responding overwhelmingly to the call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU). Cheque clearing as well as government (treasury) work also could not be carried out, multiple sources said. UFBU convenor for Telangana R. Sriram said employees and officers, up to pay scale III, of public sector banks as well as those of regional rural banks and old generation private sector banks participated in the strike. He said an estimated 90% of the over 45,000 bank staff in the State were part of the strike against the 2021-22 Budget proposal that two public sector banks will be privatised. A show of strength and solidarity, the strike called by the umbrella body of nine unions that represent 10 lakh bank employees and officers across the country, however, did not pose serious concerns for customers, especially in urban areas in view of the enhanced use of digital banking options. The State Bank of India replenished cash at ATMs on Sunday too. Some employees were asked to report for work on Sunday, to stock the ATMs, as a measure to limit the inconvenience to customers, sources in SBI said. Sources in another leading public sector bank said over 70% of the ATMs, of the bank, in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka zone could not be replenished. They did not rule out the possibility of the impact being higher for the customers on Tuesday – the second day of the strike. Even on Monday, the situation varied in semi-urban and rural areas where customer acceptance and comfort with digital banking modes remain relatively low. New generation private banks such as HDFC and ICICI functioned as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-operations-hit-as-two-day-strike-begins/article34079562.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress leaders fault Governor’s joint address||The Congress party has dubbed the Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan’s address to the joint session of the Telangana Legislature on Monday as full of lies. Speaking at the Gun Park along with party legislators Komatireddy Rajagopal and D. Anasuya alias Seethakka, Congress Legislature Party Leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka sought to know from the government as to how many persons above 57 years of age, as promised by the government before the 2018 elections, had been extended social security (old-age) pensions. Unemployment dole He stated that the unemployed youth are eagerly awaiting allocation for unemployment allowance in the coming budget. Further, he questioned the government as to how many new rations cards were given during the last six years. Echoing similar views, Mr. Rajagopal Reddy and Ms. Seethakka suggested the government to allow the Opposition members to express their views in the House and demanded that the session be extended for few more days so that discussion on all issues be taken up. They said the focus of the Governor’s address was to shower praises on the government and demanded justice to Bhainsa riot victims. Speaker biased: BJP Expressing his disappointment on the Governor’s address, BJP MLA M. Raghunandan Rao said the shape of the session had become clear with the lopsided address. Speaking in the party office, he said he was expecting that the Speaker would act without any bias towards opposition but he was proved wrong as BJP was not invited to the Business Advisory Committee meeting. He felt that it was the responsibility of both the Speaker and Legislative Affairs Minister on not inviting BJP to the BAC meet. He pointed out that Jayaprakash Narayan used to be invited for BAC although he was a lone member. He stated that he would register his protest by meeting the Speaker on Tuesday. Earlier, BJP legislators T. Raja Singh and M. Raghunandan Rao paid homage to martyrs at the Gun Park before arriving to the Assembly. Justice for oustees Speaking they Mr. Rao said he would fight for people’s problems along with his colleague Mr. Raja Singh. He would wage a fight for justice to the people displaced by Mallannasagar reservoir of the Kaleshwaram project as it was Dubbak constituency people who had given him the opportunity to speak up on their behalf.  Congress cadre arrested Meanwhile, a group of Congress activists from Vemulawada Constituency in Rajanna-Sircilla district were taken into custody by the police outside the Assembly when they were raising slogans seeking to know whereabouts about their TRS legislator Ch. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-fault-governors-joint-address/article34079554.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health department teams on coronavirus cluster hunt||State Health department officials are once again on the task of finding cluster of COVID-19 cases, where people with coronavirus are linked by a common place and time. Now, in a few districts, the health teams are not limiting the tests to only immediate contacts of COVID-positive person. Anyone residing in the same village or locality as the patient is advised to undergo tests. The officials have come across one such emerging cluster in Mancherial. After a teacher in the Zilla Parishad High School was detected with the virus, 55 persons associated with the school were tested on Monday. Health teams found 12 more teachers, one cook and a student to have the virus. Contacts of those 14 will be tested on Tuesday. In Adilabad, apart from the immediate contacts, health teams are testing anyone who is from the same village as the patient. Regardless of whether one has come in contact with the patient or is asymptomatic, they are encouraged to undergo testing. District Medical and Health Officers (DMHOs) said this strategy helps them in early detection of the cases. If there is a delay in detection, asymptomatic or symptomatic patients might meet more people, opening the possibility for the virus to spread. The officials said they might detect more cases as testing is ramped up and that would help in virus containment. Since all DMHOs were asked to be on alert as cases are surging in the neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka, this strategy would continue for a few more weeks at least. Recently, a person who returned from a foreign country and landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) here, was detected with the virus. Adilabad district officials said though the person was supposed to be in home isolation in Nirmal district, he attended functions in Utnoor, Adilabad. The health teams there conducted tests on nearly 100 people from the village he visited. But, fortunately, none have been detected with the virus so far. The officials have urged people with the virus to isolate themselves and be socially responsible so that they do not transmit it to others. The incidence of COVID-19 deaths was highest among the elderly, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-department-teams-on-coronavirus-cluster-hunt/article34079534.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nuclear energy is long-term green energy, say scientists||Nuclear energy is the long term source of green energy, which will be required in future to achieve low-carbon footprint and drive long-term industrial requirement of the nation. While scientists and academicians have been aware of this, people should be sensitised to the wide ranging ‘peaceful and beneficial applications’ in power generation, medicine, industry, agriculture, space, water resources and food preservation. This was the common theme among scientists and academicians at a one-day seminar on ‘Radiation and Environment’ organised under the aegis of Indian Nuclear Society (INS) at Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research (AMD), complex on Monday. Mass awareness of the societal benefits of nuclear energy will have a cascading effect on its acceptance, especially in rural India, which can catalyse the economic growth of the country. “Myths on environmental impact of nuclear energy should be removed,” observed AMD director D.K. Sinha. Department of Atomic Energy’s (DAE) research efforts have also been to better crop varieties, protection, radiation based post-harvest technologies, techniques for radio-diagnosis and radiotherapy of diseases, particularly cancer, technologies for safe drinking water, rural development, industrial growth and better environment, he said. Various organisations of DAE like Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Nuclear Fuel Complex (NFC), Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) have been doing research on advanced technologies such as accelerators, lasers, supercomputers, advanced materials and instruments. AMD carries out exploration for uranium, thorium, rare metals and rare earths in an environmentally benign manner in various parts, including Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, explained the director. National GeoPhysical Researc Institute’s Y.J. Bhaskar Rao, NFC’s G.V.S. Hemantha Rao, University of Hyderabad’s A.C. Narayana, JNTU’s M.V.S.S. Giridhar, N. Kavita of NIMS and BITS-Pilani-Hyderabad’s P.K.Thiruvikraman were among those who made presentations, a press release said. NFC chief executive Dinesh Srivastava, ECIL CMD Rear Admiral Sanjay Choubey, and Uranium Corporation of India general manager M. S. Rao, attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nuclear-energy-is-long-term-green-energy-say-scientists/article34079539.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Women need to shed ambivalence over aspirations’||It is necessary for women to shed ambivalence in their aspirations, have clear growth plans, build teams around themselves in both personal and professional lives to reduce burnout, and learn positive self-promotion. These views were expressed by participants of a panel discussion on ‘Women in Leadership: Challenges and Solutions’ held at BirthRight by Rainbow Hospitals here on Monday. Joint managing director of Bharat Biotech, Suchitra Ella and senior consultant-neonatologist and paediatrician at the host hospital A. Venkatalakshmi were among those who participated in the discussion. They said gender equality is a societal issue and to truly make a difference, solutions have to be found jointly by men and women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/women-need-to-shed-ambivalence-over-aspirations/article34079533.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIIT-H creates low-cost flexible sensor to aid in physiotherapy||A variety of exercises are typically prescribed as part of physiotherapy to restore physical strength in victims of stroke or patients of arthritis experiencing muscle weakness like repetitive movement of hands in picking up an object from one point to another. Researchers at the International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad (IIIT-H) PATRIoT lab have come out with a new-age, low-cost pressure sensor to analyse and recognise such activity unobtrusively. Flexible electronics or developing thin, bendable and stretchable circuits for ‘smart’ applications is one of the fortes of this group. “In this case, apart from the typical smart properties of sensors, we also wanted to cover a large area and try to map pressure distribution in the entire area,” says principal investigator Aftab Hussain. Their experiment canvas for the required physical rehabilitation exercises was a sensory mat containing designated areas for placing weights. With conductive foam as the main ingredient, this low-cost paper-based 4X4 pressure sensor matrix was fabricated with a layer of paper each on top and the bottom, sandwiching copper electrodes. Each time the foam is pressed by a patient, with the pressure application there is a reduction in resistance that can be detected through an external circuit. “We look if the value of resistance has changed and if it has, then we try to interpret how much pressure has been applied and where,” explains Mr Hussain. Researchers trained a machine learning model to detect position of loads for various resistances. “Neural networks not only help in determining if the load was placed in the correct position but it can also learn from the responses of a person over a period of time,” says Anis Fatema, primary author of the study titled ‘A low-cost pressure sensor matrix for activity monitoring in stroke patients using artificial intelligence’, which was published in IEEE Sensors Journal. The new device has the ability to quantify a physiotherapy session. “In addition to tracking progress of patients in terms of accuracy of where they are placing the load, one can also monitor time taken to place the load so that we can get both speed and accuracy of load positioning,” says Mr Hussain. While the product, which uses a very thin-film fabrication technique, currently costs less than Rs. 1,000 a piece, the team is in the process of reducing the cost further. “We are checking if the conductive foam that made the sensor pixels possible can be made via synthetic organic chemistry. It will further reduce the costs, tweak the properties of foam to better suit our applications and make them more reliable,” he adds.  In addition to tracking progress of patients in terms of accuracy of where they are placing the load, one can also monitor time taken to place the load. Aftab Hussain, Principal investigator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iiit-h-creates-low-cost-flexible-sensor-to-aid-in-physiotherapy/article34079537.ece
16 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for cheating people with fake opportunities||The marketing intelligence team of Hyderabad cyber crimes traced and arrested two accused inter-State offenders, who cheated people by claiming to provide lucrative business opportunities. The accused were identified as Shivam Shantnu Singh, of Bokaro Steel City, Jharkhand and Rahul Kumar from Nasrathpur in Sheikhpura district of Bihar. According to the police, in March last year, a resident of Nallakunta approached them stating that he was into stock market trading for the past 25 years and been investing in the market. In the first week of February, 2020, one Narendra Kumar had contacted him through a United Kingdom’s contact number and he claimed to be a stock advisor for Ladbrokes.com and advisor for some NRI Indians. He suggested to the victim to invest in UK stocks and told him that he could earn a return of 15 % per month in daily trading and asked him to make an initial investment of Rs. 25 lakh. “Initially the victim refused to deal with him, however, the accused persuaded the victim with a bait of 15% returns per month. As it seems lucrative the victim agreed to transact with him,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. When the victim enquired about the opening of the trading account, Mr. Kumar assured the victim that he could do trading through Mr. Kumar’s trading account and promised to do the trade on his behalf. Mr. Kumar asked the victim to transfer Rs. 20 lakh to his sister’s bank account to purchase the stocks and cheated the victim. Based on his complaint, a case was registered.  Dealership deal In another case, a person from Shah-Ali-Banda approached cyber crimes police in January stating that his brother had searched online to take up a dealership for Haldiram products. On November 26, last year he received a call from one Ashish Kumar, who claimed to be the manager (sales and distribution) department of Haldiram Foods International Pvt Ltd and asked them their living area. He then told them that the company would be willing to give them a dealership in that area and asked him to pay a deposit of Rs. one lakh. The brothers expressed their inability to pay such a huge amount and a few days later one Ravi Kumar called them and told he headed the sales and distribution and offered to work with them at a lower amount. The complainants were asked to pay Rs. 25,000 as registration fee and received an invoice for it. On December 19, 2020, the victims received another call asking for a payment of Rs. 1 lakh as security money and Rs. 50,000 as agreement fees, which they paid in the next few days, Mr. Mohanty said. When the complainants placed an order for goods worth Rs. 8 lakh, the fraudsters asked them to pay 50% in advance as it was their first order. Over a period of time the victim paid Rs. 21.60 lakh at different intervals and finally realised that they had been cheated by the accused. According to Mr. Mohanty, Mr. Shivam along with his other associates Mr. Nagender and Ms. Sunita Kumari hatched a plan to cheat the victims by promising high returns by trading in the stock market. “To obtain the deposits from the victims, they have used bank accounts and a Google pay number and insisted that the victims deposit the amounts in those accounts. Mr. Nagender used to contact the victims with the UK WhatsApp number and introduce himself as a leading broker from the Ladbrokes.com, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-cheating-people-with-fake-business-opportunities/article34079549.ece
16 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eight arrested for murder||Eight persons, including two juveniles, were apprehended by the Falaknuma police here on Monday in connection with the murder of history-sheeter Mohammed Jaber. The 25-year-old Jaber, a welder, was a history-sheeter of Mailardevpalli police station. The arrested are 21-year-old Mohammed Ismail, 19-year-old Mohammed Sameer and 19-year-old Mohammed Zubair from Kalapathar, 21-year-old Saif Ali Khan from Shaheen Nagar, 28-year-old Mohammed Shanawaz Ghazi from Nawabsab Kunta, 19-year-old Syed Hasham from Basharath Nagar and two juveniles boys, according to the police. The victim who was involved in several criminal cases, including murder, was killed by the accused due to the previous enmity, the police said. Meanwhile, the Rein Bazar police arrested six persons in connection with the murder of Mohammed Parvez alias Farru don, a history-sheeter with Jawaharnagar police station. The arrested have been identified by the police as as 23-year-old Shaik Suleman, 24-year-old Shaik Feroz (24), 20-year-old Syed Zameen and 38-year-old Syed Sadiq from Yakutpura and 23-year-old Shaik Essa and 21-year-old Shaik Awaiz from Santoshnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-juveniles-among-8-held-for-murder/article34079550.ece
16 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Viral video lands senior IPS officer in trouble||Senior IPS officer and Secretary, Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS), R.S. Praveen Kumar has landed in a controversy after a video of him taking an oath against a particular community went viral on the Internet. The video clearly shows the officer, along with a group of people strongly affirming their disbelief in the existence of a pantheon of gods in a particular religion. This came into light when he launched ‘Swaero Holy Month’ (March 15 to April 14) at the famous Buddhist shrine at Dhulikatta in Peddapalli district here on Monday. Buddha Vandanam Taking a cue from Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s historic oath on his conversion to Buddhism at Deeksha Bhoomi in Nagpur of Maharastra in 1956, it had been enacted at Dhulikatta. However, Mr. Kumar tried to distance himself as the video went viral and said he or the Swaero had nothing to do with the oath. “One local Buddhist family went on to the stage and recited Buddha Vandanam and they went on to recite the oath reportedly taken by Dr B.R. Ambedkar on the day of his conversion to Buddhism,” Mr. Kumar said in a statement. He clarified that they (Swaero) have no relation with that Buddhist family do not subscribe to what that family has said after Buddha Vandanam on the stage. “We deeply regret if it has hurt anyone’s religious sentiments. Our organisers have clarified this to all the participants on the stage itself immediately,” he said. The Additional DGP rank officer said that the Swaero network has people of all religious beliefs and they take the best from all religions and don’t teach any prejudice against any religion, both at homes and in workplaces and celebrate all festivals. “We work for a just and equal society in the country through education, health awareness, scientific thinking, and economic empowerment, not through hatred,” Mr. Kumar said. However, when contacted for further clarification on the issue, the senior police officer was not available on phone. Meanwhile, Vishva Hindu Parishad had condemned Mr. Kumar’s oath and demanded that the State government transfer him from his current post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/viral-video-lands-senior-ips-officer-in-trouble/article34079564.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Programme for frontier tech startups launched||An accelerator programme for high-potential frontier-tech startups has been launched by venture capital funds Endiya Partners and Applied Ventures. Called Frontier-Tech Ignite (X), it is their first-ever curated accelerator programme and for startups in the SaaS/enterprise software; semiconductor/EDA; AI/ML/blockchain; IOT/5G/sensors and cybersecurity domains. Five to be selected Five startups are to be selected, over a two-stage screening process, for the programme. The shortlisted startups are expected to have a working minimum viable product (MVP) and initial customer traction in the market at the time of registering for the programme, a release said. Applications for the programme have opened and April 15 is the deadline for submission. Mentorship sessions The five startups will have access to dedicated mentorship sessions with Endiya and Applied Ventures along with potential access to their network and portfolio companies. In addition, the selected start-ups will have the opportunity to demo/pitch for investments with Endiya, Applied Ventures and other investors in the ecosystem. ‘Poised to grow further’ “The Indian Technology start-up ecosystem, the third largest globally, is backed by strong skills around deep science and tech and is poised to advance and grow further. The time for the frontier tech wave is right here and we are committed to helping the best ideas gain speed,” Endiya Partners managing director Sateesh Andra said. An early-stage venture capital fund, Endiya Partners invests in IP-led Indian product start-ups that are globally relevant.  Global head of Applied Ventures Anand Kamannavar said Applied Ventures aims to use its expertise in materials engineering to work with the startups. Applied Ventures is the venture capital arm of Applied Materials and invests in innovative companies globally. It has invested more than $300M in over 90 companies in 16 countries including India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/programme-for-frontier-tech-startups-launched/article34079535.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Natco Pharma’s product for pest management||Natco Pharma plans to launch its first green label Pheromone product for management of Pink Bollworm in cotton crop during Kharif season this year. The generic drugmaker, which two years ago diversified into agrichemicals, said this announcing foray into Pheromone based mating disruption technology for Integrated Pest Management (IPM) solution in the country. The company’s Crop Health Science (CHS) division is working with ATGC Biotech (ATGC) for the technology. Protecting crops A release informed that ATGC is a science-based innovative technology company concentrating on developing new biosafe molecules and tools to protect diverse crops from insect pests, in collaboration with US-based agricultural biotech company ISCA. Natco will launch the Pheromone product, for management of Pink Bollworm, under the brand Natmate PBW. CIB approval This is the first pheromone-based indigenously manufactured product for mating disruption that received approval from Central Insecticide Board (CIB), the release said. Pink Bollworm posed a major challenge in the past few years to cotton farmers across India. The impact on the quality and yield of crop is significant and often severely affects livelihood of small farmers. To preserve benefits Natmate PBW will help farmers and seed producers in developing an Insect Resistance Management (IRM) plan and preserve benefits of Bt traits in cotton as well, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/natco-pharmas-product-for-pest-management/article34079536.ece
16 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||140 kg of Alprazolam seized, AR constable, 2 others held||The Cyberabad police on Sunday seized 140 kilograms of Alprazolam, a synthetic drug, worth Rs. 8.50 crore from three persons, including an armed reserve constable from Medak. The accused have been identified as — 36-year-old proprietor of Dr.Goud Laboratories Gudikadi Linga Goud from Kondapur, 27-year-old car driver from Vijayawada Murududdi Vinod Kumar, and 36-year-old an Armed Reserve police constable from Medak Maduri Ramakrishna Goud. Apart from the drugs, police also seized a mini-truck, a car, and Rs. 50,000 from the accused persons. According to Balanagar Deputy Commissioner of Police P.V. Padmaja, Linga Goud, who completed his Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry, had knowledge on how to prepare synthetic drugs. “By virtue of his family traditional profession of selling toddy, he was aware of how the toddy was made more potent using tablets of prescription drugs like Alprazolam. Soon, he started preparing Alprazolam by procuring raw material from different pharma companies and processed the same in the pharma company of his friend Kiran at Vijayawada for the past five years,” she said on Monday. With the help of his brother-in-law, Ramakrishna, he used to sell the material in and around Hyderabad and made huge profits, the officer said, and added that Mr. Ramakrishna misused his official position to avoid police checkings. “Both Mr. Linga Goud and Mr. Ramakrishna Goud used to sell these drugs in local toddy shops for high profits,” Ms. Padmaja said. Acting on a tip-off, the Special Operations Team of Balanagar zone along with Pet -Basheerabad police seized the vehicles and 139 kilograms of Alprazolam. Another kilogram of the drug was recovered from Mr. Ramakrishna’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/140-kg-of-alprazolam-seized-ar-constable-2-others-held/article34079547.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||100th Kisan Rail heads to West Bengal||South Central Railway (SCR) has achieved a major milestone by loading the 100th ‘Kisan Rail’ over its jurisdiction from Nagarsol in Maharashtra, transporting 236 tonnes of onions to Chitpur in West Bengal on Monday. The achievement comes in a span of around six months when the first ‘Kisan Rail’ was started from Anantapur and later from Warangal. Other services were — 2 from Tadipatri, 3 others from Anantapur and 92 others from Nagarsol towards New Delhi, Maharashtra (Nagpur), Bihar (Naugachia,Fatuha), West Bengal (New Jalpaiguri, Malda Town, etc), Assam (New Guwahati and Baihata) and Tripura (Agartala). ‘Kisan Rails’ generated a revenue of Rs. 15.8 crore, out of which Rs. 7.5 crore subsidy was extended to the farming community under the Operation Greens — TOP to Total initiative. Around 34,063 tonnes of commodities were transported, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/100th-kisan-rail-of-scr-heads-to-west-bengal/article34079545.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Low vaccine coverage||Only 2,434 people took the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Sunday as opposed to 20,000-22000 who took it on Friday and Saturday. The 2,434 beneficiaries included 1,910 persons aged 60 and above and 515 in the 45-59 age group with co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/low-vaccine-coverage/article34079531.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Protection given to eye-witnesses in lawyer couple murder case’||Investigators had examined 25 eye-witnesses so far in the lawyer couple murder case. Informing this to Telangana High Court through a second status report, the Ramagundam police probing into the twin murders of Gattu Vaman Rao and P.V. Nagamani, the Ramagundam police stated that protection was provided to eye-witnesses who sought for it. Some of the eye-witnesses declined to have police protection. The second status report filed by Additional DCP Administration N. Ashok Kumar was presented before a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. Earlier, the bench had suo moto taken up the double murder as a PIL petition and instructed the police department to status report on the investigation into the gory killings from time to time. Having already perused the first status report during the previous hearing, the bench on Monday examined the second status report in which the police stated that the sickles two of the arrested accused had used were recovered. Probe is on into the role played by fifth accused Lachaiah who was said to have passed on the information on the movements of Vaman Rao and his wife who had come to Manthani court to attend a case on the day of the execution of the double murders. Lachaiah is presently in judicial remand. Statements under Section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.P.C.) of the accused Kunta Srinivas, Chiranjeevi and Kumar were recorded. Statements of the remaining accused Bittu Srinivas, Lachaiah, Vasanth Rao and Anil under the same section are yet to be recorded, the status report said. Role of Vasantha Rao is being verified while Anil was added as co-accused. Efforts are on to trace the mobile phone of Anil as he was accused of arranging mobile phone to the accused. So far 25 eye-witnesses were examined by the police in the case. Test identification parade of two of the accused is complete. Video clippings relating to the double murder were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for analysis. The report is likely to be received in four weeks. Efforts are on to identify the passengers of three buses which happened to pass by when the double murder was committed. Statements of the drivers and conductors of the buses along with five passengers were recorded. Statements of nine by-standers and four persons passing by at that time were also recorded. Advocate General B.S. Prasasd informed the bench that sought four weeks of time to file another comprehensive status report on the investigation into the gory killings. He told the court that charge-sheet would be filed in the case soon after receiving forensic report. The bench instructed the AG to file the status report by April 7. The bench also directed the Registry to tag the writ petition filed by Vaman Rao’s father Gattu Kishan Rao with the PIL plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protection-given-to-eye-witnesses-in-lawyer-couple-murder-case/article34079555.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily viral caseload dips below 200 on Sunday||After recording more than 200 COVID-19 cases for two consecutive days, the State had only 157 persons testing positive for the infection on Sunday. This is because iof low testing as compared to the previous two days. While 50,998 samples had been put to test on Saturday, leading to detection of 228 cases, only 38,517 samples were examined on Sunday. Results of 237 persons were awaited while one COVID patient died on Sunday, pushing up the death toll to 1,654. The new 157 cases include 35 from Greater Hyderabad region, 12 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 11 from Rangareddy. No cases were reported from Narayanpet, Nagarkurnool, Mahabubabad and Jogulamba Gadwal. Till March 14 this year, 92,38,982 samples have been tested and 3,01,318 have been detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 1,983 were active and 2,97,681 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-viral-caseload-falls-below-200-on-sunday/article34079530.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Last date for online application extended||Last date submission of online applications for admission into first year UG Courses BA/B.Com/BBA/B.Sc (English Medium) in Telangana Social and Tribal Residential Degree Colleges for Men and Women for the academic year 2021-2022 has been extended up to March 25. Online application date has been extended from March 15 to March 25. TGUGCET-2021 (Telangana Gurukulam Undergraduate Common Entrance Test) will be conducted on April 25. Candidates are instructed to visit social and tribal welfare residential educational institutions societies websites for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-date-extended/article34079543.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ex-MP resigns from Cong. primary membership||Former MP from Chevella, Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, on Monday tendered resignation to the primary membership of the Congress party. In a letter addressed to the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee President N.Uttam Kumar Reddy, the former MP said he was resigning from the primary membership of the party. He thanked the leadership for giving him an opportunity to serve the party and extending all cooperation. Mr. Reddy was first elected to the Lok Sabha from Chevella in 2014 on Telangana Rashtra Samiti ticket. He later switched over to the Congress party in 2018 and contested the Lok Sabha elections from Chevella in 2019 and lost to the TRS candidate. Interestingly, Mr. Reddy had cast his vote in the MLC elections on Sunday but put out a tweet on his twitter handle. “After a hectic time campaigning, I will be taking a break for a week and may not be very active on Twitter for a week or so,” he tweeted. Sources said he is expected to keep away from politics for the next three months and then announce his next move. It is understood that the BJP leadership is keen on taking him into its fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vishweshwar-reddy-quits-congress/article34079557.ece
16 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Farmers, SHGs will be deprived of interest-free loans’||Banking operations were paralysed in Public Sector Banks (PSBs) across the old undivided Khammam district on Monday, on the first day of the two-day strike. The employees of various PSBs staged dharnas and rallies in Khammam, Kothagudem and several other parts of the erstwhile composite Khammam district. In Khammam, bank employees owing allegiance to the Union Bank Award Employees’ Union staged a demonstration holding placards. The placards read, “Bank privatisation means less agriculture and MSME loans” and “Bank privatisation means more urban orientation of banks.” The employees of regional rural banks (grameen banks) owing allegiance to the UFRRBU and AIRRBEA organised a dharna in front of the Grameena Vikas Bank branch in Wyra town. Addressing the dharna, the speakers denounced the Centre’s reported proposal to privatise the PSBs saying the “detrimental move” will deprive farmers, women self-help groups and poor people of rural credit, subsidised and interest-free loans. The State-owned lenders are playing a pivotal role in promoting financial inclusion and improving access to banking services in rural areas, they noted, alleging that the “profit driven” private banks will serve the interests of big corporates. They deplored that the privatisation move will result in exorbitant interest on loans, conversion of permanent jobs into contract jobs. Telangana Rythu Sangham district president B Rambabu, CITU leaders S Sudhakar, T Nageswara Rao and others expressed their solidarity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-shgs-will-be-deprived-of-interest-free-loans/article34079565.ece
16 March 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Trainee IAS officials to interact with villagers||As part of foundation course, eight Civil Service officials came to Medak and met Collector A. Harish. These officials, in two batches, will stay in Ramsnthapur in Veldurthi mandal and Chandaipet village in Chegunta mandal till Saturday and interact with the villagers. The officials will also study the impact of government schemes like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Beema, dump yards, Vaikuntha Dhamams, Mission Bhagiratha, besides others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trainee-ias-officials-to-interact-with-villagers/article34079646.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Chaos outside the House||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chaos-outside-the-house/article34079542.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway reopens after nearly 50 days||The carriageway of Delhi-Meerut expressway, directed towards Ghaziabad from Delhi, reopened for motorists on Monday. The road was closed by Delhi Police after the incident of violence here on Januray 26, the police said. A senior police officer said that in view of the prevailing law and order situation at Ghazipur border and keeping in mind the public convenience, the carriageway of NH-24 going towards Gaziabad from Delhi has been opened in due consultation with policemen of Gaziabad district, Uttar Pradesh, in public interest. However, the other side of the carriageway, directed towards Delhi from Ghaziabad is closed for traffic as protesters have blocked it. In a tweet, the Delhi Traffic Police said, “Traffic movement is closed on Ghazipur Border [Ghaziabad to Delhi], Singhu Border, Dhansa Border, Mangeshpur Border, Harewali Border and Tikri Border.” Convenience Sachin Rawat (29), who works at Noida, said it will now take less time for him to reach office. “When the stretch was closed, I used to go to my office in Noida via Indirapuram. Now it will not have much impact on travel time, but NH-24 is more convenient,” he said. On March 2, the carriageway was briefly opened and later closed for traffic movement. The Ghazipur border is one of the major protest sites where farmers have been sitting and it was temporarily closed. However, the Tikri and Singhu borders are completely closed for traffic movement. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – for over three months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops. Farmers present at the Ghazipur protest site said the carriageway going towards Ghaziabad/ Meerut was opened late on Sunday. “We don’t mind if one more carriageway is opened for traffic. It seems the move to close the movement of traffic was to create a negative image of farmers among the locals,” said Omvir Singh, a farmer from Aligarh. BKU welcomes move Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge, Bhartiya Kisan Union, welcomed the move and said they had been demanding the opening of the carriageway since it was closed after January 26. Mahendra Singh, SHO, Kaushambi, said the Ghaziabad police had given inputs to their counterparts in Delhi that locals were facing problems. “No untoward incident has been reported so far,” he said. Mr. Singh said there was, however, no information on opening the cut towards Ghaziabad beneath the flyover. For constable Salek Chand, it remains business as usual. “We are doing 12-hour shifts since last month. The number of farmers has come down but we can’t take chance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-ghaziabad-carriageway-reopens-after-nearly-50-days/article34079426.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Street play depicts end result of third contentious farm law||Singhu border on Monday were abuzz with rounds of applause for a ‘ nukkad natak’ that protesting farmers said they could relate to very well. The group travels from village to village to convey their message. People’s Art Patiala performed a 25-minute play, depicting what they believe will be the implications of the third farm law on storage of essential commodities. It was titled ‘ Jina di anakh jyondi ae (Those who have self-respect)’. They have been performing the play for the last two months and done over 300 shows. The play portrays how the prices of crops will increase if they are not stored by the Food Corporation of India and by the private players instead. “We visit at least four villages a day, sometimes five, and perform two plays that we have made on the farm laws,” said Satpal, director of the play and founder of the group.  Audience response Talking about the response, Mr. Satpal said that people throw shoes at the actor who plays the villain, representing corporates and that’s when they feel the play is a hit. He also said that the expenses of travelling and other necessities are borne either by themselves or by their audience who pay them for their performance. “Just like every nukkad natak artist, we also circulate our dafli [drum] among the crowd. Thankfully, throughout the period of protest, people have been generous,” the director said, adding they call themselves “culture labourers” because the expected earning for the day is about Rs. 300. In his opinion, the best outcome of the protest is that it has broken the “limited” caste barriers in Punjab and dalits and upper-caste land-owners have come together. Members of the group include 22-year-old Jaspreet Singh, who has a degree of Masters in Arts (Theatre). His parents are both labourers. Jatinder Sonu, a 29-year-old, who holds a degree in fashion designing, is also one of the members. Meanwhile, at the protest site, protesting farmers on Monday continued to build shelters for themselves despite the Samyukta Kisan Morcha announcing against it on Sunday. Virender Singh (35) from Kaithal, who was constructing a room with iron rods as base, said that they don’t have any option other than that if the SKM wants the protest to continue. “Many of our trollies will have to go back because they are required in the fields at this time of the year. We need a place to stay,” he said. Charanjeet Singh (25), who hails from Fatehgarh Sahib and has beautified the outer side of a trolley with green net and posters to beat the heat, said that they have to take such measures as the protests does not seem to end. “The results of West Bengal elections will have a role to play. Our leaders have gone there to urge people not to vote for the BJP. If they [BJP candidates] lose, they will take us seriously. If they don’t, we are even prepared to stay till December,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/street-play-depicts-end-result-of-third-contentious-farm-law/article34079428.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU teachers hold protest rally over non-payment of salaries||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Monday held ‘Adhikar Rally’ against the non-payment of grants to 12 DU colleges, which are fully funded by the Delhi government. The teachers’ body said that the fund released by the government on March 12 was insufficient. The teachers’ body also said that there was an attempt by the Delhi government to bring in conditions of the New Education Policy (NEP) through ‘Pattern of Assistance’. “Teachers and students raised slogans against attempts to bring in conditions of the NEP through a dubious document called the ‘Pattern of Assistance’, which it is autocratically seeking to impose through the governing bodies of these colleges,” said DUTA president Rajib Ray. Mr. Ray also said that there were attempts to “mislead the public” and push institutions towards commercialisation. “Teachers also protested against the order, which has given additional charges of these colleges to Senior Administrative Officers, thus replacing the Principals. These are clearly attempts to divert attention to extraneous issues and an attempt to wriggle out of its responsibility towards these public institutions by pushing them towards commercialisation,” said Mr. Ray. DUTA also submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the matter. The teachers’ body has also approached the DU Principal’s Association (DUPA) and the college administration to request action against a Delhi government order dated February 17 that gives additional charge of the colleges to the administrative officers. “The delegation also requested university officials to ask the Delhi government to withdraw ‘Pattern of Assistance’ as it is in violation with the university framework within which these constituent colleges were formed and have functioned,” DUTA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-teachers-hold-protest-rally-over-non-payment-of-salaries/article34079424.ece
16 March 2021||new delhi,||‘Work on canal could cause water shortage’||Water will be equally distributed across Delhi in case of shortage that may affect 25% of total supply in the coming days, Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. The Punjab government has said the water supply coming from Bhakra Dam will be halted, because of which there might be a huge shortage, Mr. Jain told reporters when asked about the effect on supply due to cleaning work on Munak Canal. “Our team is in Punjab for further deliberations. There cannot be disparity in the sense that specific areas will face shortage. Water is a necessity and we cannot divide it between the rich and the poor. If a cut-off happens, it will be equally faced by all,” said Mr. Jain, who is also the chairman of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). Meanwhile, water supply in around 90% of affected trans-Yamuna areas was restored on Monday even as residents in some colonies complained of dirty water from the taps. The water supply in many localities in East and North-East districts was affected on the weekend due to repair work undertaken by the DJB.  The DJB officials said water may take some time to reach tail-end areas of the supply system like Mayur Vihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/work-on-canal-could-cause-water-shortage/article34079636.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Seven women arrested for duping job aspirants||A gang of seven women, who were allegedly running a fake placement agency, were arrested for duping more than 150 people across India. They cheated victims on the pretext of providing them lucrative jobs in reputed airline companies, the police said on Monday. On Saturday evening, the police raided the first floor of a building in west Delhi’s Ramesh Nagar area where a fake job placement agency was being run through a call centre, they said. The accused promised people jobs in reputed government and private airlines, the police said. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said that during investigation, it emerged that the accused sent bulk messages to random people that about “job openings” and provided a contact number. “The victims were first asked to transfer Rs. 2,500 for registration and then an additional amount in the name of uniform, security and other charges. The accused had the details of the victims. The police contacted several of them and they said they were duped by the accused,” she said. The police said to have received a complaint via email from one of the victims stating that he was cheated of Rs. 32,000 by a gang with the same modus operandi. During interrogation, the accused confessed to have cheated more than 150 people since September 1, 2020, the police said, adding that efforts are being taken to get in touch with other victims to register their complaints. The accused have been identified as Sushmita (26), Chhaya (21), Akansha Sharma (21), Pooja (21), Roshni (24), Rekha (23) and Jyoti (29) and efforts are being made to nab their absconding co-accused, the police said. They have been booked under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant section of the Information Technology Act at Kirti Nagar police station, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/seven-women-arrested-in-delhi-for-duping-more-than-150-job-aspirants/article34079429.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man wanted in Lucknow murder held||A 28-year-old man, who was wanted in Ajit Singh murder case in Lucknow, was arrested in the Delhi early on Monday, the police said. The accused has been identified as Rajesh Tomar alias Jai, a resident of Aligarh district in Uttar Pradesh, they said. “He was involved in several criminal cases. He was carrying a reward of Rs. 50,000 on his head and was wanted in the case of Ajit Singh’s murder, which took place on January 6 this year, in Lucknow,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said. Tomar was arrested on Monday while he was trying to evade police checking in Swaroop Nagar, the police said. An imported pistol with five live cartridges have been seized from the possession of the accused, the DCP said. In January, 39-year-old Ajit, who was a notorious criminal of Mau district having 17 cases against him, was killed and two others sustained injuries in a shootout between rival factions in the posh Gomti Nagar area of Lucknow. Ajit and his accomplice Mohar Singh were travelling in an SUV when three motorcycle-borne assailants opened fire at them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-wanted-in-lucknow-murder-held/article34079430.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coal case: SC asks HC to give names of 5 officers||The Supreme Court on Monday requested the Delhi High Court Chief Justice to give names of five judicial officers of “high calibre and absolute integrity” to replace Special Judge Bharat Parashar as presiding officer in the coal block allocation scam trial. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde sought the names on the basis of a letter received from the Registrar General of the Delhi High Court seeking permission of the top court to nominate/post another suitable officer as Special Judge in the place of Judge Parashar. The SC order, referring to the HC official’s letter, recorded that Judge Parashar “needs to be replaced, as he has now completed more than six years in the same post after having been posted as Special Judge in the above mentioned court since August 19, 2014.” The court order said the case has been pending for about six years when the law contemplates the disposal of the such matters in two years which may be extended four times for six months each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/coal-case-sc-asks-hc-to-give-names-of-5-officers/article34079638.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Court closes anticipatory bail pleas of 3 in toolkit case||A Delhi court on Monday closed anticipatory bail pleas of Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk and Shubham Kar Chaudhari, the accused in a case of sharing a ‘toolkit’ on social media related to the farmers’ protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana disposed of the anticipatory bail applications filed by the trio after they withdrew their respective applications following police’s assurance that advance notice of seven working days will be given to them in case the arrest is imminent. The court passed the order after the prosecution and the accused reached the agreement. Agreement reached The prosecution argued that investigation was at an initial stage that required technical analysis. It said the probe was dependent on foreign-based service providers and that looking at the conduct of the accused, custodial interrogation would be needed. On February 23, a Delhi court granted bail to climate change activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested in the same case, terming the ‘toolkit’ shared by her relating to the ongoing farmers’ protest against three farm laws “innocuous”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-closes-anticipatory-bail-pleas-of-3-in-toolkit-case/article34079635.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Police told to give copy of chargesheet to Kanhaiya||A court here on Monday directed Delhi Police to give copies of chargesheet to former JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar and nine others, in a 2016 sedition case. The court put up the matter for April 7 to scrutinise documents in the case and also granted bail to seven accused. The seven accused include Aquib, Mujeeb, Umar Gul, Rayees Rasool, Basharat Ali, Khalid Basheer, who were not arrested before filing of chargesheet. They moved bail applications after which the court granted them bail on a personal bond of Rs. 25,000 and a surety of a like amount. Mr. Kumar, Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya and seven others were present in court in pursuance to summons issued by the court after taking cognisance of the chargesheet. Mr. Kumar and others, including former JNU students Mr. Khalid and Mr. Bhattacharya, were accused of raising anti-India slogans. The accused were charged with offences under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (punishment for being a member of an unlawful assembly), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-told-to-give-copy-of-chargesheet-to-kanhaiya/article34079421.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Plea to vaccinate people suffering from mental illness||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to respond to a petition seeking to include people suffering from mental illness in the list of specified co-morbidities to get COVID-19 vaccine on priority basis. The petition clarified that the 20-point list of specified co-morbidities include Persons with Intellectual Disabilities as well as Persons with Disabilities having High Support Needs, but persons with severe mental illness have been overlooked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-to-vaccinate-people-suffering-from-mental-illness/article34079637.ece
16 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. tweaks Bhaona in Assam||More than five centuries after saint-reformer Srimanta Sankaradeva created Bhaona , a dramatic form of entertainment to convey spiritualism in the Vaishnav mould, the Congress in Assam has tweaked it for a political statement against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens. On Monday, the party released its first “video advertisement” to bombard viewers with a message against the “anti-people” CAA and “discriminatory” NRC. The Congress claimed the video, aired across social media platforms, has been trending with more than one million views within hours of being released. The political Bhaona uses music and the Brajavali language that Sankaradeva developed, and his disciples popularised from the Vaishnav monasteries. It underlines Congress’s commitment to encouraging people to raise their voice against injustice and provide relief at the grassroots by scrapping CAA. The song affirms the party’s pledge to defeat all evil and communal forces. Nullifying CAA is among the Congress’s five guarantees party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announced recently. The CAA, which seeks to protect non-Muslims who entered India from three neighbouring countries till December 31, 2014, is in conflict with the Assam Accord. The Accord, signed in 1985 by the Rajiv Gandhi government, prescribes the detection and deportation of all immigrants, irrespective of faith, who entered Assam after the midnight of March 24, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-tweaks-bhaona-in-assam/article34079355.ece
16 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Former extremists call for ‘driving BJP out’||Some leaders of the disbanded National Democratic Front of Boroland have formed a new extremist group to revive the armed movement. They have also called for driving the Bharatiya Janata Party out of Assam. In a video statement released to the media, the leaders of the National Liberation Front of Boroland (NLFB) said the Centre and the Assam government’s indifference to the Bodo issue made them return to the jungles and take up guns again for their rights. “The BJP is a big threat to Assam, and you have to eject it from Assam,” the outfit headed by M.D. Batha said. He was among the 1,615 extremists who laid down their weapons in January 2020 after the Centre had signed the Bodoland Territorial Region pact with four factions of the NDFB and the All Bodo Students’ Union. The police in BTR confirmed the “serious” development, saying the group may have 25-30 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/former-extremists-call-for-driving-bjp-out/article34079352.ece
16 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||NDA gave liberty to Muslim women: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday said the NDA government gave Muslim women in the country the liberty they deserved by declaring triple talaq illegal. Claiming that the party has been working for Assam’s peace and prosperity, he alluded to “positive changes” in Jammu and Kashmir after the repeal of Article 370 of the Constitution. “Triple talaq was unacceptable in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and many other Muslim countries, but in vogue in India because previous governments did not dare to touch it for fear of angering their vote bank. The Narendra Modi government made triple talaq go, like Article 370,” he said while campaigning for party candidates in Dhakuakhana, Sootea and Barchalla Assembly constituencies. “The positive changes have helped ensure peace in Jammu and Kashmir just as the changes the BJP brought about in Assam is helping maintain peace and prosperity,” Mr. Nadda said. He referred to the “historic” peace accord that saw four factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland being disbanded. “When the Congress was in power, extremists killed 2,250 civilians and 284 security personnel. But the NDA government brought peace with 3,000 extremists surrendering and 2,300 others being arrested.” He also affirmed the BJP’s goal of making Assam flood-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nda-gave-liberty-to-muslim-women-nadda/article34079354.ece
16 March 2021||Mumbai,||Second Elgaar Parishad: govt. to take no coercive action against Sharjeel Usmani||The Bombay High Court on Monday recorded the statement by the Maharashtra government that it would not take any coercive action against Sharjeel Usmani, an alumnus of Aligarh Muslim University, as long as he appeared before the Pune police for allegedly making objectionable statements at the second Elgaar Parishad. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Usmani through senior advocate Mihir Desai, seeking to quash the FIR against him charging under Section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Desai told the court that there was no dispute that the speech was made; however, the issue was whether it came under Section 153A. He argued that three things – what was the message sent by the speech, who it was addressed to, and the context in which it was made — needed to be kept in mind to see if it came under that Section. Referring to a statement made by Mr. Usmani, the Bench said, “We are open to criticism.” Mr. Desai said that the speech had been sent to a forensic science laboratory. The HC asked public prosecutor Y.P. Yagnik if Mr. Usmani had joined the investigation and they would require him to be present again. Mr. Desai assured the court that Mr. Usmani would be present on March 18. The HC adjourned the hearing to March 22. Mr. Usmani had on January 30 delivered a speech at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch in Pune. An FIR was registered against him at Swargate police station on February 2, based on a complaint filed by advocate Pradeep Gawade, State regional secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. The complaint said, “Mr. Usmani has allegedly made offensive statements against the Hindu community, Indian judiciary, and Parliament.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/second-elgaar-parishad-govt-to-take-no-coercive-action-against-sharjeel-usmani/article34079347.ece
16 March 2021||Mumbai,||2017 threat case: police get Pujari’s remand||A Mumbai court on Monday remanded gangster Ravi Pujari in police custody till March 20 in a case of threatening a property consultant in Kandivali in 2017. Pujari was brought to Mumbai from Bengaluru on February 22 in connection with a firing case that occurred in Vile Parle in 2016. Pujari was sent to judicial custody by an MCOCA court at the end of his police remand in the 2016 case, but police said they needed his custodial interrogation in connection with the 2017 Kandivali case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2017-threat-case-police-get-pujaris-remand/article34079343.ece
16 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Woman held for kidnapping 3-month-old boy in Navghar||The Uran police on Monday arrested a 26-year-old childless woman for allegedly kidnapping a three-month-old boy. The woman, who hails from Jalna and resides at Jasai in Uran with her husband, used to frequently go to Navghar where she holds a bank account. During her visits, she had noticed a house which had an infant. Around 11 a.m. on Monday, she approached the mother of the boy and said that she was from anganwadi and enquired if the baby had taken the polio dose. “The woman told the mother to get her three-year-old daughter ready while she would look after the boy. After the mother went inside, the accused fled with the boy,” senior police inspector Ravindra Budhwant from Uran police station said. On finding her son missing, the mother approached the Uran police, who, with the help of CCTV footage, traced the accused to Khanda Colony within six hours. “From Uran to Panvel, we alerted all the police teams. We rescued the boy in the evening and handed him over to his mother. The accused confessed that she desperately wanted a baby as she had been childless for 10 years, and hence, decided to kidnap one,” Mr. Budhwant said. The woman will be presented before court on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-held-for-kidnapping-3-month-old-boy-in-navghar/article34079344.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Report casts doubt on EC autonomy||A report by a citizens’ group on Monday flagged concerns about “significant exclusion” of vulnerable sections of society from the electoral rolls, the increasing criminalisation of politics and raised doubts over the autonomy of the Election Commission. The second report by the Citizens’ Commission on Elections, chaired by retired Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur, looked at the question — “Are elections in India free and fair?” “There is no doubt that many names do not figure in the electoral rolls, whether through mischief or oversight: minority communities, the homeless, the disadvantaged, the aged etc... The electoral rolls registration machinery has been found wanting in carrying out a door-to-door campaign,” the report said. On the ECI, the report said the commission was not using its “plenipotentiary powers” given under Article 324 of the Constitution. “But ECI is just not using these powers because ECs [election commissioners] are the appointees of the government of the day and not through an independent process of collegium,” the report said, adding that there were doubts about the neutrality of the EC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/report-casts-doubt-on-ec-autonomy/article34079431.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SKM raises farm laws in UN Human Rights Council||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal raised the issue of India’s contentious farm reform laws at the United Nations Human Rights Council on Monday, asking the UN to urge the Indian government to repeal the laws. Speaking via video message during the general debate at the ongoing 46th session of the Council, Dr. Pal noted that India was a signatory to the UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and was thus committed to the protection of small farmers. However, he alleged that the farm laws will remove such protections by endangering the MSP system, the use of profits for rural infrastructure, and access to the courts. “The few States where similar policies were introduced have seen farmers sinking into poverty, losing their lands and having to work as labourers elsewhere to make ends meet,” he said. “The UN Declaration insists that the country must consult the farmers before laws and policies are enacted. We ask the UN to urge my government to abide by the declaration, repeal the laws and start consultations to start a reform agenda friendly to farmers and good for the environment, as is required by the Declaration on the Rights of Peasants,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/skm-raises-farm-laws-in-un-human-rights-council/article34079639.ece
16 March 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 15,051 cases, 48 deaths||Maharashtra’s case spike continued unabated with the State recording another massive surge of 15,051 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, as its active case tally shot to 1,30,547 — nearly 60% of India’s total active cases. A total of 10,671 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with the State’s recovery rate dipping to 92.07%. As many as 48 deaths pushed the death toll to 52,909. While the total case tally has reached 23,29,464, the cumulative recoveries stand at 21,44,743. “Of a total 1,76,09,248 laboratory samples tested thus far, 23,29,464 (with the case positivity increasing marginally to 13.23%) have returned positive with over 93,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality had incrementally dropped to 2.27%. Pune district reported over 2,100 new cases to take its total case tally to 4,41,745. As per the State Health Department figures, no deaths were reported as the death count stayed at 8,144. However, as per district authorities, 15 deaths were recorded taking the fatality toll to 9,428 while the active case tally crossed the 22,000 mark. Mumbai city recorded a spike of 1,713 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,45,675 of whom 13,309 are active. Four fatalities took the city’s toll to 11,539. Nagpur district in Vidarbha added another alarming jump of more than 2,400 cases as its total cases touched 1,75,995 of whom 18,114 are active. With three deaths, its death toll rose to 3,587. Cases continued to mount in north Maharashtra as Nashik logged more than 1,100 cases to take its total tally to 1,39,064 of whom 8,035 are active. A single death took the toll to 2,094. Neighbouring Jalgaon registered 700 new cases and a single death as its total case tally went up to 70,304 of whom 4,955 are active. The death toll has climbed to 1,543. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported nearly 800 new cases and five deaths as its total cases reached 60,214 of whom 7,899 are active while its death count rose to 1,294. Western Maharashtra, however, continued to add relatively low cases and deaths. Satara reported 149 new cases and only a single fatality as the total tally rose to 60,871 of whom 1,617 are active, and the death toll touched 1,859. Sangli added 47 cases and one death as the district’s total cases reached 51,876 of whom only 769 are active. Its death toll went up to 1,801. Kolhapur reported 30 cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 50,174 of whom just 420 are active. Dr. Awate said that currently, 6,23,121 people across the State were in home quarantine and 6,114 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-15051-cases-48-deaths/article34079346.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘BJP’s 100-plus claim is for Cong., not for themselves’||Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel ,  who is an observer for the election-bound Assam, speaks about the party’s poll prospects in the State, discomfort within cadre about the alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front and dissent by the G-23 group of leaders. Excerpts:  In 2016, there was a gap of 10% in terms of vote share between the Congress and the BJP. How do you plan to bridge this? The situation in 2016 was very different from today. The Opposition was a divided house. Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF fought alone, the Left parties were contesting outside the UPA. The BJP, on the other hand, had an alliance with the Bodoland People’s Front. This time, we are a cohesive alliance of six parties while the BPF has walked out of the NDA. Moreover, the BJP has not implemented any of the promises it made five years ago. Didn’t they say they will deport 50 lakh illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. If you look at the statistics given by the Home Ministry, this figure does not even reach thousands, forget about the lofty claim of 50 lakh. They said Bangladesh-India border will be sealed. Did that happen? They said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented. Assam voters have rejected the CAA, which is why the Centre is dragging its feet on implementing it. They claimed that they will build an expressway along the Brahmaputra river. Not a single stone has been laid so far. The BJP has nothing to show for its five years in the government. This is the first election without Congress stalwart Tarun Gogoi. You don’t even have a chief ministerial face. How will the party fare in such circumstances? Tell me who is the BJP’s Chief Minister in Assam? Is it Sarbananda Sonowal or Himanta Biswa Sarma? They don’t like each other, they don’t even talk to each other. And both are vying for the CM’s post. Come to think of it, who is the BJP’s CM candidate in West Bengal? Assam voters fondly recall the 15-year rule of Tarun Gogoi ji. It was during his tenure that the State saw progress and peace. Wherever we do not have an incumbent government, the Congress tradition has been to do extensive consultations with the elected MLAs and within the party leadership to pick a Chief Minister. We followed this tradition in Chhattisgarh and the same will be followed in Assam. There can be a few exceptions like Punjab, where Captain Amarinder Singh was projected because he was the ex-Chief Minister and commanded the position. There is a discomfort within your cadre about the alliance with the AIUDF. The Congress is forced to defend the alliance and only a few days ago, senior leader Sushmita Dev was on the verge of leaving the party over the issue. I was present when the Congress-AIUDF alliance was sealed and I can say confidently that it was done after extensive consultations within the party. Some senior leaders may have made certain comments because of political compulsions of their constituency. But Ms. Dev is a cherished leader of the Congress and continues to head the All India Women’s Congress. And as far as the BJP’s campaign of branding Ajmal Saheb as communal is concerned, how come they didn’t have similar reservations in sharing power with the AIUDF in zilla parishad. The BJP changes its allies as per political convenience. It has tied up with Mehbooba Mufti’s PDP and Mamata Banerjee’s TMC in the past. The BJP claims it will win 100-plus seats this time in the State. Your comments. Our Home Minister Amit Shah ji doesn’t ever lie. When he came to Chhattisgarh, he said the BJP will win 65-plus seats. The only difference is that in 2018 in Chhattisgarh, he was not speaking for the BJP, but for us. We won 68 seats. And in Assam too, the claim of 100-plus seats is for us. It is the Congress and its allies who will win more than 100 seats. Is the Congress worried that Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal will divide its voters? No, we have no reason to worry. These parties have their own following while we are the only other alternative to the BJP in the State. G-23 has openly declared rebellion against the party. How do you see their recent comments? Aren’t Mukul Wasnik and Prithviraj Chavan part of the G-23 group? Both are actively working in Assam. Every party has some one or the other who raises questions, even the BJP had such voices. Didn’t Uma Bharati speak against the party in the past? How critical is Rahul Gandhi’s return to the party president’s position? There is no leader of his stature with the party. He alone can lead us through these challenging times.  The BJP changes its allies as per political convenience||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjps-100-plus-claim-is-for-cong-not-for-themselves/article34079349.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Demanding their due||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/demanding-their-due/article34079351.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Small cliques will destroy global order’||In a strong reaction to Friday’s first leaders’ summit of the Quad — India, the U.S., Japan and Australia — and the upcoming visits this week of the U.S. Secretary of Defence to Japan, South Korea and India, China’s Foreign Ministry hit out at countries “forming enclosed small cliques”, describing it as “the sure way to destroy the international order”. Monday’s statement from China was the latest that took aim at the four-country grouping, and the strongest one so far. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian accused “certain countries”, without naming them, of being “keen to exaggerate and hype up the so-called ‘China threat’ to sow discord among regional countries, especially to disrupt their relations with China.” “However, their actions, running counter to the trend of the times of peace, development and cooperation and the common aspirations of the countries and peoples in the region, will not be welcomed or [will not] succeed,” he said in response to a question about Friday’s virtual summit attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, U.S. President Joe Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. “Exchanges and cooperation between countries should help expand mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting or harming the interests of third parties,” Mr. Zhao said. “Certain countries should shake off their Cold-War mentality and ideological prejudice, refrain from forming closed and exclusive small circles, and do more things that are conducive to solidarity and cooperation among regional countries and regional peace and stability.” Credible deterrence To a question on comments from U.S. Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin that his trip to Japan, South Korea and India this week was aimed at building credible deterrence against China, the Foreign Ministry spokesperson said China “has always firmly upheld the UN-centred international system, and the international order we champion is the one based on international law, not the one defined by individual countries to maintain their hegemony.” “In the era of globalisation, forming enclosed small cliques with ideology as the yardstick is the sure way to destroy the international order and after all, is unpopular and will end in total failure,” he said. “The U.S. should treat China and China-U.S. relations in a right mentality and in an objective and rational manner, stop interfering in China’s internal affairs, and work with China to focus on cooperation, manage differences, and place China-U.S. relations back on the track of healthy and stable development.” Chinese media reported that ahead of the U.S. Secretary of Defence’s visit to the region, the People’s Liberation Army held “combat-oriented naval exercises featuring different types of warships in three major sea areas. “The PLA Northern, Eastern and Southern theatre commands recently organised combat-oriented exercises in the Yellow Sea, East China Sea and South China Sea, respectively,” the Communist Party-run Global Times reported, adding that “in the Yellow Sea, Type 056 and Type 056A corvettes formed a flotilla and practised training courses, including main gun shooting, secondary gun shooting and air defence by launching flares.” “In the East China Sea, Type 052C destroyer Jinan and Type 054A frigate Changzhou ran more than 10 training missions including free combat among warships, submarines and warplanes, and joint fire strikes. In the South China Sea, different types of tug and support ships held maritime search and rescue and emergency towing exercises,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/small-cliques-will-destroy-global-order/article34078981.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden seeks to boost Asia alliances||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan will meet their Chinese counterparts Wang Yi and Yang Jiechiin Alaska later this week, in the first face-to-face interaction between the Biden administration and China. The meeting is happening after a volley of diplomatic efforts by the Biden administration to strengthen America’s relations with its allies and partners in Asia. Since taking office on January 20, President Joe Biden has moved quickly on China, leaving no ambiguity on where his foreign policy priorities are. At least three takeaways from his early foreign policy moves offer a clear view of his approach towards China. 'Biggest test' First, there is a consensus within the Biden administration that China, not Russia, is America’s primary rival. The Interim National Security Strategic Guidance, released by the administration, calls China “the only competitor potentially capable of combining its economic, diplomatic, military, and technological power to mount a sustained challenge to a stable and open international system”. According to Secretary of State Blinken, the U.S.’s relationship with China “will be the biggest geopolitical test of the 21st century”. Second, as the Alaska meet suggests, the Biden administration would seek to engage with China on matters of mutual interest even if overall relations remain tense. Climate change and the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic are such areas. There are geopolitical areas as well where both sides can continue cooperation. The U.S. has already proposed a multilateral UN-led conference involving the representatives of China, Russia, India, Iran, Pakistan and the U.S. to find a lasting solution to the Afghan conflict. Similarly, the Biden administration has made its intention clear to revive the Iran nuclear deal which President Donald Trump abandoned. China, along with other permanent members of the UN Security Council and Germany and the EU, is a signatory to the deal. The U.S. would need China’s diplomatic support in its effort to bring the nuclear accord back on track. The Quad Third, the main theatre of the U.S.-China rivalry is set to be the Indo-Pacific region. Barack Obama had promised a U.S. “pivot to Asia”, but he was constrained by several other factors, mainly America’s involvement in West Asia. Mr. Trump took the U.S.-China rivalry to a new height, but he did it bilaterally — he took on China head-on by launching a trade and tech war and mounting sanctions. Mr. Biden seems to have returned to an old playbook — build an alliance system as a bulwark against China. For this, the U.S. needs both America’s allies such as Japan, South Korea and Australia and partners such as India. Unsurprisingly, the first country Secretary Blinken visited was Japan. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga would be the first foreign leader Mr. Biden would be hosting in the White House. During the Trump years, America’s ties with Japan and South Korea had soured over the President’s demand for higher payouts from those countries for keeping U.S. troops there. The Biden administration wasted no time in reaching deals with South Korea and Japan on sharing the cost for hosting U.S. troops — which these countries see as a security guarantee. Then leaders of the so-called Quad countries - the U.S., India, Japan and Australia—held virtual talks in their first summit. That a Quad summit was held within the first 50 days of the Biden administration points to the high priority Mr. Biden gives to the grouping in its Indo-Pacific strategy. The common factor While all sides have said the Quad is not against any particular country, it is hard to miss what the common factor is. The U.S. has been a strong proponent of a stronger Quad. But it’s too early to say whether Mr. Biden would be able to rally the Quad and other American allies in the region such as South Korea against China in an emerging bipolar contest. Among the Quad countries, India is the only country that shares a land border with China, which saw clashes last year. For Japan, South Korea and Australia, China is their top trade partner and uninterrupted trade with China is important for their continued prosperity. But all these countries share security concerns with a fast-rising China. So are several other countries in the region such as Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and even the communist Vietnam. The U.S. is trying to tap these concerns while seeking to stitch together an Indo-Pacific alliance system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-seeks-to-boost-asia-alliances/article34078989.ece
16 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Pak. envoy raises concern over ‘burkha ban’ in Sri Lanka||The Pakistani High Commissioner in Colombo has raised concern over Sri Lanka’s recent announcement on outlawing the burkha, noting that such a ban would “injure” the feelings of ordinary Muslims in Sri Lanka and elsewhere. Sharing a news report on the development, head of the Pakistani mission Saad Khattak on Monday said in a Twitter thread: “The likely ban on Niqab #SriLanka will only serve as injury to the feelings of ordinary Sri Lankan Muslims and Muslims across the globe. At today’s economically difficult time due to Pandemic and other image related challenges faced by the country at international fora, such divisive steps in the name of Security, besides accentuating economic difficulties, will only serve as fillip to further strengthen wider apprehensions about fundamental human rights of minorities in the country.” Rights issue Coming two days after Sri Lanka’s Public Security Minister announced his government’s decision to prohibit the wearing of the burkha, the Pakistani High Commissioner’s remark is the first reaction to the move from the international community. Mr. Khattak’s reference to “other image related challenges faced by the country at international fora” assumes significance just a week ahead of the vote on Sri Lanka at the Human Rights Council, where Pakistan is currently a member. The UN resolution on Sri Lanka’s rights record is expected to draw upon the January 2021 report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, which observed that the country’s Tamil and Muslim minorities “are being increasingly marginalised and excluded from the national vision and Government policy, while divisive and discriminatory rhetoric from the highest State officials risks generating further polarization and violence”. Sri Lanka has reached out to different members states, including India, seeking support at the Council. About a third of the 47-member Council’s current membership, including Pakistan, is part of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), which earlier criticised Colombo’s mandatory cremations policy for COVID-19 victims that affected the island’s Muslim minority. Reversal on cremations Following persistent calls from the island nation’s Muslim community, and from international bodies, including the OIC and the UN, Sri Lanka reversed the policy on February 26. Burials of victims of the virus would be permitted, the government said, days after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s visit to Sri Lanka last month, when he reportedly raised the matter with the Sri Lankan leadership. High Commissioner Khattak had welcomed the move in a twitter message back then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-envoy-raises-concern-over-burkha-ban-in-sri-lanka/article34078983.ece
16 March 2021||COLOMBO,||Adani Ports confirms role in Colombo terminal project||In its first confirmation yet of investing in the Colombo Port, after much controversy within Sri Lanka and an apparent strain in Indo-Lanka ties, Adani Ports and Special Economic Zones on Monday said it was “bolstering” its global footprint with the West Container Terminal (WCT) project in the island nation’s strategic port. The Group announced its expansion in the neighbourhood, even as the Bloomberg Billionaires Index showed group chairman Gautam Adani having accumulated more billions than anyone else in the world this year, with his net worth soaring by $16.2 billion in 2021. Tweeting on the Colombo Port investment, Mr. Adani said: “Grateful to the leaders of GoI, GoSL, SLPA & John Keells for the opportunity to build WCT, Colombo. This partnership is a symbol of the deep strategic relations between countries with great intertwined history. It will launch decades of container growth.” ‘Compromise’ formula The Adani Group’s investment in the WCT project comes after the Sri Lankan government, in early February, ejected India and Japan out of a 2019 trilateral agreement to jointly develop the East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo Port, as trade unions opposed “foreign involvement” in the country’s national assets. In what Colombo termed a “compromise”, the government offered the WCT instead, with higher stakes for the Adani Group, along with its local partner and Sri Lanka’s largest conglomerate John Keells Holdings, to execute the project with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority. In a press release issued on Monday, Adani Ports said it received a letter of intent from the Government of Sri Lanka, while Sri Lanka’s Cabinet spokesman said last week that the government “assumed” Adani Group was the investor, as the company was India’s “nominee” in the ECT deal. India has distanced itself from the WCT project and indicated that Colombo was “directly” in touch with the Adani Group, sparking questions on the process followed by Colombo to choose the private investor in the absence of the Indian government’s involvement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/adani-ports-confirms-role-in-colombo-terminal-project/article34078986.ece
16 March 2021||Washington,||Biden declines to seek ouster of Cuomo||President Joe Biden on Sunday passed up an opportunity to join other Democrats calling for the resignation of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, who is under investigation after multiple allegations of sexual harassment. Asked by a reporter if Mr. Cuomo should resign, Mr. Biden responded, “I think the investigation is underway and we should see what it brings us.” Mr. Biden, who made the comments upon returning to the White House from a weekend at his home in Delaware, had not previously spoken publicly about the allegations against Mr. Cuomo. However, his comments reflect the wait-and-see position the White House has taken regarding Mr. Cuomo’s future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-declines-to-seek-ouster-of-cuomo/article34078979.ece
16 March 2021||Tehran,||Iran unveils underground missile facility||Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard on Monday inaugurated a new underground facility designated for missile storage, the country’s state TV reported. The report quotes Guard commander General Hossein Salami as saying that cruise and ballistic missiles will empower the force’s Navy even more. The TV report showed footage of scores of missiles in an enclosed space resembling an underground corridor. It did not say where the facility is located nor how many missiles are stored there. Since 2011, Iran has boasted of underground facilities across the country as well as along the southern coast near the strategic Strait of Hormuz. Iran claims to have missiles that can travel 2,000 km, placing much of the West Asia, including Israel, within range. The U.S. and its Western allies see Iran’s missile programme as a threat, along with the country’s nuclear programme — particularly after Iran breached its commitments to the 2015 nuclear deal, following the U.S. administration’s withdrawal from the deal in 2018. Last July, the Guard launched underground ballistic missiles as part of an exercise involving a mock-up American aircraft carrier in the Strait of Hormuz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-unveils-underground-missile-facility/article34078987.ece
16 March 2021||BERLIN,||EU--Germany-Elections||Two German state election defeats have jolted Chancellor Angela Merkel’s bloc, shining a spotlight on chances of it being ejected from the government in September’s national vote. The CDU’s new leader, Armin Laschet, a possible contender to succeed Ms. Merkel, said on Monday that the center-right needs to raise its game to keep the country’s top job. Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union was handily defeated on Sunday by two popular state Governors: the Green party’s Winfried Kretschmann in Baden-Wuerttemberg and the center-left Social Democrats’ Malu Dreyer in Rhineland-Palatinate. The party lost the two states by about eight percentage points.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-germany-elections/article34078985.ece
16 March 2021||Beijing,||China ‘very concerned’ for safety of citizens in Myanmar||Beijing said it was “very concerned” for the safety of its citizens in Myanmar on Monday, after Chinese factories were attacked amid a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Yangon. Chinese state media said 32 factories in Yangon were attacked on Sunday, causing $37 million in damage and leaving two staff injured. Martial law has been declared in the townships where the factories were located. The Chinese Embassy in Yangon has accused protesters of attacking the factories. Many in Myanmar’s pro-democracy movement believe China has sided with the Army since the coup. Describing the incident as “nasty”, Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian urged Myanmar to take actions to “resolutely avoid a recurrence of such incidents”. China “is very concerned about the impact on the safety of Chinese institutions and personnel,” he said. Beijing had hoped to secure the Southeast Asian nation as a partner in its strategic ambitions for Asia. A natural gas pipeline to a mega-port off Rakhine state is set to give China access to the Indian Ocean. But a social media campaign by Myanmar’s protest movement has urged citizens to rally against the Chinese pipeline, which crosses the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-very-concerned-for-safety-of-citizens-in-myanmar/article34078980.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Reinventing radical politics, by looking Left||In recent years, radical politics has faced a number of new challenges, not least of which has been the re-emergence of the aggressive, authoritarian state. Hyper-masculine nationalism, and a systemic assault of racist and religious politics on the marginalised are the latest rationale for the aggressive assertion of indiscriminate control of all democratic institutions. Add to this the hegemony of the neo-liberal corporate world along with the demise of the Left and you have the free play of muscular majoritarianism of the Far Right. The Left finds itself in an ideological vacuum. Anti-globalisation In the face of the disenchantment with ‘free-market’ style liberalism and centralist socialism, a need arises to reinvent far-reaching alternatives. The anti-globalisation movement has been in recent years a bulwark against the practices of neo-liberal globalisation in all its signs of voracity, ecological devastation and genetically-modified food. This movement is relative, geographically and temporally, varying in the multifarious contests in which the dark reality of its operation is felt by the public at large. Though universal, it remains relative to varying local conditions but with the common goal of emancipation for all. In the context of neo-liberalism, the crushing of national dignity by hunger and violence, the unrelenting siege of many developing nations by bankers and by the ‘commercial masters of the world’, as Eduardo Galeano put it, are some of the factors that must prompt contemporary Marxist critics to not only condemn the systems that have usurped socialism but also recognise that the Left must look into the future for redefining the nature of power and the conditions of existence in a rapidly developing world, thereby striking a balance between technological dominance and liberatory politics. Marxist thought now Post-Marxists, having realised this, have moved away from the straitjacketing of orthodox Marxism that lays emphasis on the predominance of the central role of the proletariat. The orthodox Marxist model favouring the economic determinism of history and consciousness that overlooks the role of political movements stands revised and reformulated with the trend in Marxist thought moving towards the examination of wider processes of society, especially the role of the media and the building of a new alliance between feminists, marginalised groups, gays, lesbians, ethnic groups, teachers, thereby developing a radical movement for social transformation. The focus is therefore on a more decentralised, pluralistic, and inclusive political system. In many ways, the target is not merely capitalism but other contested areas such as racism, privatisation, workplace surveillance, bureaucratisation, etc. The irrational mystifications of the dominant discourse of religion and ethnicity stand deconstructed by a more conflictual social existence that is experienced in all aspects of our social and political world. Inevitably, the spectre of Marx lurks at those moments of history when economic deprivation becomes rampant and where progressive struggles gear up for political and economic reorganisation. It is clear, therefore, that the predicament of reinventing and restructuring the Left remains acute within the context of the right-wing regimes with the corporate complexion as in India or the United States or Chile that are faced by serious issues of communalism, caste oppression, environmental degradation, gender discrimination and poverty. A serious consideration of the re-evaluation of economic progress, of the future of Marxism, and, more than anything else, of the reenergising of the organisational strength through mass mobilisation is consequently imperative for the success of mitigating mass unemployment, homelessness, violence, famine and economic oppression. A phase of hope The theoretical position of Marxism, thus, will have to be revised ensuring that more than the belief in the working class revolution ushering in a classless society, it is the agents of change such as secularism, the Green movement, and ethnic and national movements that need to be aggressively pursued. Though the struggle of the Left against the state has often led to its defeat, it has managed to regain its vigour by aligning itself to the liberal forces and its imperceptibly growing political awakening as is visible in the farmers’ strike or the awakening of radical student consciousness. Its strength in the coming days would depend on the consolidation of Left forces not on any grounds of expediency, but on ideological grounds with the aim of working together for an innovative and transformed future free of right-wing authoritarianism. The Left, thus, is passing through a new phase of hope and forward-looking expectation with newfound passion for a complete turnaround through new strategies of mobilisation. The revival of people’s movements in Latin America, in Greece and in Spain along with the fury of the Arab Spring gave a new impetus to the wilting Left so as to challenge the neo-liberal moral high ground that has failed to offer any solution to a fragile, and the appalling present. It is hoped that the politics of the Left will impact a polarised nation ravaged by ethnic, religious and nationalist conflicts, offering a viable alternative to the emerging demise of democracy. Consider, for example, Marx’s prediction of how the inherent conflict between capital and labour would manifest itself. As he wrote in Das Kapital : “Accumulation of wealth at one pole is, therefore, at the same time accumulation of misery....” When the richest 1% hold more wealth than the bottom 90%, change is inevitable. The rise of the Bernie Sanders phenomenon, for example, has significantly brought a fundamental shift in the Democratic Party towards left of centre. The burgeoning sea of young supporters behind Mr. Sanders will demand this change towards a progressive agenda clamouring for a shift towards the 90% languishing in low paying jobs and sunk in debt. Undoubtedly, the Republicans in the United States, or the right-wing forces in India, are inveterate in following a pattern of relentlessly reproaching progressive thinkers only because of the oppositional voice that comes into clash with its larger inherent proclivity. This neo-liberal high ground expressed in the sham of the loud claims of a better tomorrow comes in direct conflict with a rational and an open knowledge-driven society connected with the masses in a symphony of free expression stimulating a debate on the successive structural crises of inequality, industry and global finance. The task ahead A multiracial society, therefore, must aim for a more democratically functional system as opposed to the vicious politics of division perpetuated and practised in most of the democracies across the world. Transformative racial policy, on the other hand, will ensure the fostering of an equitable and indiscriminate society at a juncture when a rabid form of ultra-nationalism is resulting in creating a fragmented world. A new progressive movement for an open and participatory form of socialism must be the objective espoused on the Left for a tenacious resolve to seek reform through measures of putting jobs at the top of the economic agenda, increasing the funding for public health care, ending police brutality, and gearing up movements at the grassroots. The task before radical activism therefore, is to examine and question the formulation of public policies with the foremost attention on their relevance to the masses as opposed to the scourge of neo-liberalism as well as the elitist forms of knowledge. The sooner we realise the cataclysmic crisis of capitalism the better equipped we will be to confront a murky future. Like Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, the message sent out by a progressive leadership must rise above cheap populism of laying the solutions on a platter for the public, and instead, reason with them to begin realising that the answers to the problems lie with them and that they need to collectively get more organised. With a new ‘people’s powered politics’ of sharing and debating, self-confidence could be inculcated to shape a social environment deeply unbiased and just. Shelley Walia has taught Cultural Theory at Panjab University, Chandigarh and is the author of ‘Humanities at the Crossroads’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reinventing-radical-politics-by-looking-left/article34078967.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A giant leap forward for the Quad||The maiden Quadrilateral Security Dialogue summit of the leaders of Australia, India, Japan and the U.S. on March 12 was a defining moment in Asian geopolitics. That it was a meeting at the highest political level, occasioned a productive dialogue, and concluded with a substantive joint statement is indicative of its immediate significance. The summit showed that the “Quad has come of age”, as underlined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If it leads to tangible action and visible cooperation, it will impact the whole region. The Quad is no longer a loose coalition. The Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004 triggered cooperation among the navies and governments of the Quad powers. They sought to forge diplomatic cooperation on regional issues in 2006-08, but gave up mainly because China objected to it and the hostility to China was not yet a potent enough glue. This began to change in 2017 when Beijing’s behaviour turned hostile, climaxing in multiple challenges in 2020, including its adventurism in eastern Ladakh. The Foreign Ministers of the Quad met thrice between September 2019 and February 2021. This time, U.S. President Joe Biden moved swiftly to host a virtual summit, drawing immediate response from the other three leaders. Five highlights The Quad’s new approach may be somewhat different from the Trump era. The former U.S. President’s tough line on China is now indispensable, but without the name-calling of Beijing. A more sophisticated approach is being invented, with enhanced emphasis by the U.S. on carrying its allies and strategic partners together. The summit’s outcome, therefore, merits close attention for at least five reasons. First, past debates over diverse, even differing, visions of the Indo-Pacific are over. The joint statement struck a neat compromise: to please the U.S. and Japan, it refers to a “free and open” Indo-Pacific, but in the very next sentence it offers an elaboration – “free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion” – that amply satisfy India and Australia. Second, the summit leaders have secured an adequate alignment of their approaches towards China, even without mentioning the ‘C’ word in the document. Senior officials gave sufficient hints on this score, reinforced by phrases such as “security challenges” and “the rules-based maritime order in the East and South China Seas” in the joint statement. The context and the subtext need to be appreciated for a full understanding. Given the bipartisan consensus in Washington and the state of China’s fraught relations with the other three capitals, a clear-eyed assessment of the threat from China is shared by all. But instead of unidimensional antagonism, the Quad members have preferred a smart blend of competition, cooperation and confrontation. Further clarity should emerge after discussions between the top officials of the U.S. and China, set for March 18. Third, the Quad has placed a premium on winning the battle for the hearts and minds of people in the Indo-Pacific region. The aim is to convince the nations of Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands and the Indian Ocean region that the Quad is a benign grouping, committed to solutions for their development and well-being. This explains the special initiative to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for every person in need in the region from the western Pacific to eastern Africa. It is both a laudable and doable objective, given the firm commitment of financial support by the U.S. and Japan, logistics and some funding from Australia, and the manufacturing and managerial capabilities of India. This new synergy is a real highlight that should result in the production of one billion vaccine doses in India by 2022. Fourth, the establishment of three working groups on vaccine partnership; climate change; and critical and emerging technologies (such as telecom and biotechnology) and their new standards, innovation and supply chains is a welcome step. Joint R&D projects may become essential. All this should get the four national establishments into serious policy coordination and action mode, creating new capacities. The careful choice of themes reflects a deep understanding of the long-term challenge posed by China and has global implications. Finally, the March 12 summit will not be a one-off. The leaders have agreed to meet in-person later this year, possibly at an international event within the region. Foreign ministers will gather at least once a year; other relevant officials, more often. Thus, will grow the habits of the Quad working together for a common vision and with agreed modalities for cooperation. Other aspects The summit has been watched closely by the ASEAN capitals. A few of them may express cautious welcome. Beijing seems rattled but resigned to the Quad’s new momentum. The Chinese see it in negative terms, targeting New Delhi in particular. The refrain of “India is moving too close to the U.S.” has, after the summit, become India is “a negative asset of BRICS and SCO”, as claimed by a Chinese government mouthpiece. Such views should be dismissed as inconsequential. Among other issues discussed, the Korean Peninsula drew particular attention. The commitment to the “complete de-nuclearization” of North Korea as per the United Nations Security Council resolutions was reiterated – a reference to the importance of South Korea as a partner of the Quad. On Myanmar, Washington heeded wise counsel from Asia. The call “to restore democracy and the priority of strengthening democratic resilience” is unexceptionable. It may help ASEAN in carrying forward its diplomatic initiative to promote reconciliation in Myanmar. The lucid joint op-ed in The Washington Post by the four leaders projects the Quad as “a flexible group of like-minded partners dedicated to advancing a common vision and to ensuring peace and prosperity”. The summit and ‘The Spirit of the Quad’ – the inspired title of the joint statement – represented a giant leap forward. Now is the time to back political commitment with a strong mix of resolve, energy, stamina and the fresh ideas of stakeholders and experts outside of government to fulfil the promise of the Quad. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House, and a former Ambassador to Myanmar and DCM in Jakarta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-giant-leap-forward-for-the-quad/article34078975.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||An odd political hybridisation, with historical precedent||The State of Kerala recently witnessed what many would call an odd political moment. In the middle of the bustle of preparations for the State Assembly elections, a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala, Sobha Surendran, recently extended an invitation to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) to join the National Democratic Alliance fold, with a rider — this was provided the IUML shed its ‘communal’ policies. A communal ecosystem But viewed from a historical perspective, such a proposal is not outlandish. Prof. Bipan Chandra in his Communalism in Modern India has identified three species of communalism, namely communal nationalism, liberal communalism and extreme communalism or fascist communalism. In a concluding paragraph, he observes: “Communal nationalism fed liberal and extreme communalism and made it difficult to carry on political struggle against them... They, in turn, constantly generated communal nationalism within the nationalist ranks. Similarly, the logic of liberal communalism inexorably led to extreme communalism.” This process clearly exposes the symbiotic relationship between the three species of communalism. The BJP may belong to the species of extreme communalism, and the IUML to liberal communalism. But to maintain the communal ecosystem, both parties need each other. If one goes back in time, to colonial India, the All-India Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha were the major communal players. The IUML and the BJP are the direct descendants of these two parties, respectively. Both Savarkar and Jinnah were arch enemies on stage since they catered to two separate vote banks. But offstage, the common thread for both parties was anti-Congressism. “Pragmatic politics” made them odd bed-fellows to fill the vacuum created by the Congress following the “Do or Die” cry of the Quit India movement. The colonial era A media article titled ‘Hindu Mahasabha with Muslim League’, is illuminating. It says: Both the Muslim League and Hindu Mahasabha opposed the Quit India movement and preferred to join hands with the British under the garb of the ‘pragmatic politics’. Even when most of the Congress leaders including Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad were in jail, Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the second in command of the Hindu Mahasabha, with the blessings of Savarkar, had joined the Fazlul Haq ministry in Bengal as the Finance Minister in 1941 and remained in the ministry of the mover of the Pakistan Resolution for nearly 11 months. It was the same personage who launched the Jan Sangh, the precursor to the BJP in October 1951 with the blessings of Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar, the second Sarsangh chalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The article mentioned above continues: Savarkar defended this strange hybridisation in his presidential speech to the Kanpur session of the Hindu Mahasabha, in the following words: In practical politics also, the Mahasabha knows that we must advance through reasonable compromises. Witness the fact that only recently in Sind, the Sind-Hindu-Sabha on invitation had taken the responsibility of joining hands with the League itself in running [a] coalition Government. The case of Bengal is well known... Wild Leaguers, whom even the Congress with all its submissiveness could not placate, grew quite reasonably compromising and sociable as soon as they came in contact with the Hindu Mahasabha and the Coalition Government, under the premiership of Mr. Fazlul Huq and the able leadership of our esteemed Mahasabha leader Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerji, functioned successfully for a year or so to the benefit of both the communities (https://bit.ly/3rQGozZ).” Politics of the north The article has more to say. It says, the Sindh Assembly was first to pass the Pakistan Resolution moved by G.M. Sayed in 1943 when the Province had a coalition government with diametrically opposite political forces, i.e. the Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha. The Hindu Mahasabha members walked out and the three Hindu Mahasabha Ministers voted against the resolution; but the resolution was passed 24 versus 3 in the Sindh Assembly on March 3, 1943. Even after passing the Pakistan resolution, none of the three Hindu Mahasabha Ministers resigned from the Ministry headed by Sir Ghulam Hussain Hidayatullah of the Muslim League. They were Rao Saheb Gokaldas Mewaldas, Dr. Hemandas R. Wadhwan and Lolumal R. Motwani. In the provincial elections held in 1937 in the North West Frontier Province, the media article adds, the Congress won the majority of the seats in the Provincial Assembly. In 1939, when the Congress Ministry headed by Khan Abdul Jabbar Khan resigned, Sardar Aurangzeb Khan of the Muslim League with the support of the Hindu Mahasabha and the Akalis formed the coalition government. Mehr Chand Khanna of the Hindu Mahasabha was the Finance Minister. Even in Punjab, says the article, there were serious efforts to have the Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha coalition government installed. Both Savarkar and Dr. B.S. Moonje were very much active for the same. Jinnah had declared that the Hindu Mahasabha was to have a coalition government with the Muslim League as Savarkar and Dr. B.S. Moonje had directed to form a coalition government with the Muslim League “if it was inevitable”. Here too,the article, ‘Muslim League and Hindu Mahasabha in Coalitions’, by Dr. Hari Desai, and published in the Asian Voice (September 25, 2017), is illuminating. The All India Muslim League-Hindu Mahasabha alliance during the Quit India movement was the dark side of the tragedy of Partition. In the present context, one wonders what the proposal in Kerala could portend. Faisal C.K. is an independent researcher||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-odd-political-hybridisation-with-historical-precedent/article34078969.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The limits of POCSO||A single bench of the Madras High Court recently allowed a petition seeking to quash a case of kidnap, aggravated penetrative sexual assault and aggravated sexual assault of a minor. Aggravated penetrative sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 is the equivalent provision for aggravated rape. A person can be charged with this offence in certain aggravating circumstances, such as if the rape occurs within a relationship of trust or authority, or if it leads to pregnancy, among others. Under POCSO, the consent of a person under the age of 18 is irrelevant, regardless of the nature and circumstance of the sexual interaction, or the particulars of the person with whom it takes place. This means that any sex with a minor is rape. Sexual tendencies of adolescents The judgment echoes the arguments that child rights activists have been making for years: by ignoring the natural sexual tendencies of adolescents, POCSO can and does become a tool for the persecution of young people in consenting sexual relations. The court reasoned that adolescence and young adulthood form a continuum because of the physical, biological, neurological, and social changes that occur during this time. The implication is that people within this age group may be clubbed together notwithstanding the legal line drawn at 18. This informed the court’s view of the relationship of the minor ‘victim’ with the accused respondent as being a loving, rather than an abusive, one. The judgment concluded that the case could be quashed because it was purely individual in nature and doing so would not affect any overriding public interest. However, in doing this, it ignored the established precedent against quashing cases of rape, a heinous and serious offence, held by the Supreme Court to be a public concern, and not a private matter. Perhaps the court was persuaded in taking this course because of its observation that POCSO could not have been intended to bring such cases within its scope. In making this observation, the court relied on the Statement of Objects and Reasons of POCSO, which states that the law was enacted pursuant to Article 15 of the Constitution, which allows the state to make special provisions for women and children, and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, to protect children from sexual assault, sexual harassment, and pornography. However, neither the founding documents nor the listed categories of offences give a sense of what the limits of POCSO were meant to be. The Parliamentary Committee (Rajya Sabha) which considered the POCSO Bill, 2011 had, in fact, criticised the clause providing for the possibility of consent in cases of sexual intercourse with minors between the ages of 16 and 18. It believed that a uniform age of 18 would ensure that trials of child rape would focus on the conduct of the accused and the circumstances of the offence, instead of putting victims on trial as is often the case when the consent of the victim is in question. This would indicate that adolescent sexuality was not meant to be an exception to POCSO’s bright-line approach. The five State studies on the functioning of Special Courts under the POCSO Act, conducted by the Centre for Child and the Law, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, have demonstrated that these de facto consensual cases are complicated. While adolescents can and do choose to have sex, it is a fact that they are still children, and their nascent sexual autonomy is susceptible to abuse. This contradiction created by the very nature of adolescence has led to inconsistent and unprincipled adjudication. The absolute age line of POCSO has not prevented the insensitive assessment of minors’ consent. At the same time, it has forced courts to choose between applying the law and doing justice, especially in cases where the minor victim has willingly eloped with or married the accused or is carrying his child, for imprisoning him would only do her harm. A just verdict Therefore, the judgment was intuitively just, even though it was not in line with precedent. It highlighted the urgent need for a reconsideration of the absolutist approach of POCSO when it comes to the sexual interactions of adolescents with other young people. Courts need to be able to strike a balance between the limited but developing capacity of adolescents to consent to sexual interaction and their vulnerability to being groomed, abused, and exploited. For this to be possible, the legislature must provide clarity on the core wrongs that POCSO is meant to address, so that valid conclusions may be drawn about what is the intent of the law, and what is clearly outside its purpose. Shraddha Chaudhary is Lecturer, Jindal Global Law School, Sonipat, and PhD candidate at the Faculty of Law, University of Cambridge. She was a researcher for two of the five State studies referenced here||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-limits-of-pocso/article34078977.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala triangle||The coming Assembly election in Kerala could mark a realignment of the State’s political landscape. The Congress, which leads the United Democratic Front (UDF), the CPI (M) that leads the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the BJP that leads the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), are all betting on an outsize impact the small southern State may have on their respective national plans. Kerala is one State where Rahul Gandhi is miles ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in popularity and a victory of the UDF could set the scene for his return as Congress president. Mr. Gandhi has been investing considerable time in the State. The BJP, long seen as a north Indian party, has made significant inroads in the State, and is hoping to emerge as the third pole through social engineering that includes wooing a section of Christians. A notable performance in Kerala can give a fillip to its southern ambitions and buttress its claim of being a national party. The incumbent Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is experimenting with daring political moves to win a second consecutive term, unusual in Kerala. His moves could be highly rewarding politically, but could unsettle the implicit power-sharing arrangement among Kerala’s elites. Though they are playing for high stakes in Kerala, all three parties are in turmoil within and in tussles with allies. The CPI (M)’s decision to deny ticket to several of its veterans has not been taken kindly by its cadres, who have taken to the streets and social media to challenge it. The party wooed Kerala Congress (Mani) from the UDF into the LDF, in an embarrassing somersault that it finds difficult to explain. Charges of corruption and nepotism, including a multiagency investigation into the links between the former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister and a smuggling racket have taken the shine off the governance record of the LDF government. Mr. Vijayan, however, is trying to turn this in his favour, by claiming to be at the receiving end of machinations by Central probe agencies at the behest of the BJP. The Congress is trying to keep the leadership squabbles within by not formally announcing a leader, but signalling that former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy could get another term should the party win. It is also struggling hard to hold on to traditional bases. The BJP in Kerala had never imagined itself as a serious contender for power, and the opportunity in sight has intensified internal factional rivalries. The campaign and outcome of the Assembly election will be indicative of a new social compact that is taking shape in Kerala, and in that sense, it is not merely about electing a new government this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/kerala-triangle/article34078961.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Poll position||Even though more than a quarter century has elapsed since the Constitution was amended to make urban and rural local bodies a self-contained third tier of governance, it is often agreed by experts that there is inadequate devolution of powers to them. This may somewhat explain their relative lack of autonomy. However, an entirely different facet of the way these local bodies function is that the manner in which their representatives are elected is often beset by controversies. Local polls are often marred by violence, and charges of arbitrary delimitation and reservation of wards. A key factor in any local body polls being conducted in a free and fair manner is the extent to which the State Election Commissioner, the authority that supervises the elections, is independent and autonomous. Unfortunately, most regimes in the States appoint senior bureaucrats from among their favourites to this office. In practice, SECs frequently face charges of being partisan. Routine exercises such as delimiting wards, rotating the wards reserved for women and Scheduled Castes and fixing dates for the elections become mired in controversy as a result, as the Opposition tends to believe that the exercise is being done with the ruling party’s interest in mind. Even though this cannot be generalised in respect of all States and all those manning the position, it is undeniable that SECs do not seem to enjoy the confidence of political parties and the public to the same extent as the Election Commission of India as far as their independence is concerned. It is in this backdrop that the Supreme Court’s judgment declaring that a State Election Commissioner should be someone completely independent of the State government acquires salience. It has described the Goa government’s action in asking its Law Secretary to hold additional charge as SEC as a “mockery of the Constitutional mandate”. By invoking its extraordinary power under Article 142 of the Constitution, the Court has asked all SECs who are under the direct control of the respective State governments to step down from their posts. In practice, most States appoint retired bureaucrats as SECs. Whether the apex court’s decision would have a bearing on those who are no more serving State governments remains to be seen. However, it is clear that these governments will now have to find a way to appoint to the office only those who are truly independent and not beholden to it in any manner. The verdict will help secure the independence of SECs in the future. More significantly, the Court has boosted the power of the election watchdog by holding that it is open to the SECs to countermand any infractions of the law made by the State government in the course of preparing for local body polls. Regimes in the States would have to wake up to the reality that they cannot always control the local body polls as in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/poll-position/article34078962.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Global leader in the post-Covid era||By virtue of extensive immunity due to oral vaccination, the last polio case was reported in India in January 2011. Subsequently, India was declared polio-free in 2014. The Government of India observes National Vaccination Day every year on March 16 to convey the importance of vaccination to its people. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the significance of this day becomes even more pertinent. The firm conviction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured that Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) has its own COVID-19 vaccine. I also congratulate my colleague Dr Harsh Vardhan and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for their perseverance and hard work. Indians will finally become healthier than before. This will help India emerge as a global leader in the post-COVID-19 era. Medicines are global goods The Prime Minister realised early on that the challenges being posed by the pandemic would require a global solution. As most developed nations ramped up their efforts to vaccinate their respective populations, the developing countries ran dangerously behind, which could have meant another year of humanitarian and economic crisis for them. While developed countries engaged in vaccine nationalism, it became imperative that a universal, equitable, and affordable supply of vaccines was ensured for developing countries. I am proud that our initiative of making vaccines widely available for other developing countries firmly established India as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ and sent out the message that medical products must be dealt with as global public goods. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been leading global efforts to mitigate the challenges by supplying medicines and generic drugs to other countries. This shows that while becoming aatma nirbhar , we are proving our mettle at the global level. As of March, we have supplied vaccines to over 70 countries while ensuring that our domestic demand is met. I am proud that our educational institutions took the lead and transformed the challenges into opportunities. The IITs came up with incredible innovations like low-cost portable ventilators, affordable AI-powered COVID-19 test kits, drones for sanitisation, and cheap and effective PPE kits and masks. With the help of these innovations, we were able to provide healthcare facilities to our people. We even exported this equipment to different countries, which reflects our long adage philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam . Research and innovation As we now step into a post-COVID era, it becomes more imperative to strengthen research and innovation. Through the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, we have already taken a step forward in this direction. The NEP aims at improving the research and innovation landscape in India. It proposes that higher education institutions (HEIs) should focus on research and innovation by establishing start-up incubation centres, technology development centres and interdisciplinary research. The HEIs should also focus on developing mechanisms and organising competitions to promote innovation among student communities. To attain the highest global standards in education, the NEP also recommends setting up Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities, which will be on a par with IITs and IIMs. Before the commencement of the next academic session 2021-22, the National Research Foundation (NRF) will be established under the Principal Scientific Adviser, which will transform India’s research culture. I am glad that an outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore for the next five years has been allocated for NRF in the Budget. The world will remember us for initiating the largest education reforms and emerging from the pandemic as a global leader. By taking the COVID-19 vaccine, the Prime Minister has given a solid boost to our vaccination drive and instilled confidence in the nation. I appeal to my dear citizens to come forward and be a part of the vaccine drive because it is only together that we can build a ‘Swarnim Bharat (A Golden India)’. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ is Union Education Minister, Government of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/global-leader-in-the-post-covid-era/article34078972.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Professor and his prejudice (From an editorial)||Professor F.J.C. Hearnshaw, a well-known student of European history and a great admirer of the orthodox variety of democracy, writes, in a recent book of his, with reference to Egypt and India: “I believe that if the real will of the inarticulate multitudes of both countries could be accurately ascertained, it would be found that what they ardently desire is not the setting up of a constitutional apparatus which they have not as yet the capacity to work, but rather the continued maintenance of the just and ordered rule of the British administrators.” All this only means that even Professors, who we are disposed to imagine follow reason rather than instinct, have their own pet prejudices and are guided by them in their conduct in life, for the fact is, as the New Statesman reviewer of his book points out, “a man who can hold such a belief about Egypt at the present day must either be completely ignorant of the facts, or allow his wishes to influence his belief to such an extent as to make his opinions of very small value.” Possibly, if Professor Hearnshaw studied facts at close quarters, he might persuade himself to alter his opinion, even as Mr. Curtis or, nearer home, Mrs. Besant did who, holding the view ten years ago that it was impossible to plant English democracy in India for which she said the country was unfit, was later on convinced that the English system of responsible government was the ideal thing for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/professor-and-his-prejudice-from-an-editorial/article34078970.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mujib takes over control in East Pak||Bangla Desh, as East Pakistanis have been calling their troubled land, was on the verge of unilateral independence to-day [March 15] with Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rehman announcing that he was taking over control from the military authorities. Mr. Rehman made the announcement just as the ultimatum given by the Martial Law authorities to employees of defence undertakings who had been staying away from work in response to his call for non-co-operation was about to expire. He had earlier asked the employees to defy the ultimatum which threatened them with dismissal and imprisonment if they did not resume by 10 a.m. to-day. Mr. Rehman along with his announcement issued a 35-point directive for the administration of the province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mujib-takes-over-control-in-east-pak/article34078971.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||India Post in talks for global Speed Post delivery via DHL||Looking at increasing revenue from mail services, India Post is in advanced discussions with global logistics firm DHL to deliver Speed Post to all countries, said a senior official. “We want to have more Speed Post and increase revenue,” said Pradipta Kumar Bisoi, Secretary, Department of Posts. “We are tying up with DHL and in the final stage of discussions with them,” he added. Currently, India Post delivers Speed Post to about 100 countries, and aims to deliver worldwide with the tie-up. India Post’s total revenues from Speed Post declined to Rs. 1,002.75 crore in the current financial year up to December due to the impact of COVID-19. This amount was Rs. 1,764 crore in the comparative period of 2019-20, Rs. 1,922 crore in 2018-19, Rs. 1,829.80 in 2017-18 and Rs. 1,783 crore in 2016-17. “This tie-up will make tracking also easy for the consumers. Now also we provide tracking services for mails, but we are dependent on the receiving country,” Mr. Bisoi said. “DHL will be able to provide live tracking... we will book postage and hand it over to them,” he added. The department, which currently gets a majority of its revenue from banking and related services, is also working to compete with private players for e-commerce deliveries in big cities. “In rural and remote areas, we still have an upper hand, but in big cities it is difficult for us to compete because of very low charges by private players.We are looking at ways to compete with them,” Mr. Bisoi said. As per the annual report for 2020-21, India Post targets to achieve 10% revenue market share by 2024 in the domestic courier, express and parcel sector, wherein “growth of e-commerce has created enormous opportunities for the department.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-post-in-talks-for-global-speed-post-delivery-via-dhl/article34078954.ece
16 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Indian airports may see Rs. 5,400 cr. net loss in FY21’||With a sharp reduction in passenger traffic, estimated at about 66% year-on-year in FY21, the airport sector in India is expected to witness a significant net loss of Rs. 5,400 crore and cash loss of Rs. 3,500 crore during the year, says ICRA. However, the robust liquidity of the players would help the sector sail through this unprecedented times, the rating agency said in a report. ICRA said in the next financial year the industry is likely to report net profit of Rs. 190 crore backed by passenger traffic recovery by 130% year-on-year. “In FY2022, the sector is expected to witness improvement in operating income by 73% to Rs. 14,500 crore and net profit to Rs. 190 crore supported by recovery in passenger traffic by around 130% y-o-y,” the report said. The domestic passenger traffic is expected to decline by 61% Y-o-Y and international traffic by 85% Y-o-Y in FY2021, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-airports-may-see-rs-5400-cr-net-loss-in-fy21/article34078951.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Private sector can help unlock CPSEs’ real value’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said efficient management and use of the latest technology by the private sector will help unlock the real value of CPSEs undergoing strategic sale and bring much higher dividends for the economy. Ms. Sitharaman said that the NITI Aayog had been mandated to identify and recommend CPSEs — which are not in the ‘priority sector’ — for strategic disinvestment. These CPSEs are reckoned as ‘low priority’ for the government notwithstanding that they may be profit-making companies . “The unlocking of real value through better / efficient management and use of latest technology by the private sector may bring much higher dividends for the economy as a whole in terms of growth, productivity and employment,” Ms. Sitharaman said in reply to a question in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/private-sector-can-help-unlock-cpses-real-value/article34078959.ece
16 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Majority of IT firms eye shift out of Haryana||A majority of IT-ITeS firms in Haryana were willing to shift operations to other States/ countries as they fear the the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, providing 75% job reservation for locals, could adversely impact operations and hiring, as per a Nasscom study. Given the Act applies to new hires, the impact is expected to be severe in 1-2 years as the industry sees a high attrition rate. A majority of them said this would result in shifting/ growing their operations to other States and in other countries, as per the study. Over 500 IT-ITeS firms in Haryana employ over four lakh people directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/majority-of-it-firms-eye-shift-out-of-haryana/article34078946.ece
16 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Adani Welspun JV discovers gas||Adani Welspun Exploration Ltd. (AWEL) has announced its first-ever gas discovery in the NELP-VII block MB-OSN-2005/2 located in the Mumbai offshore basin. The joint venture between the Adani Group and Welspun Enterprises Ltd. holds 100% participative interest (PI) and is the operator of this block. “The pay zones and flow rates encountered have exceeded the company’s initial estimates,” AWEL said in a statement. “With the information gleaned from adjoining fields/areas, this discovery is of substantial significance for both the company and the nation.” “Early indications pointed to the occurrence of gas-bearing reservoirs within the sandstone reservoirs of the Mahuva and Daman formations,” AWEL said. The drilling of the current well in March 2021 has confirmed the presence of substantial quantities of gas and condensate in the block, it added. “This discovery could be a significant breakthrough given India’s focus to nearly triple the share of natural gas in its energy mix by the end of this decade,” said Sandeep Garg, MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-welspun-jv-discovers-gas/article34078947.ece
16 March 2021||COIMBATORE,||Yarn prices spur Tiruppur garment strike||Garment manufacturers and exporters in Tiruppur went on a day’s strike on Monday demanding steps from the government to control yarn prices. According to Raja M. Shanmugham, president, Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, yarn prices had risen by almost 40% in the last four months. Exporters were also impacted by erratic supply of yarn. “Knowingly or unknowingly, we are losing jobs to our competing countries by exporting yarn,” he said. Yarn supply should be prioritised for the garment units. The strike is to draw the attention of the government to take steps to resolve the crisis, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yarn-prices-spur-tiruppur-garment-strike/article34078952.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||WPI inflation quickens to 27-month high||The wholesale price-based inflation rose for the second consecutive month to a 27-month high of 4.17% in February, as food, fuel and power prices spiked. The WPI inflation was 2.03% in January and 2.26% in February last year. After witnessing months of softening of prices, food articles in February saw 1.36% inflation.  ICRA principal economist Aditi Nayar said the doubling in WPI inflation reflected the rise in commodity prices brought on by the global risk-on sentiment, hardening of crude oil and fuel prices, and a fading of the favourable base effect for food items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wpi-inflation-quickens-to-27-month-high/article34078956.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trade deficit widens to $12.62 billion||India’s exports grew marginally by 0.67% to $27.93 billion in February while imports rose by 6.96% to $40.54 billion, according to official data. The trade deficit widened to $12.62 billion in February compared with $10.16 billion a year earlier, the data showed. Exports during April-February 2020-21 period contracted by 12.2% to $256.18 billion compared with $291.87 billion in the year-earlier period. Imports dipped 23.1% to $340.8 billion. Oil imports in February fell 16.6% to $8.99 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/trade-deficit-widens-to-1262-billion/article34078957.ece
16 March 2021||Special Correspondent,||TechM to buy control of Irish firm for €21 mn||Tech Mahindra has agreed to acquire a 70% stake in Perigord Asset Holdings, an end-to-end packaging supply chain solutions provider to the life sciences industry, for €21 million. Headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, Perigord has subsidiaries and a global centre of creative and packaging excellence in Hyderabad. The acquisition will help Tech Mahindra augment expertise in the global pharmaceutical, healthcare and life sciences sectors. It is a part of the company’s long-term growth plan to build presence across key markets, the company said. Tech Mahindra has plans to acquire the balance 30% stake over the next four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/techm-to-buy-control-of-irish-firm-for-21-mn/article34078955.ece
16 March 2021||Mumbai,||Bank of Baroda cuts retail lending rates||Bank of Baroda (BoB) has cut its lending rate from 6.85% to 6.75%. “This reduction makes our loans more affordable for customers,” said Harshadkumar T. Solanki, GM, mortgages and other retail assets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-of-baroda-cuts-retail-lending-rates/article34078949.ece
16 March 2021||TURIN,||Juventus rides on Ronaldo’s ‘perfect hat-trick’||Cristiano Ronaldo scored a ‘perfect hat-trick’ inside 32 minutes as Juventus bounced back from its midweek Champions League exit by beating Cagliari 3-1 away in Serie A on Sunday. The 36-year-old striker found the net with a header, a right-footed penalty and a left-foot shot and celebrated by pointing to his ear in an apparent response to recent criticism. The Italian champion, which enjoyed a comfortable win despite Giovanni Simeone’s second-half strike for the host, is now third with 55 points, 10 behind leader Inter Milan with a game in hand.  AC Milan suffered a major blow to its title hopes as Matteo Politano’s second-half strike earned Napoli a 1-0 win to leave the host nine points behind leader Inter MIlan. In the Premier League, Manchester United stretched its unbeaten run in all competitions to 13 games after a second-half own goal by West Ham United’s Craig Dawson gave it a 1-0 home win. The result left United second on 57 points from 29 games, 14 behind Manchester City which has played a game more, while West Ham stays fifth on 48 points from 28 matches, three behind fourth-placed Chelsea with a game in hand. United were twice denied by the woodwork and by a pair of fine saves from visiting goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski but it ground out its victory as Dawson turned an inswinging Bruno Fernandes corner into his own net in the 53rd minute. Sevilla posts win Sevilla beat Real Betis 1-0 in the LaLiga to grab a first victory in five games in all competitions and cement its bid to finish in the top four. Youssef En-Nesyri settled the city derby in the 27th minute.  The results:   Serie A: Cagliari 1 (Simeone 61) lost to Juventus 3 (Ronaldo 10, 25-pen, 32).   Bologna 3 (Barrow 27, Svanberg 41, Soriano 70) bt Sampdoria 1 (Quagliarella 37); AC Milan 0 lost to Napoli 1 (Politano 49).   Premier League: Arsenal 2 (Odegaard 44, Lacazette 64-pen) bt Tottenham 1 (Lamela 33); Manchester United 1 (Dawson 53-og) bt West Ham 0.   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 0 drew with Athletic Bilbao 0; Granada 1 (Sanchez 52) bt Real Sociedad 0.   Eibar 1 (Enrich 55) lost to Villarreal 3 (Gomez 1, Bacca 34, Pedraza 87); Sevilla 1 (En-Nesyri 27) bt Real Betis 0.   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 1 (Forsberg 46) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Kamada 61); VfB Stuttgart 2 (Adams 15-og, Kalajdzic 64) bt Hoffenheim 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juventus-rides-on-ronaldos-perfect-hat-trick/article34079117.ece
16 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||India will look to build on the success from Ishan’s approach||In September last year, Mumbai Indians (MI) was staring down the barrel in an IPL fixture against Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB). Chasing a mammoth 202, MI needed a miracle at 39 for three. Out of nowhere, Ishan Kishan played saviour, with a breathtaking 58-ball 99, studded with two fours and nine sixes. Ishan’s assault helped MI pull level with RCB, before the latter prevailed in a Super Over. RCB captain Virat Kohli may have survived the scare, but the southpaw’s knock certainly left an impression on him. Ishan exuded a fearless, guilt-free, unhinged style of hitting, the very same qualities that the Indian team management — led by Kohli — is searching for. On his India debut, in the second T20 here on Sunday, Ishan was advised by Kohli and MI captain Rohit Sharma to stick to the game plan that brought him success in the IPL. The 22-year-old followed orders, and it worked wonders. One can expect the same approach from Ishan in the third game here on Tuesday, for that is the only way he knows. Debutant jitters, if any, disappeared when Ishan smoked speedster Tom Curran over long-on for a six in the sixth over. Two crunching fours followed, and Ishan was up and running. The Jharkhand cricketer was severe on leg-spinner Adil Rashid as well, plonking his right foot forward and generating great power with a low, almighty swing of the bat. A reverse-sweep brought an end to his stay, but his 32-ball 56 set India on the path to victory. If Ishan is a young man with a bright future ahead, time is running out for 35-year-old Shikhar Dhawan. Dhawan featured in the first match, and was then dropped to make way for Ishan. It would be wise to give Ishan a long run — a courtesy that was not extended to Dhawan. Questions will also be asked of K.L. Rahul, who has scored only one run in two matches. With Rohit Sharma set to return from rest, Rahul could face the axe. Ishan could also be slotted in the middle-order — where he has batted in the IPL — to accommodate the first-choice Rahul-Rohit opening combination. While there is a long way to go for the ICC T20 World Cup, scheduled to commence in India in October, there is a distinct possibility of Rohit and Ishan taking first strike at the mega event. The England pacers, meanwhile, made life easy for the batsmen on Sunday. The Curran brothers, Jofra Archer, Chris Jordan and Ben Stokes showed no control over the slower deliveries, serving it up on a platter with rank long hops. The visitors will do well to learn from the Indian fast bowlers, who landed their cutters perfectly on a good length outside off. The England batsmen — with their upright stance — cluelessly swung at deliveries which stayed low, making contact with nothing but air.  The teams (from): India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Yuzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Rahul Tewatia, Rahul Chahar, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini, and Shardul Thakur.   England: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley, and Mark Wood.   Match starts at 7 p.m .   India fined The Indian players were fined 20% of their match fee for a slow over-rate in the second T20I||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-will-look-to-build-on-the-success-from-ishans-approach/article34079068.ece
16 March 2021||MUMBAI,||The man who rediscovered Mumbai’s champion material||After being appointed head coach less than 48 hours before Mumbai’s departure to Jaipur for the Vijay Hazare Trophy, Ramesh Powar helped the side overcome a forgettable campaign in the domestic T20 tournament by winning the title in the 50-over format. The former India off-spinner opened up about his fruitful stint with the team over the last month. Excerpts:  How did you plan the revival since you barely had any time? In the only meeting we had in Mumbai, I told them I was not there to make everyone gel and that we were all professionals. They got the point. I never look at the time-frame. A lot of people say you need time to build a winning team. I feel if you do the right things, there’s a chance of you building a team quickly. They were fired up because they were desperate to do well since they felt they had messed it up in the T20s. That’s what I sensed. The only thing was that they were insecure about their place in the side. Along with senior players, I sat down and told everyone about their role and status in the team. Did you discuss the Mushtaq Ali Trophy debacle? I told them that we were a much better side than what they thought and we should not just participate, we should dominate. They agreed and the whole approach changed. I told them if you dominate, it will help the team as well as their careers because this is the only tournament before the selection process begins. My job was to provide them the best of practice, keep the atmosphere healthy, and avoid infighting and cribbing within the group. How did you get the best out of the likes of Dhawal [Kulkarni} and [Aditya] Tare? I was primarily managing every player’s emotions. They were playing for each other. That’s the biggest thing. Dhawal was very keen to do well. He is an extremely sincere player. All I told him was you can’t just go through the motions. Not just him, I told him, Dube and Tare that they were senior players. They had played a lot of cricket so they had be role models when it comes to performance. And I told them they could still play for India. When you get so much criticism, you always have the fire in you. It needs to be ignited at the right time. Prithvi’s elevation as vice-captain for the league stage turned out to be a masterstroke, both for himself and the team He was a natural pick for the vice-captain’s post. He was relatively quiet in Jaipur. He didn’t interfere in Shreyas’ way. Once those guys left, he took over. You could see he wanted to win the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-man-who-rediscovered-mumbais-champion-material/article34079691.ece
16 March 2021||PATIALA,||Annu Rani rewrites own National mark||National javelin throw champion Annu Rani moved closer to the elusive Olympic qualification with a 63.24m throw here on Monday, bettering her own two-year-old mark for a new National record on day one of the 24th Federation Cup. Annu has been consistently throwing over 61m both in and out of competition. Monday’s mark is 0.81m better than her previous best (62.43m) in 2019 and almost a metre more than the previous meet record (62.34m), also held by her. The gap between her and the rest can be gauged from the fact that no one else could even cross the 55m mark. Getting better “I won’t say I am completely satisfied with my performance, but I am not disappointed either. I am getting better with every outing, especially since we started only recently after a year-long break. I am sure I will reach the mark soon,” Annu said after the event.  Admitting that she needed to work on her technique, Annu said: “I tend to stop just before the release of the javelin, nullifying a lot of what I gain in my run-up. That needs to be worked on and we are doing it.” In the 10,000m run, Sanjivani Jadhav returned to the podium in her first competition after serving a two-year suspension, finishing second behind Savita Pal.  The results:   Women: 10,000m: 1. Savita Pal (UP, 33:59.35), 2. Sanjivani Jadhav (Mah, 34:01.26), 3. Kavita Yadav (UP, 34:04.45).   Shot put: 1. Kiran Baliyan (UP, 16.45m), 2. Manpreet Kaur (Pun, 15.65m,), 3. Sonal Goyal (Del, 15.09m).   Javelin: 1. Annu Rani (UP, 63.24m), 2. Sanjana Choudhary (Raj, 54.55m), 3. Sharmila Kumari (Har, 50.78m).   Pole vault: 1. Rosy Paulraj (TN, 3.90m), 2. Pavithra Venkatesh (TN, 3.80m), 3. Mariya Jaison (Ker, 3.70m) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/annu-rani-rewrites-own-national-mark/article34079055.ece
16 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||How Punam turned it around||The Indian batting has been improving remarkably with every outing, despite being asked to bat in more demanding, bowler-friendly conditions, in the ongoing one-dayers against South Africa. The Proteas have shown that no target is beyond their batting might, by winning the last two matches when chasing stiff targets of 249 and 267. Glowing example For India, Punam Raut provides a glowing example with her progressive scores of 10, 62, 77 and 104. She remained unbeaten during her knocks of 62 and 104. When the 31-year-old got out, it was in the attempt to accelerate, a hook and a lofted off-drive accounting for her dismissals. The former opener, who may perhaps regain that status if the captain and coach feel the need to entrust her with the responsibility, is ready to serve the team in any position. “If the captain wants me to open, I will,” said Punam, after her vibrant century on Sunday. She may be viewed as a slow starter, but Punam said that she was doing so for the team. “Some batters attack and some have to stay. When two wickets are down, you have to stay and play long, to get a good total for the team,” she said. Flooded by emotions It was her third ODI century, coming after a long time. Flooded by emotions, Punam knelt and kissed the pitch in celebration. “During the lockdown, I worked on my technique and played a lot of matches, with the boys,” said Punam. With tremendous scope for improvement in many aspects of the game, Punam firmly believes that the Indian team will settle into a strong, winning combination in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/how-punam-turned-it-around/article34079066.ece
16 March 2021||INDORE,||Jincy George sets up Kerala’s win||Jincy George scored an unbeaten 107 (143b, 13x4) to help Kerala beat Mumbai by 47 runs in the Senior women’s one-day cricket tournament here on Monday. Chasing 234, Mumbai, opting to bowl, could only manage 186 for nine. No. 3 Vrushali Bhagat made 52, though it took 96 balls. Earlier, it was a Jincy show. Coming in at No. 3 in the third over at the fall of opener H.U. Bhoomika, she anchored the Kerala innings and gave her side a defendable total. Jincy’s fourth wicket stand of 120 with Minnu Mani (56, 77b, 8x4) proved a match-winning one in the end.  The scores: Kerala 233 for five in 50 overs (Jincy George 107 n.o., Minnu Mani 56) bt Mumbai 186 for nine in 50 overs (Vrushali Bhagat 52) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jincy-sets-up-keralas-win/article34079357.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Lobera’s calculated approach gave him unparalleled success||The champagne had been popped, the cake had been cut and the League Winners Shield had been secured. Sergio Lobera had only nine words to say — “In 12 days, I want the trophy here. Okay?” Twelve days later, the decibel levels went through the roof as Lobera’s Mumbai City FC became the first club to win the ISL title and the League Winners Shield. Sporting a buttoned-up collared T-shirt and a buzz cut, Lobera’s calculated approach saw him achieve unparalleled success this season. Life has indeed come a full circle for the Spaniard — he’s now lifted two titles on the same Goan shores where he was let go of by a rival club last season. Special circumstances “I am very proud. It is special for me to win the trophy and the shield in Goa. I won the shield in the training ground (GMC Stadium in Bambolim) I was using for the last three years and won the trophy in the stadium we were playing in (Fatorda Stadium). These are very special circumstances, for me personally. You know I was working in FC Goa for the last three years and to now to win the trophy with Mumbai City FC is very special for me. Our dreams have become true and it was an amazing season,” Lobera said on Monday. “The celebration we had with everyone yesterday... when you can see the trophy and the shield with us — that is an image I will never forget,” he added. The Spaniard, who is the first coach to win the ISL double and the Super Cup, continued that the unwavering support he received from his boys made the difference. “I am lucky because the profile of the persons who I work with is amazing. We are a family on and off the pitch and we showed that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/loberas-calculated-approach-gave-him-unparalleled-success/article34079687.ece
16 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Kadhe opens campaign against Ranjeet||Arjun Kadhe has been seeded No. 1 and drawn to play former National champion V.M. Ranjeet in the first round of the National hard court tennis championship to be played at Tennis Project, Baliawas, from Tuesday. Defending champion Niki Poonacha is seeded second and has a tricky opener against Faisal Qamar. In the women’s event, Vaidehi Chaudhari and Shrivalli Bhamidipaty are the top two seeds. Four-time National champion Prerna Bhambri, the fourth seed, will meet Niditra Rajmohan. Even though the total prize money will only be Rs. 10,00,000, it has been an admirable initiative by the Haryana Tennis Association to fill the void caused by the pandemic. The Fenesta National championship is likely to resume in October.  The seedings:   Men: 1. Arjun Kadhe, 2. Niki Poonacha, 3. Ishaque Eqbal, 4. Paras Dahiya, 5. Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam, 6. Suraj Prabodh, 7. Kunal Anand, and 8. Prithvi Sekhar.   Women: 1. Vaidehi Chaudhari, 2. Shrivalli Bhamidipaty, 3. Yubarani Banerjee, 4. Prerna Bhambri, 5. Sai Samhitha, 6. Soha Sadiq, 7. Arthi Muniyan, and 8. Akanksha Nitture.   The results (qualifying singles final round):   Men: Vivek Gautam bt Adil Kalyanpur 6-2, 0-1 retd.; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Karan Singh 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; Alex Solanki bt Anurag Agarwal 6-2, 6-2; Parikshit Somani bt Bikramjeet Singh Chawla 7-5, 6-4; Fardeen Qamar bt Udit Kamboj 6-2, 6-3; Shanshank Theertha bt Dheeraj Srinivasan 6-1, 4-6, 6-4; Chinmaya Dev Chauhan bt Jagmeet Singh 7-6(6), 7-6(2); Lohith Bathrinath bt Rohan Mehra 6-7(3), 6-4, 6-4.   Women: Pooja Ingale bt Niyati Kukreti 7-6(1), 6-3; Renne Singla bt Nandini Dixit 4-6, 6-4, 6-3; Anaam Almas bt Bunty Chongtham 6-2, 1-6, 6-4; Smriti Bhasin bt Yashaswini Panwar 6-2, 6-1; Niditra Rajmohan bt Medhavi Singh 6-2, 4-6, 7-5; Sudipta Senthilkumar bt Rutuparna Choudhary 6-3, 6-2; Gayatri Menon bt Ishwari Matere 3-6, 6-3, 6-2; Adithi Are bt Ritu Ohlyan 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadhe-opens-campaign-against-ranjeet/article34079197.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian team to be picked on Tuesday||The Indian team for the Billie Jean King Cup World Group play-off tie against Latvia will be selected on Tuesday. The selection committee is also scheduled to finalise the coach for the tie, which will be played on indoor hard courts at the National tennis centre, Lielupe, Jurmala in Latvia, on April 16 and 17. Former French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko is expected to spearhead the Latvia team. A former World No. 11, US Open semifinalist, and ranked 55 in the world now, Anastasija Sevastova beat Serena Williams in Latvia’s last Billie Jean King Cup tie. US won the decisive doubles and edged Latvia out 3-2. The 12 teams that made the finals could not compete last year owing to the pandemic. India qualified for the World Group play-off for the first time in the Cup (earlier known as Fed Cup) history, by finishing second in the Asia-Oceania group behind China. Ankita Raina, Sania Mirza and Rutuja Bhosale combined well last year in Dubai, and helped the team beat Uzbekistan, Chinese Taipei, Indonesia and Korea. Vishaal Uppal was the captain of the team.  Former French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko is expected to spearhead the Latvia team||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-to-be-picked-on-tuesday/article34079125.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Ramnath takes Team IV home against Team III||L. Ramnath’s 114 (129b, 17x4, 1x6) was the highlight of Team IV’s five-wicket win over Team III in the TNCA round-robin u-19 tournament on Monday.  The scores: Team I 181 in 38.5 overs (V.S. Karthick Manikandan 88, A. Mohammad Aadil Shaan 30, Sanjay Vembu 3/27, R. Raja Giri 3/30) bt Team II 178 in 45.5 overs (Akash Dev Kumar 61, K. Ajaya Shankar 42).   Team III 261/9 in 50 overs (B. Sachin 95, Arjun P. Murthy 44, S.R. Athish 41, R. Anirudh Seshadhri 33, Govind Sharma 3/46) lost to Team IV 263/5 in 47.5 overs (L. Ramnath 114, S. Sri Abisek 44, Govind Sharma 33, A. Ranjan 3/34).   Team VI 216 in 47.5 overs (M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 57, K. Vijay Priyadarshan 40, S. Mohammed Ali 39) lost to Team V 217/4 in 49.5 overs (A. Badrinath 61, Shubhan Krishnan Sridhar 42, J. Ajay Chethan 40 n.o., B. Anirudh 31, P. Bharathwaj 3/31) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramnath-takes-team-iv-home-against-team-iii/article34079190.ece
16 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Manzi powers Sporting past Churchill||Pedro Manzi fired two late goals to help Mohammedan Sporting outplay Churchill Brothers 4-1 in a championship leg match of the I-League at the Kalyani Stadium on Monday. Hira Mondal and Vanlalbiaa Chhangte completed the tally for Sporting. Luka Majcen scored the consolation goal for Churchill off a penalty. This was Churchill’s second successive defeat. Earlier, Komron Tursunov found the target in the 81st minute to help TRAU FC beat Roundglass Punjab FC. The result helped the Imphal-based club draw level with Churchill on points. Both have 25 points from 13 matches, but Churchill remained on top due to a better goal difference. In another match, played at the Salt Lake Stadium, Gokulam Kerala FC dropped vital points as it was held 1-1 by Real Kashmir. Gokulam has 23 points from 13 games.  The results (championship leg):   Gokulam Kerala FC 1 (Dennis Antwi 24-pen) drew with Real Kashmir FC 1 (Basit Ahmed Bhat 13).   TRAU FC 1 (Komron Tursunov 81) bt RoundGlass Punjab FC 0.   Churchill Brothers FC 1 (Luka Majcen 21-pen) lost to Mohammedan Sporting 4 (Hira Mondal 15, Vanlalbiaa Chhangte 65, Pedro Manzi 86, 90+3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manzi-powers-sporting-past-churchill/article34079119.ece
16 March 2021||North Sound,||Bravo century guides West Indies to victory||Darren Bravo’s fourth ODI century guided the West Indies to a five-wicket victory over Sri Lanka and a clean sweep of the three-match series in Antigua on Sunday. Set another challenging target of 275, the home side’s response was anchored by Bravo's innings of 102 off 132 balls (5x4, 4x6). Captain Kieron Pollard (53 not out) ensured there was to be no late stumble despite Bravo’s dismissal to seamer Suranga Lakmal just before the end.  The scores: Sri Lanka 274 for six in 50 overs (A. Bandara 55 n.o., W. Hasaranga 80 n.o., Hosein 3/33) lost to West Indies 276 for five in 48.3 overs (S. Hope 64, D. Bravo 102, K. Pollard 53 n.o.).   Toss: WI. MoM : Bravo; Player-of-the-Series: Hope.   W I won by five wickets to clinch series 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bravo-century-guides-west-indies-to-victory/article34079071.ece
16 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Thiruvananthapuram wins the overall title||Host Thiruvananthapuram won the overall title in the State track cycling championships here on Monday. The host dominated in most of the categories and took a lion’s share of the gold medals to finish with 79 points. Eranakulam (33 points) and Idukki (24 points) came second and third respectively. A. Anandu (men), A. Abindhu (under-18), V.R. Akash (under-16), K.J. Kalyani (women) and Agxa Ann Thomas (under-16) won a double each in the two-day event.  The results:   Men: Sprint: 1. Abhinanth Murali (KCA) (11.717), 2. P. Sinu Raj (KCA), 3. Ananthu Pradeep (KCA); 1000m individual time trial: 1. A. Anandu (Tvm) (1:12.000), 2. Abhinanth Murali (KCA). 3. P. Sinu Raj (KCA): 4000m individual pursuit:.Anandu (1:14.212), 2. R. Ashif (Tvm), 3. R.J. Sujith (Tvm).   Boys: Under-18: Sprint: A. Abindhu (Tvm) (11:383), 2. Shinto Shaji (Idk), 3. V. Vivek (Pkd); 3000m individual pursuit: 1. V.R. Adarsh (Tvm) (3:06.109), 2. Pranav S. Nair (Idk), 3.Hrejul Sekhar (Tsr); 1000m individual time trial: 1. Abindhu (1:14.212), 2. V.R.Adarsh (Tvm), 3. Shinto Shah (Idk).   Under-16: 500m individual time trial: 1. V.R. Akash (Tvm) (37.201), 2. Adwaith Sankar (Tvm), 3. Atharva Patil (Tvm); 2000m individual pursuit: Akash (2:33.454), 2. Adwaith Sankar (Tvm), 3. K.S. Alan (Ekm).   Under-14: 500m individual time trial: 1. Avinash Shreedhar (Ktm) (40.142), 2. Muhammed Rahoof (Ekm), 3. Abhishek S. Nair (Ekm); 2000m individual pursuit: 1. Abhishek (2:49.394), 2. Avinash, 3. Rahoof.   Women: Sprint: 1. K.J. Kalyani (Tvm) (15.392), 2. Adhithya Ratheesh (Ekm), 3. S. Abhirami (Ekm); 500m individual time trial: 1. Kalyani (46.784),2. Niya Sara Kunjumon (Pth), 3. Abhirami.   Girls: Under-18: 500m individual time trial: 1. S.M. Abhirami (Tvm) (46:246), 2. Binilamol Giby (Idk), 3. M. Anakha (Koz); 2000m individual pursuit: 1. Anakha (3:16.683), 2. Binilamol, 3. Shinsiya Anni (Ekm).   Under-16: 500m individual time trial: 1. Agxa Ann Thomas (Idk) (44.324), 2. A.K. Karthik (Tvm), 3. Devika P. Sanish (Ktm).   2000m individual pursuit: 1. Agxa Ann (3:07.680), 2. Theertha S. Nair (Koz), 3. Aparna Suresh (Wyd).   Under-14: 500m individual time trial: 1. Annriya Antony (Ekm) (46.301), 2. Srushti Kumbhoje (Tvm), 3. Laxmi Patil (Tvm); 2000m individual pursuit: 1. Srushti (3:09.921), 2. Annriya, 3. Sethulakshmi (Ktm).   Overall: 1. Thiruvananthapuram (79 points), 2. Ernakulam (33 pts), 3. Idukki (24 pts) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiruvananthapuram-wins-the-overall-title/article34079358.ece
16 March 2021||Chennai,||Dhoni has a specific plan for every session: Rajiv||With less than a month to go before the Indian Premier League starts, Chennai Super Kings has been hard at work at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium, with skipper M.S. Dhoni leading from the front since last week. CSK fielding coach Rajiv Kumar, in a video on the club’s social media handle, gave an insight into what the team has been focusing on during the first week and specifically about Dhoni’s preparations. “In the first five days, for the seniors who have not played cricket in a while, it was important to get their balance right, to make sure the feet are in the right place and now we can put the intensity up,” said Rajiv, a former Jharkhand player and coach. “MS [Dhoni] we know how smart he is. He understands his body, his game and is very determined. Every session he is coming in, he is coming with a specific plan and working on it,” he added. Explaining his process and the areas of focus, Rayudu said, “It is always hard to start off after a break. It takes about six to seven sessions to get back into rhythm. We know where we need to be but where we are right now is very important. It is more about knowing where my game is at the moment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhoni-has-a-specific-plan-for-every-session-rajiv/article34079612.ece
16 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Vijender confident of tackling taller opponent||Vijender Singh is confident of getting the better of his taller and younger Russian opponent, Artysh Lipsan, in their professional boxing bout in Goa on March 19. After the two reached Goa on Monday, the unbeaten Vijender said he would be able to tackle the 6’4” tall 26-year-old Russian and win his 13th straight fight. “He (Lopsan) is tall. I will be slow at the start but I am confident of beating him nonetheless. Height is not everything and in boxing you need strength and strategy. I have experience under my belt and Lopsan is still a kid,” said 35-year-old Vijender, who is 5’11”. “The tougher the opponent, more the fun to beat him.” Lopsan is keen to end Vijender’s unbeaten record in the fight to be held on the Majestic Pride Casino ship. “I’m ready to knock him out early. It would be great beating him in front of his home crowd,” said Lopsan. The fight will be shown live on www.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijender-confident-of-tackling-taller-opponent/article34079114.ece
16 March 2021||Hyderabad:,||Premier Action claims Sultan Phiroze Plate||L. D’Silva-trained Premier Action (Afroz Khan up) won the Sultan Phiroze Plate, the feature event of the extra race day held here on Monday (March 15). The winner is owned by Mr. Harisharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Ahluwalia.  1. BABY BELLE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): PEDRO PLANET (Kiran Naidu) 1, My Master (Nakhat Singh) 2, Paladino (Afroz Khan) 3 and Siri (B.R. Kumar) 4. Not run: City Of Blessings. 1-1/4, Nk and 1-1/2. 1m, 29.18s. Rs. 194 (w), 27, 6 and 8 (p). SHP: 22, THP: 19, FP: 1,078, Q: 277, Tanala: 5,591. Favourite: Hot Seat. Owners: Ms. Meka Ahalya & Mrs. Rajini Meka. Trainer: L. D’Silva.  2. DILAWAR PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ALWAYS SUCCESS (Santosh Raj N R) 1, Team Player (Nakhat Singh) 2, Coastal Cruise (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Thrill Of Power (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Aintree. 1-1/2, 2 and Nk. 1m, 27.19s. Rs. 9 (w), 5, 7 and 13 (p). SHP: 16, THP: 40, FP: 41, Q: 27, Tanala: 276. Favourite: Always Success. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta & Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  3. BABY BELLE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) (Maiden), 3-y-o only (Cat. II): CAMPANIA (Chouhan) 1, Georgia Peach (Akshay Kumar) 2, Gurbaaz (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Good Tidings (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 3/4 and 3. 1m, 28.11s. Rs. 14 (w), 6, 5 and 14 (p). SHP: 16, THP: 35, FP: 31, Q: 12, Tanala: 152. Favourite: Georgia Peach. Owners: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey, Mr. Gaurav Gopal Krishnan Sethi, Mr. Abhimanyu Jagdish Thackersey & Mr. Berjis Minoo Desai. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  4. ABBOTS ROYAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): LICKFANG (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Nova Scotia (N.B. Kuldeep) 2, Solo Winner (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Alta Vita (B.R. Kumar) 4. 4-3/4, Sh and 2. 1m, 39.94s. Rs. 36 (w), 13,8 and 10 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 34, FP: 449, Q: 129, Tanala: 4,661. Favourite: Alta Vita. Owners: Mr. Subodh Kumar Ananthula & Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  5. JAIDEV PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): LORENA (Deepak Singh) 1, Alluri’s Pride (Gaurav Singh) 2, Kintsugi (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Tapatio (Surya Prakash) 4. 1-1/4, 2-3/4 and Nk. 1m, 27.86s. Rs. 161 (w), 26, 20 and 9 (p). SHP: 70, THP: 20, FP: 4,417, Q: 1,798, Tanala: 14, 111. Favourite: Alluri’s Pride. Owners: Mr. G. Krishnamohan Rao, Mr. T. Amarender Reddy & Mr. Alluri Ajay Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  6. ABBOTS ROYAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45: DILLON (Kiran Naidu) 1, Sun Dancer (N.B. Kuldeep) 2, Ulysses (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Promiseofhappiness (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Sh, 2-3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 40.27s. Rs. 34 (w), 10, 15 and 14 (p). SHP: 28, THP: 83, FP: 394, Q: 112, Tanala: 6,345. Favourite: Call Of The Blue. Owners: Ms. Sarojini Gudaru & Mr. Sriram Uppaluri. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  7. SULTAN PHIROZE PLATE (1,600m), rated 80 & above (Cat. I): PREMIER ACTION (Afroz Khan) 1, Havelock Cruise (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Titus (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Sovet Pride (Akshay Kumar) 4. 2, Hd and 1/2. 1m, 37.78s. Rs. 19 (w), 6, 8 and 21 (p). SHP: 43, THP: 72, FP: 511, Q: 273, Tanala: 6,829. Favourite: Consigliori. Owners: Mr. Harisharan Devgan & Mr. Tinder Singh Ahluwalia. Trainer: L. D’Silva.  8. JAIDEV PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): RED RIVER (Santosh Raj N R) 1, Hurricane (B.R. Kumar) 2, Sacred Lamp (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Berkeley (N.B. Kuldeep) 4. Not run: Flying Queen. 2, 3/4 and Nk. 1m, 27.61s. Rs. 17 (w), 9, 21 and 11 (p). SHP: 60, THP: 25, FP: 278, Q: 253, Tanala: 3,270. Favourite: Battle Ready. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 5,04,950 (c/o) and 30%: 2,16,407 (1 tkt.). Treble: (i) 1,293 (37 tkts.), (ii) 15,034 (4 tkts.), (iii) 1,034 (98 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 6,891 (5 tkts.), (ii) 1,05,505 (1 tkt.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/premier-action-claims-sultan-phiroze-plate/article34079124.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kapil joins PGTI board||“Please take five percent of the attention you give to cricket and spare it for golf.” This was the passionate appeal of legendary cricketer Kapil Dev to the mediapersons after being inducted as a board member of the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) here on Monday. Kapil, an avid golfer since his retirement from international cricket in 1994, promised to do his best to attract corporate support for Indian golf and golfers. “Annually, there are more than 500 corporate events in golf across India. If the professional tour can get increased corporate patronage, our home-grown golfers will be able to make a living out of playing domestic events, without looking to play on overseas Tours. Enough money “I say, if you are good enough to play the Indian Premier League, then you don’t worry about not becoming an IAS officer. Couple of IPL seasons and your future is secure. That’s what I wish for Indian golfers. There should be enough money for the golf professionals in India so that others get attracted to play here. I know it will take time but with corporate support and media, it is possible,” said Kapil. The announcement came as part of the launch of the Rs. 30 lakh-Prometheus School Presents Delhi-NCR Open golf championship in Gurugram from Tuesday. Also present on the occasion was golfer Jeev Milkha Singh who is set to participate on the Senior Tour, across the world, next year. Rashid Khan, eyeing an Olympic berth, along with Udayan Mane, S. Chikkarangappa, Rahil Gangjee, Ajeetesh Sandhu, Viraj Madappa, Khalin Joshi and Karandeep Kochhar form the creamy layer of the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kapil-joins-pgti-board/article34079064.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bhambri bows out||Qualifier Yuki Bhambri stretched the 59th-ranked Slovenian Aljaz Bedene before losing 6-3, 1-6, 4-6 in the first round of the $2,048,855 ATP tennis tournament in Dubai on Monday. Bhambri, playing in his third tournament after returning from a two-year break owing to injury, won 10 ATP points for making it to the main draw and also collected $13,300. After competing in the ATP Tour event in Singapore on a protected ranking, Bhambri clinched the doubles title with Saketh Myneni in the $15,000 ITF tournament in Lucknow before flying out to Dubai. He beat Prajnesh Gunneswaran and Ramkumar Ramanathan to qualify for the main draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhambri-bows-out/article34079069.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Effects of anger||The story of Satyavrata related in the Devi Bhagavata Purana by Vyasa to Janamejaya gives a detailed account of the sacrifice undertaken by one Devadutta with the specific desire to beget a son. It also throws light on some interesting issues that can arise during the performance of such a sacrifice, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Devadutta is fully aware that since this yaga is of the ‘kamya karma’ type, no concessions in the conduct of the sacrifice are allowed. So, he engages all the learned scholars and proficient ritviks who are competent to take care of the various aspects of the sacrifice. But it so happens that the rishi chanting the ‘sama’ mantras, though a skilled expert, owing to his age, becomes breathless and thereby there is a break in the continuity of utterance. Devadutta observes this flaw and immediately is angry with the rishi since this will affect the result of the sacrifice. The rishi also becomes angry. He points out that shortness of breath is common as one grows old and cannot be treated as a fault. He curses Devadutta that he will get a dumb fool for a son. Devadutta is devastated and falls at the rishi’s feet seeking his pardon. Is it not commonly held that being issueless is better than having a foolish son? The rishi calms down when Devadutta is penitent. Unlike ordinary people who tend to nurture anger for long and do not forgive, great people are generally calm even as water that is naturally cool. They give up their anger when the sin that had been the cause for anger is repented for, just as water becomes hot when heated and returns to normal coolness when the heat is removed. The compassionate rishi assures Devadutta that the boy will be born a fool, but will eventually become a jnani by the Grace of Goddess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/effects-of-anger/article34079046.ece
16 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA:,||Gireesh and Akshay shine||P.J. Gireesh struck a 56-ball 73 to help Eagles beat Tuskers by 43 runs in the Kodak KCA President’s Cup on Monday. Lions, riding on Akshay Manohar’s 50 off 43 balls, beat Panthers by four runs.  The scores: Eagles 167 for seven in 20 overs (Mohammed Azharudheen 69, P.J. Gireesh 73, C.O.T. Farzeen 4/16, M.D. Nidheesh 3/25) bt Tuskers 124 for eight in 20 overs (Arjun Aji 32, K.J. Rakesh 3/18, K.C. Akshay 4/22).   Lions 134 for six in 20 overs (Akshay Manohar 50, Abdul Basith 48, Basil Thampi 19/3) bt Panthers 130 for nine in 20 overs (Rohan Kunnumel 43, Visweshwar Suresh 2/22, S. Midhun 2/20, Vinod Kumar 2/31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gireesh-and-akshay-shine/article34079359.ece
16 March 2021||DUBAI,||India fined for slow over-rate||The Indian players have been fined 20% of their match fees for maintaining a slow over-rate in the second T20I against England in Ahmedabad on Sunday. Javagal Srinath of the ICC Elite Panel of Match Referees imposed the sanction after Virat Kohli’s side was ruled to be one over short of the target after time allowances were taken into consideration.  On-field umpires Anil Chaudhary and K.N. Ananthapadmanabhan, and third umpire Virender Sharma, levelled the charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-fined-for-slow-over-rate/article34079062.ece
16 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Bharti and Vaishnavi star for Vidarbha||Rameshwari Gayakwad’s four for 11 helped Karnataka score a nine-wicket win over Meghalaya in the BCCI senior women’s one-dayer (Elite Group) on Monday. Bharti Fulmali’s 94 (116b, 11x4, 1x6) and leg-spinner Vaishnavi Khandkar’s four-wicket haul helped Vidarbha register a 53-run win over Tamil Nadu. Himachal opener Shivani Singh slammed a brilliant 116 (157b, 11x4) as her side scored a 10-run win over Delhi.  The scores: Himachal Pradesh 208/9 in 50 overs (Shivani Singh 116) bt Delhi 198/8 in 50 overs (Vandana Chaturvedi 37, Neha Chhillar 57, Renuka Singh 4/39). Points: HP 4(4), Delhi 0(0).   Meghalaya 49 in 33.4 overs (Rameshwari Gayakwad 4/11) lost to Karnataka 53 for one in six overs. Karnataka 4(8), Meghalaya 0 (0).   Vidarbha 207 in 49.2 overs (Bharti Fulmali 94, Krutika Pophali 46, N. Niranjana 3/38, L. Nethra 3/43) bt Tamil Nadu 154 in 45.2 overs (Eloksi Arun 30, N. Niranjana 41, Vaishnavi Khandkar 4/36). Vidarbha 4 (8), TN 0 (4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rameshwari-stars-for-karnataka/article34079115.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Remaining T20Is behind closed doors||The remaining three India-England T20Is at the Narendra Modi Stadium will be played behind closed doors, the Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) announced on Monday. “Due to rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, we, at GCA, have decided in consultation with the BCCI, that the matches will be played behind closed doors and spectators will not be allowed at the ground,” read a statement from Dhanraj Nathan, GCA vice-president. The three T20Is will be held on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. — Ashwin Achal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/remaining-t20is-behind-closed-doors/article34079092.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A new spell begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-new-spell-begins/article34079061.ece
16 March 2021||London,||Arteta will turn the page on Aubameyang||Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta said he will turn the page on Pierre-Emserick Aubameyang's breach of discipline after the Gunners captain was dropped for Sunday’s 2-1 win over Tottenham. “We have a way of living together, we have to respect each other,” said Arteta. “But he is an incredible guy, he is our captain and we move forward. I will never tell anything that happens in the dressing room.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arteta-will-turn-the-page-on-aubameyang/article34079111.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manika loses to Xiaoxin||Manika Batra’s defeat to Monaco’s Yang Xiaoxin ended India’s search for an Olympic berth from the World singles qualification tournament in Doha on Monday. Yang, ranked 44th, defeated Manika 11-9, 11-4, 8-11. 11-4, 11-9 to move within one victory from booking a place in the Tokyo Games. Earlier, Sutirtha Mukherjee and G. Sathiyan lost in the quarterfinals of their respective pools. Russia’s Polina Mikhailova, ranked 46th, stopped Sutritha 10-12, 11-7, 11-8, 8-11, 12-10, 11-5. Sathiyan, after a first round bye, surrendered tamely to Italy’s Mihai Bobocica 11-7, 11-6, 11-8, 11-5. To book Olympic berths, the Indians now await the Asian Olympic qualification tournament at the same venue from March 18 to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-loses-to-xiaoxin/article34079126.ece
16 March 2021||DINDIGUL:,||It’s Seeni Bala||Seeni Bala emerged winner of the DDCA second division and clinched the Prasiddhi Vidyodaya Trophy recently. Seeni Bala and GRI finished with two wins each in the four-team super-league. Seeni Bala (+0.0178) edged out GRI (+0.0031) on NRR to bag the top spot.   The scores: Orange Shirts 163/9 in 30 overs (G. Gokul Nath 26, G. Gunasekaran 25, P.M. Venkatesh 67 n.o., S. Sakthivel 4/39) bt GRI 91 in 26.3 overs (M. Santhana Kumar 25, D. Jeevanantham 3/11).   Orange Shirts 158/3 in 30 overs (G. Gokul Nath 35, P.M. Venkatesh 25, K. Thangapandian 57, R. Poopathi Raja 3/24) lost to Seeni Bala 159/3 in 26.5 overs (N. Nagamani Kandan 36, M. Arun Sivakumaran 59 n.o., G. Jeyaveera Pandian 37).    Host The American, SS Duraisamy Nadar Mariammal (SSDNM), SRM IST and Kovilpatti’s Government ASC (GASC) entered the semifinals of the Bishop Dr. A. Christopher Asir Memorial State-level inter-collegiate hockey tournament on Monday.  The results (quarterfinals): SS Duraisamy Nadar Mariammal bt Arul Anandar 2-0; SRM IST bt Nazareth CAS 5-0; Government ASC, Kovilpatti bt SRM ASC 1-0; The American bt Muthayammal CAS 3-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-seeni-bala/article34079195.ece
16 March 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Bhanu Prasad cracks 142||Bhanu Prasad cracked 142 for Azad Cricket Club against Lords Cricket Club in the A2-Division (two-day) league championship here on Monday.  The scores:   A2-Div. (two-day): Azad 356 in 84.3 overs (Bhanu Prasad 142, Arvind Swamy 65, Sree Avinash 35, Sohail Ali Khan 4/46) vs Lords.   A3-Div. (one-day): Ranga Reddy 151 in 38 overs (Prabhakar 56, Tanush 3/11) lost to CK Blues 152/3 in 37.5 overs (Vignesh 58 n.o., Sandeep 34 n.o.).   Mahaveer 389/5 in 50 overs (Lalith 45, Prem Sunder 64, Rajeev Sharma 110, Vishal 76 n.o.) bt Dhruv 82 in 32.2 overs (Rishi 30 n.o., Aryan 3/19, Aakash 4/28).   Southern Stars 99 in 39.1 overs (Obaid 3/24, Faiz 3/18) lost to Red Hills 101/6 in 19.5 overs (Manikanta 3/15).   Boys Town 246/8 in 48 overs (Mohammed Saoud 30, Mohd. Salman Khan 42, Mohd. Zaib 61, James Anthony 4/45) bt Sacred Heart 218 in 39.3 overs (James Anthony 37, Charles Nelson 83, Lesty Anthony 44, Charlie Christopher 31, Abood Bafana 3/39, Syed Yaseen 4/38).   Natraj 167 in 43.4 overs (Dhruv 41, Raghavan 3/24, Sandeep 4/35) lost to Consult 168/5 in 25 overs (Ronit 31).   Satya 136 in 37.4 overs (Nanda 36, Pavan Kalyan 33, Shiraj 3/29, Angad 3 /15) bt Universal 73 in 21 overs (Geeth 5/6).   Southern Stars 99 in 25.5 overs (Murari 3/23) lost to Vijay Nagar 103 for no loss in 15.2 overs (Thanish 38 n.o., Rithik 46 n.o.).    MLR Institute of Technology defeated St. Pious 48-32 in the final of the G. Kamalamma memorial basketball tournament for women at the Nizam College. The winner led 27-23 at the break. Former MLA Dr. K. Lakshman and SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy gave away the prizes.  The results (final):   MLRIT 48 (Sofi 17, Joy 10, Archana 10) bt St. Pious 32 (Mrunalina 14, Mounika 10).      Kartavya Anadkat won the Open title with 10.5 points from 12 rounds while Ayush Jain finished second with 9.5 points and Sandeep Naidu third with nine points in the 178th Brilliant Trophy online chess tournament.  Final placings:   Open (top-10): 1. Kartavya Anadkat, 2. Ayush Jain, 3. Sandeep naidu, 4. Chidvilas Sai, 5. Ritobroto Sen, 6. K.V.K. Karthik, 7. Anirudh, 8. Purushothaman, 9. Samuel Kumar, 10. P.K. Sankaran.   Age-group: Boys, u-15: 1. I. Akash Kumar, 2. Hani Sohan Shaik. U-13: 1. M. Surya, 2. D. Druvesh. U-11: 1. Sriram Adarsh, 2. Purav Khandelwal. U-9: 1. B. Ayyappan, 2. P. Hariram. U-7: 1. M. Modith, 2. Balpreet Singh.   Girls, u-15: 1. Swaralakshmi S. Nair, 2. S. Sahasra. U-13: 1. Sethu Srivalli, 2. Rida Anwar. U-11: 1. Anmol Mathur, 2. Anjana Sahasra. U-9: 1. Deepthi Hampi. U-7: 1. Varnika Bahal.   Best veterans, men: P.V. Satyanarayana; Woman: G. Saranya .     The inaugural Pradeep Dakoor open tournament for men will be organised by YMCA Secunderabad Basketball Alumni Association at the YMCA Secunderabad from March 22. Entries close on March 19 and can be sent to G. Sanjay Mudiraj (91603 18149) or S. Raja Reddy (96666 00091).  The YMCA 3x3 tournament will be held on March 20 and 21 at G.M. Sampath Kumar Centre of Excellence at YMCA Secunderabad for boys and girls (u-12, 14, 16 and 19) and for men, women and veterans. Call S. Raja Reddy on 9666 600091.  Rama Sports Mumbai, in association with Telangana Basketball Association, will conduct a 3x3 tournament on March 27 and 28 at Don Bosco Good Training Basketball Academy for boys and girls (u-12, 14, 16, 18) and for men and women. Call Amar Gaikwad (99301 70117, 98201 27604). Entries close on March 24.       Abu Bakar Siddiqui and Thanusree won the u-19 boys and girls singles titles respectively at the Warangal badminton championships.  The results: Boys, u-19: Abu Bakar Siddiqui bt N. Anirudh 21-19, 21-15.   Doubles: Anirudh & Siddiqui bt Mohan Das & Yogesh Reddy 21-19, 2-16.   U-17: M. Ajay Karthik bt Rupak Raman 21-19, 21-14. Doubles: Roopak & Sai Raman bt N. Vaishnav & V. Sanjit 21-17, 20-22, 21-10.   U-15: S. Akhil Rao by J. Showrya Kiran 21-8, 21-10. Doubles: Showrya & Akhil bt Nimish Money & Raja Raman 21-8, 21-12.   U-13: Chetan bt M. Harsha 17-21, 21-15, 21-13. Doubles: P. Aneeshwar & Chetan bt M. Sayi Sathya & Harsha 21-15, 21-16.   Girls, u-19: Thanusree bt Varshitha 21-9, 21-10.   U-17: G. Sree Hasini Reddy bt V. Anu 21-3, 21-7. Doubles: Hasini & Anu bt K. Gayathri & P. Reetu 21-3, 21-7.   U-15: M. Keerthi bt E. Nikitha Rao 24-22, 23-21. Doubles: Ch. Sukruthi & Nikhitha bt Keerthi & Sathwika 21-13, 21-12.   U-13: V. Veekshitha bt M. Poojitha 21-7, 21-9.   Doubles: P. Sathwika & Veekshitha bt K. Sanchana & Poojitha 21-11, 21-14 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhanu-prasad-cracks-142/article34079642.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA round-robin u-19 tournament, Team I vs Team III (Magna College ‘A’); Team II vs Team V (Stag ground); Team IV vs Team VI (Magna ‘B’).   General: University of Madras, Department of Physical Education awards function, Prof. S. Gowri, Vice-Chancellor, University of Madras, gives away prizes, Chetpet campus, 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34079191.ece
16 March 2021||Miami,||No. 3 Thomas outlasts Westwood to win Players Championship||Third-ranked Justin Thomas held off Lee Westwood down the stretch, firing a four-under par 68 Sunday to capture his first Players Championship for his 14th career US PGA Tour title. The 27-year-old American overtook England’s Westwood on the back nine with a mid-round run of three birdies and an eagle and was solid down the stretch to secure his first victory of the season. He also matched the best 36-hole comeback to win in Players history.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-3-thomas-outlasts-westwood-to-win-players-championship/article34079123.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 07:50 IST,||Sudoku — March 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-16-2021/article34079799.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||This ‘T’ is for travel||“Tracking the journey of a single T-shirt across the world is fun,” admits Siddhant Agarwal, “It is like how we tracked our friends’ or family’s flights before the pandemic.” Siddhant is the founder of Project Hope, an initiative that sends a single T-shirt (as well as the design stencils) across the world — as if to say, travel is possible, even in these strange times. Like many of us during the pandemic, Siddhant missed travelling. The 25-year-old events manager and content creator has been working from home for most of 2020, often looking out of the window of his Delhi home wondering when everything would finally go back to normal. Reality hit when restrictions eased a bit a couple of months later but he and his teammates were asked to go on unpaid leave. He stayed at home in Shahjahanpur, near Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. “It was when no events were happening and no one needed an event manager,” he says over the phone in a matter-of-fact tone. “Then I got an anxiety attack.” This moment of desperation ignited the idea for Project Hope which Siddhant calls, “a monolith of one of my strongest times. I felt that if I can overcome a situation so dark, anyone can.” Similar to the million dollar man stickers that can be found all over the world in unexpected places, he hopes the T-shirt can make people over the world, a little less alone in their anxiety. Leveraging his network of content creators, Siddhant is collaborating with international vloggers to turn Project Hope into a mini movie fest. The vloggers who are part of Project Hope include Gabriel Seow (Singapore), Jack Lo Chiu Pang (Hong Kong), Nonaka Takashi (Tokyo), Chris Baltazar (Hollywood, Los Angeles), Malakai (New York City), and Brandon Royce (Canmore, Canada). “Every time a creator gets the T-shirt, they do a shoot and make a vlog of a day in their life during the pandemic while wearing it. People are then able to see what life is like in those cities at the moment; some are empty and some are moving as usual. You also see how much the lives of content creators were impacted by the pandemic. Each mini-film is personal but they all convey the same message of hope.” Other places on the itinerary include, London, Paris, Barcelona, Amsterdam, Cape Town and Mumbai — cultural capitals of the world. At the moment, the T-shirt is in New York City, where it arrived last week. Getting the couriers done was no small feat; it took 25 days for the T-shirt to reach Singapore from Delhi. “I couldn’t go into Project Hope with a specific schedule in mind, but luckily DHL were eager to help out on this project,” he points out, “I also get to interact with the vloggers in a way that I wouldn’t have before. Every one of them was very eager to take part in it.”  Check out Project Hope on Instagram @originalnewdelhi.   The symbolism Talking about the design of the T-shirt, Siddhant says, “It had to be recognisable but also minimalist, and open to interpretation too. I’m known among my friends to always wear a black T-shirt so I decided on that colour for Project Hope for a personal touch. For the logo, I chose two parenthesis facing each other to convey both darkness and hope. I also courier a few design stencils of the logo as it is not wise to ask people to wear the same shirt. This way, they can spray paint the logo on to any of their own black tees.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/this-t-is-for-travel/article34079313.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I don’t want to be standing next to the hero doing nothing’||There was a restraint and calmness with which Bhumika Chawla used to speak when she was one of the most sought-after leading women in Telugu and Tamil cinema, a few years ago. The tide might have changed and she might be doing fewer films now, but the calm demeanour is intact even when she speaks her mind, without mincing words. This summer will see her in two Telugu films; she has completed filming a third one. “I take up a film only if it is worth my time. I want characters that give me scope to perform and make some impact. Not every story or character needs to have the potential to change society; sometimes I can do a film for fun, but there has to be something in it for me. I don’t want to be standing next to the hero doing nothing,” she says. Short but pivotal First up is director Sampath Nandi’s Seetimaarr , releasing on April 2, in which she is cast as Gopichand’s sister. She is then filming for a cameo appearance in director Naresh Kuppili’s Paagal starring Vishwak Sen, which is scheduled to release on April 30. “Kabaddi plays an important part in Seetimaarr and I motivate Gopichand to do his best. In Paagal , I have very few scenes, but they are intense.” Bhumika divides her time between Mumbai and Hyderabad. When she had to begin work for the new Telugu film Idhe Maa Katha in October, amid the pandemic, she approached it with trepidation: “I discussed it with my family and we agreed that invariably, we all have to step out. Film units were also working with all the necessary precautions. Any time I spotted someone without a mask, I wouldn’t hesitate to tell them. I would wash hands frequently, do steam inhalations and drink turmeric milk.” She had spent the lockdown months near Nasik, with her father, and says it was the best thing that had happened to her in years. “It was a tough time for everyone. I am thankful to God that I could spend time amid greenery, and it had a healing effect on me. We all forget that we need to slow down. We have no time to stand and stare,” she says, quoting WH Davies’ poem ‘Leisure’. Rider’s high Director Guru Pawan’s Idhe Maa Katha is a road film in which Bhumika is one of the four principal characters. For this, she had to ride a heavy-duty bike. “I have ridden lighter bikes in the past, but never a Bullet. I trained for this film and discovered that there is better stability while riding at a speed of 60 to 80 kilometres/hour than at 20 to 40 kilometres/hour. I loved the adrenaline rush. Riding with the wind on my face gave me a high.” She doesn’t want to divulge more about the story or her character, but states that she liked how it shows that women need to rediscover themselves and realise their dreams, when life overwhelms them with responsibilities. Bhumika is also part of Tamil film Kannai Nambathey and the Hindi film Operation Majnu . She discloses, however, that she doesn’t come across interesting roles often. Film industries tend to slot female actors above 40 into sister or sister-in-law roles and she emphasises that those characters need to have depth and merit: “I am grateful for the opportunities I have had so far, but I also crave for the kind of films that Tabu or Vidya Balan get to do. Recently, I was also smitten by Sushmita Sen’s performance in Aarya . More stories and characters need to be written for women in our age group.” She adds, “It is not the audience that slots you, but the industry. As an actor, I want to do things I haven’t done before.”  I crave for the kind of films that Tabu or Vidya Balan get to do. Recently, I was smitten by Sushmita Sen’s performance in Aarya   Bhumika Chawla||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-dont-want-to-be-standing-next-to-the-hero-doing-nothing/article34079318.ece
16 March 2021||March 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The marriage story||During the lockdown, many men discovered that cooking and housekeeping were not exactly rocket science. Tom J Mangatt’s short film Women’s Day , released on March 8 on YouTube, is about the relationship dynamics in a middle-aged couple. While Alex, the husband, is forced to fend for himself in his wife Sumitra’s absence, she gets some time for herself to introspect and rediscover her interests. The 17-minute Malayalam film, written and directed by Tom, has got a thumbs up from netizens. “It was during the lockdown that I wrote the script of Women’s Day . It was obvious that many men were discovering the kitchen for the first time in the absence of any domestic help. There were a number of interesting changes in many households,” says Tom, who was earlier a publisher and has assisted director Martin Prakatt. He points out that though the film touches upon the lack of democratization in the kitchen, Women’s Day explores the nuances of an unequal relationship where the woman frequently loses her identity to keep the peace in a marriage. “She gradually finds herself losing her self-esteem and confidence. Eventually, she becomes a shadow of her husband without any time for herself or her interests,” he adds. The theme begs the question if the short film was inspired by The Great Indian Kitchen, the Malayalam film that became the talk of the town for its raw portrayal of chauvinism within households. “No, the script was written much before that. I wanted a light-hearted film that focused on a woman taking charge of her life instead of being a doormat,” he explains. Critic and writer NE Sudheer is the surprise in the film, playing the self-centred, dominating Alex, while Nina Kurup, Lali PM and Yadunandan P are also part of the cast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-marriage-story/article34079316.ece
16 March 2021||Chandigarh,||BJP, JJP leaders face farmers’ ire in Haryana||Even as the BJP-JJP government in Haryana defeated the no-confidence motion moved against it by the Congress last week in the State Assembly, protests by farmers against the BJP-JJP and Independent MLAs who supported the government are only intensifying across the State. On Monday, a group of farmers, who had been agitating against Centre’s farm laws reached party office of Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in Jind’s Uchana, following which representatives of the Deputy Chief Minister had to leave party office. Police said a group of farmers shouted slogans at the front gate of the party office and asked the office-bearers and party workers to leave. “They were protesting in support of their demands surrounding farm laws. They asked the party workers and office-bearers not to visit the office till their agitation was under way. The party worker and others then left the office through the back gate of the office,” Ravinder Kumar, Sub-Inspector at Uchana told The Hindu . Farmer outfits have announced that all legislators including the BJP, the JJP and the Independents who didn’t support the no-confidence motion would be boycotted and won’t be allowed entry into villages across the State. “We will quarantine all MLAs who are not supporting us by not letting them to move freely in our villages. The no-confidence motion has exposed the real face of MLAs. Last week, JJP MLA Ram Karan Kala was suppose to preside over a function at circuit house in Kurukshetra to honour ‘safai karamcharis’ to mark the birthday of party chief Ajay Singh Chautala but on account of farmers protest he gave it a miss,” said Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni). The BJP-JJP leaders are facing protests almost across the State. On Sunday, at Narwana in Jind district, protesters gathered outside the venue for BJP’s district level training camp and staged their protest. Following this, the BJP workers had to leave the spot, escorted by the police. Mr. Bains said farmers and village ‘panchayats’ are collectively expressing their anguish against the BJP-JJP and all others who are supporting the farm laws. “Farmers shouted slogans against Sports Minister and Pehowa MLA Sandeep Singh at Chhapra village of Shahabad where he had attended an event last Saturday,” he said. Farmers alleged that the MLA has betrayed the farming community by not supporting the motion.  55 votes against motion On March 10, 55 MLAs had voted against the no-confidence motion while 32 backed the motion, which the Congress had moved on the pretext that the BJP-JJP government had “lost public confidence” surrounding the ongoing farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws. Jastej Sandhu, a senior farmer leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) said in Karnal’s Ballah village, protest was lodged with a family where JJP leaders had paid a visit secretly last week. “Not just farmer groups and ‘panchayats’ but even villagers at their personal level have appealed to all to not invite or entertain BJP-JJP leaders at any functions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-jjp-leaders-face-farmers-ire-in-haryana/article34079328.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP wants to trim Delhi govt.’s powers: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday accused the BJP-led Central government of drastically curtailing the powersof the Delhi government through the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, tabled in the Lok Sabha. The BJP argued that the proposed Bill was necessary to curtail the “unconstitutional functioning” of the AAP-led Delhi government after the Supreme Court judgment on the division of powers of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor in 2018. “After being rejected by the people of Delhi [8 seats in Assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls], BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected government through a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional and anti-democracy move [sic],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. “The Bill says, for Delhi, “Government” will mean LG. Then what will elected government do? All files will go to LG. This is against July 4, 2018 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected government will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG [sic],” he also stated. Bidhuri welcomes move Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri welcomed the introduction of the Bill in Parliament and argued that it would help in both — the smooth running of the government and strike at the root of corruption. “The Bill seeks to clearly define the role of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor in important matters pertaining to corruption administration and smooth running of the local and civic bodies. It will end the confusion on this issue and in future fast track the process of development and decision making,” he said. Even after today’s amendment Bill, 75% of administrative works and powers will rest with Delhi’s local government, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. Mr. Gupta said the Bill was in compliance of a February 2019 directive of the Supreme Court when the court had observed that it would be better if the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, clarified the division of administrative work and powers between the Central and Delhi governments. ‘Ultimate authority’ Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said that the “ultimate authority”, even in the year 1993 when the BJP government came to power in Delhi, has always been the L-G. “In fact, at that time, Delhi Jal Board, DTC, DESU and others were not with the Delhi government. It was cordial coordination between the Centre and Delhi government that the late CM Khurana ji and Sahib Singh ji brought these departments under the Delhi government,” he said.  Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconsti-tutional and anti-democracy move [sic] Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-wants-to-trim-delhi-govts-powers-cm/article34079337.ece
16 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘It will be a black day for Delhi if NCT Amendment Bill is passed’||Reacting to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced in Parliament on Monday, the Delhi Congress said that the amendments would not only considerably dilute the powers of the Delhi government but would also be a direct assault on the powers of the people of Delhi, who choose the government a democratic process. ‘Murder of democracy’ Addressing a press conference, former MLA and former Parliamentary Secretary to Delhi Chief Minister, Anil Bhardwaj, said that if the Bill is passed, it will be a “black day” for Delhi and “murder of democracy” as it clearly violates the basic tenets of the Constitution. “If the Bill is passed, the BJP will resort to back-seat driving of Delhi through the Lieutenant-Governor as the Delhi government would have to get his permission for each and every administrative action, making the government virtually redundant. The Delhi Congress will strongly oppose it. The party will hold a dharna at Jantar Mantar against the Bill on March 17,” Mr. Bhardwaj said. The Delhi Congress said that it was surprising that the Arvind Kejriwal government did not raise its voice against the Bill earlier although the Union Cabinet had given the go-ahead for the Bill on February 1. ‘Kejriwal fooling people’ “Mr. Kejriwal has been fooling the people of Delhi with the promise of bringing in Jan Lokpal, Citizen Charter and full Statehood for Delhi, but did not raise his voice against the Amendment Bill, though he is infamous for his dharnas and demonstrations on each and every issue,” Mr. Bhardwaj said. The Delhi Congress said that the BJP in its election manifesto ahead of the Assembly election had promised “full Statehood” for Delhi but now even the existing powers will be snatched away from the people of Delhi.  The Delhi government will have to get the L-G’s permission for every administrative action  Anil Bhardwaj Former MLA and former Parliamentary Secretary to Delhi CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/it-will-be-a-black-day-for-delhi-if-nct-amendment-bill-is-passed/article34079335.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||107-year-old man gets COVID-19 vaccine||A total of 39,742 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Monday, including a 107-year-old man. Kewal Krishan, 107, took the vaccine at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, according to the hospital and there was no complication. Bidesh Chandra Paul, zonal director of the hospital said, “Today, we administered the COVID-19 vaccine to Mr. Krishan, the oldest person in India to get vaccinated. We hope that this action will encourage people to get vaccinated. The second phase of the vaccine rollout has seen an encouraging response, the numbers are increasing day by day.” Earlier this month, a 104-year-old man had got vaccinated at another private hospital in the city. Of the total beneficiaries on Monday, 21,622 were people who are 60 years of age and above and 3,429 people were between 45 and 59 years of age, said a Delhi government spokesperson. The rest of the people vaccinated were healthcare workers and front-line workers. 368 new cases The city witnessed 368 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,44,064, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Three deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,944. A total of 62,272 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,30,799 people have recovered and there are 2,321 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/107-year-old-man-gets-covid-19-vaccine/article34079341.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP unserious about curbing pollution: AAP||Attacking the BJP over air pollution, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said that the Commission for Air Quality Management has become non-functional as the BJP failed to table a bill in Parliament. It also said that the BJP was “not serious” about solving Delhi’s air pollution crisis. “The Central government had taken one step towards controlling pollution and allowed even that to fall through. Their seriousness towards the health and well-being of Delhi residents is for everyone to see,” said AAP leader Atishi. The AAP leader said that on one hand, the Delhi government has been taking multiple steps to control and reduce pollution and on the other hand, the Central government is taking “no action” towards controlling pollution coming from other States. “I would like to ask the Central government, what is it doing to control pollution that’s coming from outside Delhi, from States like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan? Why has the Central government taken no steps towards controlling or preventing this pollution? Why is Delhi being forced to live in pollution?” Ms. Atishi said. Despite constant directions to the Central government to act against pollution, it has taken none, she said. Submit report “After a petition, the Supreme Court had asked the Central government to submit a report on how it plans to control stubble burning. In November 2020, the SC had even brought a new ordinance, the Commission for Air Quality Management, to deal with pollution in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas. The commission had major powers and could even send the errant to jail. Despite this, the Central government did nothing concrete and did not take the commission seriously,” she added. “I’d like to ask the Central government: Who will take action against those who indulge in stubble burning? Delhi’s 300 km radius has 13 thermal power plants, all with outdated technology. These thermal power plants in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan aren’t shut and cause pollution to Delhi. Who will take action against these plants? There are over 5,000 brick kilns in Delhi-NCR that cause massive pollution. Now that the Commission for Air Quality Management has lapsed, who will take action against these brick kilns?” Ms. Atishi said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP is in a habit of creating propaganda and attacking the Centre to “avoid” its own accountability and Ms. Atishi’s statement is a part of its “old dirty trick” to put the onus on the Centre. Meanwhile, air quality of Delhi was in the “poor” category on Monday, while that of Gurugram and Noida was in the “moderate” level. “The AQI is likely to stay in the ‘moderate’ to lower end of ‘poor’ category for next two days. An increase in dust contribution is expected in the coming days,” said SAFAR.  The commission had major powers and could even send the errant to jail. Despite this, the Central government did nothing concrete and did not take the commission seriously Atishi AAP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-unserious-about-curbing-pollution-aap/article34079333.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bill will stall Capital’s progress, says Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the BJP has brought a new law in Parliament by which the Lieutenant Governor will be the “government” and the Chief Minister and the Ministers will have to send each and every file to the L-G. “Before the election, the BJP’s manifesto says that Delhi will be made a full State. After winning the election, they are now saying that the L-G will be the government in Delhi,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said that the Bill will “stall” Delhi’s progress by giving undue powers to the L-G. Lack of support “All the decisions taken by the Delhi government, for the growth of the city, have seen an intrusion by the L-G. Files regarding the progress of mohalla clinics, CCTV installations, free electricity, water and schools have collected dust in the L-G’s office, owing to lack of support from his office,” he added. He said that the reason why BJP is going “against” the Constitution and keep the L-G in power is because the BJP does not want that the people of Delhi benefit from unique and quality provisions in education, healthcare, free water and electricity. “The BJP has meddled with the welfare and provisions for the people in various States that it holds power in and now it wants to ensure that the people of Delhi do not benefit from rightful provisions and initiatives of the Delhi government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bill-will-stall-capitals-progress-says-sisodia/article34079339.ece
16 March 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Curbs prevented women from getting healthcare’||About 48% of the women in Rajasthan who needed to visit a health facility during the COVID-19 restrictions avoided going to hospitals for fear of contracting infection. Similarly, 35% of women requiring medical treatment were not able to access health services, according to a Performance Monitoring for Action (PMA) survey undertaken in the State. Over 4,570 households and 575 health facilities were surveyed in collaboration with the State government for three months during the pandemic as part of a study undertaken by the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, U.S. The study was also conducted in nine other countries, including Uganda, Ethiopia, Kenya and Nigeria. Jaipur-based Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR), which implemented the project, found that 32% of the health facilities were closed during the COVID-19 restrictions and 69% of them were shut for a month or a longer duration. Almost 96% of the women interviewed felt concerned about the pandemic and feared that they could be infected.  Enumeration areas IIHMR’s Professor Anoop Khanna, who was the Project Lead, said here on Monday that a sample of 134 enumeration areas was drawn for the PMA from a master sampling frame. Thirty-five households were randomly selected in each area along with the listing and mapping of health facilities, after which the occupants of households were enumerated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curbs-prevented-women-from-getting-healthcare/article34079330.ece
16 March 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha completes a year of battle against pandemic||Odisha’s COVID-19 tally mounted to 3,38,258 after 66 more persons tested positive for the virus on Monday, as the State completed one year of its battle against the pandemic, a health department official said. On March 15, 2020, the State detected its first COVID-19 case, an Italy returned research scholar at the Capital Hospital here, the official said. There was panic after the State’s Chief COVID-19 Spokesperson Subrato Bagchi announced that the first patient had come in contact with 129 people, including 76 train passengers. The detection of the first coronavirus case followed a series of measures such as shutdown, lockdown, curfew, night curfew and closure of religious places, business establishments and educational institutions.  1,918 died of the disease While 1,918 persons have died of the disease in the State in this one year, as many as 3,35,660 patients, above 99% of the caseload, have also recovered. A day before the detection of the first COVID-19 case, on March 14, the Odisha government had declared the pandemic as a ‘State disaster’. A week later, the administration announced lockdown in five coastal districts to contain the spread of the virus. Subsequently, the lockdown was extended to all 30 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-completes-a-year-of-battle-against-pandemic/article34079331.ece
16 March 2021||New Delhi,||55 held in Karol Bagh for suspicious movement||In a bid to prevent street crime, Delhi Police conducted a five-hour-long cordon-and-search operation in Karol Bagh and detained 55 people found roaming around suspiciously in the area, officials said on Monday. The operation involving around 100 personnel, including those of paramilitary forces, was conducted on Sunday from 7 p.m. till midnight, they said. The idea was to cordon-off and search the area for suspects who are previously indulged in crimes, especially street crime, said Jasmeet Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central). Five-hour exercise The exercise lasted for around five hours. During this, “bad characters and listed criminals” were rounded up, he said. Two people found consuming alcohol in public were detained under relevant sections of the Delhi Excise Act, and 55 others were held for questioning under sections of the Delhi Police Act as they were found roaming around suspiciously, Mr. Singh said. An extensive usage of e-beatbook led to checking of 59 vehicles, he added. An e-beatbook of a particular area contains details of suspects and wanted criminals among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/55-held-in-karol-bagh-for-suspicious-movement/article34079422.ece
16 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong behind boycott call, alleges CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Mondayblamed the Congress for instigating farmers to boycott legislators over the farm laws issue, even as the Congress MLAs staged a walkout. The State Assembly passed a resolution condemning the boycott of any political party or its leaders. Soon after the question hour, Chief Minister Manohar Lal pointed to the issue and asked opposition leaders to condemn the incidents. Mr. Lal presented a single line resolution, saying that if any section or organisation of the society announces to boycott any political party or its leaders, then the House will condemn it. He then moved the resolution, which was passed by voice vote in the House. Mr. Lal said that the responsibility of the ruling party is as much as that of the opposition for the protection of democracy. The Congress party staged a walk out against the resolution, saying that it was presented without any prior notice. Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that no MLA of the Congress was instigating any organisation or class to boycott political leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-behind-boycott-call-alleges-cm/article34079329.ece
