18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quick, decisive steps required to curb ‘second peak’, says PM||Warning of another possible nationwide COVID-19 outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged the States and the Union Territories to work towards stopping the emerging “second peak” of infections immediately, and stressed the need for quick and decisive steps. “The confidence which came from our achievements in the battle against coronavirus should not turn into negligence. While the general public should not be allowed to go into a panic mode, we can incorporate our past experiences in our efforts against the spread of the virus,” he said in a videoconference with the Chief Ministers on the COVID-19 situation. Genome testing Mr. Modi reiterated that the States and the Union Territories should follow up on sending samples for genome testing to track virus variants of concern. “All States and Union Territories have been tagged to 10 national labs under the INSACOG consortium with the National Centre for Disease Control as the nodal institute. The standard operating procedures issued by the Health Ministry for surveillance of international travellers and their contacts must be implemented rigorously,” he said. He stressed on the need to be serious about “test, track and treat”, and said it was important to track every infected person’s contacts in the shortest time and keep the RT-PCR test rate in the country above 70%. Mr. Modi cautioned against wastage of vaccines, and asked the Chief Ministers to monitor vaccine doses daily. “The States should work towards zero wastage of vaccines with a set target. There is a need to create more sessions to vaccinate more healthcare and frontline workers,” he said. The PM said over 96% of patients in India had recovered, and the country was currently reporting one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. He, however, expressed concern over the high positivity rate in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh and the rising number of cases in Punjab and Maharashtra. “Seventy districts witnessed a 150% rise in the past few weeks,” he noted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior officials attended the review meeting. Mr. Shah listed out the districts which were seeing a rise in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quick-decisive-steps-required-to-curb-second-peak-says-pm/article34096099.ece
18 March 2021||Kozhikode,||Congress MLAs up for sale: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Congress party is up for sale and that it is easy nowadays for its MLAs to move to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), citing the examples in Goa, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Puducherry. “That is why the BJP has declared that it will rule Kerala if it had 35 MLAs. It will buy the remaining from the Congress,” he said while addressing a Left Democratic Front gathering in Kalpetta, Wayanad, on Wednesday. No credibility He alleged that the Congress had lost its credibility and accused the party of joining hands with the BJP in several constituencies for vote trade. Mr. Vijayan began his campaign tour for the forthcoming Assembly polls from Wayanad. The Chief Minister attended LDF rallies at Mananthavady, Sulthan Bathery and Kalpetta. In his address, he urged party supporters and the general public not to take the false propaganda of the United Democratic Front (UDF) lightly. “We should try to reach out to the public with the truths,” he said. He brushed aside the investigations being carried out by the Central agencies. “They must have understood by now that we are not afraid of them and they cannot use the scare tactics in Kerala. The Central agencies can only work within the law. Breaking the law will not succeed in Kerala,” the Chief Minister said, alleging that vested interests were trying to kill the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) to sabotage the State’s development. LDF candidates in various constituencies in Wayanad O.R. Kelu and M.V. Shreyamskumar, and front leaders C.K. Saseendran and P.K. Sreemathy took part in the meetings. Several representatives of tribal communities attended the rally. Permission denied Later a controversy broke out at Koduvally in Kozhikode when the municipal authorities denied permission for a LDF campaign rally. The LDF alleged that the municipality had denied permission on political grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-mlas-up-for-sale-pinarayi/article34096437.ece
18 March 2021||Pune,||Javadekar attacks Maharashtra on ‘poor’ COVID-19 vaccination||The sparring between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Central government and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government continued, with Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday slamming the MVA for “poor administration of vaccines”. “Maharashtra Government had only used 23 lakh vaccines out of the total 54 lakh vaccines sent to the state, till 12th March. 56% vaccines remained unused. Now, Shiv Sena MP asks for more vaccines for the state. First mismanagement of pandemic now poor administration of vaccines,” tweeted Mr. Javadekar, who is Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. In a sharp riposte to Mr. Javadekar’s remarks, senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Jayant Patil, who is the State Water Resources Minister, said that despite vaccines being manufactured by Indian companies, the Centre was more eager to export them to foreign countries, including Pakistan, without adequately addressing the needs at home. “Despite the fact that the vaccines are manufactured by Indian firms [Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech], why is it that the Centre has been slow in vaccinating the people of this country who have helped vote the BJP to power? The Centre is sending vaccines abroad, giving it wholesale to countries, including Pakistan. I guess one must appreciate the generosity of the Central government. It seems it is all right to them if Indians are bereft of vaccine doses and lag behind in vaccination,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/javadekar-attacks-maharashtra-on-poor-covid-19-vaccination/article34096567.ece
18 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Who will police the police, asks Haryana court||A court in Pehowa in Haryana’s Kurukshetra acquitted a washerman in a four-year-old bicycle theft case saying “this matter has shaken the conscience of this court”. The order further said that the case had forced the court to conclude that a police officer manipulated the entire police system and investigating authorities to settle personal vengeance against an innocent person. In a 37-page order passed last month, Judicial Magistrate First Class Amitendra Singh observed that it was an exemplary case of an “absolute ill-motivated” and “botched-up investigation”, where some police officers misused their powers to harass an innocent person for the simple reason that he dared to file a complaint against one of their colleagues and succeeded in getting the officer punished by a court of law. ‘Take stringent action’ “This leads this court to a certain question, who will police the police and what will happen if the protectors of society and law themselves behave in a manner which cannot be termed less than illegal?” observed the court. It recommended stringent action against the erring policemen as well as ASI Nagender within three months after conducting departmental enquiry. The case pertains to the theft of a bicycle belonging to Home Guard Surender Kumar from Pehowa court complex on February 24, 2017. The accused, Krishan Kumar, in his statement, pleaded innocence saying he was being implicated due to “personal enmity” and to “create pressure on him to withdraw a complaint against ASI Nagender”. Mr. Kumar told the court that Nagender beat him up and broke his tooth on November 19, 2010 when he demanded Rs. 150 from him for washing and ironing his clothes. He moved a local court and the ASI was convicted on charges of causing hurt and criminal intimidation. The ASI got several fake cases of theft and possession of drugs and illicit liquor registered against Mr. Kumar, but he was acquitted in all of them. In the present case, the judge remarked that the Investigation Officer, also the prosecution witness, “did not knew how to conduct an investigation, or has purposely and intentionally done the investigation in such lackadaisical/callous manner, for the reasons best known to him”. Defence counsel Sudesh Kumari welcomed the court’s decision saying it would rein in policemen from implicating innocent persons and committing atrocities on them.  What will happen if the protectors of society and law themselves behave in a manner which cannot be termed less than illegal? Amitendra Singh Judicial Magistrate First Class||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/who-will-police-the-police-asks-haryana-court/article34096272.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,||High Court dismisses case filed by DMK||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a writ petition filed by the DMK challenging the constitutional validity of Section 60 (c) of the Representation of the People Act of 1951 which empowers the Election Commission of India (ECI) to notify a class of voters such as those above 80 years of age, the physically challenged, those in quarantine due to COVID-19 and people involved in essential services who can choose to cast their votes through postal ballot instead of visiting the polling stations. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy also rejected DMK’s contention that the ECI had no jurisdiction to issue guidelines with regard to the manner in which such postal votes could be cast. The judges said the Commission had a plenary authority conferred on it under Article 324 of the Constitution to have superintendence and control of elections. They further did not find any arbitrariness on the part of the Commission in its choice of persons who could be permitted to cast votes through postal ballot. The consideration appears to have been for those who may not be able to physically attend a polling booth to cast their vote, the first Divisionn Bench said and added: “ If such is the consideration, there is no arbitrariness in the classes of persons enumerated by the amendments of 2019 and 2020 to the Conduct of Election Rules of 1961, particularly, as the object appears to be to afford such classes of persons their basic right to participate in the democratic process.” It also rejected the argument that there had been excessive delegation of powers on the Commission. “If there is excessive delegation in favour of the Election Commission, then there may be little room to question the Commission’s authority. On the other hand, if the Election Commission is seen to be acting in excess of its brief qua the 1961 Rules, no case of excessive delegation would be made out. In any event, in the backdrop of the rule-making provision in Section 169 of the Act of 1951 mandating consultation with the Election Commission, the Rules of 1961, particularly the amendments brought about in 2019 and 2020, do not amount to excessive delegation.” Authoring the verdict, the Chief Justice wrote: “It must be acknowledged that all that the Election Commission has done here is to be inclusive and allow certain classes of persons who would have been excluded from exercising their franchise the right to use the postal ballot and participate in the celebration of the festival of democracy… One may add, with humility, that if the process is made inclusive without compromising on either the secrecy of the ballot or the fairness in the conduct of elections, it would be a greater cause to celebrate and compliment the conducting body.” Adding a word of caution, he also said: “This is not to suggest that the challenge here was completely without basis since the experience of the procedure introduced by the Election Commission will reveal how such process may be more refined and attuned to the geography and the climate of the place.” The DMK had filed the case contending that postal ballot system might lead to external influence and voters might lose the independence and secrecy that they enjoy while voting in booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-dismisses-case-filed-by-dmk/article34096234.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan for speeding up vaccination drive||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has stressed the need for completion of the MPTC and ZPTC elections at the earliest in order to put the COVID-19 vaccination drive on the fast track. Reviewing the progress of vaccination on Wednesday, after apprising Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the steps taken to contain the pandemic during a video-conference, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the current electoral process had its effect on the vaccination drive, and it could be speeded up upon completion of the elections, for which only six days remained. “If this is not done, the conduct of COVID-19 tests, inoculation, and setting up containment zones becomes difficult,” he observed. Further, the Chief Minister directed the officials to report the current scenario to the Governor and the High Court on behalf of the government, to pave the way for the MPTC and ZPTC elections. He instructed the authorities to involve the village secretariats in the vaccination drive, and insisted that the vaccine be immediately administered to those above 45 years of age and suffering from chronic diseases, along with senior citizens aged above 60. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy called for a comprehensive action plan on vaccination and scaling up the number of tests keeping the steady rise in the number of positive cases in view. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Home Minister M. Sucharita, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, DGP Gautam Sawang, and Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-for-speeding-up-vaccination-drive/article34096096.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Serious issue if 3 cr. ration cards were cancelled, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it was a “very serious” matter if the Centre had really cancelled around three crore ration cards, even those of tribal people and the poor, solely because they could not be biometrically linked with Aadhaar. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, asked the Centre to respond to the allegation made in a petition by Koili Devi, represented by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, that such cancellations had led to starvation deaths across the country. “The insistence on Aadhaar and biometric authentication had led to the cancellation of nearly four crore ration cards in the country, according to the Union of India. The Union of India casually gives an explanation that these cancelled cards were bogus. The real reason is that the technological system based on iris identification, thumb prints, non-possession of Aadhaar, non-functioning of the Internet in rural and remote areas, etc., led to largescale cancellation of ration cards, without notice to the family concerned,” said a report submitted by the petitioner. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Gonsalves said the “petition is based on reports that an estimated two to four crore ration cards have been cancelled in the country without prior notice to the beneficiaries”. Right to food, which the ration card symbolised, cannot be curbed or cancelled because of lack of Aadhaar. Investigation sought Ms. Koili Devi’s 11-year-old daughter, Santhoshi Kumari, was allegedly a victim of hunger death in Jharkhand in 2017. She said the family’s ration card was cancelled due to non-linkage with Aadhaar. She sought an independent investigation into the starvation deaths, restoration of the cancelled ration cards and compensation for the death of her daughter. Mr. Gonsalves said the government’s continued emphasis on Aadhaar was unfortunate as the Supreme Court had laid down in clear terms that “no insistence on Aadhaar can be done for statutory entitlements”. “Tribals either do not have Aadhaar cards or the identification does not work in tribal and rural areas. Because of this reliance on Aadhaar cards, can you imagine three crore cards are gone...” he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/serious-matter-if-3-cr-ration-cards-were-cancelled-says-sc/article34096101.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Antilia bomb scare: Mumbai Police Commissioner transferred||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, in what could be seen as the fallout of the ongoing inquiry by the National Investigation Agency into the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house and the subsequent arrest of Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze. He has been replaced by senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, who holds the additional charge of State Director-General of Police. Mr. Singh will be the new DG, Home Guards. Rajneesh Seth has been given additional charge as DGP, Maharashtra, while Sanjay Pandey will head the Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Late-night decision The decision to transfer Mr. Singh was taken in a late-night meeting held by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and officials from the Home Department on Tuesday. NCP president Sharad Pawar had met Mr. Thackeray on Monday. Ever since the arrest of Assistant Police Inspector Vaze — considered a close aide of Mr. Singh — the political and police circles were abuzz with the possibility of his transfer. The transfer is also seen as an attempt by the State government to avoid yet another embarrassment witnessed after the arrest of Mr. Vaze and the delay in transferring him from the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai police. The Opposition BJP said it was natural for the city police chief to be changed after the arrest of one of its officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/param-bir-singh-removed-as-mumbai-police-commissioner/article34096271.ece
18 March 2021||MANGALURU,||Twin districts gear up to face likely water scarcity||The Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat will submit a proposal for drinking water supply to 24 villages in Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks sourcing water from the ongoing vented dam-cum-bridge across the Netravathi at Harekala. Announcing this at the District Water and Sanitary Mission meeting here on Tuesday, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said that a 72 million litre per day capacity water treatment plant was being set up at Kairangala village for the project intended to supply water to Ullal and Kotekar urban areas. The zilla panchayat has joined hands with Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board to supply water to villages en route by contributing its share of Rs. 83.33 crore. As there would be no issues as to water availability as it was being sourced from the Netravathi, the zilla panchayat would submit the proposal to the government. There was demand for 85 lakh litre of water per day from these 24 villages, he said. The project would provide water to Someshwara, Konaje, Belma, Amblamogaru, Harekala, Munnur, Kinya, Talapady, Sajipa Mooda, Sajipa Padu, Naringana, Kairangala, Pajir, Ira, Karnad, Balepuni, Chelur, Boliyar, Pavur, Manjanadi, Sajipa Munnur, Manchi and Veerakambha, he said. Mr. Kumara, meanwhile, directed officials concerned to ensure that people in rural areas do not face drinking water problem during the summer.  Take steps Chairing another meeting on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked officials to chalk out suitable plans for drinking water supply ensuring its proper availability. Besides drying up of water sources during summer, water level gets reduced in the rivers too; as such there should be proper planning to distribute the available water. Dr. Rajendra directed officials to remove unauthorised agricultural pumpsets on the river banks while asking them to temporarily disconnect water supply for commercial purposes. In Udupi In a similar meeting, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Tuesday directed officials to identify villages that had faced water scarcity last year and take appropriate steps to prevent the recurrence of the problem. Officials should keep tender documents ready for supply of water through tankers and initiate the process as and when water problem occurs in their limits. If needed, water from private borewells could be sourced on payment, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twin-districts-gear-up-to-face-likely-water-scarcity/article34096539.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUCHI,||Penury doesn’t deter him from public service||Amidst a flock of affluent candidates contesting the April 6 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu, K. Marimuthu, the candidate of the Communist Party of India (CPI) for the Thiruthuraipoondi (Reserved) constituency in Tiruvarur district, stands out in stark contrast. The 49-year-old political activist, who lives in a thatched house in Kaduvakudi, has spent over half his life as a full-time party worker fighting for public causes. His wife, Jayasudha, is an agricultural labourer. Mr. Marimuthu, who was born into a family of poor agricultural labourers belonging to a Scheduled Caste, makes light of his economic condition. “Politics is my life, and I have no other vocation. My wife is into agriculture, and we cultivate land taken on lease. We get by with whatever we have,” says Mr. Marimuthu, whose two children are in high school. Articulate and well-informed, Mr. Marimuthu, a commerce graduate, joined the CPI in 1994. He was drawn by the work done by the party for ordinary people as he was “one among them”. “Serving the masses is my only aim; reflecting the aspirations of the downtrodden is my politics,” affirms Mr. Marimuthu, who is currently the Kottur Union secretary of the CPI. The constituency has a large concentration of marginal farmers and landless daily-wage labourers. “If elected, I will strive to ensure that the benefits of government schemes reach these labourers, many of whom live on poramboke and temple lands. I will strive to get house site pattas for them,” he says. The lack of job opportunities in the constituency is another concern for him. “Many youngsters migrate to other districts for jobs. I will explore the feasibility of establishing a paper manufacturing unit as paddy straw is abundant here,” he adds. Since the constituency is economically, socially and educationally backward, he plans to consult experts to evolve plans for the development of the region and prevent seawater intrusion. He says he will work on the preservation of mangrove forests in the Muthupet lagoon and tourism promotion. Mr. Marimuthu, who filed his nomination on Wednesday, has declared in his affidavit that his wife owns the ancestral house where the family lives, and 75 cents of agricultural land, totally valued at Rs. 1.75 lakh. He has Rs. 3,000 in hand and Rs. 58,000 in his bank account. His wife has Rs. 1,000 in hand and Rs. 3,000 in her bank account. His wife and daughter own about three sovereigns of gold jewellery. Though Thiruthuraipoondi is a Communist heartland and candidates of the Left parties have won here 11 times since 1962, the CPI, while contesting as part of the Makkal Nala Kootani, lost the seat to the DMK in 2016. With his rich on-field experience, Mr. Marimuthu is confident of restoring the party’s pride in the constituency this time around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/penury-doesnt-deter-this-cpi-candidate-from-public-service/article34096231.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Continuation of schools to be reviewed||With the rising cases of COVID-19 the government will review the situation in schools and hostels soon, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said, indicating that they may be closed for some classes. Speaking in the Assembly on Wednesday, he said the increase in cases was a cause of worry though the situation in the State was under control. But we have children in hostels and schools and they cannot be risked with. Officials are closely monitoring the situation which would be reviewed, he said. His observations have led to speculation that the government was planning to stop classes for 1 to 8 and promote the students as per the new norms that no student till class 8 should be detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/continuation-of-schools-to-be-reviewed/article34096392.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Antilia bomb scare: Mumbai police chief transferred||In what could be seen as the fallout of the ongoing inquiry by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the finding of explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house and the subsequent arrest of Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Hemant Nagrale, who was handling the additional charge as DGP, will take his place. Mr. Singh has been posted as the DG Home Guards, a low-key post. Rajneesh Seth has been given the additional charge as DGP, Maharashtra. Sanjay Pandey will head the State Security Corporation. The decision to transfer Mr. Singh was confirmed in a late-night meeting Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held with Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and officials from the Home Department on Tuesday. On Monday, NCP president Sharad Pawar too met Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Singh’s transfer is also seen as an attempt by the State government to avoid any embarrassment as witnessed after the arrest of Mr. Vaze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/antilia-bomb-scare-mumbai-police-chief-transferred/article34096499.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Allow Haffkine to produce vaccine: Uddhav to Centre||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday urged the Centre to grant permission to State-owned Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited to manufacture COVID-19 vaccine. At a virtual meeting of all the Chief Ministers that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Thackeray also demanded that all those above 45 years should be vaccinated, irrespective of co-morbidities. He said the government was trying to ensure that three lakh citizens were vaccinated per day. “Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation can manufacture COVID-19 vaccine after technology transfer under Mission COVID-19 and under guidance of the ICMR. Or it can also work under fill and finish basis. In case of any option, it can produce 126 million doses,” he said. According to a press release from the CM office, Mr. Modi appreciated the suggestion and directed all States to check whether such institutes and businesses could be encouraged for the same. Maharashtra’s presentation at the meeting stated that the State had till now given 35.52 lakh doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/allow-haffkine-to-produce-vaccine-uddhav-to-centre/article34096566.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-stage/article34096268.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Up in the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-in-the-air/article34096564.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Flying high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flying-high/article34096593.ece
18 March 2021||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi Rly. Div. dropped for now||Hopes of people of the Kalyana Karnataka region have dashed with the BJP-led Union government on Tuesday dropping the plan to establish a long-awaited railway divisional headquarters in Kalaburagi. Replying to a question raised by Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav in Parliament, Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal said that a detailed project report (DPR) containing the estimates for setting up the division in Kalaburagi was under examination in the Ministry of Railways under various aspects/requirements. Mr. Goyal said that setting up of new division affects railway operations and efficiency. It also requires additional resources. A committee comprising senior railway officers was constituted to analyse and review afresh the feasibility of the creation of three new divisions announced in 2014, including the one in Kalaburagi. After examining all the relevant issues from operational, financial, administrative and other aspects of railway working, the committee concluded that the creation of new divisions, including the one in Kalaburagi, may be dropped for the present. Meanwhile, Executive Director (Efficiency and Research), Ministry of Railways, Umesh Balonda in a letter stated that the recommendations of the committee have been examined. Considering the prevalent situation arising out of the ongoing pandemic and resulting financial condition of the Railways, the recommendation of the committee for dropping the proposal for the creation of Kalaburagi Railway Division for the present has been accepted by the Ministry of Railways. Kalyana Karnataka Grahakara Vedike president Sunil Kulkarni accused the Centre of adopting a step-motherly attitude towards Kalyana Karnataka region. He condemned the Centre’s decision to turn down the establishment of a railway divisional headquarters in Kalaburagi and also for giving a nod for the creation of a railway division at Raigad in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagi-rly-div-dropped-for-now/article34096365.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||No decision on national NRIC till now, govt. tells RS||The Union government informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that “till now”, it had not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at the national level. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai stated this in a written reply to IUMLmember Abdul Wahab, who asked whether the government had any plan to implement the NRCthroughout the country in toto .  From December 2019 to March 2020, 69 persons were killed in various incidents in wake of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The Minister had stated the same position in reply to a question on the nationwide NRC by Binoy Viswam of the CPI on March 4, 2020, and Tiruchi Siva of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on March 18, 2020. However, in the same month in 2020, the Union Home Ministry had filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court that the NRC was a “necessary exercise for any sovereign country for mere identification of citizens from non-citizens”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-decision-on-national-nric-till-now-govt-tells-rs/article34096643.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India known as first, reliable responder’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Wednesday said in the last few years, India had developed a reputation of being the first and reliable responder in the region, stating that the country had provided “Made in India” vaccines for COVID-19 to 72 countries. Medicines have been supplied to 150 nations, 82 of them as grants.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-known-as-first-reliable-responder/article34096097.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘No decision on national NRIC till now’||The Union government informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that “till now”, it had not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at the national level. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai stated this in a written reply to Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) member Abdul Wahab, who asked whether the government had any plan to implement the National Register of Citizens (NRC) throughout the country in toto . Widespread protests From December 2019 to March 2020, as many as 69 persons were killed in various incidents in the wake of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The Minister had stated the same position in reply to a question on the nationwide NRC by Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India on March 4, 2020, and Tiruchi Siva of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on March 18, 2020. However, in the same month in 2020, the Union Home Ministry had filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court that the NRC was a “necessary exercise for any sovereign country for mere identification of citizens from non-citizens”. 2018 statement In 2018, before the passage of the CAA, the then Minister of State for Home Hansraj Gangaram Ahir had informed the Rajya Sabha that “as per the provisions contained in Rule 3 of the Citizenship Rules 2003 framed under the Citizenship Act, 1955, the Registrar General of Citizen Registration shall establish and maintain the National Register of Indian Citizens and prepare the Population Register”. The National Population Register’s link with the NRC and the yet-to-be-implemented CAA has been opposed by many States and civil society groups across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-decision-on-national-nric-till-now-govt-tells-rajya-sabha/article34096102.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 cases rise for seventh day||With a rise in COVID-19 cases for the seventh day in a row, India on Wednesday recorded its highest daily tally this year at 28,903. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 70 districts across 17 States registered a 150% rise in cases in the past 15 days. He said, “India is currently reporting a nearly 43% increase in the week-on-week rise in new COVID-19 cases.”Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-rise-for-seventh-day/article34096103.ece
18 March 2021||GUNTUR,||YSRCP list of Mayors, Deputy Mayors today||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the list of candidates for Mayors, Deputy Mayors, Chairpersons and Vice-Chairpersons will be announced on Thursday. Addressing a press conference at party central office here on Wednesday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been discussing with the party members right from the district level on the selection of candidates and assured that BCs and SCs were given priority as part of political empowerment. In regard to Mydukur and Tadipatri municipalities, he said that neither party nor the government would indulge in horse-trading to win in these municipalities, as the Chief Minister was clear to go by the public mandate and not against it. ‘Will fight legally in Tadipatri’ He said the results of Mydukur would be decided by toss if Jana Sena Party candidate joins with the Congress, and in Tadipatri, the party would go with ex-officio voting and he asserted that the party would keep fighting legally. Mr. Sajjala said that anyone could file SC ST atrocity case, as the lands grabbed by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu belonged to Dalits. ‘Amaravati voters trusted us’ He said the government was not being vindictive towards Opposition leaders and stated that the law would take its own course. “Right from the days of being in Opposition, YSRCP leaders have been raising the Amaravati land scam, where even people of Amaravati region trusted us and gave a thumping majority in the 2019 elections, which is the ultimate right to investigate and take action against those involved,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-list-of-mayors-deputy-mayors-today/article34096016.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP from Himachal Ram Swaroop found dead||BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma, 62, was found dead at his official residence in New Delhi on Wednesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mp-from-himachal-ram-swaroop-found-dead/article34096269.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||After decline, Delhi cases breach 500 mark again||The Capital witnessed 536 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, the highest since January 1, taking the total number of cases to 6,45,025, said a government health bulletin. On January 1, 585 cases were reported in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-decline-delhi-cases-breach-500-mark-again/article34096270.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana copyright FIR: Author sends notice to police station||The legal team of Ashish Kaul, author of ‘Didda: The Warrior Queen of Kashmir’, on Wednesday sent a notice to Khar police station in Mumbai seeking an update on the progress of the case filed by him against actor Kangana Ranaut and others. Mr. Kaul has accused the actor of copyright violation, and following a court order, an FIR was registered at Khar police station against Ms. Ranaut, Kamal Kumar Jain, Rangoli Chandel and Akshat Ranaut on March 12 under Sections 405 , 415 , and 120B of Indian Penal Code as well as the Copyright Act. Seeking an update on the progress made in the matter, a notice was sent to the police station by advocates Ravish Zamindar and Yogita Joshi.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kangana-copyright-fir-author-sends-notice-to-police-station/article34096561.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Mumbai Police why Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami had not been named an accused in the FIR in the Television Ratings Points (TRP) manipulation case, and directed the prosecutor to inform it by Thursday if they plan to do so. A division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale also asked the special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray how much more time they would take to complete the investigation. The Bench said the FIR was filed in October 2020 and its March already.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-mumbai-nearby/article34096562.ece
18 March 2021||JAIPUR,||No illegal phone tapping of MLAs: Gehlot govt.||The Congress government in Rajasthan on Wednesday said “no illegal tapping” of telephone conversations of any legislator was carried out during the political crisis in the State in July last year. The phones of some individuals were kept under surveillance by the SOG of Rajasthan police under the Indian Telegraph Act as part of an investigation, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-illegal-phone-tapping-of-mlas-gehlot-govt/article34096274.ece
18 March 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal CM releases Trinamool manifesto||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday released the Trinamool Congress manifesto for the Assembly election with promises of delivery of rations under the public distribution system at the doorstep and universal basic income for every family. The direct transfers will be in the name of the women heads of the families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-cm-releases-trinamool-manifesto/article34096595.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,||Bus overturns, 12 injured||As many as 12 persons suffered injuries when a State Transport bus overturned on National Highway No 48 near Chatra village in Byadgi taluk of Haveri district on Wednesday. All the injured have been shifted to government hospitals in Ranebennur and Haveri. The bus attached to Byadgi depot of NWKRTC was proceeding to Gadag from Ranebennur when the accident occurred. Byadgi Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-overturns-12-injured/article34096366.ece
18 March 2021||Mysuru,||‘Film city to come up in Mysuru itself’||Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Wednesday said the State’s first film city is being established in Mysuru, hinting that the project is not being shifted from the city as rumoured since last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/film-city-to-come-up-in-mysuru-itself/article34096570.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. justifies creation of caste corporations||Justifying its action of creating various corporations, including the newly created Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation, the State government on Wednesday told the High Court of Karnataka that it intended to create more such bodies in a phased manner subject to availability of budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-justifies-creation-of-caste-corporations/article34096571.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Sadashiva report: Govt. promises sub-committee||Rekindling the debate on internal reservation, the State government has promised to shortly set up a Cabinet sub-committee to review the recommendations of the A.J. Sadashiva Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sadashiva-report-govt-promises-sub-committee/article34096572.ece
18 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Make stir part of your daily life’||Addressing a kisan panchayat of the Bhartiya Kisan Union on Tuesday at the Ghazipur protest site, BKU president Naresh Tikait once again said the Bharatiya Janata Party and the government were not worth believing. “We are in for a long haul. I want you to make the (farmers') movement part of your daily life,” said Mr. Tikait. He said more people such as Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik should come in support of the farmers’ movement. “We don’t mind if he plays the role of an intermediary between the farmers and the government. He is from a farmer's family and understands farming and the region,” said Mr. Tikait. At a felicitation programme in Baghpat last week, Mr. Malik has said farmers should not go empty-handed from Delhi borders. The monthly meeting of BKU is held at Sisauli village in Muzaffarnagar but Mr. Tikait said as many farmers are at the border, the organisation felt that the meeting should be held at the Ghazipur site. This is the second time that such a meeting has been held at the Delhi-U.P. border, the first one in December 2020. On the plan to make concrete structures on the road, the BKU president said, “We are not here to capture the road, but we have to make sure that farmers survive the summer without causing any discomfort to the locals.”  RLD panchayat Continuing with his mass outreach programme against the contentious farm laws, Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said on Tuesday that the farmer would bring down this government. “If the government thinks the farmer doesn’t understand, it’s mistaken,” he said. Addressing a kisan panchayat in Baheri area of Bareilly, Mr. Chaudhary said there was a vast difference between what this government says and what it actually does and that farmers had understood its true character. “Its impact would be seen in the forthcoming elections,” he said. The RLD leader reiterated that he was not against private investment in agriculture but if the government ceased to play its role of an intermediary between the two, the farmers could not be saved from the corporate greed. He charged that during the lockdown, the government kept making rules that helped two private players accumulate wealth while the common men kept losing their jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/make-stir-part-of-your-daily-life/article34096277.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala alleges poll roll fraud in Kerala||Leader of the Opposition in Kerala Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday raised the allegation of voter identity fraud. In a complaint to the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), Mr. Chennithala said a 61-year-old woman in the Uduma constituency in Kasaragod had come into possession of at least five voter identity cards. She could use the cards to vote multiple times. The photograph on the cards was the same. However, the names and addresses differed slightly. Similar pattern Mr. Chennithala said Congress workers saw a similar pattern in all 140 constituencies in Kerala. There seemed to be a conspiracy at the government’s apex level to create fake voters to swing the election in favour of the ruling front illegally. He alleged that Congress workers had stumbled upon 4,506 fake voters in the Kazhakuttam constituency. The number of fake voters for Kollam was 2,534, Thrikkarippur 1,436, Koyilandy 4,611, Nadapuram 6,171, Koothuparamba 3,525 and Ambalappuzha 4,750. Mr. Chennithala said he suspected the active connivance of officials responsible for preparing the electoral list. Change in method They owed allegiance to the ruling front. In the past, fraudsters had used the electoral identity cards of the dead or those not at home for bogus voting. Now, the method of operation had changed. The same voter was accorded a multiple set of identity cards. Mr. Chennithala demanded a probe into the allegation. He said fake voters should be removed from the electoral roll before the voting day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chennithala-alleges-poll-roll-fraud-in-kerala/article34096022.ece
18 March 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata promises basic income||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday released the Trinamool Congress manifesto for the 2021 Assembly polls with promises of delivery of rations under the public distribution system at doorstep and universal basic income for every family. Under the income scheme, all the 1.6 crore families under the general category will get Rs. 500 per month and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population Rs. 1,000 a month. The direct transfers will be in the name of the women head of the family. The other announcements include increasing the benefits of the State government’s Krishak Bandhu scheme from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 10,000 per acre per annum. Ms. Banerjee announced that the new facility under the “Khadya Sathi Scheme” will ensure monthly ration to 1.5 crore families at doorstep. The Trinamool Congress chief also promised OBC status to Mahishyas and some other caste groups like Tamul, Saha and Tili. The Mahishyas comprise a significant population in Purba Medinipur, and the Chief Minister is contesting from Nandigram from the district. “I shall appoint a special task force to examine and propose OBC status to all the communities who are not recognised so like Mahishyas, Tili, Tamul, Saha but were part of the recommended list of OBC communities in the Mandal Commission,” the manifesto quoted the Chief Minister. Khela Hobe It also announced a new Student Credit Card scheme with a limit of Rs. 10 lakhs at only 4% interest. At the launch of the manifesto, Ms. Banerjee told journalists that her government has delivered 110% of what was promised and several schemes like Kanyashree got international recognition. Asked what will be the party’s slogan, she said, “ Khela Hobe Jeta Hobe “ (Game will be played and it will be won)”. She refuted the BJP’s allegations that she was trying to get “sympathy votes” by campaigning on a wheelchair. She said if what the BJP is alleging is true, then the version so many doctors and so many medical reports are all false. “I am still under lot of pain..The BJP is a high-loaded virus; I am saying this politically. I am not going to play the dirty game,” she said. Support for Kejriwal The CM also extended support to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. “I am sorry to say Prime Minister, I respect your chair, but it is very unfortunate that you want Lieutenant Governor to have more powers than the elected Chief Minister. I support Arvind Kejriwal and I cannot support a nominated person,” Ms. Banerjee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-promises-basic-income/article34096037.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 cases rise for 7th day||With an increase in COVID-19 cases for the seventh day in a row, India recorded its highest daily tally this year with 28,903 new infections in the 24 hours to 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 70 districts across 17 States registered a 150% rise in cases in the past 15 days. At a press conference here, Mr. Bhushan said: “India is currently reporting nearly 43% increase in the week-on-week rise in new COVID-19 cases and nearly 37% deaths in the same time. In the past two weeks, 70 districts in 16 States have registered a 150% rise in cases while 55 districts in 17 States have registered a rise of between 100 and 150%.” ‘Don’t waste vaccine’ Warning against the wastage of vaccine, which, according to Mr. Bhushan, is at the rate of 6.5%, the Health Secretary said Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir were registering a rate higher than the country’s average. “This wastage has to be curbed immediately,” he said. Member (Health), NITI Aayog, V.K. Paul said that currently India had “no reason for concern” regarding the use of Covishield vaccine. “There is no question of stopping AstraZeneca’s vaccine as of now. We are aware of the developments and reports of adverse reactions [blood clot formation following the use of the vaccination] and the fact that countries in European Union including Germany, Italy and France, decided to temporarily halt the use. Our officials are following the developments and currently there is no signal of concern,” Dr. Paul said. He, however, cautioned against the surge in COVID-19 cases stating that while the first phase was seen mostly in bigger cities, “the rise in cases is now being registered also in two and three tier cities which requires us to use all our knowledge and infrastructure to ease the situation.” Test more, States told The Health Ministry directed the States/Union Territories to ensure strict adherence to mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene. “Greater vigilance and monitoring at highest levels for all potential events where crowds gather and clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths are all vital,” said Mr. Bhushan. He added that the States/Union Territories had been asked to ensure efficient implementation of the “Test, Track and Treat” strategy and significantly increase testing in all districts. “RT PCR tests — a minimum of 70% while ensuring all close contacts [approximately 30] be traced, isolated, tested in 72 hours — will aid in curbing an outbreak,” said Mr. Bhushan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-rise-for-7th-day/article34096047.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Nagrale saved lives in 26/11 attacks||Senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, who was on Wednesday appointed Police Commissioner of Mumbai, saved lives during the 26/11 terror attacks by recovering a bag containing RDX near the Taj Mahal Palace hotel in south Mumbai and shifting it to a safer place. Mr. Nagrale, who was holding additional charge as State Director General of Police, got the Mumbai Police chief’s post after the Maharashtra government transferred Param Bir Singh and posted him to the State Home Guard over his handling of the security scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house. Mr. Singh, one of the last serving ‘encounter specialists’ in the Mumbai Police, was transferred within a year of his appointment. However, as the city police chief, he oversaw important cases such as fake followers of celebrities on social media, the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in the architect Anvay Naik suicide case and the TRP manipulation scam involving news channels. Native of Chandrapur Mr. Singh’s successor hails from Chandrapur district of Maharashtra. A 1987-batch officer, Mr. Nagrale studied in a zilla parishad school till Class VI before moving to Nagpur to study at Patwardhan High School. After pursuing his degree in mechanical engineering, he completed his Master’s in finance management at Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies in Mumbai. Mr. Nagrale’s first posting was as Assistant Superintendent of Police in the Maiost-affected Chandrapur district from 1989 to 1992. Stint with CBI Mr. Nagrale went on a deputation to the Central Bureau of Investigation between 1998 and 2002, and supervised and completed investigations into the Rs. 130-crore Bank of India case in the Ketan Parekh Scam, Rs. 1,800-crore Madhavpura Co-operative Bank scam and the Rs. 400-crore Harshad Mehta scam in 2001. He also worked on the Telgi stamp paper scam investigation during his stint as the staff officer of S.S. Puri, who was appointed the Director General Police, Special Investigation Team, on the directions of the Bombay High Court to probe the scam. Mr. Nagrale was commended for his detailed research and scrutiny in the investigation. He is also credited with spotting a bag with RDX bag near the Taj Mahal Palace hotel during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks in 2008 and moving it to a safer place. He also entered the hotel and helped remove bodies and shift the injured to hospitals. He coordinated with senior officers and rescued hundreds of people trapped inside the shopping plaza of the hotel. During his tenure as Joint Commissioner of Police (Administration), Mumbai, he drafted the residential quarters’ allotment policy, ensuring transparency in the allotment process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagrale-saved-lives-in-2611-attacks/article34096503.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||We never filed cases for divergent views: Minister||Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that the Central government never lodged false cases against anyone despite difference of opinion as witnessed during the Citizenship (Amendment) Act agitation and the ongoing farmers’ protest. He said that Centre had not stopped anyone from expressing their views within the framework of the Constitution. The Minister was responding to a question by Manoj Kumar Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal whether the government planned to train policemen to differentiate between critique of government and critique of nation as large number of sedition cases ended in acquittal. Chhaya Verma of the Congress had asked if the government planned to amend Section 124 A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) framed by the British. Reforms soon Mr. Reddy said that the IPC was enacted vide Act 45 of 1860. “Section 124 A (sedition) was inserted by Act 27 of 1870 and further amended in the years 1937, 1948, 1950, Act 3 of 1951 and Act 26 of 1955. This is not a new Act, we are going to make big reforms, a committee has been constituted to suggest changes to IPC, seeking inputs from all stakeholders,” he said. ‘Sedition cases are few’ Ms. Verma said though there had been a 165% increase in sedition cases, only 2% ended in conviction. “The cases of sedition was not tabulated in NCRB [National Crime Records Bureau] earlier, after the Modi government came to power we started tabulating it separately. 130 crore population... people comment on India’s integrity through social media. The cases are not much, only in double digits, convictions are not determined by government, but courts,” he responded.   Convictions are not determined by the government, but courts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-never-filed-cases-for-divergent-views-minister/article34096060.ece
18 March 2021||Kozhikode,||RSS leader’s outburst may impact BJP’s prospects||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue R. Balasankar’s outburst against the Kerala State BJP leadership and his sneaking suspicion that the party has a tacit deal with the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is likely to impact the prospects of the BJP in the Assembly polls. In its defence, the State BJP leadership, including party chief K. Surendran and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, has explained that his statement could have stemmed from the denial of the Chengannur seat. However Mr. Balasankar’s premise has provided plenty of ammunition to the Congress which has often alleged that the BJP and the CPI(M) have worked out a covert deal in the elections. The Congress leaders have taken it up as a campaign issue wherever the party is in direct fight with the CPI(M) in the polls. But the Left Democratic Front has dismissed the allegation as baseless. For the BJP’s State unit, its leadership fears that the allegation will possibly lead to a situation where the party will lose a major chunk of Hindu votes, especially those of the Nair community, to the Congress in Central Travancore districts. Part of parleys In fact, it was Mr. Balasankar who has been trying to facilitate the parleys between the RSS leadership and the Nair Service Society, which has been successful to a great extent. He was also involved in the dialogues with the Orthodox faction as part of the BJP’s months-long bid to build an engagement with the Christian Church. A fallout of Mr. Balasankar’s statement is that the BJP machinery will now have to marshal multiple resources to retain the over 42,000 votes the party secured in Chengannur in the 2016 Assembly polls. To prevent the flow of votes of the BJP sympathisers to the Congress-led coalition, the RSS leadership, already in a damage-control mode, may have to come up with a counter strategy. A section of the RSS leadership believes that continuity of the Pinarayi Vijayan government would pave way for the growth of the BJP in the State on the perception that many Congress leaders would desert the party after the Assembly polls. Central leadership Meanwhile, the BJP Central leadership has vowed to look into Mr. Balasankar’s explosive statement that the State unit functioned like a mafia. Incidentally he was also a frontrunner to the BJP State president’s post twice. Now it will have to introspect what has been plaguing the faction-ridden party in the State all these years — whether it was run by a inexperienced younger generation without political maturity and guidance. However, what confuses the Central leadership is that the two factions team up to divide among its leaders what the party believes are winnable seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-leaders-outburst-may-impact-bjps-prospects/article34096007.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka takes corporates’ help to upgrade health infra||To upgrade the State’s health and medical education infrastructure and services in the State, especially in the wake of the pandemic, Karnataka is set to rope in corporates in a big way. The Health Department has set up a CSR committee headed by Geetanjali Kirloskar, who is part of Kirloskar Group, to oversee this. Consortium Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said Ms. Kirloskar would set up a consortium of like-minded corporate companies interested in pitching in with their CSR funds for the comprehensive development of health and medical education sectors in the State. He was speaking on Wednesday at an event organised to onboard Ms. Kirloskar as head of the CSR committee under the Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education departments. “We are involving corporates in the health sector during the pandemic. This will help in enhancing public healthcare and overall upgrading of health services. A lot of companies are already involved in this initiative and about Rs. 5,000 crore CSR funds were spent during 2014–15. The CSR Act mandates companies to spend at least 2% of their three-year annual net profit towards CSR activities in a financial year and 25% of the total CSR in the health sector,” he said. Focus on PHCs Primary health centres (PHCs) play a vital role in the rural health system, the Minister said, and added that was a need to strengthen them. “Corporates should come forward to develop PHCs. We have requested companies to upgrade the existing PHCs,” he said. “We have 2,500 PHCs in the State and huge funds have to be mobilised for upgrading them. Over 40% of the companies in Karnataka are information technology companies. The CSR committee will discuss with these companies for mobilising CSR funds,” he said. Ms. Kirloskar said people were now ready to spend more time and money on preventive and curative medicine.“Some day, we will reach the stage of predictive medicine too. I am glad to partner with the State government in this vital and critical initiative. I appeal to like-minded companies to pitch in with their CSR funds for upgrading the healthcare sector in Karnataka,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-takes-corporates-help-to-upgrade-health-infra/article34096015.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Appropriation Bill gets the nod of Lok Sabha||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday cleared the Appropriation Bill, allowing the Central government to draw funds from the Consolidated Fund of India for its operational requirements and implementation of various programmes. The Bill was passed after Speaker Om Birla put it through guillotine, a legislative mechanism to approve the fast-tracking of the passage of outstanding demands for grants without discussion. Over the past few days, the Lok Sabha discussed the demands for grants for Railway, Education and Health Ministries. On Wednesday, 26 members of the House participated in a debate on the Demand for Grants under the Health Ministry. In his reply to the debate, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan listed the steps taken by the Narendra Modi-led government to improve the healthcare infrastructure, emphasising on the initiatives to contain the pandemic. Responding to the concerns raised by several members that the proposed allocations for various other departments such as water, sanitation, nutrition, Ayush and health research, had also been subsumed, Dr. Vardhan said the Centre had adopted a holistic approach towards health and well-being since day one. He said if the government ensured safe drinking water, sanitation and made arrangements for nutrition to children, it would take care of a majority of health issues. During the pandemic, the Union Minister said, the country achieved self-reliance in the production of PPTs, N-95 masks, diagnostic kits, ventilators and allied articles. On the criticism about slow pace of inoculation, Dr. Vardhan said the day India had recorded three million vaccinations, eight million were vaccinated in the entire world. India’s share was about 36%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appropriation-bill-gets-the-nod-of-lok-sabha/article34096087.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India should make a move for peace’||Pitching for trade between Pakistan and its neighbours such as India, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said the entire region would benefit “if India makes a move, if the Kashmir issue is resolved”. The comments came amid signs of a possible easing of relations, including a visit by the first sporting teams from Pakistan in years and talks on the Indus water treaty next week. Indian and Pakistani border commanders had last month agreed to abide by a ceasefire. The Foreign Ministers of both countries have also been invited to the same regional conference on Afghanistan to be held in Dushanbe on March 30, which could be the first such opportunity for senior officials to meet since 2019. “With India, it is very unfortunate that we have tried to resolve our issues through dialogue like civilised neighbours, but it has not worked out. Our only issue is basically over Kashmir,” Mr. Khan said at the Islamabad Security Dialogue on Wednesday, repeating an earlier statement made in Colombo in February. He called India’s decision to amend Article 370 and reorganise Jammu and Kashmir as a “big jolt” that led to a “full breakdown in ties”. “India will also benefit with more trade and connectivity to Central Asia. This [Kashmir] is the one issue that holds us back. We will try our full efforts but it is for India to make a move, until they do that, we cannot move forward,” he added, in a possible indicator that Pakistan expects steps from New Delhi on Jammu and Kashmir’s status before making the next move on trade. Mr. Khan’s visibly softened tone on India follows a speech by Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla on Monday that also appeared to have toned down some of the language on Pakistan. “India desires good neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully. However, any meaningful dialogue can only be held in a conducive atmosphere and the onus is on Pakistan to create such an atmosphere,” Mr. Shringla said, giving India’s stated position, but without the usual reference to state-sponsored terrorism from Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-should-make-a-move-for-peace/article34096040.ece
18 March 2021||Jhargram,||10 years on and in yet another battle, Mamata pushes tough rebranding||Any political chatter in West Bengal quickly veers into grassroots corruption by the functionaries of the ruling Trinamool Congress, who themselves do not deny its ubiquity. “Yes, our people have taken money,” says Prasun Sarangi, sitting on a sidewalk in a dimly lit market in Jhargram, a town surrounded by vast forests and tribal hamlets in Jangalmahal. “But it is Didi [Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee] who has admitted to this fact, and has promised action ... and she is herself the candidate in all 294 constituencies of West Bengal ... these local leaders do not matter,” said the district vice president of the party. Even opponents of the Trinamool appear to concede a certain moral high ground for the two-term CM, who is fiercely fighting for a third, in the face of strong anti-incumbency. “Didi cannot be blamed. It is the local leaders who have fleeced us. They made so much money and live lavish lives,” said Furqan Ali, a garment shop owner in Haroa in North 24 Parganas. He has switched his loyalty to the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a new party launched by Islamic cleric Abbas Siddiqui, which is in alliance with the Left Front and the Congress. The paradox of anti-incumbency in West Bengal is that a universal condemnation of the Trinamool is combined with a willingness to make allowances for Didi. Ms. Banerjee called for the complete wiping out of the Opposition, and ended with a party of lawless cadres, points out Subhanil Chowdhury, political analyst. The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) says nearly 200 of its workers have been killed during the Trinamool’s rule; Home Minister Amit Shah said in December that 300 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had been killed. “The panchayat elections of 2018 was the turning point. There was no election. A third of the members were unopposed and where there was voting, it was fraud,” Dr. Chowdhury says. “These local body leaders tightly control NREGA (National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), pensions and all other government schemes. They keep up to 30-40% of the money...They act with the nonchalance that they don’t need votes to be in power,” an official at a Block Development Office in South 24 Parganas, who did not want to be named, said. Cyclone Amphan exposed their greed further, recalls Amartyo Roy, an activist of Young Bengal that carried out relief work: “It was open loot.” Public perception Didi is largely absolved in the public perception of corruption, but her endless pandering to identity politics is stuck on her, says Dr. Chowdhury. Muslims have been a particular focus, but the targets of her special attention are not limited to them. Dalits groups, Other Backward Classes (OBC) and subsections of Gurkhas — she has catalogued it all. The BJP accuses her of Muslim appeasement, and she is trying to shake off that tag by displaying her Hindu devotion this year. But a Hindu who is also a Bengali. Ms. Banerjee now patronises Durga puja celebrations, with State support at unseen levels. Her call this time is to elect “the daughter of Bengal” as CM. “The only thing predictable about Mamata’s politics is that she is against the CPI(M). This time, Bengali nationalism is the only toolkit she is left with. But there are limits to this. Kolkata is a city that had a fall in population in absolute terms — the only city,” says Prasenjit Bose, economist and activist based in the city. The State has a considerable non-Bengali population, which feels alienated from the plank of Bengali exceptionalism. Ms. Banerjee replaced the class politics of the Left, but the identity politics that she helped emerge threatens to devour her. “The BJP has been successful in convincing a good section of Dalits that they are victims of Muslim appeasement,” says Dr. Chowdhury. And the ISF is offering a new platform for segments of Muslim who are unhappy with Ms. Banerjee, also for the way they fit in her politics. “We are seen as recipients of some largesse, for no good reason,” said Mujibur Rahman, in Bhangore. He says the Dalit in his own locality have shifted from the TMC to the BJP — a trend noted in Jangalmahal too. The BJP is playing down its religious nationalism and focusing on development rhetoric. “It has been Bengal versus Delhi for a long time. This time, people want to be in alignment with the Delhi…the twin engines of development is our campaign focus,” said Mrinal Kanti Bhuniya, party spokesperson in Jhargram. Didi wants to be seen as the incorruptible daughter of Bengal; the BJP portrays her as the author of chaos and barrier to the State’s progress. This election is about Didi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-years-on-and-in-yet-another-battle-mamata-pushes-tough-rebranding/article34096042.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||India known as first, reliable responder, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Wednesday said in the last few years, India had developed a reputation of being the first and reliable responder in the region, stating that the country had provided “Made in India” vaccines for COVID-19 to 72 countries. Medicines have been supplied to 150 nations, 82 of them as grants. In a statement to Parliament on the Vaccine Maitri initiative, Mr. Jaishankar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision had provided an overarching framework to make the country’s goodwill meaningful in terms of practical initiatives and activities. “We already saw that in our humanitarian assistance and disaster responses, whether in Yemen and Nepal or Mozambique and Fiji. As a result, in the last few years, India has developed a reputation of being the first and reliable responder in the region. We saw that too in critical negotiations of global importance like the Paris Agreement, where we had a key bridging role,” he said. The Minister said the supply of vaccines abroad was based on the assessment of adequate availability at home. “From the Caribbean to the Pacific Islands, the message has been clear that the Prime Minister of India not only has the willingness to engage them personally, but to back that up with concrete development programmes. It is this outlook of human-centric global cooperation that is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri.”  PM’s outlook of human-centric cooperation is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-known-as-first-reliable-responder-says-jaishankar/article34096050.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||No outsider bought land in J&K, says Home Ministry||More than a year after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was revoked and the State made a Union Territory, the administration has identified over 22,000 government jobs but recruitment is yet to take place. No person from outside J&K has purchased land in the UT so far, according to information provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to a parliamentary panel. The panel was informed that the vacant jobs include only 533 gazetted posts and 21,846 Class IV posts. J&K has been under Central rule since June 2018 and was made a UT on August 6, 2019. On August 28, 2019, then J&K Governor Satyapal Malik said the government had identified 50,000 government jobs and vacancies would be filled soon. In a report tabled in Parliament in March 2020, the number of such vacancies stood at over 84,000. When the panel enquired about the number of proposals of investment received in the UT of J&K since its creation and purchase of land by people from outside the State, it was informed that “456 MoUs have been signed amounting to Rs. 23,152.17 crore”. “Further, no person from outside has purchased land in J&K, since the industrial land allotment policy is in formulation and land allotment has not commenced,” the report said. In a separate reply in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said that around 3,800 Kashmiri migrant candidates had returned to Kashmir in the last few years to take up jobs under the Prime Minister’s rehabilitation package. “Post-abrogation of Article 370, as many as 520 migrant candidates have returned to Kashmir for taking up the jobs provided under the rehabilitation package. Another nearly 2,000 migrant candidates are likely to return under the same policy in 2021 on successful completion of the selection process,” the reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-outsider-bought-land-in-jk-govt/article34096057.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Schools as hotspots raises concern in Telangana||A day after a cluster of 32 COVID-19 cases was detected among students of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya at Tekriyal, Kamareddy, only six cases were recorded in the district on Wednesday. Health teams have tested around 1,460 persons. On Tuesday, the 32 students tested positive when routine COVID-19 tests were conducted at the school. A total of 140 persons, including the staff, were examined.  District Collector A. Sharath visited the school on Wednesday and inspected the facilities there. He said parents of 13 of the 32 COVID-positive students took them home. The remaining 19 students would also be sent home depending on isolation facilities available. The officials would earmark a block at the school premises to isolate students whose homes do not have required space. The Collector added that medical officers would check on them regularly. Later, Mr Sharath held a video conference with heads of various residential homes, officials of Education department, and medical officers. He directed officials to send students home only in unavoidable situations, adding that they have to be isolated for five days after returning from home. They would be allowed to attend classes only after COVID-19 test is repeated on them and they are found to be negative. The need for maintaining COVID precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing, was stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/schools-as-hotspots-raises-concern-in-telangana/article34096005.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS witness highlights KWDT-I view on allocation||The expert witness appearing for Telangana before the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT-II) Ghan Shyam Jha, a former Chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC), has brought to the notice of the tribunal the view taken by KWDT-I on the aspirations of Telangana people in the matter of Krishna waters. During the cross-examination of the witness by senior counsel appearing for Andhra Pradesh R. Venkataramani before the tribunal headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar in New Delhi on Wednesday, Mr. Jha stated that KWDT-I had recorded that “... the circumstances responsible for water allocation change over time and do not get finality for all times to come. As such it is always subject to review”. Mr. Jha highlighted the observation made by KWDT-I in support of Telangana’s plea for re-allocation of Krishna waters between it (Telangana) and AP. The hearing on the issue resumed on Wednesday after a very long gap of over one-and-a-half years, first due to the resignation of a judge and later due to the COVID-19 situation. Presided over by Chairman Justice Brijesh Kumar, members of KWDT-II Justice Rammohan Reddy and Justice S. Talapatra also heard the cross-examination. Mr. Jha clarified that June 1944 agreement and 1951 inter-state conference were more important regarding water allocation to the K.C. Canal system. The cross-examination revolved around K.C. Canal and Nagarjunasagar project. On behalf of Telangana, senior advocate V. Ravinder Rao, advocate on record Nikhil Swamy, Harish Vaidyanathan, Superintending Engineer (IS&WR) R. Koteswar Rao, Executive Engineer K. Venkata Narayana and others attended the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-witness-highlights-kwdt-i-view-on-allocation/article34096646.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Centre had replied to Kerala on EMCC, Minister tells Lok Sabha||The Centre informed the State government as early as October 2019 that the Consulate General of India (CGI) in New York could not verify the credentials of the U.S.-based company that had proposed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for deep-sea fishing, Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan told the Lok Sabha during question hour on Wednesday. In a written reply to a question by N.K. Premachandran, he said the Ministry of External Affairs had directed the CGI in New York to verify the address and credentials of M/s EMCC Global Consortium LLC following a request from the State government. The CGI sought the details through a communication to the company on October 14, 2019. However, in the absence of a response from the company, the address and credentials of the company could not be verified. Its address at 535 Fifth Avenue, 4th floor was a virtual office, which allowed for short-term rental and other secretarial services. The findings emailed to Kerala by the CGI in New York on October 21, 2019 and by the Ministry on October 25, 2019. Subsequently, the CGI in New York conveyed the same response to Kerala on November 6, 2019, he added. The clarification flies in the face of Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan’s contention that the State did not receive any response to its request for assistance from the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-had-replied-to-kerala-on-emcc-minister-tells-lok-sabha/article34096024.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Nirbhaya guidelines were violated in Jarkiholi probe’||A Bengaluru-based lawyer has alleged that the guidelines issued after the Nirbhaya rape case have been violated in the sex CD scandal involving former Karnataka Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The lawyer, K.N. Jagadish Kumar, approached the City Police Commissioner on Wednesday demanding that protection be accorded to the woman in the CD. In his petition, he said the police and the government were bound to provide security to the woman, who in her recent video accused Mr. Jarkiholi of cheating and sexual harassment. “Instead of considering her statement as evidence and registering a case against Jarkiholi, the government is providing security and treating others who are supporting her as suspects,” stated the petition. He also questioned the police’s “failure” to register an FIR when the scandal came to light and when the CD containing audio and video clips of Mr. Jarkiholi’s interaction with the woman was submitted by Dinesh Kallahalli. “When Jarkiholi filed a complaint, the police registered an FIR but why aren’t they doing due diligence when Dinesh Kallahalli filed a complaint seeking a detailed investigation or when the woman requested security,” Mr. Kumar asked. The victim in a recent video requested the Home Minister for security. Based on this, police should take cognisance and register a suo motu case, instead of launching a witch hunt and treating the woman as accused, said the petition. Third notice to woman Meanwhile, the SIT issued a notice to the woman in CD to appear before them. This is the third notice issued to her. The officials say that her statement is crucial for the ongoing investigation. Though the woman issued s statement recently accusing that she has been cheated and harassed, her statement before the competent authority is considered more reliable and admissible in the court of law, say officials. The SIT officials picked up three more persons into questioning who are linked to Tumakuru-based journalist, the prime suspect in the case. In Belagavi, the city police formed a special team to investigate into the alleged disappearance of the woman. The police are yet to decide on transferring the case to the Bengaluru city police or to the Soumendu Mukherjee-led SIT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirbhaya-guidelines-were-violated-in-jarkiholi-probe/article34096009.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa rules out lockdown||Categorically ruling out any lockdown or night curfew in the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday warned that this does not mean people could become complacent and go about without wearing masks or not following COVID-19 protocols. “The situation is now in people’s hands. I have instructed the Home Department to strictly enforce rules. If people do not cooperate, we will be forced to consider other stringent measures,” the Chief Minister said after attending Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with the Chief Ministers of various States. Districts in focus He said he had apprised the Prime Minister about the measures initiated by the State government in containing the pandemic. “The Prime Minister has advised Karnataka to focus on districts where the incidence is high. A special strategy will be worked out for the three districts — Bengaluru, Bidar, and Kalaburagi — where the caseload is high,” he said. The State was working on setting aside more beds in wards and ICUs for COVID-19 patients. It was also planning to set up three COVID-19 care centres in Bengaluru to take care of an immediate surge. The ongoing vaccination drive would be intensified and a target of inoculating nearly three lakh people a day had been fixed, the Chief Minister said. As the Centre’s policy permits vaccination only at a health facility, the State had sought permission to take up vaccination drive in old age homes, apartment complexes, and other inaccessible areas, the Chief Minister added. Pointing out that COVID-19 cases were on an upward trend from the last 15 days, the Chief Minister said the Prime Minister had advised States to adopt stringent measures so that the situation does not go out of control. Vaccination drive would be intensified and vaccine wastage minimised as far as possible, he added. “I have assured the Prime Minister that all efforts will be made in Karnataka to control the COVID-19 spike and ensure normalcy. So far, Karnataka has reported around 9.61 lakh COVID-19 cases and more than 12,000 deaths,” the Chief Minister said. The State saw a peak during the period from August to October 2020. Cases started declining in November, but the decline was faster from December. However, in the last about 10 days, cases are showing an increasing trend. The positivity rate has also increased to 1.65% as on March 15. “We conducted a review with experts and officers on March 15 and decided to intensify information, education, and communication campaign to create awareness among the public to observe COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said.  CM goes without mask  Mr. Yediyurappa, who asserted on the need for wearing masks by people, forgot to wear one at Wednesday’s press conference. He said he had directed officials to strictly enforce the rule on wearing masks and added that people should not become complacent now. Replying to queries on whether the penalty for not wearing mask would be increased, the Chief Minister appealed to the media to create more awareness about this rule. “If people do not follow, we may have to think of stringent measures,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappa-rules-out-lockdown/article34096011.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Enact law to make Facebook, Google pay for news, says MP||India should take a cue from Australia and enact a law to make tech giants such as Facebook and Google pay local publishers of news content, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi demanded in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, the former Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar said, “The government must make Google, Facebook and YouTube pay print and news channels for the news content they are using freely.” “I would urge the Government of India that the way they have notified Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code to regulate social media and OTT platforms, they should enact a law on the pattern of Australian Code so that we can compel Google to share its revenue with traditional media,” he added.  Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu remarked that the suggestion was “worth considering”. Mr. Modi said the print and news broadcast media, whose content is freely available on platforms run by the tech giants, were passing through their worst phase in recent history as advertisements have shifted to tech platforms. The traditional news media, Mr. Modi said, make heavy investments employing anchors, journalists and reporters who gather information, verify it and deliver credible news. But advertisement, which is their main source of revenue, has in the past few years shifted away from them. “Advertising earnings are going to these tech giants (and) because of this print media, news channels are passing through a financial crisis.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/enact-law-to-make-facebook-google-pay-for-news-says-mp/article34096032.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t privatise Railways, says Opposition||Opposition parties severely criticised the Modi government for concentrating their efforts in ‘privatising’ the Railways in the last seven years even as Railway Minister Piyush Goyal reiterated that the national carrier will not be privatised. The Opposition leaders said privatisation of various railway infrastructure would only benefit corporates and loss of revenue for the railways, pushing it to the brink like the Air India and the Indian Airlines. It would also mean rise in fares. ‘Long-term vision’ At the conclusion of the debate on Demand For Grants for Railways, Mr. Goyal said the government had a long-term vision. “ If a few private players want to run modern trains providing a comfortable journey to the passengers what is wrong in it,” Mr. Goyal said. The private equity was only being used to bring in modern amenities. “Nobody needs to be worried. The Railways is the government’s asset. Nobody is privatising it,” he said. Congress leader Naranbhai J. Rathwa said: “The private sector will not run trains on unprofitable routes and will increase the fare.” DMK leader P. Wilson said privatisation did not always mean improvement in efficiency. The catering services were privatised almost two decades back yet there were complaints from passengers. RJD MP Manoj K. Jha said the government should resist the temptation to offer assets to capitalists. Shiv Sena MP Anil Desai said the government, instead of constructing the bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad, should have focused on improving the existing infrastructure. AAP member Sanjay Singh cited the example of the Habibganj station in Uttar Pradesh that was redeveloped by a private entity, where the cost of parking a two-wheeler is Rs. 50 an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-privatise-railways-says-opposition/article34096054.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS witness highlights KWDT-I view on water allocation||The expert witness appearing for Telangana before the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT-II) Ghan Shyam Jha, a former Chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC), has brought to the notice of the tribunal the view taken by KWDT-I on the aspirations of Telangana people in the matter of Krishna waters. During the cross-examination of the witness by senior counsel appearing for Andhra Pradesh R. Venkataramani before the tribunal headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar in New Delhi on Wednesday, Mr. Jha stated that KWDT-I had recorded that “... the circumstances responsible for water allocation change over time and do not get finality for all times to come. As such it is always subject to review”. Mr. Jha highlighted the observation made by KWDT-I in support of Telangana’s plea for re-allocation of Krishna waters between it (Telangana) and AP. The hearing on the issue resumed on Wednesday after a very long gap of over one-and-a-half years, first due to the resignation of a judge and later due to the COVID-19 situation. Presided over by Chairman Justice Brijesh Kumar, members of KWDT-II Justice Rammohan Reddy and Justice S. Talapatra also heard the cross-examination. Mr. Jha clarified that June 1944 agreement and 1951 inter-state conference were more important regarding water allocation to the K.C. Canal system. The cross-examination revolved around K.C. Canal and Nagarjunasagar project. On behalf of Telangana, senior advocate V. Ravinder Rao, advocate on record Nikhil Swamy, Harish Vaidyanathan, Superintending Engineer (IS&WR) R. Koteswar Rao, Executive Engineer K. Venkata Narayana and others attended the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-witness-highlights-kwdt-i-view-on-water-allocation/article34096394.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Can’t negate Central agricultural laws as per our Constitution: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has indicated that the Telangana Assembly will not enact any law to negate the three new farm bills of the Central government as that would not stand legal scrutiny, and would be mere eyewash. “The matter is sub-judice since the Supreme Court has stayed the laws now. States have no option but to implement the laws of the Central government and that is what our Constitution says,” he said. Mr. KCR was speaking in the Assembly on the motion of thanks to the Governor’s speech and replying to a few issues raised by Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka. His response was to Mr. Bhatti’s suggestion that laws passed by Punjab, Rajasthan, Kerala and Chhattisgarh be studied and similar enactment be made in Telangana. He termed the exercise of other states mere eyewash that would yield nothing. At the same time, he said Telangana doesn’t want to adopt a confrontation attitude with the Centre but work with it to honour the federal structure. Mr. KCR also said that the Central government and PM Narendra Modi strongly believe that the new laws would help the farmers positively. “We don’t know what the Supreme Court will decide on it and what response would be of the Central government but laws cannot be negated by states,” he said. However, the State government believes in continuation of the Agricultural markets as they are established places for farmers, traders and other buyers to engage in business. Farm loan waiver The CM assured that the farm loan waiver would be done 100% as promised but in phases. Those with less than Rs. 25,000 loan have already benefited from the waiver and the remaining would get the benefit in phases. He said the government would also take the interest burden since the loan is being waived in phases. Hitting out at the Congress, he said no Congress-ruled State has implemented farm loan waiver despite promising it. “We have commitment towards farmers and it reflects in the 24-hour free power supply to the farming sector and also providing irrigation facilities that were denied to them in combined Andhra Pradesh,” he said reading out figures of how paddy cultivation has increased to more than 52 lakh acres this Yasangi, which was many-fold increase compared to 2014.  We don’t know what the Supreme Court will decide on it and what response would be of the Central government but laws cannot be negated by states. KCR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-negate-central-agricultural-laws-as-per-our-constitution-says-cm/article34096419.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,||USAF Band of the Pacific collaborates with percussionist Giridhar Udupa||The United States Air Force Band of the Pacific has collaborated with Indian musician Giridhar Udupa and released a music video online on March 15. The musical collaboration was inspired by the band’s commitment to support Aero India 2021, and reinforces the U.S.-India Major Defense Partnership and people-to-people ties between both the countries. The song ‘Open Clusters’ which features in the video was composed by Staff Sergeant Luis Rosa, a saxophone instrumentalist with the Hawaii-based Air Force Band and is a musical fusion of two masters of Indian and Puerto Rican culture and rhythm. The music video features Giridhar Udupa playing the Ghatam and Senior Airman Guy James on guitar, Staff Sergeant Andrew Detra on bass, and Technical Sergeant Wilfredo Cruz on percussion. The USAF Band of the Pacific is a squadron of professional U.S. Air Force musicians that perform in diverse musical configurations and fulfills community relations and military functions throughout the Western Pacific region. Bengaluru based Ghatam artist Giridhar Udupa has had a musical journey of three decades and has collaborated with several artistes and has also performed across the world. Speaking about this collaboration the United States Air Force Band of the Pacific’s Publicity Section Chief Technical Sergeant Wilfredo Cruz said that they were extremely honoured and grateful to be able to produce this musical collaboration for viewers worldwide. “The pandemic did not allow us to be in India to perform live during Aero India, yet music connects all regardless of distance or borders. We leverage the power of music to strengthen bonds with our friends and partners through the Indo-Pacific region,” he said. Mr. Udupa said that the composition fits perfectly into the world music scene. “I am very excited about the newly composed track with incredible musicians from the U.S. Air Force Band,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/usaf-band-of-the-pacific-collaborates-with-percussionist-giridhar-udupa/article34096130.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. justifies creation of caste corporations||Taking the government’s statement on record, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M.G. Shukure Kamal adjourned hearing. ‘Conscious policy’ “Actions of the State government in establishing the corporations/ development boards is a conscious welfare policy initiative which is well within the powers of the State government under the Article 162 of the Constitution of India,” the government said while contending that the petitioners had no legal right to challenge this “policy” decision of the State. These bodies will facilitate and ensure identification of the intended beneficiaries who are the most deserving for receiving benefits of welfare programmes and policies within these communities, the government said. Stating that only two corporations were set up in 1970s — one for both the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, and another for the Other Backward Classes and the Minorities — the government pointed out that subsequently these were made four separate corporations for better implementation of targetted welfare schemes. In later years, separate corporations were set up for around seven castes notified as OBCs to specifically cater to the unique problems and issues faced by the Vishwakarma, Uppara , Ambiga, Savitha Samaja and its sub-caste, Madivala and its sub-castes, Alemari and Arey Alemari, and Kadugolla. Off shoots Thus, the new corporations are invariably the off shoots of either the ones that came under the SC and ST Development Corporation or the OBC and Minorities Development Corporation, the government said, while pointing out that these new corporations are special purpose vehicles to identify the needy persons in each communities and bring them into economic and social mainstream with targetted welfare schemes. On the creation of corporations for Maratha, Veerashaiva-Lingayat, Arya Vaisya, and Brahmin communities, the government said that Maratha and Veerashaiva-Lingayath are categorised under OBC; and Arya Vaisya and Brahmin communities are notified as economically weaker sections. Pointing out that the petitioners were not claiming that “every individual in the community of Brahmin, Maratha, Veerashaiva-Lingayat, Arya Vaisya, Vishwakarma etc., are socially, economically, and educationally forward...,” the government said, “It is a matter of fact and experience that there are many individuals in every community who require helping hands of the State” to reach mainstream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-justifies-creation-of-caste-corporations/article34096133.ece
18 March 2021||Lucknow,||V-C complains against ‘loud’ a zan in Prayagraj||Vice-Chancellor (V-C) of the Allahabad University Sangita Srivastava has allegedly complained to the district administration in Prayagraj about ‘disturbance’ caused to her by the call for azan from a mosque near her residence every morning. A copy of the letter dated March 3 was widely shared on social media, though it could not be independently verified from the V-C. In the letter, Ms. Srivastava wrote to district Magistrate (DM) Bhanu Pratap Goswami saying every day at about 5.30 a.m., her sleep is “disturbed due to loud azan ” from the “mike” by the maulvi of a mosque nearby. “The sleep so disturbed does not resume even after trying very hard. This also results in a headache through the day, causing loss of work hours,” she wrote. Ms. Srivastava appealed to the DM to provide a “quick response”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/v-c-complains-against-loud-a-zan-in-prayagraj/article34096279.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Deal’ not just in three segments: Chennithala||RSS theoretician R. Balashankar has blown the lid off the ‘tacit vote-sharing understanding’ between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] in the Assembly elections in Kerala, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. Mr. Balashankar, a former editor of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh newspaper Organiser , allegedly said the BJP’s State leadership had struck a pact with the CPI(M) to defeat the Congress in several vital constituencies. Mr. Chennithala said here on Wednesday that the RSS leader had stated that the BJP would channel its votes to aid the CPI(M) in Chengannur and Aranmula constituencies. In reciprocation, the CPI(M) would vote for BJP State president K. Surendran in Konni. BJP stance The BJP said Mr. Balashankar was peeved that the party had denied him a ticket. Hence, he had vented his ire on the State leadership, which had little say in candidate selection. The BJP’s national leadership made the final call. Moreover, the BJP said Mr. Balashankar had rarely evinced interest in contesting the Assembly elections. Mr. Chennithala said the BJP-CPI(M) axis was not limited to three constituencies. The unholy nexus had metastasised to 140 constituencies in the State. The CPI(M) had sided with the Sangh Parivar to harm the Congress. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s so-called principled secular stance was a lie. He was in cahoots with Hindu majoritarian forces that sought to divide Kerala communally. ‘Amity sacrificed’ Mr. Vijayan was willing to accord the BJP a toehold in Kerala in his all-out bid for a second term in power. He had no qualms about sacrificing communal amity at the altar of realpolitik. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said Mr. Balashankar’s revelation was shocking. He said the CPI(M)’s self-defeating Faustian pact with the BJP would backfire at the hustings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deal-not-just-in-three-segments-chennithala/article34096456.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP MP Ram Swaroop found dead||The personal assistant informed the police that Mr. Sharma would wake up every day at 6.30 a.m. but on Wednesday, he (the personal assistant) had found Mr. Sharma’s room locked from inside. The assistant knocked repeatedly but did not receive any response. Thereafter, he informed the police. A team from the North Avenue police station rushed to apartment complex. “The police broke open the gate. The body was brought down and taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” said a police officer. Mr. Sharma was known to stay in Delhi with his personal assistant and cook. The officer said that no note had been recovered, medicines had been found in the room, and family members had been informed. Inquest proceedings have been initiated. An inquiry was underway and the exact cause of his death would be ascertained after a post mortem examination, police said. “A medical board has been formed for the post mortem. The body has been handed over to family members. The last rites will be held in Himachal Pradesh,” added the officer. Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Mr. Sharma was twice elected Member of Parliament. He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from the Mandi Parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-ram-swaroop-found-dead/article34096030.ece
18 March 2021||London,||Boris Johnson hails Modi’s leadership||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday hailed his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for his “fantastic leadership” in the global fight against climate change and said the U.K. and India’s shared vision for a sustainable future will be among the issues on the agenda for talks with the “friend” during his upcoming visit to New Delhi next month. Addressing the virtual International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure inaugurated by Mr. Modi, Mr. Johnson thanked the Prime Minister for hosting it. He hailed Mr. Modi’s “fantastic leadership” in areas such as renewable energy in the global fight against climate change and welcomed the “excellent initiative” of the Coalition for Disaster Resilience Infrastructure led by India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boris-johnson-hails-modis-leadership/article34096052.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Quick steps required to curb ‘second peak’: PM||The PM said over 96% of patients in India had recovered, and the country was currently reporting one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. He, however, expressed concern over the high positivity rate in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh and the rising number of cases in Punjab and Maharashtra. “Seventy districts witnessed a 150% rise in the past few weeks,” he noted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior officials attended the review meeting. Mr. Shah listed out the districts which were seeing a rise in cases. The Prime Minister noted that there was an urgent need to maintain COVID-appropriate behaviour. The Prime Minister noted that there was an urgent need to maintain COVID-appropriate behaviour. Mr. Modi emphasised the need for provision of micro-containment zones. He called for special attention to the referral system and ambulance network in small cities. He said: “The whole country has opened up for travel and the number of people travelling has also increased. There has to be a robust mechanism for sharing information among States/Union Territories.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quick-steps-required-to-curb-second-peak-pm/article34096028.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||No decision on national NRIC till now, RS told||In 2018, before the passage of the CAA, the then Minister of State for Home Hansraj Gangaram Ahir had informed the Rajya Sabha that “as per the provisions contained in Rule 3 of the Citizenship Rules 2003 framed under the Citizenship Act, 1955, the Registrar General of Citizen Registration shall establish and maintain the National Register of Indian Citizens and prepare the Population Register”. The NPR’s link with the NRC and the yet-to-be-implemented CAA has been opposed by many States and civil society groups. On November 16, 2016, the then former Minister of State for Home Home Kiren Rijiju stated: “The Government has approved the preparation of Population Register comprising details of usual residents in the country. The preparation of Population Register is a part of preparation of NRIC under provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 read with the Citizenship Rules (2003).” Though the government is now denying that the NRC is on the cards, the Citizenship Rules framed in the year 2003 say that NPR is the first step towards compilation of NRC. NPR was first collected in 2010 and then updated in 2015; it already has a database of 119 crore residents. The rules have not been amended or scrapped. The CAA passed by the Parliament on December 11, 2019 allows citizenship on basis of religion to six undocumented communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. There are apprehensions and fear that the CAA, followed by a countrywide NRC, will benefit non-Muslims excluded from the proposed citizens’ register, while excluded Muslims will have to prove their citizenship. An NRC has been compiled in the State of Assam on the directions of the Supreme Court and more than 19 lakh of the 3.29 crore applicants in Assam were left out of the final register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-decision-on-national-nric-till-now-rs-told/article34096029.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Reply to Disha’s plea, HC tells Centre, Delhi Police||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted one last opportunity to the Centre and the Delhi Police to submit their response on climate activist Disha Ravi’s plea to restrain the police from leaking case documents relating to the FIR lodged against her in the “toolkit” case. Justice Prathiba M. Singh asked them to file their counter affidavits within two weeks and posted the case for further hearing on May 18. The 22-year-old activist has stated that she is “severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the Respondent No. 1 (Special Cell, Delhi Police) and several media houses... on the basis of leaked investigative matter”. Last month, the High Court had ordered Delhi Police to ensure that there is no leakage of any documents relating to its investigation. “Recent coverage by the media definitely shows that there is sensationalism and prejudicial journalism, which has been undertaken by the media houses,” Justice Singh had remarked. Charge denied Delhi police have, however, stated that they were not responsible for leaking the messages or the investigative material to the media houses. Ms. Disha, a permanent resident of Bangalore, was arrested in connection with an FIR registered on February 4. Her petition claimed that she was flown overnight to New Delhi without obtaining transit remand, in flagrant violation of her constitutional rights. She was later granted bail by a trial court here on February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reply-to-dishas-plea-hc-tells-centre-delhi-police/article34096043.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘DGCA taking action for improper use of mask’||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that action was being taken against passengers who refuse to wear masks properly, including de-boarding them before departure or treating them as “unruly passengers” during the flight. A Bench of Justices Navin Chawla and C. Hari Shankar said they were satisfied with the steps taken by the DGCA and decided to close the case initiated by the court itself on the protocol to be maintained by the passengers and the crew to curb spread of COVID-19. Justice Shankar had on March 8 passed a slew of guidelines to be followed by airlines, staff and passengers after he witnessed an alarming situation during the Air India flight from Kolkata to New Delhi on March 5. “It was noticed that, though all the passengers had worn masks, many had worn the masks below the chin and were exhibiting a stubborn reluctance to wear the masks properly,” the judge said. The DGCA on Wednesday stated that following the court’s directions, it had issued a circular on March 13 on the guidelines to be followed in airports. In case, any passenger is not following ‘COVID-19 Protocol’, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warning. If required, they may be dealt as per law, the circular said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgca-taking-action-for-improper-use-of-mask/article34096031.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Param Bir removed as Mumbai police chief||In what could be seen as the fallout over handling of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred the city’s Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. He has been replaced with senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, who holds additional charge of the State Director-General of Police. Mr. Singh will be the new DG Home Guards. Rajneesh Seth has been given additional charge as DGP, Maharashtra, while Sanjay Pandey will head the Maharashtra State Security Corporation. The decision to transfer Mr. Singh was confirmed after a meeting late on Tuesday night between Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh with Home Department officials. Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar too had met Mr. Thackeray on Monday. Since the arrest of API Sachin Vaze by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the probe into the Antilia bomb scare case, the political and police circles were abuzz with the possibility of Mr. Singh’s transfer. Mr. Vaze is considered to be close to the former police chief. Mr. Singh’s transfer is also seen as an attempt by the State government to avoid yet another embarrassment as witnessed after the arrest of Mr. Vaze and its delay in transferring him from Mumbai Police’s Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU). Meanwhile, the NIA has claimed the involvement of “other players” in the case who had been allegedly instructing Mr. Vaze. Sources in the NIA said the case had virtually been cracked and soon the “entire conspiracy” would be unravelled soon. Small players: BJP Former Maharashtra Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said it was natural for the city police chief to be changed after one of its officers was arrested by the NIA. “According to us, these [Mr. Singh and Mr. Vaze] are small players. It is important that the NIA catches its political masters,” Mr. Fadnavis said at a press conference in New Delhi. The party’s State unit termed the transfer as a damage control exercise by the MVA government. It also alleged that the move indicates links of the incident with the State Home Department. Leader of Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar said, “The government has been callous from the beginning. More explosive details are expected,” he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/param-bir-removed-as-mumbai-police-chief/article34096088.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Why is Arnab not in TRP scam FIR, asks HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Mumbai Police why Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami had not been named an accused in the FIR in the Television Ratings Points (TRP) manipulation case, and directed the prosecutor to inform it by Thursday if they plan to do so. A division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale also asked the special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray how much more time they would take to complete the investigation. The Bench said the FIR was filed in October 2020 and its March already. The court said, “You are investigating for the last three months. There are two chargesheets, and there seems to be no evidence against them. Isn’t this a sword hanging on their head?” Mr. Hiray said the police have adequate evidence in the case and that they are still collecting additional evidence. The court then said, “Why not make them an accused? We do not think there is anything such as ‘suspect’ in criminal law.”  The Bench was hearing a plea filed by Republic TV seeking to quash the FIR registered by the Mumbai Crime Branch against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-is-arnab-not-in-trp-scam-fir-asks-hc/article34096055.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Parliament building will be put to alternative use’||Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that once the new Parliament building was ready, the existing one will have to be repaired and made available for alternative use but no comprehensive thought has been given on what use it should be. He said no historical or iconic building in Lutyens Delhi would be demolished for the Central Vista project but a few buildings would have to be demolished “only when alternative offices have been constructed”. The Centre wants to re-develop the three-km stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate known as the Central Vista project. The plan, as drafted by the Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, involves constructing a triangular shaped Parliament building adjacent to the one built in the 1920s by the British, demolishing the post-Independence office buildings and replacing them with 10 multi-storey office complexes to house all Ministries. The plan is also afoot to revamp the civic infrastructure and facilities for the Republic Day parade on Rajpath. Ami Yagnik of the Congress asked him to share the number of buildings to be demolished as the information has been provided in an affidavit in the Supreme Court. Mr. Puri retorted, “The points mentioned by the member reflects a narrative. The only decision taken and announced so far is that 90 acres of hutments of 1942 variety are being removed and the offices there are being relocated to KG Marg and Africa Avenue. All those people in those substandard offices since 1947 will be moved. ”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-building-will-be-put-to-alternative-use-puri/article34096058.ece
18 March 2021||BENGALURU,||RSS meet in Bengaluru to discuss expansion plan||The annual conclave of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) highest decision-making body – Akhil Bharatiya Prathinidhi Sabha (ABPS) – scheduled to be held in Bengaluru from March 19 to 20 will focus on expansion of the organisation. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, RSS Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh Arun Kumar said the other topics of focus include bringing about social transformation, rural development, water conservation, reduction of use of plastic, and climate-related issues. He said various organisations, including NGOs, had joined hands with the RSS in raising resources for building the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The organisation was now planning to utilise their services in social work being carried out by it, he noted. Mr. Kumar said ABPS was not held in 2020 due to COVID-19. Every year, 1,500 delegates are expected at ABPS but due to the prevailing pandemic, only 450 are attending this year. Also, ABPS 2021 would be held only for two days instead of three days, he said. Election The national conclave has assumed importance as election to the highest executive post of the RSS, Sarkaryavah (general secretary), is being held at the event on Saturday. The ABPS-2021 was originally scheduled to be held in Nagpur. However, the venue was shifted to Bengaluru owing to COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra. Meanwhile, the All-India executive meet of RSS that began on March 17 will conclude on March 18. Top leaders of the RSS, including national president Mohan Bhagwat, will participate in the national conclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-meet-in-bengaluru-to-discuss-expansion-plan/article34096131.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Serious issue if 3 cr. ration cards were cancelled: SC||She said the family’s ration card was cancelled due to non-linkage with Aadhaar. She sought an independent investigation into the starvation deaths, restoration of the cancelled ration cards and compensation for the death of her daughter. Mr. Gonsalves said the government’s continued emphasis on Aadhaar was unfortunate as the Supreme Court had laid down in clear terms that “no insistence on Aadhaar can be done for statutory entitlements”. “Tribals either do not have Aadhaar cards or the identification does not work in tribal and rural areas. Because of this reliance on Aadhaar cards, can you imagine three crore cards are gone...” he submitted. “Three crore cards have gone?” the Chief Justice asked incredulously. “Yes, starvation deaths are taking place. Three crore ration cards have gone... I can show the Union of India’s declaration. It is an announcement of the Prime Minister,” Mr. Gonsalves responded. He argued that the States were in a denial mode, blaming the deaths on diarrhoea and malaria. “In fact, anything but lack of food. This cruel exercise deprived millions of Indians living below the poverty line of food and led to starvation deaths in Jharkhand, U.P., Odisha, Karnataka, M.P., Maharashtra, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and other States,” the petitioner’s side said in a report prepared after going through the responses obtained from the States. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi said the statements made by the petitioner side were misplaced. Issuance of ration card was not dependent on the Aadhaar card. Alternative mechanisms were in place. Besides, the issuance of ration cards was primarily the responsibility of the State governments. Mr. Lekhi said the petitioners should ideally move the respective High Court, rather than file an omnibus petition in the apex court. He said the petitioners had come directly to the apex court without raising their issue with the grievance redressal mechanism under the National Food Security Act. “We are persuaded to consider this case because of their [petitioners’] statement that ration cards have been cancelled... That is a very serious matter,” Chief Justice Bobde said in response to Mr. Lekhi’s submissions for the Centre. Even as the government highlighted the redressal mechanism within the Food Security Act as the right place to go, the petitioner side countered in its report to the court that “not a single State has appointed independent nodal officers or district grievance redressal officer under the Act”. “All the States have mechanically granted additional designations to existing officers. In many cases, the officers given additional designations are from the Food Supply Department, and they are the main persons responsible for corruption in the food distribution system,” the report said. It referred to the directions imposed by the Supreme Court in the Swaraj Abhiyan cases on the implementation of the Food Security Act, which included social audits, framing of rules and setting up vigilance committees. The Hunger Watch Report of the Right to Food Campaign in 2020 characterised the hunger situation in India as “grave”. India ranks 94 out of 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index 2020 and is in the ‘Serious Hunger Category’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-cr-ration-cards-cancelled-for-lack-of-aadhaar-link/article34096027.ece
18 March 2021||Patna,||Kushwaha nominated as MLC||Upendra Kushwaha, who had joined the JD(U) on March 14, figured among the 12 MLCs – six each from the BJP and JD(U) – nominated on Wednesday by Governor Phagu Chauhan. NDA ruling alliance partners Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party protested over not being consulted for the list of nominated MLCs. The buzz in political corridors is that Mr. Kushwaha, who was made chief of the JD(U) parliamentary board earlier, could be inducted into the Nitish Kumar Cabinet as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushwaha-nominated-as-mlc/article34096278.ece
18 March 2021||Patna,||Kushwaha nominated as MLC||Upendra Kushwaha, who had joined the JD(U) on March 14, figured among the 12 MLCs – six each from the BJP and JD(U) – nominated on Wednesday by Governor Phagu Chauhan. NDA ruling alliance partners Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party protested over not being consulted for the list of nominated MLCs. The buzz in political corridors is that Mr. Kushwaha, who was made chief of the JD(U) parliamentary board earlier, could be inducted into the Nitish Kumar Cabinet as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushwaha-nominated-as-mlc/article34096596.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi asked to clarify stand on Sabarimala||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullapally Ramachandran on Wednesday challenged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to state whether he agreed with Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s statement that women of all age groups should be allowed to worship at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. In a statement issued here on Wednesday, Mr. Ramachandran said the CPI(M) had tried to brush its ham-fisted handling of the Sabarimala issue under the carpet. ‘Political gambit’ Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s non-committal expression of regret of the “events in 2018” was indicative of the political gambit. However, the CPI(M)’s ploy would not fool voters in the State who felt the State government had indeed trampled upon the Ayyappa devotees’ faith, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pinarayi-asked-to-clarify-stand-on-sabarimala/article34096455.ece
18 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Adityanath’s remarks on saint draw flak||Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called 17th Century Ahom general Lachit Borphukan a freedom fighter who contributed to India’s Independence from colonialism, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that medieval saint-reformer Srimanta Sankaradeva had premonitions of illegal immigration in Assam. The problem of illegal immigration in Assam is widely believed to be an outcome of the British rule. “I am proud to be here, by the mighty Brahmaputra, in the land of the great Sankaradeva. He was one of the brightest lights of India’s cultural nationalism who saved Assam. If Congress had succeeded with its conspiracy and politics of appeasement, this land would have threatened the national security because of infiltrators,” Mr. Adityanath said at a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rally in central Assam’s Lanka area. He also addressed party rallies at Kalaigaon and Goreswar in north-central Assam. “Sankaradeva alerted people to the issue of illegal immigration. That’s why Congress has never tolerated him. Congress has always resorted to appeasement to capture power, not caring about your progress or welfare. The people of Assam have paid a price for it for a long time,” he said. The Congress slammed him for his “ignorance”.  ‘Lack of knowledge’ “This underlines their knowledge about the culture they claim they are going to protect. Yogi- ji should have brushed up on Assam’s history before saying Sankaradeva battled infiltration in the 15th century,” Bobbeeta Sharma, the chief of the State Congress media department, said. She reminded the U.P. Chief Minister that the saint-reformer was against idol worship and the exploitation of people by those who followed Manusmriti. Srimanta Sankaradeva believed in the assimilation of society and was against the caste system, she said. “The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee would like to gift some Assam history books to Yogi- ji as well as the Prime Minister who said Lachit Borphukan was a freedom fighter,” Ms. Sharma added. A polymath, poet, playwright, socio-religious reformer, Sankaradeva is credited with devising new forms of music, theatrical performance (Bhaona), dance (Satriya) and literary language (Brajavali).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanaths-remarks-on-saint-draw-flak/article34096034.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plan to test anganwadi food by FSSAI||Mission POSHAN 2.0, likely to be sent for Union Cabinet approval soon, provides for testing of meals and food packets distributed at anganwadis for nutritional standards and quality by FSSAI labs. According to a government official in the know, the government proposes to rope in NABL laboratories notified by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and also use rapid food testing kits approved by the regulator. The latter will mitigate the need for samples to be sent to the laboratories for testing. The Ministry of Women and Child Development, the nodal Ministry for implementing the Mission POSHAN, will also partner with the Panchayati Raj Ministry so that FSSAI and the National Institute of Nutrition can train Panchayati Raj functionaries at village level and anganwadi workers in maintaining and monitoring quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plan-to-test-anganwadi-food-by-fssai/article34096033.ece
18 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan denies illegal phone tapping||The Congress government in Rajasthan said on Wednesday that “no illegal tapping” of telephone conversations of any legislator was carried out during the political crisis in the State in July last year. The phones of some individuals were kept on surveillance by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police under the Indian Telegraph Act as part of an investigation, it stated. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal was replying to a debate on the issue in the State Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-denies-illegal-phone-tapping/article34096035.ece
18 March 2021||Kolkata,||Sisir will join BJP soon, says Suvendu||Trinamool Congress MP and senior leader of Purba Medinipur Sisir Adhikari is all set to join the BJP. At a public meeting in the district, the veteran leader’s son and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari made it clear that his father joining the BJP is just a matter of time. “You all know Sisir babu . He will be present at Narendra Modi rally at Kanthi on March 24. I am suggesting he should go before that to Amit Shah’s rally on March 21,” Mr. Suvendu Adhikari said at Chandipur. Soon after Mr. Suvendu Adhikari quit the Trinamool to join the BJP in December, speculation has been rife that his father and brother Dibyendu Adhikari will also join the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sisir-adhikari-joining-bjp-a-matter-of-time/article34096038.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 32 cr. worth assets attached||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 32 crore in connection with the TRP scam case. The assets are located in Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai and Indore in Madhya Pradesh. They are linked to television channels Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema and Maha Movie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-32-cr-worth-assets-attached/article34096048.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe sought into ‘adverse effects, deaths’||A group of experts in public health, ethics, medicine, law, and journalism has written to Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Drugs Controller General of India V.G. Somani, appealing for “time-bound and transparent investigation” following deaths and serious adverse effects after COVID-19 vaccination. “We understand that at least 65 deaths have occurred following vaccination for COVID-19 since the vaccination campaign started on January 16. However, the National AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) Committee’s investigation findings of only two of these deaths have been made public. We believe that due to the possible linkages of vaccination and blood clotting, all these deaths and adverse events should be reviewed together for a possible causal relationship with the vaccine,” reads the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-sought-into-adverse-effects-deaths/article34096051.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Frame rules for amicus curiae’||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Wednesday made a strong appeal to the Supreme Court to frame guidelines to rein in lawyers appointed as the court’s amici curiae in various cases, especially sensitive ones. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana, Mr. Mehta voiced indignation at the manner in which court-appointed amici curiae tended to even interfere in the “running” of organisations such as the CBI. “Please demarcate the role of an amicus . They cannot run organisations such as the CBI... An amicus is appointed to present diverse views and assist the court... It is time the court frame guidelines to demarcate the role and ambit of an amicus curiae ... I will move an application,” Mr. Mehta submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appeal-to-demarcate-role-of-amicus-curiae/article34096061.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP MP Ram Swaroop found dead||Ram Swaroop Sharma, 62, BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, was found dead at his official residence in New Delhi on Wednesday. The police said Mr. Sharma’s personal assistant called the Police Control Room around 7.45 a.m. to alert them to the death. Prima facie , it appeared to be a case of suicide, the police said.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help by calling Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health: 011-4076 9002)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-ram-swaroop-found-dead/article34096090.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hold China responsible: MP||Congress MP Manish Tewari said in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday that India, as the current head of the executive board of the World Health Organisation, should hold China responsible for spreading coronavirus across the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hold-china-responsible-mp/article34096053.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. releases photo of BJP worker with car seized by NIA||Alleging that the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was levelling baseless allegations to malign the image of Maharashtra and its government, the State unit of the Congress on Wednesday released a photograph of a BJP worker with a Mercedes car seized by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The NIA is probing the case where an explosives-laden SUV was found outside the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. “The Congress has a habit of making preposterous claims. The car was purchased by his friend and he was only posing in front of it,” BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-releases-photo-of-bjp-worker-with-car-seized-by-nia/article34096504.ece
18 March 2021||Kolkata,||COVID-19 infections spike in West Bengal||With only days left for high-pitched elections in West Bengal, the State is also witnessing an increase in number of COVID-19 infections. The State recorded 303 cases of new infections in the past 24 hours and one death. Kolkata recorded 96 new cases while North 24 Parganas recorded 74 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-infections-spike-in-west-bengal/article34096280.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||LIC employees strike today||Employees of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) will go on a nationwide strike on March 18 opposing the Centre’s proposals to divest stake, through an initial public offering, in the insurance major, privatise one general insurer and enhance FDI limit, in the insurance industry, from 49% to 74%. The All India Insurance Employees’ Association (AIIEA) said it has called for the strike with other trade unions in the industry against the three proposals since they were not in the interest of the insurance industry, the country’s economy and people. Thursday’s strike follows the two-day strike by the United Forum of Bank Unions, from March 15, against privatisation of the banks and a strike by general insurance employees unions on Wednesday. The two-day bank strike, in which an estimated 10 lakh employees and officers owing allegiance to the nine unions that are part of the Forum participated, impacted bank operations. Stating that LIC employees and officers will participate in the strike, on March 18, AIIEA general secretary Shreekant Mishra said the proposed disinvestment is the first step towards privatisation of LIC. The IPO would be a violation of the “very objectives of its creation,” he said in a statement. Meanwhile on Wednesday, as part of the strike called by an umbrella body of public sector general insurance employees’ unions, two protest meetings were organised in the city. Several employees participated in the meetings opposing the Budget proposal to privatise one general insurance company, said K.Gnaneswar, organising secretary of the GIC Employees Union for AP and Telangana. An early settlement of pending wage revision negotiations and demand for a new pension schemes for the employees were the other issues for which the strike was called, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lic-employees-strike-today/article34096367.ece
18 March 2021||Lucknow,||No decision taken on Nita Ambani’s appointment: BHU||The Banaras Hindu University on Wednesday clarified that no decision was taken or order issued by the varsity to appoint Reliance Foundation chairperson Nita Ambani as visiting professor. This comes days after K.K. Mishra, Dean of Social Sciences, BHU, said that an invitation had been sent from the Women Development Study Centre to Ms. Ambani to be a ‘visiting professor’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-decision-taken-on-nita-ambanis-appointment-bhu/article34096044.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Baby born aboard flight||A baby girl was born mid-air aboard an IndiGo flight from Bengaluru to Jaipur on Wednesday. Dr. Subhana Nazir, a fellow passenger, helped deliver the baby. “Both the baby and the mother are stable,” the airline said. Airline Jaipur staff welcomed Dr. Subhana Nazir into the arrival hall and gave her a Thank You card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baby-born-aboard-flight/article34096045.ece
18 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Allahabad University V-C triggers row after complaining against ‘loud’ azaan from mosque||Vice-Chancellor (V-C) of Allahabad University Sangita Srivastava has triggered a controversy after she allegedly complained to the district administration in Prayagraj about “disturbance” caused to her by the call for azaan from a mosque near her residence every morning. A copy of the letter dated March 3 was widely shared on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allahabad-university-v-c-triggers-row-after-complaining-against-loud-azaan-from-mosque/article34096062.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Pilot killed in MiG-21 jet crash||A group captain of the IAF was killed on Wednesday morning when a MiG-21 Bison fighter jet crashed while taking off for a combat training mission from an airbase in central India. “The IAF lost Group Captain A. Gupta in the tragic accident. The IAF expresses deep condolences and stands firmly with the family members,” a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-killed-in-mig-21-jet-crash/article34096064.ece
18 March 2021||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||DMK man files nomination in Bodi||A total of 23 persons including the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate for Virudhunagar Assembly constituency, G. Pandurangan, 37, filed their nominations in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday. The Congress candidate for Srivilliputtur, P.S.W. Madhav Rao, 63, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Virudhunagar, M. Thangaraj, 57, also submitted their nominations. Naam Tamilar candidates, K. Pandi (Sattur), L. Suyambulingam, 31, (Virudhunagar) filed their nominations. The highest number of nominations of seven were received for Tiruchuli, followed by Virudhunagar (5), three each in Srivilliputtur and Sattur, two each in Sivakasi and Aruppukottai and one in Rajapalayam. This includes dummy candidates and independents. Ramanathapuram R. S. Rajakannappan, DMK candidate for Mudukalathur constituency, filed his nomination on Wednesday. Sathan Prabakar, sitting AIADMK MLA, filed his nomination in Paramakudi. The AIADMK candidate K. C. Aneemuthu, Venkatesan of Naam Tamilar Katchi filed nominations in Thiruvadanai. Bodi The DMK candidate Thanga Tamil Selvan filed his nomination in Bodi Assembly constituency with a minimum number of people accompanying him. The AIADMK candidate O Panneerselvam filed his nomination three days ago. A large number of people had accompanied him. The police have registered a case against eight persons without mentioning their names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidates-file-nominations-in-virudhunagar-and-bodi/article34096345.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A home to the super rich and those living in abject poverty||After narrowly losing to Parithi Ilamvazhuthi of the DMK in the 2001 Assembly election, influential Devendrakula Velalar leader John Pandian will contest again as an ally of the AIADMK in Egmore this time. Originally from Tirunelveli district, Mr. Pandian will face I. Paranthamen (DMK) and young lawyer Priyadarshini Udhayabanu of Makkal Needhi Maiam. The issues faced by people in the constituency are commonly experienced in big Indian cities: traffic snarls, road accidents, and haphazard parking on the roads. Apart from this, there is extreme inequality in this constituency as it is home to the super rich and also those who live in abject poverty. Mr. Paranthamen, who contested from Poonamallee in 2016, said Egmore constituency is home to people lacking basic facilities and living on the road under makeshift roofs. Poor living conditions “I was born in Pulianthope, which came under Egmore constituency, and I know that there are people living in abject conditions near the housing board area. There is so much inequality in the area and I hope to change their living conditions through the slum clearance board. There is also a need to improve security for women and children,” he said. Asked about his rival John Pandian, Mr. Paranthamen said, “I don’t want to comment on him. They know who he is. It is for the people to decide.” An office-bearer of DMK’s alliance partner said Pulianthope continued to suffer from dumping of garbage that results in communicable diseases, and graveyards that are not modernised. MNM candidate Priyadarshini said, “The sewage issue is found across neighbourhoods – rich or poor. The pipes are extremely old and need to be changed. Egmore’s infrastructure needs to be improved. The museum should be promoted in a better manner. There is also a need to ensure minibuses go inside residential areas.” Speaking of the densely populated areas, she said, “There are streets that have small tenements. It becomes tough to live in them when it rains and when there are traffic snarls. The water and drainage often mix and the issue needs to be fixed first.”  The constituency will not see Parithi Ilamvazhuthi, former DMK Minister and six-time MLA, anymore. Though he lost in 2011 as DMK candidate and again in 2016 as AIADMK candidate, he continued to remain a favourite until his death in 2018. Voting trend While the DMK polled 68,481 votes in the Egmore segment during the last Lok Sabha poll in Chennai Central parliamentary constituency, the PMK (in the AIADMK alliance) and MNM candidates polled over 20,000 votes and 11,000 votes respectively. Naam Tamilar Katchi polled just 3,749 votes.  The sewage issue is found across neighbourhoods – rich or poor. The pipes are very old. The infrastructure needs to be improved Priyadarshini MNM candidate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-home-to-the-super-rich-and-those-living-in-abject-poverty/article34096220.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases rise to 945 in T.N.; 8 more die||On Wednesday, fresh COVID-19 cases inched closer to the 1,000-mark in Tamil Nadu as 945 persons tested positive for the infection, and eight more died. While Chennai’s daily count stood at 395, the cases exceeded 100 in both Chengalpattu and Coimbatore districts after a span of three to four months. The last few days have registered an increase in the number of tests conducted in the State. A total of 71,696 persons were tested in the last 24 hours. In terms of samples, 71,888 were tested. COVID-19 cases have been increasing in the last 10 days in the State. The daily count has been slowly rising in Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, and also Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Thanjavur. Chengalpattu, which has been recording less than 100 cases since November-end, reported 103 fresh cases, while in Coimbatore that last reported over 100 cases in December, 107 persons tested positive for the infection. There were 56 cases in Tiruvallur, 30 in Kancheepuram and 22 in Tiruppur. While there were no new cases in Perambalur, 17 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. The fresh cases that included 7 returnees — three each from West Bengal and Kerala, and one from Bihar — took the overall tally to 8,62,374. Five deaths in Chennai The State recorded eight fatalities. Of this, Chennai accounted for five, while Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore recorded one death each. This included a 30-year-old woman from Chennai. She had diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to a private hospital on February 28 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for two days. She died on March 15 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 62-year-old woman from Chennai, who had no co-morbidities, died at the Government Corona Hospital on March 12 due to severe COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. The deceased included two persons in their 50s and two persons in their 70s. With this, the toll stood at 12,564. The active cases rose to 5,811, including 2,277 persons in Chennai, 506 in Coimbatore and 499 in Chengalpattu. Another 576 persons were discharged, taking the overall number of persons discharged so far to 8,43,999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-rise-to-945-in-state/article34096204.ece
18 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu is heading towards a change of regime’||CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan is confident that the DMK-led front will win the Assembly election since it has both “political strength and strength of the alliance”. In an interview, he said people would reject the point that the DMK-alliance was anti-Hindu, as they had done in the 1971 election. Excerpts:  How do you see the prospects of the DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu? An electoral outcome is decided by the political strength and strength of the alliance partners. Both are in our favour in this election. I could see tremendous response to the campaign of DMK leader M.K. Stalin, particularly. In his campaign in Tiruvaur, which was undertaken at short notice, I could witness the participation of not just workers from alliance parties but also the general public in huge numbers. It is a clear indication that Tamil Nadu is heading towards a change of regime. But there is a view that there is no anti-AIADMK wave in the State... This is a campaign run by the ruling party itself. They spread the message that there is no public anger against the government. But the truth is different. If you take into consideration the Delta districts, coconut farmers who bore the brunt of Cyclone Gaja are yet to recover from the damage. They have not been able to remove the trees, so far, in several places. Though the Chief Minister has announced compensation, it is yet to reach the farmers. They also could not get crop insurance in full. When O. Panneerselvam was the Chief Minister, he declared the State drought-hit. During a protest over the issue in Tiruvarur, a farmer died. The protesters refused to remove his body. Mr. Panneerselvam constituted a committee of four Ministers to deal with the issue and declared the State, barring Chennai, as drought-hit. Though he announced a waiver of loans, this has not been implemented yet. During the pandemic, our alliance demanded Rs. 5,000 in aid per family and hoisted black flags in houses, in support of the demand. The government distributed just Rs. 1,000. Now the DMK has promised to distribute Rs. 4,000 per family. The anger against the government is palpable. Though the DMK has called its manifesto ‘the second hero of the election’, the issue of prohibition is missing... When Kalaignar  (Karunanidhi) was alive, the DMK promised to waive crop loans and distribute 1 kg of rice for Rs. 1 [initially he promised it at Rs. 2/kg]. He also promised eggs in noon meals for students. When then AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa said it was not possible to give 1 kg of rice at Rs. 1, the then Union Minister, P. Chidambaram, had come out in support of the announcement. After winning the election, he immediately implemented the three promises [the third one being free colour TVs]. There is a belief that the DMK will fulfil its electoral promises. Jayalalithaa promised prohibition in a phased manner. But her government, instead of reducing the number of liquor shops, has been increasing it. It fixes revenue targets for Tasmac shops during festivals. We have been fighting for prohibition. It is possible and can be implemented in a phased manner. The BJP has launched a campaign accusing the DMK alliance of being anti-Hindu. How are you going to face it? We have already responded to the campaign. In the 1971 election, Rajaji and Kamaraj formed an alliance against the DMK. A similar campaign was unleashed against the DMK alliance, which included the Indian National Congress led by Indira Gandhi, then. Periyar [E.V. Ramasamy] supported the DMK alliance. It was said that people who have faith in religion would not vote for the DMK. Kamaraj even launched a personal attack on Indira Gandhi. All newspapers predicated a defeat for the DMK alliance. People, however, rejected the campaign and the DMK won the maximum number of seats in that election. It will happen again in this election. The BJP took out its ‘Vetrivel Yatra’. Lord Muruga is a Tamil god, who has married from other communities. Does it mean that the BJP approves of Lord Muruga’s inter-caste marriage? The communists are in the company of the Congress in Tamil Nadu but oppose it in neighbouring Kerala. Will it not send the wrong signals? In Kerala, there are only two fronts — one led by the Left and another by the Congress. But the Left and the Congress had come together to adopt a resolution against the farm laws in the Assembly. When it comes to opposing the BJP, there is no difference of opinion between the Left and the Congress.  Jayalalithaa promised prohibition in a phased manner. But her government, instead of reducing the number of liquor shops, has been increasing it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-is-heading-towards-a-change-of-regime/article34096190.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Strictly enforce mask-wearing, says Police Commissioner||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has ordered strict enforcement of wearing masks and asked police officers to take coordinated effort for effective implementation. He inspected crowded places, traffic signals and shopping malls. At Royapettah clock tower, he advised motorists and pedestrians without masks to wear them compulsorily. Some motorists without masks were stopped at the traffic junction. The Commissioner also distributed masks to those that did not have them and advised them to adhere to the COVID-19 norms for everyone’s safety. Later, he visited Express Avenue and inspected whether Standard Operating Procedures were being followed to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strictly-enforce-mask-wearing-says-police-commissioner/article34096199.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MRF contributes Rs. 26.09 crore for innovation park at MCC||Tyre maker MRF Limited has contributed Rs. 26.09 crore to establish an innovation park inside the 183-year-old Madras Christian College (MCC) in Tambaram. Called the MCC-MRF Innovation Park, the centre will be up and operational in the next year in a proposed built-up area of around 70,000 sq ft. The park seeks to set up collaborative spaces that would facilitate interdisciplinary, multi-disciplinary and trans-disciplinary innovations. P. Wilson, principal and secretary, Madras Christian College, said a lot of research had gone into the development of the park and teams from the college had visited other institutions like the IIT-Madras Research Park to understand how such centres worked. The principal also pointed out that the college would ensure that trees were retained while constructing this park. “The first floor has been designed to host computer-based infrastructure, including a data analytics lab, a computational science lab, a psychometric lab, a media science lab and an instrumentation lab,” he said. K.M. Mammen, chairman, MCC Association and Board of Directors, and chairman of MRF Limited, said, “I am happy that Madras Christian College has effectively formulated this project and sought to implement it.” He added, “I am sure that this innovation park will sow the seed on many new innovations and inventions and nurture generations of entrepreneurs who will impact our nation and the world in the years to come.” Arun Mammen, vice-chairman, MRF Limited, who is also an alumnus of the college, said, “MCC-MRF Innovation Park is expected to create an academic ambience to nurture new ideas and practices in student learning. It intends to target potential innovators from various streams, and train them on entrepreneurship.” He noted that it is imperative that department faculty and the board of studies, which would formulate the syllabus, were up to date with modern day needs and constantly enrich the experience inside classrooms. Tamil Nadu Higher Education Secretary Apoorva lauded that even arts colleges were coming up with such cells. P.W.C. Davidar, former Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu, another alumnus of the college, said the entire education scenario was changing and the MCC-MRF centre is a timely one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mrf-contributes-rs-2609-crore-for-innovation-park-at-mcc/article34096211.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays acquisition of small piece of land for Avinashi Road elevated highway||The Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained the Land Acquisition Officer-cum-District Revenue Officer of Coimbatore South from proceeding with the acquisition of a small piece of 65.9 square metres of land belonging to a private advertising firm as part of a much larger acquisition planned for constructing a 10.10 km elevated highway on the Avinashi Road in Coimbatore city. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and A.A. Nakkiran made it clear that the interim order would be restricted only to the land owned by Sasi Advertising Private Limited which had approached the court with a writ petition against the acquisition of its land and that the order would be in operation only till June 22 by when the officials must file a counter affidavit. The advertising firm had challenged a land acquisition notification published in a Tamil daily on February 13.  Procedure not followed It said the notification had been issued under the Tamil Nadu Highways Act of 2001 read with Tamil Nadu Land Acquisition (Revival of Operation, Amendment and Validation) Act of 2019 but the officials had failed to follow procedure contemplated under Section 15(2) of the 2001 Act. According to Section 15(2), the government should, before publishing the land acquisition notice, call upon the individual landowners to show cause as to why their lands should not be acquired. Senior counsel C. Manishankar, representing the advertising firm, claimed that no such show cause notice was issued to the petitioner and hence the entire proceedings suffer from procedural irregularities. Concurring with him, the judges said that the submissions made by the counsel prima facie disclose non- adherence to procedure contemplated under the law. Referring to Article 300A of the Constitution which states that no person could be deprived of his/her property save by authority of law, the judges said it was imperative to follow the due process of law in land acquisition matters. Though the petitioner firm had prayed for staying all further proceedings pursuant to the land acquisition notification published in the newspaper on February 13 for acquiring huge tracts of land belonging to various individuals, the judges restricted the interim stay only with respect to the petitioner’s land.  Special Correspondent from Coimbatore adds:  K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said there may be a few people who will have grievances related to acquisition of their land. This should not become a reason to suspend the project. If the project is stalled now, only the public will face problems as works are going on. Grievances of landowners "If the project is delayed or stopped, the consumer organisation will also approach the court with a public interest litigation as it the works are related to the people of Coimbatore and not just a few individuals. The project hence, should not be affected at any cost. However, the grievances of the land owners should be addressed," he said. An official of the Highways Department said that of the 306 foundation pillars for the main carriageway for the Avinashi Road flyover, works were on for nearly one-third of it. This work was on the Highways road and not on any private land. Hence, it would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-stays-acquisition-of-small-piece-of-land-for-avinashi-road-elevated-highway/article34096260.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Defeat of DMK, AIADMK is our objective’||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) have come together to ensure the defeat of the DMK, which is an “evil force” and the AIADMK, a “force of betrayal”, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said on Wednesday. “This is our sole objective,” the AMMK leader said, after calling on DMDK founder Vijayakant and treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant at the DMDK headquarters in Chennai. ‘Legitimate issues’ Denying the suggestion that the alliance was worked out in a hurried manner, Mr. Dhinakaran said the talks had gone on for 10-15 days. There were “legitimate issues” in identifying and allocating the 60 constituencies. It was the “give and take” policy adopted by the workers and the district-level functionaries of the two parties that facilitated the alliance, the AMMK leader said. Mr. Dhinakaran cited the example of the Vridhachalam constituency, which was sought by the DMDK for Ms. Vijayakant. “When I had conveyed this to my party’s zonal in- charge, he got the consent of my party’s candidate in no time. With a view to accommodating the DMDK in our front, 42 of my party’s nominees have willingly come forward to withdraw their candidature,” the AMMK leader said. Asked why he chose not to contest in the R.K. Nagar Assembly constituency from where he was elected in a by-poll in December 2017, Mr. Dhinakaran said he wanted to contest from there but his party’s office-bearers advised him to avoid it as he had decided to contest from Kovilpatti in the southern region. ‘Empty promises’ The AMMK leader said several electoral assurances of the DMK and the AIADMK were “empty promises”. To a question, the AMMK leader contended that the “moral support” of V.K. Sasikala, his aunt and an aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, would be for the front led by his party.  It was the ‘give and take’ policy adopted by the workers and the district-level functionaries of the two parties that facilitated the alliance T.T.V. Dhinakaran AMMK general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defeat-of-dmk-aiadmk-is-sole-objective-of-the-alliance/article34096224.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to add impetus to vaccination drive||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi advising the States to focus on COVID-19 prevention strategies, Tamil Nadu is set to add impetus to the ongoing vaccination drive across the State, especially to target groups identified as vulnerable to the pandemic. Private hospitals are to be included in good measure. During a virtual meeting chaired by Mr. Modi, in which Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan and senior officials of the State government participated, the need for adding impetus to the vaccination drive to the target group was deliberated upon. Though the drive is already on, the target groups have not been covered 100% and it was discussed to complete the drive at the earliest, an official said. Besides the vaccination drive, the need for clearly demarcating the micro containment areas and maintaining strict vigil on them was also discussed, another official told The Hindu . Though there was no need for panic, there was no time for complacency, he said. Emphasis on testing “The emphasis on testing, tracking and treatment was discussed. We need to ensure that private hospitals also participate in good measure in the vaccination drive. We have to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour," he added. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Ranjan had instructed officials to strictly implement the COVID-19 precautionary measures and various Standard Operating Procedures issued by the State government. He underlined that the spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu was increasing by 1.2% in some parts of the State, and it was even over 2% in Chennai and Coimbatore districts. Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Public Secretary P. Senthil Kumar were also present in the virtual meeting with the PM on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-add-impetus-to-vaccination-drive/article34096215.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Increased political activity a cause for new cases’||Increased political activity in March (ahead of the TN Assembly elections) is one of the factors behind the rise in fresh coronavirus infections in the State, according to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Making a joint appeal along with doctors, Mr. Radhakrishnan urged all political parties to ensure that their cadre wore masks during all political meetings. All kinds of meetings, whether weddings, religious or political would be permitted only if masking is ensured. He also urged the public not to trust rumours about another lockdown. “We have found that the main cause for the rise in cases is COVID-19 fatigue among the public. People have become complacent wherever they go, assuming that they will not get affected even if they do not wear masks. In February, the reasons for the rise in cases were marriages, birthday parties and funerals. This month, along with these factors, there is increased political activity -- political meetings where people are not wearing masks. Public health norms apply to all,” he told reporters shortly after inspecting the COVID-19 ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Wednesday. “When there is heightened political activity, there are crowds. If people do not wear masks, the infection can spread easily from one person to another. It is important to follow masking and adhere to Standard Operating Procedures [SOP]. SOPs laid down for conduct of meetings will apply for political meetings too,” he stressed. Fresh coronavirus infections are on the increasing trend in 19 States in the country of which Tamil Nadu is one, he said. The other States include Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. “At one point, Tamil Nadu had registered up to 7,000 cases a day. Though the present daily count is low when compared to that, it is still a worrying situation. People should cooperate and take all preventive measures,” he urged. The Health Secretary stated that when compared to the peak, the State has 10 times fewer cases now. “This is a positive presentation. However, compared to two weeks ago, the cases have increased from 450 to 900 now. This is a negative presentation,” he said. The cases are high in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Tiruppur and Thanjavur. In Chennai, the cases are high in Teynampet, Anna Nagar, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam and Adyar. “Our preliminary analysis has found that the impact is less in areas where cases were higher earlier, while areas that had no impact such as Madipakkam and a few streets in T. Nagar area experiencing faster spread of infection,” he said. Noting that vaccination against COVID-19 was important, he said, “Persons who are in the priority groups should utilise the vaccination. Those aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities and those who are involved in public activities such as those working in markets and restaurants, taxi drivers and bus crew can get vaccinated. We are insisting to the Centre that the vaccination should be expanded to others.” The State currently had a stock of 20 lakh doses of the vaccines, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increased-political-activity-a-cause-for-new-cases/article34096208.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown excluded care for the poor by design: Harsh Mander||The stringent lockdown imposed by the Union government during the initial phase of the pandemic excluded care for the poor and the most vulnerable by its design, said human rights activist and author Harsh Mander here on Wednesday. Delivering a lecture following the launch of his book Locking Down the Poor: The Pandemic and India’s Moral Centre , he termed the lockdown, which completely shut down the economy, as being draconian and indifferent to the plight of the homeless, the poor and the majority of the workforce employed by the unorganised sector. He said the lockdown was meant only to protect the rich and the middle class who had a home and assured income, but inflicted pain on the poor, particularly migrant workers. Pointing out that India had just around 500 cases when the lockdown was enforced, he said the least the government could have done was to ensure that migrant workers were taken home first through free trains operated for a week. Quoting writer Arundhati Roy, he said COVID-19 was not only a pandemic caused by virus but was also an X-ray to the society. The plight of the poor during the pandemic not only exposed the failures of the government but how society, particularly the middle class, had become indifferent to the poor. “When migrant workers started walking back home in defiance of the lockdown, many were surprised to see that there were so many workers. We have ‘invisibilised’ the workers whom we depend on daily,” he said. The lockdown further exposed the failures of other institutions like the judiciary and the media, he added. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, who released the book, highlighted the failure of large sections of the media in bringing out the plight of the people during the pandemic and instead diverting public attention and communalising by focusing on the Tablighi Jamat. He said Mr. Mander was one of the most valuable citizens of the country and lauded his and his organisation Karwan e Mohabat’s work. Stating that the book brought out the dark tale of distress, destitution, brutality and the long-term consequences of the lockdown, he highlighted that Mr. Mander had made an important distinction of how these problems were “brought on” by COVID-19 but not “created” by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-excluded-care-for-the-poor-by-design-harsh-mander/article34096217.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Letter to Sonia Gandhi||Tamil Nadu Mahila Congress president R. Sudha has written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi regarding the poor representation for women in the distribution of party ticket for the Assembly election. In the letter, she said only one woman had been given party ticket, of the 25 seats allotted to it by the DMK. “It pains me tremendously that under your inspiring leadership, there has been no just representation for women cadre...,” Ms. Sudha said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/letter-to-sonia-gandhi/article34096236.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||36-year-old woman gets a new heart||A heart that was flown from Madurai to Chennai has given a new lease of life to a 36-year-old woman. On Wednesday, a team, comprising surgeons, anaesthetists, perfusionists and nurses, from Rela KIMS Heart and Lung Transplant Institute gave a cheerful send-off to the woman, their first heart transplant patient. The patient, who suffered from dilated cardiomyopathy, was critically ill and was at end-stage heart failure. Heart transplant was her only option. On February 26, the hospital received an organ alert call from the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu. The heart of a brain-dead youth was flown from Madurai to Chennai in 45 minutes, according to a press release. Sandeep Attawar, programme director, said due to dilated cardiomyopathy, the heart loses the ability to function normally over a period of time. As a result, she had swelling of feet and inability to perform daily activities. After undergoing the procedure on February 27, she was able to do her routine work without any dependency. Mohamed Rela, chairman of Rela Hospital, said this was a milestone for them as it marked their first heart transplant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/36-year-old-woman-gets-a-new-heart/article34096630.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Debate on live telecast of Assembly proceedings||The DMK’s electoral promise to telecast live the proceedings of the Legislative Assembly has put the focus back on the issue. Presently, while arrangements are in place to record the proceedings of the House, only select portions are released to media houses, leading to complaints of censorship. Former Congress legislator S. Peter Alphonse, who first raised the demand for live telecast of House proceedings in the mid-1990s, argued that such a move would improve the performance of legislators. “Democracy is a system by discussion and such discussions must be transparent,” he said. “Live telecasts will show whether a legislator is coming to the House, is attentive, is raising questions and is moving various call attention motions. It is definitely a deterrent for indisciplined MLAs and also an encouragement to the performers,” Mr. Alphonse said. But what if an MLA uses unparliamentary remarks in the House and it gets telecast? “This can also happen on a public platform. Let the people understand that these are the characters who have been elected to the House and decide for themselves. They may speak that way on one occasion, but when questioned about it outside, they may not do it again. Everybody should be made accountable for what he/she speaks and does,” said the Congress leader. D. Jagadheeswaran, an activist who moved the Madras High Court, seeking the live telecast of Assembly proceedings, argued that citizens had a right to know what their elected representatives did in the House. He pointed out that proceedings of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were telecast through dedicated TV channels. Proceedings of the Assembly in Andhra Pradesh are webcast live and Karnataka, too, allows uninterrupted feed to all private channels. Kerala has operationalised a live webcast from the Chief Minister’s office, he said. “Several other States, including Gujarat and Bihar, are taking steps to operationalise the live telecast of all Assembly sessions,” he added. In 1996, the P.A. Sangma Committee on telecasting of proceedings of legislatures recommended that infrastructure be set up to facilitate the live telecast of State Assembly proceedings. During the hearing of Mr. Jagadheeswaran’s petition, the State submitted that telecasting proceedings was the privilege of the Speaker and it would need Rs. 60 crore for the required facilities. “It is good to see this figure in the DMK manifesto,” he said. A former Assembly Secretary confirmed that a lack of funds for telecasting proceedings live was the primary reason behind not implementing it. “Houses of the Parliament have live telecast because they have sufficient budget, but that is not the case with us. Moreover, both the parties [AIADMK and DMK] have not been keen on telecasting the proceedings live.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/debate-on-live-telecast-of-assembly-proceedings/article34096182.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another 1,11,382 persons vaccinated in T.N.||A total of 1,11,382 people received COVID-19 vaccines in the State on Wednesday. This took the overall vaccination coverage so far to 17,20,508. This was the third day in a row when over one lakh people were inoculated on a single day. Among them, 43,543 persons were senior citizens. They were followed by 36,582 people, aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities, 18,643 frontline workers and 12,614 healthcare workers. Covishield was administered to 39,530 senior citizens, 32,931 people with co-morbidities, 17,449 frontline workers and 11,237 healthcare workers. A total of 4,013 people aged above 60 years, 3,651 persons with co-morbidities, 1,194 frontline workers and 1,377 healthcare workers received Covaxin. Till date, 5,13,022 healthcare workers, 3,97,591 frontline workers, 3,26,192 people aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities and 4,83,703 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State, according to the daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/111382-more-people-vaccinated-in-state/article34096206.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ECI orders transfer of South Zone IG||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has ordered the transfer of Inspector-General of Police (IGP), south zone, S. Murugan, to a non-election post. Ordering the transfer with immediate effect, the ECI asked the State government to send a panel of officers for the appointment of IGP, south zone. 9 officers shifted Acting on inputs given by the Special Police Observer, the ECI also ordered the transfer of nine Deputy Superintendents of Police-rank officers in the State, including five in the Chennai police. The officials will report to the police headquarters and shall not be assigned any election-related duties, police sources said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-orders-transfer-of-south-zone-ig/article34096225.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unfinished ramp removed on Poonamallee High Road||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is in the process of removing a portion of concrete abutment from the Chennai Port-Maduravoyal elevated corridor at Maduravoyal on the Poonamallee High Road. “It is an identified black spot and the police wanted that ramp portion to be removed to prevent accidents. In the previous design, it was to have been a portion of the ramp where vehicles will climb up to the corridor. But now the length of the corridor has been increased, making the ramp unnecessary,” an NHAI official said. Sources in the traffic police said due to the presence of the structure about 18 m of the road remained inaccessible. “Traffic slows down considerably at the point since only a single lane is available on one side. During peak hours, this becomes a problem,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfinished-ramp-removed-on-poonamallee-high-road/article34096213.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MDMK promises 50% reservation for women||Total prohibition, allocation of 30% of the State’s revenue to panchayats, 50% reservation for women in the legislature, a resolution against the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) in the Assembly, closure of atomic power stations, strengthening of public sector undertakings (PSUs) and 90% employment for the “sons of soil” in PSUs, are some of the promises in the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s manifesto. The party, an ally of the DMK, also promised to mobilise support for a trial in the International Court of Justice against those responsible for killing Tamils in Sri Lanka. The manifesto was release by party founder Vaiko.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-promises-50-reservation-for-women/article34096262.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11.8 kg of gold seized in Velachery constituency||A static surveillance team seized 11.8 kg of gold on Tuesday from a vehicle in the Velachery Assembly constituency. According to a press release from the Chennai District Election Office, the materials seized in the 16 Assembly constituencies have been valued at Rs. 11.78 crore in the period from February 27 to March 16. Election officials have seized Rs. 84.14 lakh in cash, 24.54 kg of gold, 80.7 kg of silver, 1,175 kg gutkha and 5,700 kg rice after the announcement of the election. According to the standard operating procedure, election officials have been directed to seize materials worth more than Rs. 10,000 and cash of Rs. 50,000. The Income Tax Department will also investigate cash or materials worth more than Rs. 10 lakh seized by the election officials. “The information about unusual transactions in banks will be shared this week,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/118-kg-of-gold-seized-in-velachery-constituency/article34096209.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO to address pension grievances on March 25||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation will conduct Pension Adalat on March 25 at 2.30 p.m. at the Regional Office, Royapettah, for those who need to get their pension related grievances addressed. They have to register till March 22 in person or through email to pension.rochn1@epfindia.gov.in with the subject line ‘Pension Adalat for EPS 1995’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-to-address-pension-grievances-on-march-25/article34096212.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT wants EC clearance kept in abeyance||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed Tangedco to keep the Environmental Clearance (EC) issued to it for the establishment of the 2 x 800 MW Uppur Supercritical Thermal Power Plant and foreshore facilities in abeyance till a fresh appraisal is conducted by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF & CC). Tangedco has been directed to suspend work till a revised EC is issued. The tribunal also directed Tangedco to conduct fresh coal analysis with respect to the specific coal it intends to use for the project to measure radio activity and possible ash content and other aspects. The company has been directed to get a fresh Environmental Impact Assessment report done from the competent accredited agency in this regard. The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry has been told to hold an independent inspection of the area where the project is set to come up. It added that a further study needs to be held about the probable height of the mast of country boats being used by local fishermen. The NGT directed the MoEF & CC to issue necessary Terms of Reference with regard to these issues and forward the matter to the EAC for further appraisal. All these exercises will have to be completed within six months, till which time the EC will be kept in abeyance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-wants-ec-clearance-kept-in-abeyance/article34096235.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Panel to augment water sources’||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that it had constituted an expert committee for coming up with suggestions and ideas on augmenting the water table by harnessing rainwater rather than letting copious water flow into the sea. The court was told that a government order had been issued, constituting the panel. Advocate-General Vijay Narayan submitted a copy of the G.O. and said the committee was, however, not in a position to go ahead and suggest new policy decisions, since the model code of conduct was in force. The judges adjourned further hearing on the issue to the third week of April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-augment-water-sources/article34096237.ece
18 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Velachery||R. Srikanth   With just weeks left for the Assembly election, AIADMK candidate for the Velachery constituency, M.K. Ashok, has had a headstart. The Congress, to which the seat has been allotted by the DMK, named its candidate on Tuesday. In the meantime, Mr. Ashok was busy playing the son-of-the-soil card to attract voters by visiting temple festivals, as news of an “outsider” being nominated by the Congress was doing the rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velachery/article34096188.ece
18 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CJ||Legal Correspondent   Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee on Tuesday asked the Election Commission of India to ensure the safety and security of women deployed for poll work. He said women should be deployed at polling stations close to their residences and necessary transportation must be provided to them. He also insisted on providing hygienic toilet facilities at all stations. The Chief Justice told this to senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing the Commission, during the hearing of an election-related case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cj/article34096194.ece
18 March 2021||Chennai/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||IT searches yield over Rs. 8 cr||The Income Tax department seized unaccounted cash of over Rs. 8 crore following searches at the residences of DMK and MDMK functionaries in Dharapuram and at Tiruppur-based Anitha HealthCare and Anitha Texcot India Private Limited. The garment factory is owned by A. Chandrasekaran, who was appointed as the treasurer of Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam in 2019. Searches were on at multiple locations at properties belonging to a person named Chandrasekaran Arumugam. Sources in the department said that so far unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 8 crore has been found. “These are unaccounted, but it is difficult to claim that these are election monies unless suitable evidence is found,” said another source in the department. Sources privy to the development said that the searches began around 4.30 p.m. at the residences of MDMK’s district deputy secretary Kavin Nagaraj and DMK urban secretary Dhanasekar in Dharapuram. Following this, the I-T officials also searched the premises of the garment company in Lakshmi Nagar within Tiruppur Corporation limits. Further investigations are on in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-searches-yield-over-rs-8-cr-at-the-residences-of-dmk-mdmk-functionaries/article34096261.ece
18 March 2021||Chennai/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||I-T searches yield over Rs. 8 crore||The Income Tax (I-T) Department seized unaccounted cash of over Rs. 8 crore following searches at residences of DMK and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) functionaries in Dharapuram, and at the Tiruppur-based Anitha HealthCare and Anitha Texcot India Private Limited. The garment factory is owned by A. Chandrasekaran, who was appointed the treasurer of Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) in 2019. Searches were on at multiple locations. So far, unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 8 crore had been found, sources in the Department said. Sources privy to the development said the searches commenced around 4.30 p.m. at the residences of MDMK’s district deputy secretary Kavin Nagaraj and DMK urban secretary Dhanasekar in Dharapuram. Following this, I-T officials also searched the premises of the garment company in Lakshmi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-searches-yield-over-rs-8-crore/article34096226.ece
18 March 2021||Chennai/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||IT searches yield over Rs. 8 cr||The Income Tax department seized unaccounted cash to the tune of over Rs. 8 crore following searches at the residences of DMK and MDMK functionaries in Dharapuram and at Tiruppur-based Anitha HealthCare and Anitha Texcot India. The garment factory is owned by A. Chandrasekaran, who was appointed as the treasurer of Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam in 2019. Searches were on at multiple locations at properties belonging to a person named Chandrasekaran Arumugam. Sources in the department said that so far unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 8 crore had been found. “This is unaccounted, but it is difficult to claim that this is election money unless suitable evidence is found,” said another source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-searches-yield-over-rs-8-crore/article34096537.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wait for better infrastructure continues in Tiruppur North||Tiruppur North, consisting of panchayat unions and some of the wards of Tiruppur Corporation, has a mix of industrial and agricultural activities. The AIADMK won here in 2011 and 2016. Launch of the Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme and waiver of farm loans are positive measures for the farmers, says Sampath, a farmer from Thoravulur. “The ground water level in the villages has gone down to 1,500 feet. Earlier, even turmeric was cultivated in our area. Now, it is mostly onions, bananas and maize. There are a few villages that have absolutely no industrial activity though the panchayats are close to Tiruppur,” he says. The Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme is a long-pending demand that is getting ready for commissioning now. “Nearly 1,100 tanks and ponds will be rejuvenated under this scheme. In some villages the tanks and ponds were not included. We took this up as a demand and the PWD has agreed to include these tanks and ponds in the second phase. An integrated drinking water scheme is also on the anvil. These are positive developments,” he says. On the industrial front, the increase in yarn prices has impacted small-scale knitwear units and job workers. It will next affect workers. Though the issue has so far remained an industrial issue, if the State and Central governments do not intervene, it can emerge as a political issue during elections, says M.P. Muthurathinam, president of Tiruppur Export and Manufacturers’ Association. He adds that Tiruppur city needs better roads and public infrastructure. “There are so many foreign buyers who visit Tiruppur. Pollution levels are high in the city and roads are poor. These are the basic needs that need to be addressed,” he says. Further, there are several social issues that are affecting production at the garment units. These need to be addressed in a holistic way for the welfare of workers and development of the garment industry, Mr. Muthurathinam says. Another major requirement in Tiruppur north are colleges and educational institutions for higher studies, adds Mr. Sampath.  Pollution level high in the city and roads are poor. M.P. Muthurathinam,president, Tiruppur Export and Manufacturers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-for-better-infrastructure-continues-in-tiruppur-north/article34096253.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Negligence leading to spike in cases’||After having struggled hard to bring down the daily COVID-19 positive count from 650 to 50, the district witnessed an increase in cases because of people’s carelessness. Therefore, it was important to strictly follow the safety guidelines, Collector K. Rajamani said here on Wednesday after inspecting a few places in around the Gandhipuram bus stand. A release from the district administration quoting the Collector said the reasons for the increase were the people not wearing mask, crowding at market place and shops. To avoid an increase in COVID-19 cases, it was imperative that people wore mask, maintained physical distance and adhered to earlier safety precautions. Warning that local bodies would fine people without mask, Mr. Rajamani said people at weddings and other social gatherings, government and private establishment offices should compulsorily wear mask and added that the responsibility was on the owners/managers of such establishments to ensure compliance to the safety guidelines. Mr. Rajamani asked people to avoid crowding at meat and vegetable shops, markets, textile and jewellery showrooms. The Collector also appealed to people over 60 years of age and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to take the COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/negligence-leading-to-spike-in-cases/article34096247.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile units launch helpline to address yarn price issues||The National Committee on Textiles and Clothing (NCTC) has launched a helpline portal to redress grievances related to yarn price increase and supply. The garment units and trade in Tiruppur had gone on a day’s strike on Monday to draw the attention of the government on the yarn price hike. The NCTC said in a press release on Wednesday that it had a meeting of the stakeholders on March 12 and launched a helpline portal (http://citiindia.org/yarn-form/ form/form.php). T. Rajkumar, coordinator of the NCTC, said fabric manufacturers who face yarn shortage or irregular supply can post the details on the portal 24X7. The secretariat of the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry will pass on the information to related textile and export organisations. These will “advise the members to post details of the non-availability/short supplies of yarn so as to find solutions on a here and now basis.” The system will also enable direct contact between yarn manufacturers and buyers and curb speculations. Mr. Rajkumar appealed to all the stakeholders in the textile value chain to use the new facility. He also appealed to the spinning mills to honour their commitments on the price and also take efforts to maintain stability in the yarn prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-units-launch-helpline-to-address-yarn-price-issues/article34096351.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha leader alleges attack on car||A functionary of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha has complained to the police that unidentified men hurled stones at his car when he was on his way to home late on Tuesday. Subhash (45), a resident of Andal Avenue at Pannimadai here and president of the State youth wing of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, alleged that unidentified men hurled stones at the windscreen of his car around 11 p.m., when he was returning home from his shop on Kanuvai Road. Thudiyalur inspector B. Balamuralisundaram said the police have obtained visuals from a surveillance camera and were investigating Mr. Subhash’s claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/akhil-bharat-hindu-mahasabha-leader-alleges-attack-on-car/article34096265.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||55 nominations filed across constituencies in Coimbatore||A total of 55 nominees of various parties filed their nominations for various Assembly constituencies across Coimbatore on Wednesday. They included Deputy Speaker V. Jayarman (Pollachi), sitting DMK MLA and party’s Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik (Singanallur), who is seeking a second term from the constituency, and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura S. Jayakumar (Coimbatore South). Former AIADMK ministers S. Damodaran (Kinathukadavu) and A.K. Selvaraj (Mettupalayam) also filed their nomination. Mr. Selvaraj filed his second set of nomination on Wednesday, after the first one on Monday. ‘MSMEs hit hard’ Mr. Karthik told reporters after filing the nomination that the policies of the Central and State governments had hit hard the micro, small and medium enterprises, a good number of which were concentrated in his constituency. Accompanied by leaders of parties in the Secular Progressive Alliance, he offered prayers at a couple of temples before filing the nomination. In his affidavit, Mr. Karthik disclosed that there were 35 cases against him in various police stations in the city, two cases before courts in Coimbatore and that he had been convicted in none. The value of his movable assets was Rs. 47.25 lakh and immovable assets Rs. 1.50 crore. ‘Son of the soil’ Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president and party nominee for Coimbatore South Mayura S. Jayakumar filed his nomination on Wednesday. Mr. Jayakumar told reporters he was the son of the soil and that his protests for and services to the people would help him win. His rival and Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan had entered the fray by banking only on his stardom. Therefore, he would not be accountable to the people. In the next election, he would use his stardom to contest elsewhere, the Congress nominee said. By virtue of being the national president of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha, his other rival in the constituency, Vanathi Srinivasan, would spend more time in Delhi than in Coimbatore, Mr. Jayakumar said. The Coimbatore South constituency was at the core of the city. Therefore, its development was central to that of the entire city. The Congress had settled for fewer seats than last time in the DMK coalition as it wanted to win all the seats it contested. Fewer seats did not mean that the party that could not fight for itself. Former CPI MLA and State treasurer of the party M. Arumugham filed his nomination in Valparai. He declared movable assets worth Rs. 50,572 and immoveable assets of Rs. 12.50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/55-nominations-filed-across-constituencies-in-coimbatore/article34096248.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tusker hit by train near Walayar dies without responding to treatment||A tusker that was hit by a train near Walayar on the Tamil Nadu – Kerala border early on Monday died without responding to treatment late on Wednesday. The elephant, aged around 25, was under treatment at the Chadivayal elephant camp of the Forest Department from Tuesday morning. It had suffered multiple injuries after it was hit by the Thiruvananthapuram-Chennai Express around 1.30 a.m. on Monday. It was also dragged by the train for about 100 metres along the track. According to Forest Department sources, its condition deteriorated on Wednesday evening and died around 10 p.m. Female elephant found dead Meanwhile, a female elephant was found dead in the Pethikuttai reserve forest area of Sirumugai forest range, Coimbatore Forest Division, on Tuesday evening. The carcass was spotted by the field staff who went for a patrol at Mayilmokkai area of the reserve forest. Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar and assistant veterinary surgeon C. Thiyagarajan from Sirumugai, who performed the post-mortem on Wednesday, said the elephant could have died of acute anaemia of unknown origin and starvation resulting in cardiac failure. Deaths so far With this, the number of elephant deaths reported in the Coimbatore Forest Division this year increased to five. While a tusker was electrocuted in a farmland at Semmedu in Boluvampatti forest range on January 5, a female elephant was found dead at Pethikuttai on January 28. On Monday, another female elephant was found dead at Kempanur. Apart from these, a tusker was found dead at Kavarkal in Valparai forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tusker-hit-by-train-near-walayar-dies-without-responding-to-treatment/article34096257.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Confident of winning minority votes: Vanathi Srinivasan||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident of winning the votes of minorities in Coimbatore South Assembly constituency, party nominee for the constituency Vanathi Srinivasan has said. The minorities had begun to understand that the BJP was an inclusive party, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was for an inclusive approach. Ms. Srinivasan said she did not see an anti-BJP approach in the position that the AIADMK had taken on the Citizenship Amendment Act in its manifesto. In fact, the AIADMK’s manifesto had several schemes for the welfare of women. The AIADMK had nurtured the Coimbatore South constituency well. The BJP's agenda was to make Coimbatore a model city of international standards through Central and State governments' schemes. Increase in assets Responding to a question on the increase in her assets since the 2016 Assembly election, she said it was due to the partition of family property and her earnings. Alliance partners To a question on the omission of alliance party leaders, other than those of the AIADMK, in the BJP’s posters, Ms. Srinivasan said if what the media alleged were true, it was purely oversight. The BJP was for taking along all alliance partners, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/confident-of-winning-minority-votes-vanathi-srinivasan/article34096249.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi case: judicial remand extended||The Mahila Court in Coimbatore on Wednesday extended the judicial remand of the three persons arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for alleged involvement in the Pollachi sexual assault case in January this year. The three accused -- Haron Paul (29), K. Arulanantham (34) and P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu (27) -- were produced before the court and the judge remanded them in judicial custody till March 31. Arulanantham, Babu and Paul were arrested by the agency on January 5. AIADMK expelled Arulanantham from the post of Pollachi town students’ wing secretary of the party a day after the arrest. Two detained under Goondas Act  Coimbatore City Police invoked the provisions of the Goondas Act against two men from Singanallur for their involvement in robbery cases. The detainees were Mohan Kumar (19) from Neelikonampalayam and Gowtham (20) from Varadharajapuram. The Singanallur police had arrested them in connection with a robbery case on February 28. They were detained under the provisions of the Goondas Act on Monday, said the police in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-case-remand-extended/article34096256.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant hit by train dies||A tusker aged around 25, which was hit by a train near Walayar on the Tamil Nadu – Kerala border early on Monday, died on Wednesday without responding to treatment given by veterinarians. The elephant was being treated at the Chadivayal elephant camp of the Forest Department from Tuesday morning. Multiple injuries The tusker had suffered multiple injuries after it was hit by the Thiruvananthapuram-Chennai Express around1.30 a.m. on Monday. It was also dragged by the train for about 100 metres along the track. According to Forest Department sources, its condition deteriorated on Wednesday evening and died around 10 p.m. Another found dead In another incident, a female elephant was found dead in Pethikuttai reserve forest area of Sirumugai forest range, Coimbatore Forest Division, on Tuesday evening. The Forest Department said that the carcass of the elephant, aged around 25, was two to three days old. Field staff who went for a patrol at Mayilmokkai area of the reserve forest spotted the carcass. The carcass did not have external injuries and was autopsied on Wednesday .  Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar and assistant veterinary surgeon C. Thiyagarajan from Sirumugai, who performed the autopsy, said the elephant could have died of acute anaemia of unknown origin and starvation resulting in cardiac failure. With this, the number of elephant deaths reported in Coimbatore Forest Division this year increased to four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-hit-by-train-dies/article34096360.ece
18 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||People yearning for change: Mahendran||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) vice-president and nominee for Singanallur Assembly constituency R. Mahendran has said the people in the constituency yearned for a change. He is pitted against the DMK’s incumbent MLA N. Karthik. Wherever he or the MNM cadre went for canvassing, people said they were fed up with voting alternately for the DMK and the AIADMK. The voters also said that while they were ambivalent towards the MNM in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. They were certain about voting for it this time in the Assembly elections. His poll promise would be released by this weekend, Mr. Mahendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-yearning-for-change-mahendran/article34096245.ece
18 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DMK keen on helping the poor: Stalin||The Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has mastered the art of copying all the good things mentioned by his political opponents, said DMK president M K Stalin here on Wednesday. Speaking at an election rally in support of the candidates contesting from the DMK and their allies here, he said that the DMK had announced plenty of good programmes for the needy and downtrodden. The objective was to give a helping hand to such a category as it would improve their economic levels. However, the AIADMK leader claimed credit for himself when the response from womenfolk was overwhelming to the DMK’s manifesto. The DMK president said that the AIADMK’s Natham candidate had amassed wealth so that he was distributing cash to the people. Please receive the cash. It is our money. The AIADMK candidate had looted more than anybody else. When the late leader realised that the present candidate had amassed huge wealth, he was given a ticket to fight against I. Periasami in a bid to punish him. However, he lost to the DMK. He said that Mr Palaniswami had no control over his party or the functionaries. Mr. Palaniswami deprived rights and powers of the State with the sole objective of retaining the chair of Chief Minister. Clarifying that the NEET was introduced by the UPA, in which the DMK was an ally, Mr Stalin, said that the DMK never allowed NEET in Tamil Nadu. He went on saying that not only the DMK, but even the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa too was stubborn not to encourage the Centre to let the students take NEET in Tamil Nadu. After her demise, the AIADMK succumbed to the pressures of the BJP. This is the truth, Mr Stalin said and cautioned the people to beware of the misleading statements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-keen-on-helping-the-poor-stalin/article34096335.ece
18 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized||Election officials on Wednesday seized Rs. 35.50 lakh unaccounted cash from a fruit wholesaler in Erode (East) Assembly constituency. Members of the Static Surveillance Team checked a car and found the cash in the vehicle. Since, the trader did not have any valid documents, the money was seized and taken to the office of the Returning Officer. Later, the cash was deposited in the treasury. In Anthiyur Assembly constituency, Static Surveillance Team members checked a lorry at Moongilpatti village and found Rs. 1,58,400 lakh without any documents. The cash was taken to the office of the Returning Officer and later handed over to the sub-treasury. In Bhavani Assembly constituency, flying squad personnel seized unaccounted cash Rs. 70,000 from a two-wheeler rider at Tayirpalayam Pirivu on the Bhavani – Kavindapadi Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized/article34096355.ece
18 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||28 file papers in Erode dt.||A total of 28 candidates filed their nomination papers to contest in the Assembly constituencies in the district here on Wednesday. Prominent persons who filed their nomination papers were former Union Minister and DMK nominee Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan in Modakkurichi Assembly constituency, G.V. Manimaran of DMK in Gobichettipalayam and A. Bannari of AIADMK in Bhavanisagar (Reserved). Nominees of Makkal Needhi Maiam and Naam Tamilar Katchi also filed their nominations in the constituencies. Nominations filed in each constituency are Erode (East) – eight, Erode (West) – two, Modakkurichi – five, Perundurai – two, Bhavani – four, Anthiyur – five, Gobichettipalayam – 10 and Bhavanisagar (Reserved) – one. The last date for filing nomination is March 19 and scrutiny of nominations will take place on March 20. Nominations can be withdrawn till 3 p.m. on March 22, while allocation of symbols and final list of contesting candidates will be announced on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-file-papers-in-erode-dt/article34096357.ece
18 March 2021||ERODE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||People need jobs not freebies: Kamal Haasan||People in Tamil Nadu do not need freebies but want jobs, said Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan here on Wednesday. Campaigning for his party candidate at Sivagiri in Modakkurichi Assembly constituency, he said that by offering Rs. 10,000 cash for a vote, they are taking away Rs. 5 lakh the people would receive. “Nothing is needed free for the people,” he said emphasising that that they will work hard if jobs are provided. The actor-turned-politician said that the party’s candidate would give an undertaking of his promises in a bond which he would also be signing. “If he fails to keep up his word, you have the right to recall him”, he said. Earlier, speaking at Madathukulam in Tiruppur district, Mr. Haasan said that the State needs an alternative politics to enhance the quality of the lives of people. Many former government officials have joined MNM, he said. He landed at Madathukulam in a private helicopter to campaign for MNM’s candidate for Madathukulam Assembly constituency K. Kumaresan. He finished his speech within five minutes owing to poor turnout of public and did not proceed to Udumalpet for election campaign as per the schedule, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-need-jobs-not-freebies-kamal-haasan/article34096353.ece
18 March 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Senthil Balaji’s remarks on sand mining trigger row||A video clip of a purported speech by V. Senthil Balaji, DMK candidate for the Karur Assembly constituency, telling bullock cart operators that they will have a free run once the party is voted to power, has triggered a row. In the clip that went viral on social media, Mr. Balaji is heard saying that as soon as “ Thalapathy ” (DMK president M.K. Stalin) is sworn in as Chief Minister, bullock cart operators could venture into rivers to load sand. “No official will stop you. If anyone does, call me. The official will not be there,” he said. Mr. Balaji is said to have delivered the speech before filing his nomination in Karur on Monday. Taking exception to the former Minister’s remarks, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan, in a tweet, drew comparison to Mr. Balaji’s remarks and MNM Perundurai candidate Nandakumar’s legal battle against sand smuggling. Despite being subjected to a brutal attack, Mr. Nandakumar continued his public service, he said. This was the difference between the kazhagams and the MNM, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senthil-balajis-remarks-on-sand-mining-trigger-row/article34096229.ece
18 March 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Row over Senthil Balaji’s remark on sand mining||A video clip of a purported speech of DMK candidate for Karur V. Senthil Balaji, telling bullock cart operators that they could have a free run once his party was voted to power, has triggered a row. In the video clip, which went viral on social media, Mr. Senthil Balaji could be heard saying that as soon as thalapathi (DMK president M.K. Stalin) was sworn in as Chief Minister, bullock cart operators could venture into rivers to load sand. “No official will stop you. If anyone does, call me, the official will no longer be there,” he said amid lusty cheers from the audience. He was said to have delivered the speech before filing his nomination in Karur on Monday.  Kamal’s attack Taking exception to the remarks, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan tweeted drawing a comparison of Mr. Senthil Balaji’s remarks with MNM Perundurai candidate Nandakumar’s legal battle against sand smuggling. Despite being subject to a brutal attack on account of this, Mr. Nandakumar continued his public service. “This is the difference between the kazhagams and MNM,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/row-over-senthil-balajis-remark-on-sand-mining/article34096323.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP’s victory will be harmful for T.N.: Stalin||Any victory for the BJP in the Assembly elections would be harmful for Tamil Nadu; a victory for the AIADMK also meant the BJP’s victory, DMK president M.K. Stalin said in Madurai during his campaign on Wednesday. “Though the BJP has no MLA in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, it is the party that is ruling the State now. The NDA’s lone member in the Lok Sabha, P. Raveendranath Kumar, is acting like a BJP member,” he charged. Terming Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami “useless”, Mr. Stalin said the CM had pledged the rights of the State to the Centre. “We are losing one right after the other,” he said. First, the State’s rights on the Cauvery water issue and NEET were lost, then the State could not get the tax rate under the GST reduced or its tax share due from the Centre. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences announced in 2016 has remained a non-starter, he said. “The DMK, under the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, constructed the new secretariat building. Similarly, the DMK, upon coming to power, will bring AIIMS to Madurai,” he said. The AIADMK had failed to conduct the local body elections in entirety. After conducting rural local body elections, the urban local body elections were not held. “I promise that immediately after assuming power, the DMK will hold elections for town panchayats, municipalities and corporations,” he said. Even the government workers were not happy with the AIADMK government. State Transport Corporation workers, noon-meal workers, sanitary workers and teachers were all fighting for their demands, Mr. Stalin said. The prices of essential commodities were on the rise after an increase in electricity tariff, prices of milk, petrol and diesel, he charged and compared the present prices of essential commodities to those prevailing during the DMK regime. “There is an immense competition between the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the AIADMK government in the State in imposing new taxes on the people,” he charged. With an aim of retrieving Tamil Nadu that had been ruined in the last 10 years, the DMK had introduced seven schemes with a long-term vision that would be implemented in 10 years in phases, Mr. Stalin said, seeking votes for Secular Progressive Alliance candidates P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan (Madurai Central), G. Thalapathy (Madurai North), C. Chinnammal (Madurai West) and M. Boominathan of (Madurai South).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjps-victory-will-be-harmful-for-tn-stalin/article34096525.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Mandamus mania has impacted performance of court, says HC||Deprecating the conduct of litigants and advocates filing writ petitions seeking court direction to the authorities concerned without giving them reasonable time to look into issues, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the constitutional court had been woefully reduced to a below par performer as a result. The trend had reached an alarming level that a representation was submitted to an authority for action and simultaneously a writ of mandamus was filed seeking a direction to dispose of the representation. Now, every official expected court direction for administrative functions, the court observed. Justice V. Parthiban observed that the court unfortunately had been witnessing in the recent past a plethora of ‘mandamus’ writ petitions being filed at the drop of a hat for all kinds of relief, taking away the precious time of the court from focusing on quality litigation in true exercise of its constitutional jurisdiction. The judge said this practice had reduced the court into a ‘direction factory’ or ‘machine’ producing stereotype orders/hackneyed directions which hardly required any application of mind. He said the pernicious and pandering trend must stop. This trend had encouraged younger generation lawyers to resort to mandamus litigations through a contrived route as a fast track to achieve instant result for their brief at the cost of valuable court’s time, thereby depriving the litigants of actual relief deserved by them, the judge said. The court observed that it was common knowledge that the authorities at various positions taking cue from the trend were by and large not inclined to discharge their official functions or responsibilities unless court directions were issued on almost all matters which should have been disposed of routinely by them. The judge said it was high time that the courts did corrective judicial introspection and discourage attempts by the obsessive ‘direction seekers’ from plummeting the exalted jurisdiction of courts into a barren, pedestrian and stupefied judicial edifice. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Soundarrajan of Tiruchi seeking a direction to the Tiruchi District Registrar to look into his representation. The court dismissed the petition and observed that when the competent authority was looking into the issue, a reasonable time should be given to the authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandamus-mania-has-impacted-performance-of-court-says-hc/article34096528.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai has emerged as a strategic location’||The COVID-19 lockdown had an impact on various sectors and industries, and to bring key establishments and small units under one umbrella was a commendable job and it would help their revival, said eminent nuclear scientist J. Daniel Chellappa at the sixth edition of Buyer-Seller Meet conducted by MADITSSIA here on Wednesday. He said that Madurai had emerged as a strategic location and this would improve the standards of the local units in terms of innovation. Assistant General Manager of Tamilnad Mercantile Bank, Madurai Regional Office, R. Gouthaman said that Madurai district was among the worst-affected districts in terms of business during the COVID-19 spread. However, it managed to revive itself due to the efforts of the small-scale industries, he said, and added that MADITSSIA had a role to play in the revival. MADITSSIA president B. Muruganantham welcomed the gathering and chairman of Buyer-Seller Meet P.J. Bansidhar explained the purpose of the exhibition to the guests. Key industries and other units from across different sectors have put up 70 stalls at MADITSSIA Hall for the three-day event. The meet is organised jointly by MADITSSIA and Union Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. The event is held in association with the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation, Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute and Small Industries Development Bank of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-has-emerged-as-a-strategic-location/article34096531.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against AIADMK candidate||The police on Wednesday registered a case against AIADMK candidate for the constituency Natham R .Viswanathan on a charge of giving cash for votes during his election campaign. The former Minister, who is contesting for the fifth time in the elections to the Legislative Assembly, commenced his campaign in Mulaiyur panchayat and its surrounding areas on Monday. When he was accorded a reception by women, one of his supporters was caught on camera giving cash to the women, who took ‘aarathi’ in Katuvelanpatti. The candidate was also videographed as he was trying to take cash from his pocket at another village. When the video went viral on the social media,the DMK and other Opposition parties in the fray raised objectionsand charged Election Commission officials with being partial to the AIADMK. Complaint Following a complaint from the video team of the DMK election wing, the police registered a case under Section 171 E of the IPC (bribery) against Mr. Viswanathan. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-for-cash-distribution-to-voters/article34096333.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||300 computers, saris seized from godown||In a major seizure, election officials have seized around 300 desktop computers, saris and dress materials and 850 bundles of empty envelopes from a godown in SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur under Tirumangalam Assembly constituency. The materials had photographs of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and AIADMK candidate and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, according to Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for the constituency Karu. Athi Narayanan. Based on an alert, the Flying Squad, along with police personnel, went to the industrial estate premises. It was learnt that the godown belonged to SIDCO Association. “Inquiries revealed that the godown had been let out to a person. We brought the person for questioning,” said Tirumangalam Revenue Divisional Officer and Returning Officer R. Soundarya. The officials broke open the door of the godown and found that several boxes containing desktop computers had been kept inside. Besides, around 600 plastic containers with the picture of Mr. Udhayakumar, 290 shirt and pants cloths, 383 saris and towels were found in the godown. The official said 850 empty covers with the candidate’s photograph on them were also seized by the team. Further, around 1,000 carry bags with the candidate’s photograph, cotton masks among other things were seized. Mr. Narayanan said though his supporters had alerted the officials around 4.30 p.m., the officials acted with a delay of four hours. He charged that his supporters had found the ruling party men bringing out the gift items, reportedly meant for distribution among voters, from the godown and then complained to the officials.  Inquiries revealed that the godown had been let out to a person. We brought the person for questioning. R. Soundarya Tirumangalam RDO and RO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-computers-saris-seized-from-godown/article34096534.ece
18 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP’s victory will harm Tamil Nadu, says Stalin||Any victory for the BJP in the Assembly election will be harmful for Tamil Nadu, DMK president M.K. Stalin said during his campaign here on Wednesday. A victory for the AIADMK also meant a victory for the BJP, he added. “Though the BJP has no MLAs in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly, it is the BJP that is ruling the State now. The NDA’s [National Democratic Alliance] lone member in the Lok Sabha, P. Raveendranath Kumar, is acting like a BJP member,” he said. Mr. Stalin said Mr. Palaniswami had pledged the rights of the State to the Centre. “We are losing one right after the other,” he said. First, the State had lost its rights on the Cauvery water issue and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), he said. The State could also not get the rate under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) reduced or its tax share due from the Centre, Mr. Stalin added. The AIADMK had also failed to conduct the local body elections in its entirety, Mr. Stalin said. After conducting the rural local body elections, the urban local body elections were not held. “I promise that immediately after assuming power, the DMK will hold elections for town panchayats, municipalities and corporations,” he said. With an aim to retrieve Tamil Nadu that had been ruined in the last 10 years, the DMK had introduced seven schemes with a long-term vision, which would be implemented in the next 10 years in phases, Mr. Stalin said while seeking votes for Secular Progressive Alliance candidates P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan (Madurai Central), G. Thalapathy (Madurai North), C. Chinnammal (Madurai West) and M. Boominathan (Madurai South).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjps-victory-will-be-harmful-for-tamil-nadu-says-stalin/article34096222.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Wear mask, get vaccinated’||DMK president M.K. Stalin appealed to the people to not go to crowded places without wearing masks. Telling people to be cautious as COVID-19 cases had been on the rise in the State over the last few days, Mr. Stalin advised them to take the vaccine against the virus. Campaigning for the Secular Progressive Alliance candidates of Madurai urban constituencies, the Leader of the Opposition said he had removed his mask while addressing people since he was away from the crowd. “You all are standing close to one another. I can see that only a very few are wearing the mask,” he said. Mr. Stalin advised the people not to go to crowded places without the mask. Cautioning the people about the underlying danger to life [that the virus can pose], he said,“I have taken the COVID-19 vaccine. It has some benefits. So you all should go for vaccination at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wear-mask-get-vaccinated/article34096526.ece
18 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders inspection of mutt||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State Department of Archaeology and Tamil University, Thanjavur, to conduct a joint inspection of Ekanathan Mutt in Kinnimangalam near Madurai on a public interest litigation petition that said that Tamil inscriptions said to be over 2,000 years old were found at the site. Hearing the PIL petition filed by M. Arulanandam of Madurai, a Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi also directed Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to form a committee, inspect the place and file a report. The petitioner said that art historian K.T. Gandhirajan had found the inscriptions last year. He said that there was a need for a dedicated archaeological excavation at the site and places around. The local people and archaeologists had made the demand for an excavation of the site and were visiting the sites to study their significance, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-inspection-of-mutt/article34096529.ece
18 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||272 stations sensitive in Kanniyakumari district||Even as the district is gearing up for the polling on April 6 in six Assembly segments and the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll, the police have identified 272 sensitive and 14 critical polling stations in the district, where due security arrangements will be made to ensure free and fair polls. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police V. Badrinarayanan said adequate security arrangements would be made in the sensitive and critical polling stations where armed policemen and the paramilitary forces would be deployed. Surveillance had been intensified along the Kanniyakumari – Kerala border to check the movement of criminals and banned products. Informing that nine cases of model code of conduct violation had been registered so far in the district, the SP appealed to the public to alert the police election cell on 04652 – 229000 or 294500. The SP said the police had so far seized 210.65 kg of ganja at 20 places since January and 28 persons had been arrested in this connection.  Liquor seized Moreover, 4,744 bottles of liquor were seized from 480 persons who were selling liquor illegally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/272-stations-sensitive/article34096338.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||How can disclosure of truth be suppression of facts: MP||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it understood DMK MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi’s stand that she could not be unfairly accused of “suppression of material facts” for simply disclosing the truth in her nomination papers for the 2019 general elections that her husband was a foreign citizen and did not hold a PAN. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde was hearing an appeal filed by Ms. Kanimozhi against the Madras High Court’s decision to examine a petition filed by A. Santhana Kumar challenging her election as the Thoothukudi MP in 2019. The Supreme Court had stayed the High Court proceedings in January last year. Senior advocate P. Wilson, for Ms. Kanimozhi, said Mr. Kumar was a voter who had embarked on a frivolous litigation. His election petition ought to be dismissed. “My husband, who is a foreigner, does not have a PAN... This truth has been declared in nomination form. How can the disclosure of truth be called suppression of material facts?” Mr. Wilson asked. “We understand what you are saying. That it [disclosure of PAN] is not a requirement at all... That the only thing you have to disclose is the nationality and not whether he [husband] holds a PAN or not,” Chief Justice Bobde acknowledged Mr. Wilson’s submission. Initially, the CJI asked Mr. Wilson why his side was “trying to stifle the trial”. Mr. Wilson promptly denied doing anything to stop the trial. The court said it would take up the case again after completion of the service of the pleadings to all the respondents. Mr. Wilson said 32 of the 38 respondents had been served. In her appeal, Ms. Kanimozhi had said the High Court erroneously banked on a petition which was at best “vague and without material facts”. The High Court had proceeded on the notion that Ms. Kanimozhi refused to disclose the PAN of her spouse. Ms. Kanimozhi had asked whether it was justified on the part of the High Court to add averments in the election petition as regards the petitioner’s husband’s income tax reference number?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-is-disclosure-of-truth-a-suppression-of-fact-mp/article34096232.ece
18 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Number of candidates in fray in Union Territory crosses 120||Former Chief Minister and AINRC supremo N. Rangasamy led prominent leaders filing nominations for contesting the April 6 election on Wednesday, with over 120 candidates entering the fray. While Mr. Rangasamy filed his nomination in the Yanam enclave, other AINRC leaders and former Ministers N.G. Pannirselvam and P. Rajavelu filed papers in Ozhukarai and Nettapakkam. S.V. Sugumaran formally entered the fray in Villianur, U. Lakshmikandhan in Embalam, Chandira Priyanga in Nedungadu, V. Appadurai in K adirgamam, P.R.N. Thirumurugan in Karaikal North and R. Datchinamourtty in Ariyankuppam. Puducherry PCC president A.V. Subramanian filed his nomination papers in Karaikal North. Other Congress nominations included K. Vignesh in Embalam, and A. Marimuthu and M. Kathiravan in Nedungadu. AIADMK’s P. Anbalagan submitted his papers in Ouppalam, where his opponent Annibal Kennedy of the DMK also filed papers. Ouppalam also saw another AIADMK nomination from A. Prabhakaran and a DMK nomination from Annibal Thamijarassi Jacintha. A. Baskar (AIADMK) filed nomination for Mudaliarpet and N. Dhanavelou (AINRC) entered the contest in Bahour. BJP’s A. Namassivayam filed his papers in Mannadipet while R. Selvam filed nomination in Manavely. Among DMK candidates, P. Vetri Selvan submitted his papers in Karaikal South where he is pitted against AIADMK’s Assana Marecar, A.M.H. Nazim in Karaikal South, Nagathiagarajan in Neravy-T.R. Pattinam, G. Hemavathy in Orleanpet, Kumaravel in Mangalam and Sivagamasundary in Kalapet. CPI’s K. Sethu Selvam filed his nomination in Thattanchavady, where he is pitted against a formidable opponent in former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. V. Vaithilingam, MP, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and leaders of the CPI and the CPI(M) accompanied the candidate. In Mangalam, DMK’s Kumaravel and PMK’s G. Mathiyalagan filed nominations. S. Sasi Kumar of Naam Tamilar Katchi filed his papers in Nellithope while the party’s candidate S. Gnanapragash did so in Bahour and S. Elangovan in Manavely. PMK’s candidate G. Ganapathy filed his papers for Manavely. Among others were Makkal Neethi Maiam’s V. Ruthirakumaran in Ariyankuppam, N. Somanathan in Embalam, R. Rathinamurugan in Ariyankuppam and Santhosh Kumar in Ouppalam, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidates P. Velmurugan and V. Sudha in Bahour, M. Jayasudha in Kamaraj Nagar and L. Munisamy in Kamaraj Nagar and and CPI (ML) candidate Mothilal S. in Ozhukkarai. SDPI’s Mohamed Thameem Kani filed his papers in Karaikal North and BSP’s Paranthaman in Nettapakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-candidates-in-fray-in-union-territory-crosses-120/article34096641.ece
18 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AINRC chief Rangasamy files nomination from Yanam too||All India N.R. Congress founder and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Wednesday became the second non-Telugu speaking leader from Puducherry to contest in an Assembly election from the enclave of Yanam. The Opposition leader, who took out a long roadshow with former Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao at Yanam before filing his nomination papers at the Region Administration Office, is only the second non-Telugu leader after former Chief Minister P. Shanmugham to contest from Yanam. The only difference was that Mr. Shanmugham picked Yanam for a byelection in 2000 to seek a mandate to formalise his candidature as Chief Minister when the Congress took over the reigns of governance after TMC withdrew support to the R.V. Janakiraman-led DMK government in the Union Territory. He contested the bypoll from Yanam after Mr. Rao vacated the seat for him. Mr. Shanmugham defeated AIADMK’s M. Sai Kumar by 8,880 seats from the Yanam constituency. In the case of Mr. Rangasamy, Yanam would be his second constituency as he found it “auspicious,” to contest two seats in an Assembly election to make a “major impact.” He had on Monday filed nomination papers from Thattanchavady, which he represented from 1991 to 2011. In the first Assembly election after he formed the AINRC in 2011, he contested from Indira Nagar and Kadirgamam to win both the seats and took his party to a historic win. The party won 15 of the 17 seats and formed the government with the support of an Independent. He retained Indira Nagar and resigned from Kadirgamam. “Our leader is very religious, and he goes by certain beliefs. He is certain to make it big this election also,” said an AINRC functionary. However, CPI secretary A.M. Saleem thinks Mr. Rangasamy was rattled that he is up against the Left party’s nominee, who is a young face (Sethu Selvam) from Thattanchavady constituency itself. “He is not sure of winning the seat as our alliance partner, DMK, wrested the seat from his party in the 2019 bypoll. There is no other reason for him to contest from another region,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ainrc-chief-rangasamy-files-nomination-from-yanam-too/article34096636.ece
18 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘AICC was keen to field Narayanasamy’||The All India Congress Committee (AlCC) was keen to field former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy in the Assembly poll from the Union Territory though the decision to not contest was a personal choice of the Congress veteran, according to party leaders. “The morale of the cadre was down after the spate of resignations and also because of the less number of seats that we got during the seat-sharing talks with the DMK. We wanted him and all our top leaders to contest so as to enthuse our cadre,” an AICC leader told The Hindu . The former Chief Minister would be leading the campaign, he said, adding that “we can’t force a very senior leader like him. But as he is a committed leader, he will campaign from the front. We respect his decision.” The decision to field PCC chief A. V. Subramanian was taken with the objective to send across a message to the cadre that the party was a serious contender even after all the defections and rumblings in seat-sharing talks, said the AICC member. The Chief Minister, when contacted, said he would give a detailed explanation soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aicc-was-keen-to-field-narayanasamy/article34096637.ece
18 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases breach 200-mark for the first time in a month||The Union Territory witnessed a jump in new COVID-19 cases with 52 persons testing positive on Wednesday. The new cases, from 1,290 tests, were reported in Puducherry (43), Karaikal (three) and Mahe (two). No cases were reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate was 4.16%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 97.79%. The number of active cases breached the 200-mark for the first time since February 17. The number of active cases stood at 214 — 98 in hospitals and 116 in home isolation. Total number of cases The cumulative caseload stood at 40,120, with 39,233 recovered patients. Of an estimated 6.48 lakh tests conducted so far, over 6 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of people covered in the vaccination drive aggregated to 32,603. During the last 24 hours, 1,132 healthcare workers, 1,104 members of the public and 208 frontline workers took the first dose.  11 new cases Cuddalore district reported 11 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 25,307. While 24,958 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 61. In Villupuram district, five persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,318. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 10,919.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-breach-200-mark-for-the-first-time-in-a-month/article34096639.ece
18 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PMK releases list for 9 seats in Union Territory||The Pattali Makkal Katchi has announced the candidates for nine Assembly constituencies after the seat-sharing talks with the National Democratic Alliance failed in the Union Territory. The candidates are V. Venketeshan (Mannadipet constituency), P. Sivaraman (Ariyankuppam), A.G. Mathiyalakan (Mangalam), J. Kathiravel (Thattanchavady), I. Naraismhan (Laswpet), Ganapathy (Manaveli), Santhilian (Thirubuvanai), A. Vadivel (Indira Nagar) and E.Kaliyaperumal (Ossudu). The party would contest 6 more seats in the Union Territory, PMK convener K. Dhanraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-releases-list-for-9-seats-in-union-territory/article34096634.ece
18 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G sanctions grant-in-aid||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has accorded expenditure sanction for Rs. 27.85 crore proposed by the Directorate of School Education towards disbursal of salary and pension arrears of teachers in 35 goverment-aided schools in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam. A press note said the L-G had sanctioned the amount as grant-in-aid for payment of pension and retirement benefits from January 2020 to February 2021 and salary for six months from September 2020 to February 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-sanctions-grant-in-aid/article34096638.ece
18 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to check spread of COVID-19||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver has said that 15,415 people have taken the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine so far in the district and about 3,000 had been administered the second dose here on Wednesday. In the backdrop of a slow, but steady rise in the cases in different parts of the country and in some parts of TN, the Chief Secretary had instructed all the Collectors to intensify the vigil. So, the Collector held a review meeting with the officials from Health and Family Welfare and other departments. Taking stock of the number of patients diagnosed with the virus and the number of people discharged among them, he said that the district was well under control. However, it does not mean that the people can neglect the regulations in force. He urged officials to sensitize the public visiting shops and establishments to strictly adhere to the physical distancing norms. Wearing masks would prevent the spread. Any person, who does not wear the guards would be imposed a penalty of Rs. 200. Similarly, shops, which did not provide sanitizers and other distancing norms would be penalised up to Rs. 5000. In case of repeated violations, officials should seal such outlets in public interest. Dindigul Collector M Vijayalakshmi inspected the hand gloves and masks to be issued to the staff to be engaged in polling stations on April 6. The hand sanitizers, thermal scanner and others to be used in each station have been kept ready. The Election Commission of India had instructed officials to issue gloves to the electorate while they use the EVMs. Meanwhile, the Collector took stock of the polling stations in the city where ramp and other facilities were provided to the differently abled persons. Later, she inspected a private factory in Chinnalapatti and enquired with the workers about the regulations in force due to the pandemic. She appealed to all private mills in the district to ensure that the workers adhered to the safety norms while at work and help in containing the virus effectively. Sivaganga In Sivaganga, Collector P Madhusudan Reddy said that officials from health, revenue and police imposed fine on the public, who did not wear masks on Wednesday. According to the officials, Rs. 31,800 was collected as fine on a single day. The Collector, who chaired a meeting, said the officials had to educate the people to wear face masks. He urged the health workers to keep adequate stock of the sanitizers and thermal scanners to test the body temperature. A senior official said that they had sensitised the political parties and their cadres to wear masks and keep physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-check-spread-of-covid-19/article34096340.ece
18 March 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP, AIADMK have good working relationship’||Only the AIADMK and the BJP can continue to deliver, said BJP leader and Union Minister V K Singh here on Wednesday. Speaking at a booth-level committee workers of the party and introducing the candidate Kuppuram for the Ramanathapuram Assembly constituency, he said that it was wrong to say that the BJP promoted one religion. Anyone who takes a look at the list of beneficiaries of the Union government schemes, particularly, the programs meant for the Below Poverty Line category would agree that the needy got it, he said. The AIADMK and the BJP had many similarities. The party, which was founded by late MGR, had focussed on improving the standards of living of the poor in Tamil Nadu. Likewise, the BJP, under the leadership of Narendra Modi, reached out to the needy across the country. Under the ‘Pradhan Mantri Awaaz Yojana,’ dwellings for the homeless had been a path-breaking success. The schemes offered in Tamil Nadu by late leader Jayalalithaa was so popular that many other States in the country followed suit. The girl children’s education means a lot to the society. The noon-meal scheme, free laptops, giving financial assistance to the poor for the marriage had been strictly implemented even after her demise by the present Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Thus, the AIADMK had proved its mettle in delivering welfare schemes. With the BJP and AIADMK having a good working relationship, the people of Tamil Nadu would benefit in a big way by getting more and more new projects, Mr Singh said and appealed to the cadres to ensure that the DMK, which is a bag of lies, continued to remain in the opposition. Later, speaking to reporters, the Union Minister said that the DMK was a party of anti-socials. The DMK was a family party. Only the family members had benefited from its rule. It was not the case with the AIADMK. The CM was a humble worker in the party and had risen to the top by his hard work. Accompanied by the BJP candidate Mr Kuppuram, the minister called on the former AIADMK minister Manikandan at his residence and sought his support. It may be noted that the supporters of Mr Manikandan were disappointed after he was denied ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aiadmk-have-good-working-ties/article34096535.ece
18 March 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Pigeon||Vivek Narayanan   Ranipet Collector A.R. Gladstone Pushparaj has opted for a long-forgotten medium to send messages to the people. He has been tying messages on pigeons about the importance of voting, and then releasing them. “The pigeons will land in various houses and residents will read the messages. This is a different way of creating voter awareness,” said an official in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pigeon/article34096184.ece
18 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||A litmus test for DMK||The contest at Salem North constituency will be a litmus test for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam as it is the only seat where the party was able to fly its victory flag in 2016 Assembly elections. R. Rajendran, the incumbent has been fielded again by the DMK here and the AIADMK is throwing up a strong fight by fielding incumbent Salem West Legislator G. Venkatachalam. On Tuesday, DMK leader M.K. Stalin made a surprise visit to the constituency and walked through the streets of Shevapet market seeking votes to ensure that DMK retains the seat. In 2016, Mr. Rajendran won with a margin of 9,873 votes here. The constituency hosts major government offices, government quarters, silver jewellery manufacturing units, sago factories and brick kilns. The constituency has significant number of minority voters and was the venue of Salem Shaheen Bagh protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The Shevapet market traders have been complaining about GST. The silver anklet manufacturers in the constituency were severely affected due to the GST, hike in silver prices and COVID-19 lockdown. The manufacturers here have been demanding a welfare board for workers in the industry as over one lakh families in the district are involved in the trade. The DMK manifesto has promised to make the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital into a multi-speciality hospital. The hospital caters to medical needs of patients beyond the district as well. The speedy completion of railway flyover at Mulluvadi gate has been a long-standing demand of the public. Public here has also been demanding to put to better use the Salem Town Railway station by operating more trains in the Virudhachalam route. Public have been demanding the improvement of city roads and desilting the Thirumaniumutharu river which passes through the city. The Makkal Needhi Maiam has fielded Guru Chakravarthi and C. Natarajan has been fielded by AMMK for the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-litmus-test-for-dmk/article34096358.ece
18 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3.21 crore seized in Srivilliputtur||A Static Surveillance Team (SST) of Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency seized Rs. 3.21 crore cash from a van supposedly carrying the cash for two nationalised banks. The SST led by A. Kannan, and Special Sub-Inspector, Ilakkiyamuthu, intercepted the van near the Forest Office in Indira Nagar on Madurai Road. During the check, the officials found that the agency working for two banks did not have proper records for the money they were carrying. The officials handed over the cash to the treasury. Income Tax officials also rushed to the spot to verify the documents. An official said that cash meant for other vehicles were also being carried in this vehicle. Tirunelveli A flying squad seized Rs. 28.77 lakh during a vehicle check conducted near Melapalayam here on Wednesday. When a flying squad led by tahsildar A. Mohan was checking vehicles near Reliance Fuel Station on Ambasamudram Road on Wednesday, it stopped a bike. Maideen of Melapalayam was found to be carrying Rs. 28.77 lakh in a bag. Officials informed the Income Tax Department after seizing the cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-321-crore-seized-in-srivilliputtur/article34096347.ece
18 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery-Godavari project will be finished once re-elected: CM||The Rs. 80,000 crore Cauvery-Godavari river interlinking project will be implemented once the “Amma government” is formed again, AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Wednesday. He gave this assurance to the Delta farmers at Thiruvaiyaru while soliciting votes in favour of S. Venkatesan, the BJP nominee for the Thiruvaiyaru Assembly constituency. Stating that elevating Tamil Nadu to be the best State in water management was his ambition, Mr. Palaniswami said the “Amma government” headed by him had already succeeded in eliciting the support from the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments, and had also convinced the Union government to accept the proposal mooted by them. “The Prime Minister had assured us that the Union government will extend its support to the project that will augment the irrigation needs of the Delta region. The Cauvery-Godavari river linking project will be implemented after the formation of the Amma government again,” the Chief Minister added. Once implemented, the Delta farmers would not have to rely on the Karnataka government, which released water into the Cauvery only when it received excess rain. Restoration works Further, the rejuvenation/restoration of the water bodies in the Delta region, completed through the ‘Kudimaramathu’ scheme, had resulted in the better utilisation of excess rainwater that previously drained into the Bay of Bengal, Mr. Palaniswami added. Hitting out at the DMK for allowing hydrocarbon projects in the Delta region when it shared the power at the Centre, the Chief Minister said it was the “Amma government” led by him that saved the region by declaring it a “protected agricultural zone”. It was the “Amma government” that had put an end to the five decade-long legal battle to establish the State’s right in Cauvery, he added. Later, addressing the electorates at Papanasam, where he sought the peoples’ mandate in favour of AIADMK nominee K. Gopinathan, the Chief Minister criticised the DMK for promising to waive farm loans when such loans had already been waived and ‘no due certificates’ issued to the farmers. While seeking support in favour of Sridhar Vandaiyar, the Moovendar Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for the Kumbakonam constituency, Mr. Palaniswami held the DMK responsible for thrusting the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on the students in State, particularly government school students who constitute 41% of the total number of school students. “It was the DMK-participated Union government that brought NEET in 2010. But now the DMK leader says the AIADMK government had failed to protect medical aspirants. The truth is that the Amma government had protected the interest of government school students by providing 7.50% reservation in medical college admissions for them,” he said. ‘DMK will vanish’ In Nachiyarkovil, while seeking seek votes for S. Veeramani, the party’s nominee to Thiruvidaimaruthur (Reserve) constituency, a Chief Minister countered DMK president M.K. Stalin’s claim that the AIADMK would be wiped out after the forthcoming election. “It will be the DMK that will vanish and not the AIADMK,” he said, adding that the strength of the AIADMK was the peoples’ support. Continuing his tirade against the DMK leader at Kudavasal, where he urged the public to return the sitting Nannilam MLA and Food Minister R.Kamaraj to the Legislative Assembly for the third consecutive time, the Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin could not even dream to fool the electorate again like he did in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “A lot of assurances were given by the DMK in that elections and all of it still remain on paper even after the lapse of two years,” he said. Stating that Mr. Stalin was making such comments out of frustration, Mr. Palaniswami said the post of the Chief Minister was not a product sold in shops. It was up to the people to decide who should become the Chief Minister and they have already decided, he added. The Chief Minister winded up his electioneering for the day after canvassing for AIADMK candidates Siva Rajamanickam and A.N.R. Panneerselvam at Mannargudi and Tiruvarur respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-godavari-link-will-be-done-once-re-elected/article34096228.ece
18 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||35 file nomination in Thanjavur district||Thirty-five persons filed nominations in eight constituencies in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. While AIADMK nominees S. Veeramani for Thiruvidaimaruthur (Reserved) Constituency, G.M. Sridhar Vandaiyar for Kumbakonam, K. Gopinath for Papanasam, R. Rangarajan for Pattukottai and S.V. Thirugnanasambandam for Peravurani filed their nomination papers with the Returning Officers, DMK nominees N. Ashokkumar for Peravurani and K. Annadurai for Pattukottai filed their papers. Their dummy candidates also filed their papers. T. Kannaiyan of CPI(ML)(Liberation) and J. Kudanthai Arasan of AMMK filed their nominations at Thiruvidaimaruthur (Reserved) Constituency, M. Anand of Naam Tamilar Katchi, Thamizhagan of DMK (dummy candidate) and Srinivasan, an independent, filed their papers at Kumbakonam, R.Vasanthi, an independent at Papanasam, D.Senthilnathan of NTK, D.Suresh of NTK, V.Karthikeyan of AMMK, T.Sivaraman of Makkal Sananayaka Kudiyarasu Katchi and A.Mohammed Buhari, an independent submitted their papers with the ROs. G.S undaramohan of Makkal Needhi Maiyam, S.Muthuvel of Bahujan Dravida party and B. Dhayanithi and Pala.Santhosh Kumar, Independents, filed their papers at Thanjavur, J. Ramesh, M.Pasupathi and C. Elangovan, independents at Orathanadu, A. Keerthika and S. Surya of NTK submitted their papers at Pattukottai and K. Dilipan and Kalaiyarasan of NTK and T. Natarajan, Independent, filed their papers at Peravurani. In Tiruvarur district, 14 persons filed their nominations from Thiruthuraipoondi (Reserved), Tiruvarur and Nannilam. DMK nominee for Nannilam S. Jothiraman submitted his papers to the RO. CPI nominee for Thiruthuraipoondi (Reserved) K. Marimuthu also filed his nomination along with his party’s dummy candidate. Lakshmidevi and Aarthi of NTK were the two other to file their papers for Thiruthuraipoondi. At Tiruvarur, R.V inodhini and Sangeetha of NTK, N.T hyagasundaram of Thamizhaga Illaignar Katchi, M.A. Najima Banu of SDPI and J. Kalaivanan, an independent, also filed their papers. At Nannilam, Murugavel of Anna Dravidar Kazhagam, Panasai Arangan of Desiya Makkal Katchi and two independents, S. Raja and Krishnan, filed their papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-file-nomination-in-thanjavur-district/article34096307.ece
18 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Marked increase in child labour during pandemic, says report||A report by Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) claimed that there has been a marked increase in child labour across the State due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 767 families and 818 children were interviewed for the report across 26 districts in the State between September and November 2020. The survey found that among the 818 children, 553 were in school prior to the pandemic and 75.8% of them were working after the lockdown measures were eased. The children were found to be working in sectors including agriculture, cottage industries and construction. However, manufacturing units hired the most number of children The report was released by CACL State Convenor R. Karuppusamy at an event in the city on Saturday. Speaking at the launch, Mr. Karuppusamy said that the pandemic had reversed the progress made over 20 years in checking child labour. “The International Labour Organisation, taking into cognisance the issue has declared 2021 as the International Year for Elimination of Child Labour. Grassroot level efforts will be made to improve the situation,” he said. Nearly 18.6% of the children who were surveyed said that they often face physical, mental and verbal abuse from their employers. Children, depending upon their age, earned between Rs. 100 and Rs. 400 as wages per day. Child labour had increased by an alarming 280% among the vulnerable communities. The children who were interviewed said they were unable to attend online classes conducted by their schools due to financial constraints and lack of access to mobile phones and internet. Of them, 94% said they were pressured to work due to economic crisis. The report recommended that child protection committees at village-level must be formed to identify child labour and ensure that families get access to welfare schemes provided by the government. School teachers must work to bring back the students to schools, while civil societies must be involved to help rehabilitate the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marked-increase-in-child-labour-during-pandemic-says-report/article34096326.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister files nomination||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, AIADMK candidate for Viralimalai constituency, and former Tiruchi Mayor Sarubala R. Tondaiman, AMMK candidate for Srirangam, were among the prominent candidates who filed their nomination in the central region on Wednesday. In Tiruchi district, 34 candidates filed their papers for nine constituencies. While six candidates each filed their nominations for Lalgudi and Musiri, five candidates each filed their papers for Srirangam and Mannachanallur constituencies in the district. Two candidates each filed their nominations for Tiruchi (West), Tiruchi (East) and Manapparai. Thuraiyur and Tiruverumbur received nominations from three candidates each. In Karur district, a total of 22 candidates filed their nominations for four constituencies. While 13 candidates filed for Karur constituency, four filed their papers for Aravakurichi. Three candidates presented papers for Kulithalai and Krishnarayapuram. N.R. Chandrasekar of AIADMK presented papers for Kulithalai constituency. V. Nirosha of AMMK and P. Anbalagan of Bahujan Samaj Party were the other candidates who filed their papers for the constituency. R. Ilango of DMK was among the four candidates who filed nomination for Aravakurichi. In in Pudukottai district, AIADMK nominees for Gandharvakottai, Viralimalai, Pudukottai, Alangudi and Aranthangi constituencies filed their nomination. Seeking a second term from the constituency, Mr. Vijayabaskar arrived at the office of Returning Officer and Revenue Divisional Officer, Illupur, to file his nominations, riding pillion on a two-wheeler from the bus stand in the town. Other AIADMK candidates V. Karthik Thondaiman (Pudukottai), S. Jayabharathi (Gandharvakottai), Dharma Thangavel (Alangudi) and M. Rajanayagam (Aranthangi) also filed their papers at the office of the Returning Officer. DMK nominee for Pudukottai constituency V. Muthuraja filed his papers. Candidates from Makkal Neethi Maiam, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, Naam Tamilar Katchi, Bahujan Samaj Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist - Leninist) Liberation and some independents also filed their papers in different assembly segments in Pudukottai district. In Perambalur district, DMK candidate for Kunnam Assembly constituency S.S. Sivasankar filed his papers. In Nagapattinam district, DMK candidate M. Paneerselvam was among the three candidates who filed their nomination for Sirkazhi constituency. M. Lakshmi, DMK, was among two persons who filed their papers for Poompuhar constituency Nine Independents and S. Shamsudeen of Bahujan Samaj Party filed their papers for Mayiladuthurai constituency. One Independent candidate each filed their papers for Kilvelur, Nagapattinam and Vedaranyam constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-sarubala-tondaiman-file-nomination-in-central-region/article34096311.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||58 new cases in delta||The central region on Wednesday reported 58 fresh cases, a substantial dip over Tuesday’s count of 106. No death was reported in the districts. In Tiruchi, 11 patients tested positive. The patients were all asymptomatic isolated cases, health officials said. Meanwhile, screening measures were stepped up in the district. “We are pulling out all the stops to ensure that the viral infection does not spread and form clusters here,” an official source said. Samples lifted While around 1,500 to 1,800 samples were lifted earlier, the number was increased to over 2,500 over the last week. On Wednesday, 2,745 throat swabs were lifted. “We are targeting patients with fever symptoms, severe acute respiratory illnesses and influenza-like lllnesses, those with comorbidities over the age of 60, frontline workers, international travellers landing at Tiruchi International Airport, inter-State travellers and primary contacts,” the source said. Pudukottai reported 11 fresh cases, while Nagapattinam and Thanjavur 10 each. Among the 10 in Thanjavur were two parents and one more student of Ammapettai Government-aided Girls Higher Secondary School. Seven reported positive in Tiruvarur and five in Karur. In Ariyalur district, two patients tested positive, while in Perambalur no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58-new-cases-in-delta/article34096328.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure for new anti-tank ammunition project by April||The prestigious assignment for New India@75 undertaken by the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) under the Central Government’s Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat Policy for establishment of a new ammunition hardware project to manufacture 125 mm FSAPDS (Fin Stabilised Armour Piercing Discarding Sabot) AMK 339 ammunition with Russian collaboration is well on course for timely completion at the High Energy Projectile Factory (HEPF) here. Ninety per cent of civil works have been completed for the project named ‘Mango’ and the dedicated infrastructure will be readied by next month.  Indigenisation The HEPF has taken up indigenisation of the raw materials/ components/ consumables for the ammunition and will be in a position to commence production from December 2021 well in advance, vis-a-vis the deadline set at mid-2022. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be dedicating OFB’s project to the nation in his 75th Independence Day address on August 15, 2022, Sanjay Kumar Sinha, General Manager, told mediapersons on Wednesday. The HEPF will have a 70% role in manufacturing the ammunition in association with the ordnance units in Jabalpur and Nagpur. Additional manpower for the new project will be leveraged from other ordnance factories, Mr. Sinha said.  Nomenclature change Earlier known as Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project, the establishment has effected a change in nomenclature to HEPF to reflect its expertise in manufacture of anti-tank kinetic energy projectiles worldwide, he said. Based on the indent placed by Indian Navy and subsequent Inter Factory Demand by Ammunition Factory, Khadki, Pune, the HEPF has geared up to supply a total of 300 RGB (Rocket Guided Bomb) 60 anti-submarine ammunition. This would encompass the first export order of 57 RGB 60 ammunition to be delivered to Myanmar shortly, Mr. Sinha said. Production value The value of production will exceed Rs. 220 crore in the current financial year, despite the constraints of raw material supply from vendors caused by COVID-19 pandemic, owing to the all-out efforts of the workforce, Mr. Sinha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infrastructure-for-new-anti-tank-ammunition-project-by-april/article34096331.ece
18 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Guru’s wife files nomination in Jayankondam||Three candidates filed their nominations for Jayamkondam constituency in Ariyalur dstrict on Wednesday. Latha alias Sornalatha, wife of former president of Vanniyar Sangam late Kaduvetti J. Guru, filed her nomination papers as the candidate of Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK) before the Returning Officer in Jayankondam. J.K. Siva of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and V.K. Kesavarajan filed as independent candidate. Two candidates including K. Chinnappa of the DMK and Durai. Manivel of the AMMK and an Independent filed their papers for Ariyalur constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gurus-wife-files-nomination-in-jayankondam/article34096330.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fake water bottle firm busted||Food Safety officials on Wednesday busted a city-based firm selling fake packaged water. Based on information, officials went to Kurinji Street in Sanjeevi Nagar and found that the firm filled used bottles and sold them as treated water. Also, it did not licence. Officials seized around 2,000 bottles and 5,000 caps. A case was booked under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. In a release, R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, Tiruchi, appealed to the public and restaurants not to use fake packaged water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-water-bottle-firm-busted/article34096316.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Renomination||C. Jaisankar   Sitting MLAs who have been denied ticket by the AIADMK are still trying to reach out to the leadership, hoping to draw attention to their plight. When Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami arrived at the Tiruchi airport on Sunday, Parameswari Murugan, sitting MLA of the Mannachanallur constituency in Tiruchi, who was denied renomination, was not able to control her emotions and started shedding tears. Mr. Palaniswami consoled her and asked her to remain patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renomination/article34096186.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 norms violators to be fined||The district administration has decided to stringently enforce the COVID-19 norms and punish the violators by slapping on-the-spot fine of Rs. 200. In a statement, Collector Vishnu said the State ghovernment had formulated a list of guidelines for conducting religious functions, political meetings, cultural events etc. in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak across the country. Since wearing masks and ensuring physical distancing while visiting public places had been made mandatory and spitting in public places prohibited, violation of these instructions would attract hefty fine. Accordingly, those who refuse to wear mask while visiting public places, eateries, restaurants, supermarkets, shopping malls and while working in private and the government offices would be fined Rs. 200. Moreover, legal action would be taken against those who show scant respect for COVID-19 protocol, which were formulated to contain the spread of the viral infection. The public should scrupulously follow the norms and help the administration to contain COVID-19, he said. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said the inspection teams deployed across Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai would conduct surprise checks in any place of their choice and slap fine on the violators. Business establishments that failed to enforce the COVID-19 norms on their premises would have to face closure until further orders, he warned. In Thoothukudi, the Corporation officials visited the supermarkets and the shopping malls on Wednesday to tell the workers there to strictly enforce COVID-19 norms on their premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-norms-violators-to-be-fined/article34096665.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Filing of nominations gathers momentum in southern districts||With the last date for filing of nominations for the Assembly polls nearing, more candidates, especially contestants of major political parties filed their nominations on Wednesday. In Radhapuram, DMK candidate M. Appavu, who lost the 2016 Assembly election by 49 votes and is waging a battle in the Supreme Court to revoke the stay on declaring results of recounting of votes, filed his nomination to Returning Officer Usha. “The people will render justice to me to heal the wounds I’ve sustained,” he said and took out a rally from his native place of Lebbaikudiyiruppu near Kaavalkinaru to Radhapuram to file the nomination. Venus Veera Arasu, who contested the 2001 Assembly poll in Radhapuram constituency as DMK candidate, filed his nomination on Wednesday as an independent candidate after he was denied ticket this time. “I’ve done a lot to the people, who want me to contest this election. I’ve filed the nomination and I will win this time,” said Mr. Venus, who was previously the DMK’s farmers’ wing’s Tirunelveli district organiser. DMK candidate for Tirunelveli Assembly constituency A.L.S. Lakshmanan, the sitting MLA of the segment, filed his nomination to Returning Officer Sivakrishnamurthy. “I’ve utilised the MLA constituency development fund in 43 village panchayats in my constituency. The manifesto of the DMK will ensure my victory by a margin of over 30,000 votes,” he said. DMK’s Tirunelveli central district secretary and party’s candidate for Palayamkottai constituency M. Abdul Wahab, independent candidate K.S. Rasool Maideen filed their nominations to Returning Officer and Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan. Makkal Neethi Maiyam candidate for Palayamkottai D. Premnath, a physician, filed his nomination and Naam Thamizhar Katchi candidate for Ambasamudram M. Shenbagavalli filed her nomination. As the ‘dummy candidate’ for DMK candidate for Ambasamudram constituency R. Avudaiyappan’s son A. Prabaharan filed his nomination. The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Nanguneri constituency S. Paramasiva Ayyappan, who was expelled from the party recently and readmitted within 48 hours to be fielded as the party candidate in this rain-shadow region, filed his nomination to Returning Officer Kuzhanthaisamy. Naam Thamizhar Katchi’s P. Veerapandi also filed his nomination for this segment. In all, 25 nominations (Tirunelveli – 8, Ambasamudram – 3, Palayamkottai – 5, Nanguneri – 4 and Radhapuram – 5 - were received in Tirunelveli district. So far, 55 nominations) have been received in the district since March 12. AIADMK’s candidate for Sankarankovil (reserved) segment and Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi filed her nomination in a bid to seek re-election from this backward constituency. DMK candidate for this constituency Raja, Naam Thamizhar Katchi candidate Mahendrakumari and Bhajujan Dravida Party candidate M. Balamurugesan also filed the nomination. For Vasudevanallur (reserved) constituency, AIADMK candidate and sitting MLA A. Manoharan filed the nomination. MDMK’s T. Sadhan Thirumalaikumar, who has been fielded in Vasudevanallur segment in DMK ticket, also filed the nomination. In Kadayanallur, S. Rajaram of New Generation People’s Party, M. Muthulakshmi of Naam Thamizhar Katchi and independents R. Raja Ponnusamy, T. Avaniraja, K. Maridurai Pandian and P. Raji filed the nominations. For Tenkasi segment, R. Ramesh, an independent, K. Murugan of Anna Dravidar Kazhagam and S. Mohamed of AMMK filed the nominations. Sitting MLA of Alangulam and DMK candidate for this segment Poongothai Aladi Aruna and independent candidate T. Poolpandi filed their nominations for this constituency. In Tenkasi district, 23 nominations were received on Wednesday. In Kanniyakumari district, AIADMK candidate D. John Thankam, Naam Thamizhar candidate S. Seelan, AMMK candidate D. Jenkins and independent candidate H. Arulmani filed their nominations for Padmanabhapuram constituency. For the Colachel constituency, S.M. Antonymuthu filed his nomination as the candidate of CPI (ML) and G. Ammu Anto of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and L. Gandhi and C. Gandhiraj, both independents, filed the nominations for Nagercoil constituency. Naam Thamizhar Katchi candidate H. Peter and independent candidate L. Berila filed their nominations for Killiyoor constituency while AMMK candidate for Kanniyakumari segment T. Periyasamy filed the nomination. For Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll R. Anetter Allwyn of Naam Thamizhar Katchi and independent candidates V. Dennison of Keezhavaravilai near Palliyaadi and V. Rajiv from Thisaiyanvilai in Tirunelveli district filed his nomination. Accompanied by MP Kanimozhi, DMK candidate for Tiruchendur Anita R. Radhakrishnan filed his nomination for Tiruchendur constituency to Returning Officer Dhanapriya. Candidates for Thoothukudi Assembly segment Geetha Jeevan of DMK, S.D.R. Vijayaseelan of Tamil Maanil Congress and Velraj of Naam Thamizhar Katchi filed their nominations. DMK candidate for Ottapidaaram reserved constituency Shanmugaiah, who won the by-election held in 2019 and Congress candidate for Srivaikundam segment Oorvasi S. Amirtharaj filed their nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filing-of-nominations-gathers-momentum-in-southern-districts/article34096673.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Use C-Vigil app to file complaints, students told||Collector V. Vishnu has appealed to the younger generation to use C-Vigil App to alert the officials about the poll code violations, if any, whenever they happen to encounter such illegal activities. Participating in a C-Vigil App awareness programme held in St. John’s College in Palayamkottai on Wednesday, Mr. Vishnu said democracy of the country could be strengthened only through the active participation of voters of India housing 81.40 crore voters, which is larger than the cumulative population of European countries. Over 1.50 crore polling personnel – right from the Village Administrative Officers to the Collectors – were involved in this massive exercise besides the round-the-clock work by the police and the paramilitary forces. Since the elections should be conducted in free and fair manner, the Election Commission of India had introduced the C-Vigil App to empower the public to lodge complaints or alert the officials concerned in case of poll code violations in their areas. “The identity of the complainants will be protected at any cost and hence there is no need for fear or hesitation to inform the officials about poll code violations. The students should encourage their neighbours, friends and the relatives to raise their voice against the model code violations by sending their complaints to the officials through C-Vigil App. On receiving the complaints through this App, appropriate remedy will be found within next 100 minutes,” said Mr. Vishnu while appealing to the young voters to exercise their franchise without fail. He also appealed to the students to create awareness about C-Vigil App through Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram so as to weed-out all poll code violations. The Collector administered voters’ awareness pledge to the students and the staff of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-c-vigil-app-to-file-complaints/article34096348.ece
18 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||56 nominations filed in Tiruppur||Tiruppur district saw 56 nominations being filed across its eight Assembly constituencies on Wednesday, the fourth day of filing nominations. Officials said that out of the 23 nominations filed for Kangeyam Assembly constituency, 21 were from members of the PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee.  They filed nominations at the Kangeyam taluk office demanding adequate release of water to the Vellakoil branch canal under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project. The remaining two nominations were that of Naam Tamilar Katchi candidate K. Sivanantham and an Independent candidate in Kangeyam, according to the officials. Meanwhile, three nominees of the DMK front filed their nomination papers on Wednesday. M. Ravi aka Subramanian (CPI), Kayalvizhi Selvaraj (DMK) and K. Thennarasu (Congress) filed nominations for Tiruppur North, Dharapuram (Reserved) and Udumalpet constituencies respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-nominations-filed-in-tiruppur/article34096254.ece
18 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, NTK nominees file papers||Kappachi D. Vinoth, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)’s nominee for Coonoor Assembly constituency, filed his papers with the Returning Officer on Wednesday. However, his filing of nomination papers did not go as smoothly as expected, as a few AIADMK members were fined for not adhering to COVID-19 safety measures. Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) nominee M. Lavanya, and Independent nominee A. Basha also filed their papers in Coonoor. S. Suresh Babu, Makkal Needhi Maiam nominee for Udhagamandalam constituency, also filed his papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-ntk-nominees-file-papers/article34096258.ece
18 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Women are at the forefront in the battle against COVID-19’||There are no obstacles that can prevent women from accomplishing great things in their respective fields, B. Jothi Nirmalasamy, managing director, Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women said here on Wednesday. While speaking at the International Women’s Day Celebration organised by Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore, held virtually, she said it is essential to spread awareness about rights and gender equality. “Women are at the forefront in the battle against COVID-19 as frontline workers — doctors and caregivers. They have put in tremendous efforts in handling the pandemic and the world has been looking at women as to how they are efficiently handling this pandemic,” she said. Ms. Nirmalasamy spoke about how important it is to make sure that women understand their right to education, right to property and freedom from violence, according to a press release. “There are many laws and acts for their rights which women should be aware of,” she noted. G.V. Selvam, vice president, VIT, said throughout the life, women play a huge role donning the role of a mother, sister, wife and daughter and act as a guiding force in a family. “An empowered woman has a sense of self confidence, greater presence of mind, is easily approachable and handles tough situations effectively,” he said. G. Viswanathan, chancellor, VIT, said while the country has made progress in education for women, it is still not adequate. “We need to provide education to more girls in schools. Unless we give them equal opportunity in power, women cannot be empowered and they cannot come up in life,” he added. Students who won in various competitions were honoured during the event. K. Sathiyanarayanan, registrar, Amit B. Mahindrakar, director, students welfare, VIT, Vellore, faculty, staff and students participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-are-at-the-forefront-in-the-battle-against-covid-19/article34096678.ece
18 March 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Government school closed after teacher tests positive||Authorities closed the Government Model Girls Higher Secondary School in Villupuram on Wednesday, after a teacher tested positive for COVID-19. An official of the Education Department said that the teacher was deputed to handle students of two classes. On information, a Health Department team took samples from about 80 students of the two classes. The test results are awaited. The premises has been sanitised and the school will reopen on Monday. The school has a total strength of 3,500 students. Of these, as many as 1,850 students of Classes IX to XII have been attending classes. The official said that all precautionary measures had been taken and all 74 teachers attached to the school were already vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-closed-after-teacher-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34096632.ece
18 March 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||86 nominations filed in three districts||As many as 27 candidates filed nominations for contesting the election in their respective Assembly constituencies in the district on Wednesday. The candidates who filed their papers included sitting DMK MLA R. Masilamani, contesting from Mailam, and the party’s ally Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi’s candidate Vanni Arasu, who filed his papers from the Vanur (reserved) Assembly segment. A. Gowtham Sagar of the AMMK and Anbil Poyyamozhi of Makkal Needhi Maiam, who are contesting from Gingee and Tindivanam (reserved) respectively, also filed their nomination papers. V.A.T. Kalivarthan of the BJP and L. Venkatesan of the DMDK, contesting from Thirukoilur Assembly constituency, also filed their papers on Wednesday. Kallakurichi seat As many as 22 nominations were filed in the district on Wednesday. Prominent among those who filed their nominations included Congress candidate K.I. Manirathnam. He filed his papers from the Kallakurichi (reserved) Assembly segment. N. Vijayakumar of the DMDK, who is contesting from Kallakurichi, also filed his papers. As many as 37 nominations were filed in Cuddalore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/86-nominations-filed-in-three-districts/article34096633.ece
18 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Madurai||S. Sundar   Industrialist M. Thangaraj had distributed essentials to over 60,000 families in the Virudhunagar Assembly constituency during the COVID-19 lockdown. However, while filing his nomination on behalf of the AMMK on Wednesday, he realised that he had forgotten to bring Rs. 10,000 meant for deposit. Journalists on duty immediately mobilised money from among themselves to help the candidate pay the deposit on time to the Returning Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai/article34096192.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees surge in fresh cases||After a gap of nearly three months, the daily caseload of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district crossed the 100 mark on Wednesday. The last time the district reported more than 100 cases a day was on December 22, 2020. Ten days ago, on March 7, the district’s daily caseload stood at 49. On Tuesday, 81 persons tested positive in the district. G. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that negligence in following safety measures was the main reason behind the sudden spike in the number of new cases. “Gatherings such as in marriages, tours, family functions, patient visits, etc., are becoming spreaders of the disease. Also, people are not wearing mask, and maintaining physical distancing,” he said. According to the official, earlier only one or two persons in a family were infected by COVID-19. But now the whole family is getting infected due to negligence. The situation further aggravates when relatives and friends visit them. He advised people who are eligible for phase II vaccination to receive them without fail. The Health Department fears that other forms of gatherings as in the case of places of worship and public meetings could become super spreaders of the disease. Tiruppur district reported 22 new cases on Wednesday, which took the overall tally to 18,728. No deaths were reported. As many as 18,289 patients have recovered and 215 were active cases in the district. On Wednesday, 15 persons from the district were discharged after recovery from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, 10 persons tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,465. A total of 63 persons are under treatment. Erode district reported 12 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,017. While 11 persons were discharged, 120 persons continue to be under treatment. Thirteen positive cases were reported in Salem. As per the bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, seven cases were reported. Three patients have returned from Karur, Erode and Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-surge-in-fresh-cases/article34096255.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure key issue in border town||Perched on an elevated topography of 3,000 ft, the border town of Hosur is a tale of transformation since the State’s first industrial estates found home here in the 1970s to its present bid for the status of a satellite town to Bengaluru – gently balancing the aspirations of an upwardly mobile white collar workforce and a precarious industrial and farm workforce. It is perhaps the shared border with Karnataka and its infectious aura for the national political parties that Hosur’s electoral history lends an image of a constituency with a general inclination to the national parties. The Congress has won the seat steadily from 1977, except in 1996. But, that spell was broken in 2016, when the AIADMK, became the first Dravidian party to win with the candidacy of P. Balakrishna Reddy. The constituency was duly rewarded with a ministership to Mr. Reddy, which however was vacated upon his conviction (for rioting) and disqualification three years later in 2019. Though brief, for a section of the town’s urban populace, Mr. Reddy’s ministership gave vent to grievances and demands. For instance, the MSME sector, a strident critique of the BJP on GST, believes the AIADMK has enabled climate for the industry here. “The industry’s access to the government had vastly improved under the AIADMK. The introduction of single window clearances and deemed approvals for land conversion; reduction of subleasing taxes and mortgage of title deeds interest, and raise in the cap of capital expenditure subsidies – have been a shot in the arm for the industry,” says K. Velmurugan, president, Hosur Small and Tiny Industries Association. The grassroots presence of the BJP’s ideological mentor RSS is strong in neighbouring Thally and some parts of Hosur. Yet, BJP has not won an election here. The BJP candidate ranked fourth, falling behind an independent candidate in the 2011 elections. Nevertheless, Hosur continues to remain in the itinerary of the BJP and its sister organisations, with an expanding cadre base. Infrastructure is a common trope on the grievance list. For an upwardly mobile town’s citizenry, there is an acute disconnect between the town’s potential and the actual. The town’s cosmopolitanism is not matched by the infrastructure, says Aadhavan Deetchanya, Hosur resident, and general secretary, Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artists Association. “There is no community space accessible to all sections, and the steady growth of real estate has also eaten into public commons,” says Mr. Deetchanya. Infrastructure not commensurate with the growth of the town, and its industry; lack of housing facilities for both the dependent labour force and upper echelons of the industry, lack of recreational facilities and cultural space, and chocked water bodies and industrial dump in them are other issues. Absence of direct train to Chennai and demand for extension of the Bengaluru metro project to Hosur also highlighted. In this milieu, the AIADMK has fielded S. Jyothi Balakrishna Reddy, spouse of former Animal Husbandry and Sports Minister P. Balakrishna Reddy. Having cut her teeth already in the by-election in 2019, when she lost to DMK’s S.A. Sathya, Ms. Reddy has been given the ticket second time. Ms. Reddy is saddled with the mixed baggage associated with the name of her husband. Mr. Reddy’s steady rise from municipal chairman to Minister and now fielding his wife upon his conviction, has left discontent among the competing local party aspirants. DMK has fielded Y. Prakash, the outgoing MLA of Thally, as its candidate in Hosur after ceding that seat to the CPI. Seen as an outsider, and fielded overlooking local DMK heavyweights, Mr. Prakash would have to win over the local DMK solidarities. It is the DMK’s hope that he would act to countervail the Reddy vote bank. However, the AMMK has field M. Mare Gowdu, another Gowda. Makkal Needhi Maiam has fielded S. Masood. Hosur has a significant Muslim population and Scheduled Caste population – both voter sections unlikely to swing to the AIADMK-BJP alliance. There are villages, where caste composition of SCs, Gowdas and Reddies are equally distributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infrastructure-key-issue-in-border-town/article34096359.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t treat farmers as vote bank’||The Joint Action Council (JAC) of Tamil Nadu Farmers Associations comprising farmers’ organisations has called upon political parties to evolve a long-term plan to increase investment in agriculture sector and improve the socio-economic status of farmers rather than eyeing them as a vote bank and coming up with short-term assistance. The council, after a meeting to discuss the current scenario in the sector and the Assembly election, regretted that though there was surplus food production in the country, individual farmers were facing financial distress. The per capita income of farmers in the country was put at Rs. 6,426 in 2014 and it was a national shame. It was also highly doubtful whether it had increased since then. Businessmen or industrialists, when faced with loss of income or financial distress, could close down their establishments. But farmers, on the other hand, did not do so and continued to invest and toil in their field. Hence, the government was duty-bound to extend all assistance to them in terms of pricing and marketing their produce. “Political parties which aspire to capture power in the state should pay attention to the issues facing the sector. They usually view the farming community just as a vote bank and do not have a long term plan to improve farmers livelihood and their socio economic condition. Rather than implementing schemes to satisfy a pocket of the people with an eye on the elections,there should be proper planning so as to relieve farmers from the immediate financial distress and improve their socio economic status in the long term ,” said D.Gurusamy, coordinator of the JAC, briefing media persons along with the senior farmers leaders such as Mahadhanapuram V.Rajaram and Gandhipithan of the Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association and G.S. Dhanapathy of Farmers Forum of India. Representatives of various other farmers’ organisations also participated in the meeting.  ‘Increase investment’ The JAC also called upon the government to increase public investment in agriculture and to strengthen marketing infrastructure. The Prime Minister had promised steps to double the income of farmers by 2022; but there had been no action plan or scheme to achieve the goal. On the contrary, the three new farm laws were contradictory and left farmers in no man’s land. The government should evolve a long-term perspective to strengthen agriculture sector and increase the income-level of farmers. The minimum support price of farm produce should provide for 50% profit for farmers over and above the cost of production. There must be a cohesive policy on river water management and movement of agriculture produce. The common procurement and public distribution system should aim to promote small land holders and at least 30% of the procurement should be from those with small land holdings. Arguing that subsidy was not a freebie, the JAC said the credit assistance scheme was an investment to maintain agriculture production and the price levels on a par with the purchasing capacity of the people. The government had a duty to assist farmers to ensure food security, Mr. Gurusamy said. The Cauvery-Gundar intra-State river link project should be pursued with vigour by the incoming government and the project should be implemented expeditiously, the JAC demanded. Mr. Gurusamy said a delegation of JAC members planned to meet the next Chief Minister after the election and submit their recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-treat-farmers-as-vote-bank-says-jac/article34096306.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK candidate booked for code violation||AIADMK candidate for Srirangam Assembly constituency Ku. Pa. Krishnan has been booked for violating the model code of conduct while filing his nomination here on Monday. Mr. Krishnan, a former Minister, submitted his papers at the taluk office in Srirangam. The case against Mr. Krishnan and a few others was registered on a complaint preferred by Marudhudurai, who heads a video surveillance team constituted to enforce the model code of conduct ahead of the election. Charges Police sources said the charge against Mr. Krishnan was that he brought along party workers over and above the number permitted thereby violating the poll code and preventing a public servant from discharging his duty. A case has been registered under IPC Sections including 143 (unlawful assembly) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-candidate-booked-for-code-violation/article34096314.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Penury doesn’t deter him from service||The constituency has a large concentration of marginal farmers and landless daily-wage labourers. “If elected, I will strive to ensure that the benefits of government schemes reach these labourers, many of whom live on poramboke and temple lands. I will strive to get house site pattas for them,” he says. The lack of job opportunities in the constituency is another concern for him. "Many youngsters migrate to other districts for jobs. I will explore the feasibility of establishing a paper manufacturing unit as paddy straw is abundant here," he adds. Since the constituency is economically, socially and educationally backward, he plans to consult experts to evolve plans for the overall development of the region and prevent seawater intrusion. He says he will work on the preservation of mangrove forests in the Muthupet lagoon and tourism promotion in the region. Mr. Marimuthu, who filed his nomination on Wednesday, has declared in his affidavit that his wife owns the ancestral house where the family lives, and 75 cents of agricultural land, totally valued at Rs. 1.75 lakh. He has Rs. 3,000 in hand and Rs. 58,000 in his bank account. His wife has Rs. 1,000 in hand and Rs. 3,000 in her bank account. His wife and daughter own about three sovereigns of gold jewellery. Though Thiruthuraipoondi is a Communist heartland and candidates of the Left parties have won here 11 times since 1962, the CPI, while contesting as part of the Makkal Nala Kootani, lost the seat to the DMK in 2016. With his rich on-field experience, Mr. Marimuthu is confident of restoring the party’s pride in the constituency this time around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/penury-doesnt-deter-him-from-service/article34096263.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Euphoria over formation of new district evaporates in Mayiladuthurai||An erosion in the sense of euphoria among locals over formation of Mayiladuthurai district by the AIADMK government towards the end of its tenure seems palpable, throwing up indications that this factor may not influence the voting pattern in the Assembly election. The new district encompassing Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi and Poompuhar Assembly segments came into being last December, but while there was no delay in creating a new revenue division with Sirkazhi as headquarters, the demand of the people for creation of new taluks was not addressed. For instance, there was a pressing need for creation of a taluk for the convenience of residents in Kollidam and surroundings, said Govindaraju, a resident of Sirkazhi. Though the district came into being, no commitment was given to the demand of locals for a government medical college and other major projects including a new bus stand befitting the district status and a ring road. The residents in Mayiladuthurai town, in fact, are seething with anger over leakages in underground drainage pipelines, C. Senthilvel, president of Mayiladuthurai Chamber of Commerce, said. Right now, the formation of the new district has come as a major relief to mid-level government officials who earlier had to travel nearly 70 km to the district headquarters to attend official meetings and other duty-related tasks. To a substantial extent, the public have also benefitted since the need for them to travel to Nagapattinam to obtain important certifications from the top-level officials was obviated “Nevertheless, the sense of euphoria over formation of the new district seems to have completely evaporated. Solutions to many issues are what the public look for,” a professor of a college in Mayiladuthurai said. According to K. Rajendran, advocate and a senior functionary of BJP, the positive impact of formation of the new district in the voting pattern is likely to a limited extent in Poompuhar and Sirkazhi constituencies where the ruling party has retained the sitting MLAs as its candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/euphoria-over-formation-of-new-district-evaporates-in-mayiladuthurai/article34096308.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salai Road overbridge closed for repairs||The road overbridge on Salai Road is closed to traffic due to repair work and road expansion undertaken by Tiruchi Corporation. The structure developed cracks and, in August last, a portion of the road caved in after heavy rainfall. It was then closed for heavy vehicles. Soon after the incident, the civic body made temporary arrangements. Sand bags were stacked up to provide stability and barricades erected to stop heavy vehicle traffic such as buses and trucks from plying on the bridge. Heavy sand erosion was detected along the parapet and the road caved in to about 50 feet, officials said. The road was fully closed for traffic on Wednesday as excavation work began. “We noticed that there was loose sand that was still falling and could cause harm if vehicles continued to ply on the road. Until work is completed, only two-wheelers will be allowed on the stretch and four-wheelers must take a detour,” a senior corporation official said. The work to widen and strengthen the bridge will be completed in a month, the official said. City traffic police, meanwhile, have requested vehicles to use Karur Bypass Road, Chathram Bus Stand, Anna Statue and Periyasamy Towers roads to reach Bazaar area until the work is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salai-road-overbridge-closed-for-repairs/article34096313.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Penury doesn’t deter him from public service||The lack of job opportunities in the constituency is another concern for him. “Many youngsters migrate to other districts for jobs. I will explore the feasibility of establishing a paper manufacturing unit as paddy straw is abundant here,” he adds. Since the constituency is economically, socially and educationally backward, he plans to consult experts to evolve plans for the overall development of the region and prevent seawater intrusion. He says he will work on the preservation of mangrove forests in the Muthupet lagoon and tourism promotion in the region. Mr. Marimuthu, who filed his nomination on Wednesday, has declared in his affidavit that his wife owns the ancestral house where the family lives, and 75 cents of agricultural land, totally valued at Rs. 1.75 lakh. He has Rs. 3,000 in hand and Rs. 58,000 in his bank account. His wife has Rs. 1,000 in hand and Rs. 3,000 in her bank account. His wife and daughter own about three sovereigns of gold jewellery. Though Thiruthuraipoondi is a Communist heartland and candidates of the Left parties have won here 11 times since 1962, the CPI, while contesting as part of the Makkal Nala Kootani, lost the seat to the DMK in 2016. With his rich on-field experience, Mr. Marimuthu is confident of restoring the party’s pride in the constituency this time around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/penury-doesnt-deter-him-from-public-service/article34096321.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rly workshop bags award||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi has bagged ‘Innovation Award’ from the Railway Board for development and implementation of Internet of Things-based energy management and condition monitoring system for energy-intensive machines and substation low-tension panels. A cash award of Rs. 1.5 lakh has been sanctioned by the board for the workshop, which participated in the ‘Suggestion Scheme for Best Innovation in Indian Railway’ organised by E&R Directorate of the Railway Board for 2019-20. The workshop bagged the first prize jointly with North-East Railway and was sanctioned the cash award as well. A press release from the workshop said IoT-based energy management and condition monitoring system was not only cost-effective but also prevented dependency on supplier for software updation and inclusion of additional nodes. It could also be installed in on board equipment of carriages and locomotives besides in machineries and plants to assess their healthiness. Being an energy management system and GreenCo (Gold-rated) certified workshop necessitated it to monitor electrical energy consumption up to micro level. As the cost of the IoT-based system available in the open market was exorbitant, the workshop decided to develop its own system using the technical know-how of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rly-workshop-bags-award/article34096329.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector issues warning to freight vans||Collector and District Election Officer P. Sri Venkada Priya on Wednesday warned against transporting the general public in freight vehicles to public meetings and campaigns. Stern action would be initiated through the Transport Department and the police against the owner of the freight vehicle and its driver for violation. The licence of the drive would be suspended. The vehicle would be seized and handed over to the nearest police station. Passenger vehicles with permits alone should be used for bringing the general public for such meetings and campaigns, the Collector said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-issues-warning-to-freight-vans/article34096315.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 127.64 cr.||worth seizures, made in Tamil Nadu for violation of the model code of conduct till Tuesday, is the highest among the five States that are now facing Assembly elections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-12764-cr/article34096195.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE TODAY||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: ‘ Right to Vote’ signature campaign-voter awareness campaign, 10.30 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Webinar, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34096251.ece
18 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bus services resume||Buses on most routes between Karnataka and Maharashtra that had been disrupted for a few days resumed by Wednesday. This follows talks between senior police officers of both States and officers of the respective Transport Departments, held over two days. While some officers from Belagavi visited Kolhapur, those from Kolhapur visited Belagavi, senior officers said. Bus services were stopped after Kannada and Marathi groups targeted shops and vehicles of the respective States, following differences over use of language on boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-services-resume/article34096376.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||To improve air quality, BBMP turns to fountains||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has come up with a rather novel plan to combat air pollution in the city. It has proposed to set up water fountains at 42 busy junctions across the city, where the PCU (passenger car unit) is more than 3,000. Bengaluru is no exception to rising air pollution levels: The World Air Quality Report, 2020, compiled by IQAir, found that despite an average 15.6% dip in PM 2.5 levels, the pollutant levels were above the WHO prescribed limits. But despite scepticism from scientists, the civic body is convinced that the fountains will help ease the problem. Studies have shown that water dispersion in the air helps bring down dust, thereby improve air quality, said a senior civic official. “The theme of the 15th Finance Commission is reduction of air pollution. This prompted us to come up with this plan, as the fountains will help reduce pollution levels and combat heat island phenomenon at least at these busy junctions. Only treated water will be used,” the official added. One fountain has already been installed at Windsor Square, on a pilot basis, as part of the ‘Make In India’ feature. The civic body is looking at an expenditure of Rs. 25 crore in setting up the fountains across the city. “The expenditure on each fountain will range from Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 120 lakh, depending on the extent of work to be taken up for junction improvement,” the official said and added that the civic body had floated tenders for Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) and was looking at completing the installations by July this year. The water fountains will be an additional feature of the proposed junction improvements. However, not all scientists and experts are convinced of the efficacy of BBMP’s fountains. T.V. Ramachandra from Centre for Sustainable Technologies, Indian Institute of Science, said the project seemed ill-conceived. “Apart from improving aesthetics, the water fountains will not help in any other way. Also, if treated water is being used, the BBMP must make sure that it is free of pathogens. If not, pathogens will be released in the air, which can be dangerous,” he said. Pratima Singh, air pollution domain expert, CSTEP, said the fountains may help bring down dust particles at the junctions, but for just a few hours. This cannot be a long-term, effective solution, she said. An urban design expert questioned the location of fountains. “There are no circles left in the city; where will these water fountains be installed then?” he asked, and also sought to know if there was any scientific proof to show that the installation of water features in traffic junctions would reduce air pollution. “In a water scarce city, this is not a bright idea.”  Pratima Singh, air pollution domain expert, CSTEP: Fountains may help bring down dust particles at junctions, but for just a few hours. This cannot be a long-term, effective solution Urban design expert: There are no circles left in the city; where will these water fountains be installed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/to-improve-air-quality-bbmp-turns-to-fountains/article34096134.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre withdraws textile park proposal||The Centre has withdrawn its proposal on setting up a textile park in Kalaburagi owing to poor response from investors, Minister for Handloom and Textiles Shrimant B. Patil informed the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday. In a reply to Priyank Kharge of the Congress during the Question Hour, Mr. Patil said the proposal was mooted about a decade ago. The State government requested the Centre to continue the work on the park but the latter rejected the request and asked the State to refund Rs. 1.85 crore, which was released for infrastructure work at the textile park. A few days ago, Mr. Patil said he met Union Textile Minister Smriti Irani and sought the Centre’s support in establishment of the park. Ms. Irani is yet to respond to the State’s request. Mr. Patil said many subsidies and incentives had been offered to investors under the new textile policy of the State government. Mr. Kharge urged the government to establish a special purpose vehicle (SPV) and invest in it to set up the park. In reply to a question from Siddu Savadi (BJP), Mr. Patil said the Finance Department had rejected the department’s proposal to purchase six lakh saris from powerloom weavers who were in distress owing to the pandemic. It had been proposed to buy six lakh saris for distribution to COVID-19 frontline workers.  Minister Shrimant B. Patil also said the Finance Dept. had rejected the proposal to purchase six lakh saris from powerloom weavers who were in distress owing to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-withdraws-textile-park-proposal/article34096150.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yatnal smells ‘15% cut’ scam in Shivamogga airport work||Senior BJP member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Wednesday claimed that he smelt a “15% cut” scam in the execution of airport works in Shivamogga, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s home district, and alleged that the State government has been discriminating in allocation of funds to the airport in Vijayapura. During the Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly, Mr. Yatnal said the government had given administrative approval for Rs. 383 crore to the airport in Shivamogga and only Rs. 220 crore to the airport in Vijayapura. He alleged that the Public Works Department escalated the cost of the airport in Shivamogga by increasing the allocation above 15% of the tender to “get cut in the execution of works”. Moreover, the airport in Shivamogga would get facilities such as cargo transport, night landing, and 350-metre runway for landing Boeing and other big aeroplanes round the clock and these have been denied to the Vijayapura airport, Mr. Yatnal said. The airport in Vijayapura required cargo transport facilities since the district exports horticultural produce such as grapes and pomegranates, said Mr. Yatnal, who has been critical on many fronts on the style of functioning of the Chief Minister. More tourists visit Vijayapura and Bagalkot than Shivamogga since the former two districts have historical places such as Badami and Gol Gumbaz. “Why this discrimination in provision of facilities and allocation of funds?” Mr. Yatnal asked and urged the government to develop the airport in Vijayapura on par with the airport in Shivamogga. Minister for Infrastructure Anand Singh said the cost of the airport in Shivamogga escalated due to shifting of high tension electricity lines. The government will not discriminate in providing facilities between airports in the State, he said.  BJP member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said the government had given administrative approval for Rs. 383 crore to the airport in Shivamogga and only Rs. 220 crore to the airport in Vijayapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnal-smells-15-cut-scam-in-shivamogga-airport-work/article34096152.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro services between Mysuru Road, Majestic to be suspended||Namma Metro commuters who travel from Mysuru Road station to Majestic will have to look for an alternative mode of transport for eight days from March 21 onwards. To facilitate the pre-commissioning of the extended Purple Line from Mysuru Road to Kengeri, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has decided to suspend services from March 21 to March 28. However, services from Majestic to Baiyappanahalli will run as usual. In a press release, BMRCL stated that normal train services on the entire Purple Line from Mysuru Road to Baiyappanahalli will resume at 7 a.m on March 29. Train services on the Green Line from Nagasandra and Silk Institute Stations will run as per schedule. BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth told The Hindu that as part of pre-commissioning work on the extended Purple line, charging of the third rail system has already begun from Mysuru Road towards Nayandahalli. “After traction charging and related testing works, we are going to take up modification works to the signalling system of Magadi Road and Mysuru Road. To carry this out, we have to suspend metro services till Majestic,” said Mr. Seth. The official added that the trial run of trains on the new 7.5 km track from Mysuru Road to Kengeri is likely to start by April 10. Thereafter, BMRCL will approach the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for safety inspections. Officials are hoping to open the line for commercial operations in June. The elevated line between Kengeri and Mysuru Road stations has stations at Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnana Bharati, Pattanagere, and Mailasandra. The BMRCL is also building a station beyond Kengeri at Challaghatta along with a new depot. Under phase II of Namma Metro project, the metro rail corporation started commercial operations on the extended Green Line on Kanakapura Road from Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute on January 15, 2021. At present, a total of 49 km of Namma Metro line is operational. Once the extended metro line on Mysuru Road is commissioned, Bengaluru will have operational metro lines of over 56km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-services-between-mysuru-road-majestic-to-be-suspended/article34096140.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 COVID Care Centres to be reopened||Amidst concerns over the rising number of COVID-19 cases over the last fortnight, the city’s civic body is gearing up for what could well be a second wave. Apart from making arrangements to handle a high caseload and ensure that hospital beds are available, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has decided to reopen three COVID Care Centres in Bengaluru. These centres were set up and made operational when the caseload peaked between May and September last year. They were later shut down when the number of new cases started to decline. The centres identified to be reopened are indoor stadium, Koramangala and Haj Bhavan with 200 beds each, and HAL with 175 beds. Together the centres will have a capacity of 575 beds, and will be made operational again, Civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said. “A majority of the cases being reported in the city are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, where people don’t need hospitalisation. But some people may not have the facility to isolate themselves at home,” said Mr. Prasad, explaining the rationale behind re-opening the centres. “Going by our experience during the peak last year, a glut of such patients in hospitals creates a scarcity of beds which are needed by those who suffer from severe symptoms and are comorbid. To prevent this from repeating we are restarting these centres,” Mr. Prasad added. Relying on the lessons learned during the peak last year, the BBMP is ramping up testing, contact tracing, and vaccination drives, as well as monitoring the ambulances at its disposal. “Presently we have 120 ambulances at our disposal, which can be doubled in 24 hours,” said Mr. Prasad, pointing out that shortage of ambulances was also an issue last year. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban district recorded 786 new cases and three fatalities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-covid-care-centres-to-be-reopened/article34096144.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 tests breach two crore mark in State||Karnataka crossed another milestone in its pandemic-control measures with COVID-19 tests breaching the two crore mark on Wednesday. With 86,648 new samples tested in the last 24 hours, the total number of tests touched 2,00,08,072 on Wednesday. The State had tested over one crore samples from March last year, when the pandemic hit Karnataka, to November 21, 2020. With this, Karnataka is the third State in the country — after Uttar Pradesh and Bihar — that has tested over two crore samples. With this, the cumulative test positivity rate touched 4.81% on Wednesday. The State’s dependence on rapid antigen tests (RAT) reduced considerably with 79.4% of the total 2,00,08,072 tests conducted till date being molecular (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction — RT-PCR). RT-PCR testing is the gold standard test that has negligible chances of false negativity. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State COVID-19 task force, said there was a need to further ramp up testing not just to prevent the spread of infection but also to ensure early intervention in sick patients. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,275 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,63,614. Of these, 786 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. With four deaths, the toll rose to 12,407. As many as 6,55,162 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1. That apart, 1,49,151 people above 45 years with co-morbidities have been vaccinated. On Wednesday as many as 1,12,133 senior citizens and 26,532 people above 45 years with co-morbidities took the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-tests-breach-two-crore-mark-in-state/article34096161.ece
18 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Preparations on to recover excess 400 acres from NICE||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Wednesday told the Legislative Assembly that he held a meeting to look into the issue of taking back over 400 acres of excess land that is in possession of the Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises (NICE). Intervening during the debate on the State Budget, the Minister said: “We need to take back the 400 acres. I have held a meeting with Home and Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai in this regard.” Mr. Ashok maintained that there was no need for the Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway, which was to be built by NICE, as the existing Bengaluru-Mysuru highway was being widened and upgraded with the assistance of Rs. 7,000 crore from the Centre. The Minister’s reply came as a response to a suggestion by Shivalinge Gowda, JD(S) MLA, that it would be possible to save money equivalent of the monetary size of two State Budgets if the excess land acquired by NICE is taken back as per the recommendation of a legislature committee. The Minister also mooted the idea of bringing in a tougher legislation to act sternly against land sharks, especially those who have encroached on government land in and around Bengaluru. Senior JD(S) member A.T. Ramaswamy, who earlier headed a legislature panel on encroachment of government lands in and around Bengaluru, also said it was possible for the government to raise funds equivalent to the size of two State Budgets if the encroached government land in and around Bengaluru was recovered and auctioned. He alleged that Karnataka had become a heaven for land sharks who had set their eyes on government lands. Though the norms had barred regularisation of unauthorised cultivation on government lands within the radius of 18 km from BBMP, the authorities had regularised and allotted about 5,000 acres of land whose worth was not less than Rs. 50,000 crore even by a conservative estimate. He also called upon religious leaders and Kannada organisations to launch a struggle to protect government lands from land sharks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preparations-on-to-recover-excess-400-acres-from-nice/article34096153.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||33 manual scavengers died in State since 2015||As many as 33 persons have died while involved in manual scavenging in Karnataka since 2015, Minister B. Sriramulu said in the Council. He was replying to a question posed by Congress member B.K. Hariprasad, who also pointed that two persons died in Kalaburagi last month and another person committed suicide in Maddur. He said around 25,000 persons are involved in manual scavenging across the State. “Despite strict implementation of the Manual Scavenging Act and adoption of latest technology, deaths were still reported,” said the Minister. Mr. Hariprasad said a meagre Rs. 2 crore had been allocated for welfare of those involved in manual scavenging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/33-manual-scavengers-died-in-state-since-2015/article34096158.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks number of cases in eight CEN crimes police stations in city||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State government to give details of number of cases registered in the eight Cyber, Economic, and Narcotics (CEN) crimes police stations in the city and final reports submitted after completion of investigation. Also, the court directed the government to decide the hardware and software requirement of each CEN stations and find out whether required equipments were made available or not. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreenniwas Oka and Justice M.G. Shukure Kamal, passed the order while hearing a PIL petition by Sudha Katwa, a city-based advocate. The court also asked the government to examine whether staff available is adequate and what are the facilities extend to each CEN station. It was complained in the petition that CEN stations lack adequate staff, vehicle, equipment, and other infrastructure while pointing out that only 56 staff deployed for all the eight stations as against the required strength of 240.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-seeks-number-of-cases-in-eight-cen-crimes-police-stations-in-city/article34096136.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreign nationals held on charge of peddling drugs||The Central Crime Branch police have arrested two foreign nationals in separate incidents of drug peddling and recovered cocaine, and ecstasy pills worth Rs. 65 lakh from them. “The accused had come to the city on tourist visas but continued to stay on illegally and peddled drugs to make quick money,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). The accused, who hail from Nigeria, have been identified as Joseph Ndukwe Okafoo and Ozochukwe Mark Maurice Mbatugwa, both 38 years. The police conducted two separate raids on their residences in Sampigehalli where they were allegedly selling synthetic drugs to their contact. “They confessed to sourcing the drugs from their contacts in neighbouring metro cities. They have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and investigations are on to track down their network of contacts,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreign-nationals-held-on-charge-of-peddling-drugs/article34096145.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug bust: Police question Telugu actor Tanish||The Govindapura police on Wednesday questioned Telugu actor Tanish for several hours in connection with a drug case linked to a narcotics ring run by three African nationals. The police had recently busted the gang and recovered a large cache of narcotics worth about Rs. 4 crore. The accused were allegedly supplying drugs at parties. “Mr. Tanish’s name came up during the course of the investigation as one of the people who attended the parties,” said a senior police officer. The police had raided the residences of former Bigg Boss contestant Mastan Chandra, who was later arrested. They are also investigating Kannada film producer Shankare Gowda, who was questioned. According to sources, Mr. Gowda allegedly bought drugs from the peddlers for parties that Mr. Tanish had attended. Based on this information, the police summoned the actor and questioned him. “He will be summoned again as the questioning was incomplete,” said a senior police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-bust-police-question-telugu-actor-tanish/article34096146.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No restrictions on gatherings in open spaces||With the Election Commission having announced bypolls, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday said there would be no restrictions on large public/political gatherings in open spaces. However, the maximum number of people attending events in closed spaces had been limited to 200, he said. After participating in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with the Chief Ministers of various States, Mr. Yediyurappa said all those who attend public/political/religious and social gatherings should compulsorily wear masks, both in open and closed spaces. Replying to query, he said, “We know that lakhs of people congregate during elections and this cannot be avoided. This is common in the country. We have no restrictions for such gatherings in open spaces. But in closed spaces, not more than 200 can attend and this will be strictly enforced.” It may be recalled that the Health Department had recently issued a circular restricting the number of attendees in social, political, and religious gatherings to 500 in open spaces and 200 in closed spaces. For birthday parties/other celebrations, funerals/death ceremonies, the maximum number of attendees has been restricted to 100 in open spaces and 50 in closed spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-restrictions-on-gatherings-in-open-spaces/article34096159.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC gets new judge||Mohammed Ghouse Shukure Kamal took oath as an additional judge of the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday. Born on June 30, 1971, at Kodlipet in Kodagu district, Justice Kamal studied law at Vidyavardhaka Law College, Mysuru, and secured third rank in bachelor’s degree from University of Mysore. He has been practising as an advocate before various courts in Bengaluru since 1994.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-gets-new-judge/article34096149.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probationary period of trainee RTC employees reduced||The probationary period of trainee employees of Road Transport Corporations has been reduced from two years to one year. The new rule will come into effect from July 2021 and is applicable to all four corporations: KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC, and NWKRTC. An order was issued on Monday . In a press release, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said that with the reduction of the probationary period, the State government has fulfilled eight of the nine demands made by employees. One of the demands was that employees be paid as per the 6th Pay Commission recommendations. An internal committee is studying the issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probationary-period-of-trainee-rtc-employees-reduced/article34096137.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held on theft charge||The R.R. Nagar police have arrested a 21-year-old office assistant for allegedly stealing laptops and computer accessories worth Rs. 25 lakh from his employers. “The accused, identified as Venugopal, was an office assistant with an IT hardware firm involved in sales and services,” said a police officer. The police recovered 25 laptops, 21 monitors, 43 hard discs, 18 keyboards and 13 servers among other items from him. Venugopal had been employed for the past six years, and would steal one laptop or accessory at a time to avoid getting caught. The theft came to light when the firm recently shifted its offices from BEML Layout to R.R. Nagar. During an inventory of the hardware, the owner realised that many laptops, CPUs, and other similar items were missing. The police took up a case based on a complaint filed by the firm, and questioned Venugopal who allegedly confessed to the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-on-theft-charge/article34096141.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for house break-ins||The Nandini Layout police, on Wednesday, arrested two youths and recovered gold valuables worth Rs. 7.5 lakh from them on Wednesday. The accused, Nagesh (21) and Chandra (19), were caught last week moving suspiciously near a jewellery shop where they were allegedly trying to sell the stolen items. “A detailed enquiry led them to confess to multiple house break-ins,” said a police officer Nagesh and Chandra have been taken into police custody for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-house-break-ins/article34096142.ece
18 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPSE supplementary results announced||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has published the results of Diploma in Pre-School Education (DPSE) supplementary examination conducted by it during January 2021. The results are available on http://sslc.karnataka.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dpse-supplementary-exam-results-out/article34096148.ece
18 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man dead in road mishap||A person died and two suffered injuries as they fell off the two-wheeler they were travelling in near Prasadihalli Gate in Belur taluk on Tuesday afternoon. Girish, 26, of Thimmanahalli in Alur taluk, died while his two friends Ravi Kumar and Hemaraju suffered injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dead-in-road-mishap/article34096575.ece
18 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat on March 27||A Lok Adalat will be held in all courts of Hassan district on March 27, said B.K. Ravikanth, Senior Civil Judge and member of District Legal Services Authority. At a press conference in Hassan on Thursday, he said cases related to cheque bounce, bank recovery, traffic offences, and land issues, could be resolved amicably in the Lok Adalat. The petitioners could take part either personally or through advocates. “They should make better use of this opportunity.” Mr. Ravikanth said 72,881 cases were pending in the courts of Hassan district. The courts have identified the cases which could be taken up in the Lok Adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-on-march-27/article34096574.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AAP wants Infosys Hubballi campus to be functional||Taking exception to the delay in making the Infosys campus in Hubballi functional, Aam Admi Party (AAP) has sought the intervention of Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education and Information Technology C.N. Ashwath Narayan. A delegation of the AAP led by president of Dharwad district unit Santosh Naragund and others met Mr. Ashwath Narayan at Hubballi Airport and appealed to him to take the required steps to make the Infosys campus functional. Apprising the Minister of the facilities available on Infosys campus in Hubballi, Mr. Naragund told him that 43 acres of land acquired from farmers was given to Infosys eight years ago and the campus was ready three years ago. They said that in November 2020, AAP submitted a memorandum to him through Hubballi tahsildar regarding the delay in Infosys campus becoming functional in Hubballi. Subsequently, the Additional Chief Secretary directed Karnataka Biotechnology and Information Technology Services (KBITS) to look into the issue. Thereafter, the Managing Director of KBITS had written to vice-president (Head, Infrastructure) of Infosys Limited Neeladri Prasad on January 28, 2021 to take steps to begin operations on the company’s Hubballi campus. However, there had been no response from the company on the issue even after two months and the State government too has not issued any statement, Mr. Naragund told the Minister. Referring to the recent announcement made by Infosys regarding setting up a campus in Hyderabad with an investment of Rs. 2,500 crore to provide employment to 20,000 IT professionals, Mr. Naragund asked the Minister to intervene to make the already existing campus in Hubballi functional so that the government’s policy of “Beyond Bengaluru” did not remain just on paper. Later, speaking to presspersons, Mr. Ashwath Narayan said that he will definitely take up the matter with all those concerned. He said that task forces for promoting tier-2 and tier-3 cities were already being set up and for Dharwad too, a task force had been set up. He said that he would convene a meeting in Hubballi on all issues relating to IT and development of IT Park in Hubballi-Dharwad and others. Mr. Naragund told presspersons that they would pursue the matter with the department concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-wants-infosys-hubballi-campus-to-be-functional/article34096370.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. responded positively to demand for Jain Vihardham, development council’||National president of All India Jain Minority Federation Lalit Gandhi has said that the State government had positively responded to the demand for the construction of Bhagwan Rushabhdev Jain Vihardham for Jain monks and also agreed to consider setting up Jain Development Council for the development and welfare of the community. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Lalit Gandhi said that a delegation of the federation had a fruitful interaction with Minister for Minority Welfare and Textiles Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil recently and the State government had agreed to allow the construction of the Vihardham and the constitution of the development council. Praising the BJP-led State government for being number one in implementing minority welfare schemes in the country, he said that several demands had been fulfilled by the State government earlier also. Mr. Lalit Gandhi said that the federation had appealed to the State government to implement the Union government’s National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation loan schemes for helping young entrepreneurs from the minority committee in setting up startups. Idol maintenance Mr. Lalit Gandhi said that during various excavations, the Archaeological Survey of India had been unearthing various idols pertaining to Jain religion and the idols were being kept in storerooms. “Our religious practices are different and if the idols are given to us, we will worship them and maintain them properly in accordance with ASI rules,” he said. Jain community leader Mahendra Singhi said that as there was none from the community in the State as well as Central Cabinets, they had sought representation in the Cabinet for elected representatives of the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-responded-positively-to-demand-for-jain-vihardham-development-council/article34096374.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Business school helps FPO enter wholesale trade||In a first, the decennial foundation day celebrations of a business school will coincide with a Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) setting up an office at the APMC Yard at Amaragol in Hubballi to begin dealing in wholesale trade. This FPO formed by a group of 25 farmers from Gamanagatti village is being mentored by Chetan Business School, which is celebrating its decennial foundation day on Friday. Director of Chetan Business School Vishwanath Koravi said that CEO of National Rainfed Area Authority and Chairman of Committee on Doubling Farmers Income Ashok Dalwai would inaugurate the farmers firm at the APMC Yard before inaugurating the decennial celebrations. He said that the FPO was being mentored in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of doubling farmers income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/business-school-helps-fpo-enter-wholesale-trade/article34096375.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Encroachments on roads, pavements cleared||In a drive against encroachments on roads and pavements, a team led by Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil carried out demolition in the central business district of Hubballi on Tuesday evening. This is the third such drive against encroachments in the last fortnight initiated by the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad in the wake of complaints over encroachments on pavements and roads. He was accompanied by Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal and other senior officials. The drive was carried out at Durgad Bail, Shah Bazaar, Tabibland and adjoining roads where shopkeepers and petty shop owners had encroached upon public spaces. During the two demolition drives carried out earlier, the officials had warned the shopkeepers and vendors against doing business on public spaces. However, as they had again reoccupied the pavements and roads, the authorities removed the temporary structures erected by them. During the drive that went on till late in the night, nearly 50 petty shops, push carts were removed from public spaces and permanent structures such as stairs built on pavements and name boards that had been erected were also cleared using earthmovers. Clarifying that the demolition drive would continue till all such encroachments were removed, Mr. Nitesh Patil said that all the structures built encroaching upon roads and pavements would be removed. As per records, Dajibanpet Road is 18 metres wide and the complaint is that it has been encroached by many. Mr. Patil said that the road would be measured again and if there were any encroachments, they would be removed. The drive was carried out under police protection with Deputy Commissioner of Police R.B. Basaragi leading the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encroachments-on-roads-pavements-cleared/article34096379.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KUD row over award selection||The selection of a retired chemistry professor for the ‘Diamond Jubilee Professor’ award by Karnatak University, Dharwad, has led to controversy with some faculty members taking exceptions. The varsity chose retired Chemistry professor T.M. Aminabhavi for the award and six professors who had served in the same department for nearly four decades have taken exception saying that a ‘tainted’ person had been chosen. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday B.R. Havinale and others said that Aminabhavi had been suspended on the charge of cheating his colleague M.Y. Kariduraganavar while obtaining a patent for his research in polymer science. He said that Prof. Aminabhavi had got the patent in his name for research done by Prof. Kariduraganavar and had sold it to a U.S. company without the knowledge of his colleague. After the controversy, Prof. Aminabhavi was suspended, they said. Prof. Havinale said that without considering all these aspects, Vice-Chancellor K.B. Gudasi had chosen T.M. Aminabhavi for the award. Such a decision would demean the university and it should immediately drop his name for the award, he demanded. Prof. Havinale said that the VC was approached on the issue, but seemed firm on the decision. “It seems the VC is either under tremendous pressure to confer the award on Prof. Aminabhavi or has other reasons for the decision. We will be forced to approach the Governor of Karnataka, the Chancellor of the university, if Mr. Aminabhavi’s name is not dropped,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kud-row-over-award-selection/article34096383.ece
18 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Explosives, detonators seized||The Dharwad District Police have seized illegally stored explosives from a stone crusher unit at Amminabhavi village of Dharwad taluk and taken one worker into custody in connection with the case. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant said that they seized 210 kg of gelatin sticks worth Rs. 16,500 and 700 electronic detonators worth Rs. 3,500 which were stocked without valid permit at D.B. Masur Stone Crushing Industries Limited located within the boundary of Amminabhavi village. Mr. Krishnakant said that the proprietors of the stone crushing unit had procured the explosives from Naveenkumar Wali of Bagalkot. A worker at the crusher unit Shankaragouda Shivanagouda Goudra has been taken into custody, he said. He said that a case has been registered in the Dharwad Rural Police Station against proprietor of D.B. Masur Stone Crushing Industries Dayanand Basavaraj Masur, attender Shankaragouda Shivanagouda Goudra and Naveenkumar Wali who supplied the explosives without valid permit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explosives-detonators-seized/article34096380.ece
18 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Insurance staff to launch campaign||Insurance Employees Union (IEU) attached to the Raichur Division of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) has decided to take up a campaign among stakeholders for sensitising them on the adverse effects of the Union government’s recent decisions with regard to the insurance sector. Addressing a media conference in Ballari on Tuesday, IEU general secretary M. Ravi said that the campaign was part of the nation-wide general strike by the insurance employees scheduled for Thursday opposing the Union government’s decision to list LIC in the stock markets through an Initial Public Offering (IPO), increase Foreign Direct Investment (DDI) in the insurance sector to 74% from 49% and its efforts to privatise the public sector general insurance company. “Listing LIC in the stock market through an IPO will impact the economy and vulnerable sections and defeat the very purpose of its formation. The objectives of nationalisation will recede into the background and LIC will be forced to concentrate on delivering increasing profits to shareholders. Like the private companies, LIC too will have to target big policies which bring greater profits. In the process, small size policies, which the poor, vulnerable and lower-middle classes purchase, will no longer be attractive. The social objective of providing insurance cover to the weaker sections of society will receive a setback. The aim to expand insurance in the unprofitable rural areas too will suffer. Therefore, disturbing the character of LIC will harm the interests of the national economy and the poorer sections of the Indian population,” Mr. Ravi said. Countering the arguments for its decision to increase FDI in the insurance sector to 74% from 49%, Mr. Ravi said that the government’s claim of incapability of Indian partners in meeting the massive requirement of investment for the expansion of insurance business was not true considering the fact that many Indian companies were expanding their insurance business outside the country. “Another argument of the government that insurance in India is under-penetrated is based on the calculations of premiums collected in relation to GDP. Looking at the insurance market from this angle is not entirely right in a country that has a low per capita income and people lack adequate resources to save. Nearly 40 crore Indians are estimated to be insured through individual assurances and group insurance. The insurable population is estimated to be around 60 crore. This number can increase depending upon the rising levels of income and savings. Allowing foreign capital greater control over domestic savings in a country that has a scarcity of capital would surely harm the nation,” he said. Strongly opposing the government’s efforts to privatise the public sector general insurance company, Mr. Ravi cautioned that such a move would compromise national interest. “Rather than privatising any public sector general insurance company, the government should actually consolidate them to make them more competent,” he said. M. Sharanagouda and Sridhar, president and joint secretary of the union, respectively, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/insurance-staff-to-launch-campaign/article34096372.ece
18 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi, Mumbai flight services from March 25||Daily flight services between Kalaburagi and Mumbai are scheduled to begin on March 25, with Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, planning to deploy its 70-seater aircraft to connect these two cities. The airline is already operating between Kalaburagi and Bengaluru with daily flights. This new flight between Kalaburagi and Mumbai will help Kalaburagi connect to yet another metro destination with multiple options for further connectivity such as Bhavnagar and Diu. As per information provided by the authorities, Flight 9I 665 will take off from Mumbai at 7.20 a.m and arrive in Kalaburagi at 9 a.m. Flight 9I 666 will take off from Kalaburagi at 9.25 a.m. and arrive in Mumbai at 10.55 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-mumbai-flight-services-from-march-25/article34096378.ece
18 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Take up round-the-clock work to complete Smart City projects’||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Wednesday directed Mangalore Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) to undertake works that were being executed after closing down public roads, round the clock by deploying adequate number of workers. Only then such works could be completed speedily thereby avoiding larger public inconvenience. Chairing a meeting here to review Smart City works after the High Court of Karnataka vacated a stay order on it, Dr. Rajendra said that all the works being undertaken under Smart City project should be completed before the onset of monsoon. The Deputy Commissioner noted that multiple works were being undertaken in the city limits by various agencies, including MSCL, Gail Gas Ltd. and Mangaluru City Corporation simultaneously. Officers and engineers of these agencies should work in coordination and execute the works in tandem so as to complete them within the time-frame with least inconvenience to the general public. The agencies should not haphazardly dump pipes and other construction material at the work-site. They should restore the work-site to the original state by clearing all material after the completion of work. Dr. Rajendra asked the Police Department to make alternative arrangements for vehicular movement whenever roads were closed to execute works. If the police find that the contractor has abruptly stopped work for a day or two, they should immediately bring it to the notice of the district administration, he said. Mayor Premanand Shetty said that MSCL could avail of the services of junior engineers of the corporation for the speedy completion of works. If works were not completed before the onset of monsoon, residents as well as commercial establishments would be put to great hardship, he said. The Mayor also directed the concerned to complete all the ongoing underground drainage works in the city on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-up-round-the-clock-work-to-complete-smart-city-projects/article34096552.ece
18 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bank employees decry privatisation move||Hundreds of employees of public sector banks in Dakshina Kannada district staged a protest against the proposal to privatise nationalised banks under the banner of United Forum of Bank Unions in Mangaluru on Monday and Tuesday. While the employees held a demonstration in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha on Monday, they staged a demonstration in front of the Circle Office of Canara Bank on Tuesday. Various leaders, including T.R. Bhat, former Joint General Secretary of All India Bank Officers Confederation and former Chairman of Corporation Bank Officers Organisation, H.V. Rao, Convener of Joint Action Committee of Trade Unions, Vincent D’Souza, UFBU Dakshina Kannada Convener, and others addressed the protesting employees during the demonstrations. The leaders said that privatisation of public sector banks would be disastrous to the economy as they were working more towards discharging social obligations. Opening of a bank branch in a remote village had always improved the economic status of residents, particularly farmers, not only in that village but also surrounding villages. If the trend continues, the government might privatise even jails and other government departments too, the leaders cautioned. They pointed out that the BJP’s erstwhile Avatar, the Jan Sangh, had also opposed nationalisation of banks by the former Prime Minister Late Indira Gandhi. The BJP was continuing the same policy, the leaders said. Mr. D’Souza said that privatisation would lead to loss of job opportunities to the youth; denial of reservation in employment to the oppressed classes; closure of bank branches; denial of support to the agrarian economy; non-participation of banks in government policies aimed at providing basic banking services to the poor and many more. The leaders said just as Dakshina Kannada heralded banking revolution earlier, the district should also be in the forefront of the fight to save nationalised banks.  ‘Dakshina Kannada heralded banking revolution earlier and the district should now be in the forefront of the fight to save nationalised banks’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-employees-decry-privatisation-move/article34096547.ece
18 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bus operators asked to ensure passengers wear face masks||While asking private bus operators and KSRTC to ensure that all commuters wear masks while travelling, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Wednesday said that if the directives are not followed, action will be taken to cancel permit and book criminal case against the operators. In a letter addressed to Udupi Regional Transport Officer and Divisional Controller of KSRTC Mangaluru, Mr. Jagadeesha said that in light of an increase in COVID-19 cases, the district administration has intensified the drive to make people wear masks and ensure compliance of social distancing norms. He said that bus conductors and drivers should wear masks and ensure that all those commuting on their buses also wear them. Those without masks should not be allowed to board their buses. If these directions are not complied with, then the district administration will be forced to cancel transport permit and initiate criminal action against bus owners. Copies of this letter were sent to the Udupi KSRTC Depot Manager and to presidents of Bus Owners Association and City Bus Owners Association, respectively, of Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-operators-asked-to-ensure-passengers-wear-face-masks/article34096553.ece
18 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Forest Dept., farmers should work in unison to protect medicinal plants’||Alva’s Ayurveda Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday organised Alva’s Vanasiri, an orientation programme for frontline Forest Department personnel on medicinal plants in association with Karnataka State Medicinal Plants Authority (KSMPA) of Bengaluru, in Moodbidri. Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Executive Officer of KSMPA G.A. Sudarshan, who inaugurated the programme, said that the gap between Forest Department and farmers should be bridged by exchanging knowledge on traditional medicinal plants to preserve them. He urged everyone to know the importance of such plants. Presiding over the inaugural, Alva’s Education Foundation Chairman Mohan Alva said that agricultural universities, Ayurveda colleges and NGOs should join hands with the government to help conserving medicinal plants. “At times, corporate companies make crores of rupees profit using these wealthy plants due to lack of knowledge among the locals,” he said. Lack of information Environmental Management and Policy Research Institute (EMPRI) Fellow K.H. Vinaya Kumar said that the role of farmers, the Forest Department and manufacturers was pivotal in cultivating and managing medicinal plants. “We have to think of alternative ways to cultivate medicinal plants in India as the seed propagation is the only way out right now,” he said. Lack of information in sustainable harvest, research and marketing, inadequate information on international demand and supply were affecting plant cultivation in India. Speaking on opportunities and challenges, Medicinal Plant Consultant from Bengaluru M.J. Prabhu said that although the demand for medicinal plants increased by 50% according to All India Trade Survey Prioritised Medicinal Plants, the availability of such plants has fallen to 26%. He said that the slow growth rate of medicinal plants, illegal trade, non-traceability of resources were some of the challenges to overcome. Environmentalist Dinesh Holla said that the life of tribal people, particularly on the Western Ghats, should remain unaffected to preserve medicinal plants. Alva’s Ayurveda Medical College professor Subrahmanya Padyana identified important medicinal plant species and their uses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-dept-farmers-should-work-in-unison-to-protect-medicinal-plants/article34096545.ece
18 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT campus containment zone||With 27 students testing positive for COVID-19, the Udupi district administration has declared the campus of Manipal Institute of Technology as a containment zone. Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer Sudhirchandra Sooda said that of 27 students, 20 were in the hostel while the remaining seven were day scholars. The campus will remain a containment zone for a period of 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-campus-containment-zone/article34096132.ece
18 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sait’s aide leads supporters to party office, submits reply to notice||Former Minister Tanveer Sait’s aide, Abdul Khader Shahid, who was one of the seven partymen served with a show-cause notice for the anti-party protest held in Mysuru, led a group of supporters to the party office in Mysuru on Wednesday and submitted a reply to the notice. After submitting the reply, Mr. Shahid said Mr. Sait’s supporters were “hurt” over the notice issued to them. He said he was not among the persons who had shouted slogans against former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, but had tried to stop the sloganeering along with Mr. Sait. He accused a section of the party’s State leadership of trying isolate Mr. Sait and finish him politically. He called for a probe to reveal the leaders who are targeting Mr. Sait politically. He said an appeal will be made to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership to inquire into the matter and bring out the truth. Mr. Shahid also sought to draw the party leadership’s attention to the press conference convened by former Mayors Ayub Khan and Arif Hussain. “Who directed them to hold a press meet against a five-time MLA of the party, who had also served as a Minister?”, he questioned. The two former Mayors went ahead with the press conference even though KPCC Working President R. Dhruvanarayan cautioned them over phone against the move. He also accused them of conspiring to defeat Mr. Sait during successive elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saits-aide-leads-supporters-to-party-office-submits-reply-to-notice/article34096581.ece
18 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Abhiyentararu’ fest from today||Abhiyenthararu, a theatre of engineers, is celebrating its 28th anniversary by holding a four-day ‘Ranga Utsava’ in association with the Department of Kannada and Culture, Bengaluru, at Kirurangamandira on the premises of Kalamandira here from Thursday. Theatre personality M.S. Sathyu will inaugurate it at 6.30 p.m. Rangayana Director Addanda C. Cariappa and Channappa, Assistant Director, Kannada and Culture, will be present. Theatre enthusiasts will be treated to “Ranga Sangeetha” besides ‘Tatva Pada’ singing on March 20 and ghazal singing on March 21. The plays to be staged are – Simhachalam Sampige (Kannada) on March 18; Khidki (Hindi) on March 19; and Malavikagnimitra (Kannada) on March 20. The fest will conclude with the presentation of Centre for Film and Drama, Bengaluru English production ‘Investigation – SBC’, adapted and directed by Prakash Belawadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abhiyentararu-fest-from-today/article34096576.ece
18 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Woman arrested for cheating||A 25-year-old woman from Bengaluru has been arrested for allegedly luring a youth from Mysuru with a fake social media profile and cheating him and his family members of about Rs. 20 lakh in cash and gold jewellery. Mysuru City Police said Megha alias Harini, who had a Facebook profile by a different name (Chinugowda Chinugowda), befriended Ravi, by sending him a friend request. Sending photographs of a beautiful girl, Megha introduced herself as resident of Vijayagar 2nd stage in Mysuru. Megha began luring Ravi by claiming she was besotted by him ever since she saw him near the water tank in Vijaynagar. Soon, Megha and Ravi exchanged their mobile numbers and began talking with each other. Days before Ravi’s birthday, Megha said she was planning to gift him a SUV worth Rs. 45 lakh and was short of just Rs. 1.5 lakh. She said she would send her friend Shivu to collect the money she had fallen short of from Ravi. After collecting the money, Megha asked Ravi to inform his mother about their marriage plans and sought to be introduced to her. Once she was introduced to Ravi’s mother, Megha began talking to her and got her to send her photographs as well. She informed Ravi that she liked the gold necklace her mother was wearing and asked him to send the same through a friend and she will return it after showing the design to her jeweller. Ravi sent his mother’s gold necklace weighing around 80 grams and a silk saree as well. Soon, Megha convinced Ravi to send all the jewellery belonging to his mother so that she also could also procure for herself the same designs when she comes as “her daughter-in-law”. As Megha was promising to return all the jewellery after showing the designs to her jeweller, Ravi obliged and sent different sets of gold jewellery weighing a total of 480 grams. But, the gold jewellery was never returned even after several days. Initially, she cited several reasons for the delayand eventually switched off the mobile phone and became untraceable. Ravi approached the Metagalli police station in Mysuru on February 20, 2021, and lodged a complaint against her. During investigation, the police learnt that Shivu, who had been sent to collect cash and jewellery, too had not seen her. Like Ravi, Shivu too had been in touch with Megha only through Facebook. He had collected the cash and jewellery from Ravi and handed it over to one Vasanth, an autodriver. Though Vasanth had seen Megha, he was not aware about her handiwork. Police said Megha was already facing cheating charges in Mandya East police station, and another complaint was registered against her in Jnanabharathi police station limits in Bengaluru.  Police said Megha, who had studied upto SSLC, used to enlist different middlemen for each of her crime and would dump them after changing her mobile number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-arrested-for-cheating/article34096579.ece
18 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 curbs on ‘Dodda Jatre’||The ‘Dodda Jatre’ of Srikanteshwara Swamy temple at Nanjangud will remain simple and the event will be confined to the rituals in accordance with the government guidelines as a safety precaution over the COVID-19 pandemic. The ‘Pancha Maha Rathotsava’ (car festival) which was scheduled on March 26 has been cancelled. An order in this regard has been issued by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. The ‘Dodda Jatre’ rituals of the temple will be held from March 19 to 30. The decision to keep the jatre simple with no public gathering has been taken to contain the spread of the pandemic, a release said here. Usually, the event attracts lakhs of devotees from many parts of the State. This is the second consecutive year that it is being celebrated in a simple manner. Instead of ‘Pancha Maha Rathotsava’, in the presence of temple priests, the temple staff and some locals, permission has been given for performing the ritual in a symbolic and traditional manner on the temple premises using a small ‘ratha’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-curbs-on-dodda-jatre/article34096580.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||GTD tried to ‘finish’ JD(S) off in Mysuru, says S.R. Mahesh||Former Minister S.R. Mahesh today said he had fielded supporters of the JD(S) in the recently concluded elections to Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Societies’ Union Ltd (MYMUL) to counter the alleged designs of former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda to ‘finish’ the party in the district. Addressing a press conference, a day after the syndicate led by Mr. Gowda bagged 12 out of the 15 posts of Directors in the MYMUL elections held on Tuesday, Mr. Mahesh said the party supporters would have won two more seats had 86 votes not been declared as invalid. Though the party had very little time to prepare for the elections, Mr. Mahesh said he was satisfied that the JD(S) supporters had won three seats and claimed that the party had begun sowing seeds for its presence in the cooperative sector of the district. It may be mentioned here that the MYMUL elections had turned into a prestige battle between Mr. Mahesh and Mr. Gowda, who had fallen out with the party leadership. The run-up to the elections even saw former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy participate in the campaign. GTD reacts Mr. Gowda, meanwhile, said the cooperative elections are not fought on political lines and regretted the efforts to politicise the cooperative body. Claiming that he had been serving the cooperative sector for several decades, Mr .Gowda expressed satisfaction that a majority of his supporters had won the elections. “It is a victory of the cooperative sector”, he said. Mr. Mahesh said the party was forced to constitute a syndicate to counter Mr. Gowda after he systematically began targeting candidates and aspirants who were JD(S) supporters. He accused Mr. Gowda of joining hands with candidates supporting the Congress and BJP. Reacting to Mr. Gowda’s allegation that he was misleading Mr. Kumaraswamy, Mr. Mahesh said he was trying to actively build the party in the district after Mr. Gowda began staying away from party affairs. “I had considered you to be the supreme leader of Mysuru district. If you have anything against me, please tell me. I will retire from politics”, Mr. Mahesh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gtd-tried-to-finish-jds-off-in-mysuru-says-sr-mahesh/article34096583.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sadashiva report: Govt. promises to set up sub-committee shortly||Rekindling the debate on internal reservation, the State government has promised to shortly set up a Cabinet sub-committee to review the recommendations of the A.J. Sadashiva Commission. Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu told the Legislative Council on Wednesday that such a move was first proposed in 2018, but not taken forward. The sub-committee will study the report and its recommendation will be placed before the House, the Minister said. He, however, refrained from setting any deadline for the whole process to be completed. The Sadashiva commission had studied whether the reservation to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have brought benefit to the communities, and the report was submitted to the government in 2012. In 2015, it was decided that the commission recommendations would be discussed in the Legislative Assembly, the Minister said. He said that by 2018, there were many voices supporting or opposing the recommendation of the commission. In March 2018, Cabinet decided to set up a sub committee to study the matter. “However, governments after that did not give much importance to this. Till now there has been no decision on setting up the sub committee,” he said. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil pointed out that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had promised during the byelections to Sira that the recommendations would be implemented. “Nothing has been done so far. Another byelections have come,” he said. Mr. Sriramulu said the process required detailed deliberation and was a long one. Regarding the socio-economic survey conducted by the Backward Classes Commission in 2016, Mr. Sriramulu said the commission has got a new chairman, and the report is expected. He did not set any deadline for submission of the survey report. Earlier, Congress member P.R. Ramesh enquired about the status of the caste census and asked how a caste can be assessed as backward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sadashiva-report-govt-promises-to-set-up-sub-committee-shortly/article34096155.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Film city to come up in Mysuru itself: Somashekar||Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Wednesday said the State’s first film city is being established in Mysuru, hinting that the project is not being shifted from the city as rumoured since last year. The Minister’s statement has perhaps brought cheer to the stakeholders of the tourism sector who had been carrying out campaigns for retaining the project in Mysuru ever since reports of its relocation to Bengaluru surfaced. Mr. Somashekar has thanked Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for taking the decision of keeping the project in Mysuru. “On behalf of the people of Mysuru and myself, I am thanking you for giving directions for establishing the film city (as earlier planned) in Mysuru,” the Minister said, in a statement here. The Minister said he had met the Chief Minister on March 3 and submitted a memorandum for establishing the project in Mysuru considering its importance as a tourist city and also being one of the popular destinations for film shootings since many decades. In a statement released to the press on Wednesday, Mr. Somashekar said the Minister for Information and Public Relations C.C. Patil announced in the Council on Wednesday that the film city would be established in Mysuru where the land to the extent of 100 acres had been identified at Himmavu for the purpose. “The Minister (Mr. Patil) has said that the documents related to the project will be sent to the Chief Minister for approval,” said Mr. Somashekar, putting to rest uncertainties over the project after the Chief Minister had announced a film city in Bengaluru in his previous budget. Mr. Somashekar said Mysuru is known for its culture and has immense heritage value being a royal city. Now, it has also earned recognition as one of the cleanest cities. About 50 lakh tourists visit Mysuru annually, making it one of the preferred destinations in the country. “Taking all these factors into consideration and considering its strengths, it is ideal to have the project in Mysuru,” he suggested. The decision would boost tourism development and bring delight to the stakeholders who were upset over not getting anything in this year’s State budget for tourism development keeping Mysuru in focus. They had kept high hopes on Mr. Yediyurappa’s budget especially in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic which badly affected the tourism sector. The confusion over the fate of the film city project in Mysuru had worried the stakeholders who had opposed its shifting to Bengaluru. When Mr. Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister, he had announced the project and set aside 100 acres of land at Himmavu in Varuna constituency. The tourism industry had sought clarity on the project since the government is neither developing the film city in Mysuru nor the project in Bengaluru. The stakeholders wanted the film city to be retained in Mysuru as this will give more tonic to the tourism sector. The stakeholders also wanted that the budget announcements should not remain on paper and the government should implement them the same year of announcement.  Somashekar cites statement by the Minister for Information and Public Relations in the Legislative Council that documents related to the project would be sent to the CM for his approval||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-city-to-come-up-in-mysuru-itself-somashekar/article34096578.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Curbs eased along NH-73’s Charmadi Ghat stretch||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh, on Wednesday, issued an order allowing the movement of all light motor vehicles 24 hours a day on the Charmadi Ghat stretch of National Highway 73. Earlier, there were restrictions on the movement of the vehicles on the stretch due to landslips during heavy rains. Mr. Ramesh issued the order on Tuesday allowing the light motor vehicles between the district border and Kottigehara on the Mangaluru-Tumakuru highway. What is allowed? The vehicles allowed are KSRTC buses, six-wheel trucks, four-wheelers, tempo travellers, ambulance, cars, vans, minivans and two-wheelers. What is restricted? The vehicles that are restricted include bullet tankers, cargo containers, long chassis vehicles, heavy commercial vehicles, multi-axle trucks, KSRTC-Rajahamasa and all other heavy goods carriers. The DC took this decision after the Executive Engineer of the National Highway Division (Hassan) gave a report verifying the road condition. Signboards sought The DC also instructed the NH Division to put up signboards and take measures to avoid accidents. The travellers have to maintain low speed while crossing the stretch, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-eased-along-nh-73s-charmadi-ghat-stretch/article34096557.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Film city back in Mysuru||Information Minister C.C. Patil on Wednesday said the State government has decided to shift the international film city to Mysuru after it was found that the extent of land required for the project in Bengaluru was not available. Responding to a question from JD(S) member Sandesh Nagaraj, the Minister said government agencies scouted for land parcel between 50 and 70 acres needed to set up film city, but it was not available in Bengaluru. “The State government decided to revert to its plan to set up film city at Himmavu village near Mysuru.” The project will be implemented with the assistance of the Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-city-back-in-mysuru/article34096157.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No plans to contest polls: Bhavani Revanna||JD(S) leader and Zilla Panchayat member Bhavani Revanna has said she was happy with her work during the five-year term in ZP and she was of the opinion that she worked as good as an MLA. At a press conference in Hassan on Wednesday, Ms. Bhavani Revanna said as the head of the standing committee on education and health, she responded to many problems in the district and resolved them. She could get health clinics sanctioned, an ambulance launched and also played a role in improving the SSLC results. She has organised a Women’s Day programme in Hassan on Friday in association with many women forums. Calling it an apolitical event, she said women from all political parties had been invited. “The programme would include several competitions for women and prize distribution, besides a lecture by humorist Sudha Baraguru. I have personally invited women active in other political parties”, she said. Asked if she had plans to contest from Hassan Assembly constituency in future, she said there was no such thought behind organising the event in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-plans-to-contest-polls-bhavani-revanna/article34096573.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||What a jump!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-a-jump/article34096555.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hariprasad, Ayanur spar in Council||Two former parliamentarians and current members of the Legislative Council – Ayanur Manjunath of BJP and B.K. Hariprasad of Congress – engaged in a heated verbal duel on Tuesday. It all started when Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh asked Mr. Hariprasad to restrict himself to posing questions, which the senior Congress member took objection to. Mr. Hariprasad asked the Chair not to repeatedly intervene while he was speaking. Mr. Pranesh reminded the members about the proceedings of Business Advisory Committee, and said that Question Hour is only meant for asking supplementary questions and providing suggestions. “If you want a debate, we can convert it into a half-an-hour discussion,” he said. House Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary who intervened at that time, took objection to the tone used by Mr. Hariprasad while he addressed the Chair. While the issue was dying down, Mr. Manjunath intervened and said: “We cannot raise voice against the Chair.” This was opposed by Mr. Hariprasad and other Congress members. The Deputy Chairman was also accused of being “partisan” for allowing Mr. Manjunath to revisit the issue and speak against Mr. Hariprasad. The Deputy Chairman appealed to both members to have restraint. When Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil urged the Chair to expunge the remarks of both, Congress and BJP members flared up again. Eventually, Mr. Pranesh directed for removal of words from the record that were not reasonable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hariprasad-ayanur-spar-in-council/article34096156.ece
18 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cloud of ‘tacit deal’ over Chengannur||The Chengannur Assembly constituency, which is set to witness a fierce triangular contest in the 2021 Assembly elections, is further in focus following allegations of a ‘tacit understanding’ between the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue R. Balashankar dropped a bombshell on Tuesday stating that he suspected a ‘deal’ had been struck between the BJP State leadership and CPI(M) in Chengannur and a few other seats. Mr. Balashankar, co-convener of the BJP national training programme and its Publications Department, was widely tipped to contest on BJP ticket from Chengannur. He said he was denied a ticket as part of the deal. The BJP has fielded weak candidates in Chengannur and Aranmula seats, considered ‘A’ class constituencies by the party, to ensure the victory of CPI (M) nominees there, expecting favours in return in Konni where BJP State president K. Surendran is in the fray, said Mr. Balashankar, former editor of the RSS mouthpiece Organiser . Denial by both parties On Wednesday, both the CPI(M) and BJP leaders pooh-poohed the charges. Chengannur MLA Saji Cherian, who is seeking re-election, said the CPI(M) had not reached any understanding with the BJP. “Chengannur, Aranmula and Konni are our sitting seats, and we are confident of retaining them. We are fighting them all over the State and why should we strike a deal with them? In the local body polls, Congress was decimated in Chengannur. Mr. Balashankar made the comments to help the United Democratic Front,” Mr. Cherian said. BJP district president and its Chengannur candidate M.V. Gopakumar termed the allegations baseless. “This is a concerted conspiracy hatched at the Congress’s behest, which is fighting the election in a tie-up with the CPI(M),” Mr. Gopakumar said. The BJP district president said he climbed the party ladder from the grassroots. Cong. cashes in While both the CPI(M) and BJP rubbished the comments made by the RSS leader, the Congress is in no mood to give it a miss. “Our leaders have been talking about the secret pact between the CPI(M) and BJP. Mr. Balashankar’s revelations confirm a deal between the two parties. Let the people of the State evaluate it,” said M. Murali, the Congress candidate in Chengannur. Chengannur, a Congress bastion, turned red in the 2016 Assembly polls when K.K. Ramachandran Nair of the CPI(M) registered a shock victory. However, the biggest surprise of the election was the 42,682 votes garnered by BJP candidate P.S. Sreedharan Pillai who finished a close third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cloud-of-tacit-deal-over-chengannur/article34096518.ece
18 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||7 file papers in Alappuzha||Seven candidates submitted their nomination for the Assembly elections in the district on Wednesday. LDF’s candidate Thomas K. Thomas (NCP) filed his papers for the Kuttanad constituency. Sasikumar of the SUCI(C) and Subash (Independent) filed their nominations for Mavelikara. Melvin K. Mathew of the Democratic Social Justice Party (DSJP) and Gopinathan of the SUCI(C), filed their papers for Chengannur. Madhu T. of the SUCI (C) filed his nomination for the Haripad seat. DSJP candidate Ambika K.N. filed her papers for the Aroor constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-file-papers-in-alappuzha/article34096519.ece
18 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||AIADMK in two seats||In alliance with the NDA, two All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) candidates will contest in the State Assembly elections from Devikulam in Idukki and Mannarkkad in Palakkad districts. R.M. Dhanalakshmi will contest from Devikulam constituency and Naseema Sharafudeen, from Mannarkkad. The AIADMK is following a Tamil Nadu model of alliance with the NDA in the two constituencies where Tamil voters have a major say. The two constituencies border Tamil Nadu and people of Tamil origin have been living there for generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aiadmk-in-two-seats/article34096624.ece
18 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four more from State in the NIA cross hairs||Seven Keralites have been named by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as suspected to be involved in waging jihad for the proscribed organisation Islamic State (IS). Besides the three persons, Mohammed Ameen of Malappuram, Mushab Anuvar of Kannur and Rahees Rashid of Kollam, who were arrested the other day, the agency has listed Irshad Thekke Koleth of Kasaragod, Shifa Haris and Mizha Sideeque of Kannur, and Rahul Manoharan, alias Rahul Abdullah, of Anchal on the list of suspects. The agency said on Wednesday that it was after the Central government receiving credible information on the formation of a module to radicalise individuals that the case was booked against them. The module, which was headed by Ameen, was having allegiance with the terrorist organisation IS, it said. The NIA was asked to probe the case as the Centre was of the view that the provision of the scheduled offence under the National Investigation Act, 2008 could be invoked against the accused, considering the gravity of the information received, according to the agency. Search operations In the search operations conducted on 12 premises of the suspects, including nine in Kerala, two in Karnataka and one in New Delhi, on March 15, the NIA said it seized 16 mobile phones, 17 SIM cards, 10 memory cards, eight pen drives, two hard dics and two modems. Mohammed Ameen was arrested from New Delhi. In Bengaluru, searches were conducted on the residential premises and dental clinic of Rahees Rasheed, it said. The searches on the premises of Mushab Anuvar and Rahees Rashid yielded incriminating materials revealing their role in actively propagating the ideology of the IS to recruit co-conspirators. Materials revealing the intention of the duo to wage jihad on behalf of the IS in India was also recovered, according to the investigation agency. The agency had obtained a transit warrant from the NIA court, Kochi, the other day to take Mushab Anuvar and Rahees Rashid for producing them before the NIA Special Court, New Delhi. It had also obtained the permission to hand cuff the accused during the transit to New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-from-state-in-the-nia-cross-hairs/article34096447.ece
18 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Battle of images in Thripunithura||For long after the declaration of the Assembly election, it seemed that the Thripunithura constituency will go to polls for the first time in a quarter of a century without former minister K. Babu, an integral part of its election landscape with his first of the five successive victories dating back to 1991, in the fray. Attribute it to the perseverance of a seasoned politician or the shrewd application of pressure tactics — Congress activists staged a slew of protests demanding his candidacy across the constituency and beyond — Mr. Babu eventually prevailed and emerged as the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate, leaving many seat aspirants within his party crestfallen. With the Left Democratic Front (LDF) fielding its sitting MLA M. Swaraj to retain the seat and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bringing in academic K.S. Radhakrishnan, battles lines remain drawn for an interesting three-cornered contest. The LDF camp seems unperturbed by the arrival of Mr. Babu and remains confident of retaining the seat riding on Mr. Swaraj’s record in development, which they claim runs into Rs. 2,600 crore in the past five years. Neither does the perception that Mr. Babu is accessible to a fault while Mr. Swaraj’s no-nonsense demeanour make him appear aloof cut any ice with LDF campaign managers. “There is nothing wrong in visiting the newly wed or attending funerals. But an MLA’s job is efficient participation in legislation and development of the constituency in which Mr. Swaraj’s record is impeccable,” said C.N. Sundaran, LDF chief campaigner in Thripunithura. The UDF would have none of it and remains intent on cashing in on Mr. Babu’s perceived image as an easy-to-approach leader while shooting down the LDF’s development claims. “Mr. Swaraj was already following ‘social distancing’ long before the pandemic,” Babu Antony, UDF chairman for the Thripunithura Assembly constituency, commented sarcastically. The BJP banks on its influence in Thripunithura municipality where it is now the second-biggest party. “Besides, Mr. Radhakrishnan is the best qualified of the other two, one of whom is tainted by corruption and the other had hurt the Hindu faithful,” said U. Madhusoodhanan, party district committee member. Both the UDF and the BJP target the LDF on the issue of women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple reaffirmed by the line of attack adopted by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in his campaign in the constituency. Questions, though, are being raised about why Mr. Chennithala failed to attack the BJP and Mr. Radhakrishnan who was once politically pampered by the Congress before he left it for greener pastures. For Mr. Babu, it is a do-or-die contest, as political wilderness stares him in the face in the event of a defeat, a taste of which he had experienced during the past five years when he was a forgotten figure. While he is being widely accepted as the best possible Congress candidate for the constituency, being a staunch ‘A’ group loyalist makes him vulnerable to ‘I’ group, which may not be averse to play spoilsport. For Mr. Swaraj, his age works in his favour thus boosting his acceptance among the youth not to mention the popularity of his fiery speeches in the Assembly and channel talk shows on social media. For the BJP, it is about hitting beyond its weight and going beyond the Hindu vote bank in the immediate temple town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-of-images-in-thripunithura/article34096491.ece
18 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Unique four-cornered contest in Kunnathunad||The Kunnathunad constituency is witnessing a unique contest in the Assembly polls this time. The Kitex company-backed Twenty20, which clinched power in four panchayats in the region recently, is locked in a battle with three major fronts in the segment. The constituency is currently held by the United Democratic Front (UDF), which has fielded its two-time legislator V.P. Sajeendran to retain the seat which he won by 2,679 votes, defeating Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Shiji Sivaji, in 2016. The Left has now fielded P.V. Sreenijin to wrest the constituency it held last in 2006.  Electoral debut in 2015 The Twenty20 made its electoral debut in 2015 when it was voted to power in the Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat. It also won the Kunnathunad, Mazhuvannoor, and Aikkaranadu panchayats in the Assembly segment in the local body polls in December 2020. The remaining four panchayats, Vazhakkulam, Poothrikka, Thiruvaniyur, and Vadavucode-Puthencruz, that come under the constituency are shared between the UDF and the LDF. The BJP has taken the seat back from its ally Bharat Dharma Jana Sena and has fielded its State secretary Renu Suresh. Twenty20 candidate is Sujith P. Surendran, an academic in Bengaluru. The Twenty20 is contesting in eight constituencies in Ernakulam, but its hopes of making the cut rest largely on Kunnathunad. However, the UDF and the LDF reckon that the formation sponsored by a company would fall short of replicating its success in the local body polls. ‘Secret pact with BJP’ “The Twenty20 will retain only 30% of its vote share from the local body polls,” maintains C.P. Joy, chairman of the UDF Kunnathunad Assembly constituency, alleging a secret pact between the Twenty20 and the BJP, a charge rubbished by both these parties. Congress workers regard the challenge posed by Twenty20 as a blessing in disguise as it has helped in uniting the party like never before. They also claim that the alleged discontent among the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] cadre over its candidate Mr. Sreenijin, a one-time Congress follower, would work in their favour. “That Mr. Sreenijin’s candidacy has divided the party is a canard being spread by Mr. Sajeendran, under whose watch development in the constituency has stagnated,” alleges C.B. Devadarshanan, CPI(M) district committee member. “The selection of the candidate was a well-thought out decision as he is very efficient and has proven himself at the district sports council,” he said. The LDF camp alleges that the Twenty20 has grown at the expense of the Congress, which ceded power to the business-backed party in panchayats that were its strongholds once. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, UDF’s lead in the constituency was 17,331 votes. The Left and the UDF won six times each in the 12 elections held in Kunnathunad since 1967. With four victories, Congress leader T.H. Musthafa holds the record of being elected most times from the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unique-four-cornered-contest-in-kunnathunad/article34096459.ece
18 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Action-taken report sought from PCB||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to file a detailed status report on the implementation of Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016, in the State and the action taken against erring local bodies. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta issued the order on the case related to the unscientific dumping of waste at the Brahmapuram yard of the Kochi Corporation.  The board has been told to file a detailed status report before April 5 in respect of collection, segregation and disposal of solid waste. It should ascertain whether the collection from each ward under local bodies were strictly in compliance with the various provisions under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The Chief Secretary; Principal Secretary, Local Self-Government Department; and Secretary, Environment Department have to file independent reports on the action taken on the directions issued by the Principal Bench of the tribunal. The board has to file a status report on the continuing legacy waste issue at Brahmapuram and the works undertaken as per the earlier directions of the tribunal. Apart from Brahmapuram, the board has to report on similar dumping grounds, if any, in Ernakulam district. The status of removing old waste in these areas should also be submitted before the Southern Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-taken-report-sought-from-pcb/article34096471.ece
18 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Apolitical parties are apolitical gangs’||“Most new parties are not parties but gangs that fragment voters on sentiments,” says Rajan Gurukkal P.M., historian and Vice Chairman of the Kerala State Higher Education Council. “Democracy fails when people are fragmented by multiple sentimental identities along castes, communities, religions, localities, etc. They become apolitical gangs, rather than political parties. Gangs may gain reputation based on what they provide others,” Prof. Gurukkal told The Hindu . He was responding to a question on whether the gradual acceptance of apolitical parties such as the Twenty20 was an indicator that the mainstream political parties had left gaps in governance model and failed to take up corruption as a key component of their political discourse. “I see the Twenty20 not different from them [apolitical gangs] in effect, despite its efforts to de-bureaucratise governance and check corruption. Lacking in a larger social perspective, it is apolitical too and as a third party, its forays into voters are weak and help impair democratic rule,” he says. Prof. Gurukkal says people committed to social justice and general well-being should grow as critical insiders within the broad front, not as dissidents of vested interests. “The problem with the Twenty20 is that it consists of critical outsiders of civil society activism, who at best can become social democrats. It cannot writ large as a party and sustain itself without affiliation to the front of secular and democratic values,” he says. Explaining that group formation is a strategy to enhance the bargaining strength for securing personal power, Prof. Gurukkal points out that it fragments the party as power distributed among subunits of vested interests. “Fragments do not mean political plurality. Voters segmented into multiple groups weaken the democratic front and help capitalists secure compromise even from the Left front that stands for secularism and development through distributive justice,” he says. However, Prof. Gurukkal says the Left and the Congress fronts have contingently transformed into a coalition of conflicting interests by admitting all kinds of parties indiscriminately. “Electoral democracy works only if people come broadly under two parties divided on the basis of two antagonistic social perspectives presupposing mutually incompatible political programmes — socialism and capitalism. Parties with differences unite on certain common agenda on the principle of short-term collaboration against long-term conflicts. Admitting all kinds of parties indiscriminately, each front is contingently transformed into a coalition of conflicting interests,” he says.  The problem with the Twenty20 is that it consists of critical outsiders of civil society activism, who at best can become social democrats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/apolitical-parties-are-apolitical-gangs/article34096467.ece
18 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High Court asks govt. to convene medical boards||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to take an appropriate decision on convening special medical boards to assess the disability of special children and issue them disability certificate promptly. The directive was passed while disposing of a public interest litigation filed by Devashrayam Charitable Society, Palakkad, seeking a directive to convene the medical boards in all districts. The petitioner pointed out that in view of COVID-19, the district medical boards, which assess the disability and issues certificates to these children, were not functioning regularly. Benefits denied As such, many of these children were unable to access the benefits of grants, scholarships, and attendant benefits due from the State and Central governments. The petitioner submitted that most of the parents of the children came from very poor backgrounds. The absence of disability certificate would adversely affect even the studies of children, who were entitled to have assistance in writing examinations. The government submitted in the court that it was decided to convene the medical boards for children selected by the clinical psychologist.  The district medical officers (DMOs) have been directed to convene the special medical boards and to issue certificate to the deserving students as per the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act at the earliest. The court also asked the Directorate of Health Services to explore the possibility of fixing a specific date for convening the medical boards in each district. This should be in addition to regular examination being conducted every Wednesday in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-asks-govt-to-convene-medical-boards/article34096446.ece
18 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Need to explore green alternatives in all sectors||With the State reeling under the impact of climate change, including two back-to-back floods, the call for adopting sustainable development model is getting louder. Environmental campaigners have called for a paradigm shift in the concept of development and the environment priorities of the State, as a new government will assume office in May. V.S. Vijayan, former chairman of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board, wants the next government to strictly follow a green path when it comes to development. Its high time that the State adopted a sustainable development pattern. Green alternatives should be explored in all sectors. Protect Ghats Kerala needs to protect the mountain ranges of the Western Ghats. The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) report was in a way a green manifesto for the State, which did not receive the attention it required, he says. The State is yet to have a comprehensive databank of its wetlands. There are several complaints about the manner in which it was drawn up. The State is losing large tracts of wetlands to illegal reclamation, which needs to be stopped, he says. Compliance mechanism Hareesh Vasudevan, a lawyer cum green activist, is more worried about the lack of compliance mechanism for environment laws in the State. There is no mechanism to ensure the compliance of green laws including the Environment Protection Act, the Coastal Regulation Zone rules and ones relating to air and water pollution control in the State, he says. Environmental clearance is issued to factories, buildings and industrial units on the assurance that they will abide by the rules and regulations and will follow the precautionary and mitigation measures. However, no case has ever reached trial courts against the violations of the rules in the absence of compliance mechanism. The functioning of the State Pollution Control Board needs to be strengthened by adding more men and facilities to ensure the compliance of rules and regulations, he suggests. Reorient approach P. B. Ravi, secretary of the Kerala River Protection Council, feels that it is high time the State moved towards the concept of eco-restoration. Kerala needs to review its concepts of development and reorient its approach towards the end of ecological restoration. The eco-restoration of the Western Ghats and rivers need to be taken up on priority basis. A stage has reached where even the recommendations of the WGEEP have become inadequate to address the concerns of the State, he says. The Climate Change Action plan needs to be updated through wider consultations, considering the two floods and other impacts of climate change, he adds. Groundwater It has been found that the groundwater table of the State is getting lowered after each rainy season and the rivers losing their flow. Water scarcity has become a reality for the State with 44 rivers. The recent attempts to rejuvenate the rivers under the aegis of the Haritha Kerala Mission is found inadequate. Kerala needs to evolve plans to ensure the rejuvenation of its rivers right from the points of its origin to its discharge into the sea, he says.  There is no mechanism to ensure compliance with green laws and the ones relating to air and water pollution control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/need-to-explore-green-alternatives-in-all-sectors/article34096457.ece
18 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hindu Aikya Vedi workers get anticipatory bail||The Kerala High Court has granted anticipatory bail to four Hindu Aikya Vedi activists in a case in which a bakery at Kurumassery, near Aluva, was forced to take down a notification publicising ‘halal’ food. Justice Ashok Menon, while granting anticipatory bail to Hindu Aikya Vedi activists Dhanesh Prabhakara, Arun Aravind, Sujay Subrahmanian, and T.A. Lenin, ordered that in the event of their arrest the accused be released on bail on their executing a bond for Rs. 50,000 and two solvent sureties for the like sum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hindu-aikya-vedi-workers-get-anticipatory-bail/article34096488.ece
18 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kingpin of ganja smuggling racket arrested from AP||Continuing its crackdown on an inter-State ganja smuggling network, the Ernakulam Rural police have arrested the alleged kingpin of the gang from Andhra Pradesh. The arrested was identified as Pallasreenivasa Rao, 26, of Andhra Pradesh. A special squad formed by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik nabbed the accused after a three-day-long operation in a hinterland 300 kilometres away from Vijayawada. A taxi driver with suspected close links in the tribal belt, the accused used to be the contact person for Malayalis arriving in the area for ganja. The arrangement was such that he used to meet potential buyers along the national highway, showed samples, and if the clients were satisfied with the quality, a price was fixed. The police team approached the accused in the guise of potential ganja buyers and nabbed him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kingpin-of-ganja-smuggling-racket-arrested-from-ap/article34096489.ece
18 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hard time for commuters as ferry repair may be delayed||Commuters dependent on the Fort Kochi-Vypeen roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) ferry service may be in a for a hard time with one of the two vessels that suspended service on Tuesday afternoon is unlikely to resume service no sooner than next week. “The overheating of the thruster control system is causing the disruption of power connection to the engine, hampering the operation. We had installed a blower in the engine room to cool the system but that is obviously not serving the purpose,” said sources with the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation Limited (KSINC) that is operating the service on behalf of the Kochi Corporation. KSINC had reportedly written to the Mumbai-based company that built the thruster control system seeking an expert team for emergency maintenance more than a fortnight ago but to no avail. The delay was attributed to the pandemic, and a team is not expected before next week. Vypeen-Fort Kochi Ferry Passengers Association has demanded rectification of the problem and restoration of the service at the earliest. “The other vessel was repaired last year and similar timely maintenance should be done in the case of the one in disrepair,” said Francis Chammany, president of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-time-for-commuters-as-ferry-repair-may-be-delayed/article34096470.ece
18 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||255 new cases||Ernakulam district saw 255 new SARS-CoV2 infections and 310 recoveries on Wednesday. Two health workers tested positive. While Kalamassery recorded 14 new cases, Kanoor saw 13, Udayamperoor 9, Kaloor, Vengola, Mudakkuzha, and Thrikkakara 8 each, and Edathala and Kadavanthra saw 7 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/255-new-cases/article34096468.ece
18 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3 more held in case of attempt to rob jeweller||The Kothamangalam police arrested three more accused in a case relating to the robbing of a jewellery owner at gunpoint. The arrested were identified Nidhin Antony aka Thumps, 33, of Poonithura, Antony Rejoy, 35, of Cheranalloor, and Eldho Mathew, 43, of Idukki. The incident took place near the Thankalam Mar Baselios Dental College on February 1 when the gang waylaid the jeweller while he was on his way from Rajakumari in Idukki to Thrissur to buy gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-more-held-in-case-of-attempt-to-rob-jeweller/article34096469.ece
18 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Glass ceiling limits women’s political foray||While Kerala has been consistently maintaining its top slot in the Human Development Index (HDI), there is still no change in the apparent under-representation of women in politics. Even the 2021 figures remain dismal as the lists announced by all three major fronts for the Assembly election include just 40 women, only 9% of the total 420 candidates so far. The exclusion becomes even more pronounced as there has been no promising change compared to previous years, an indicator of the enormous challenge involved in achieving candidature and office-holding. "Women’s visibility in the upper echelons of democratic politics needs attention. As we enter the seventh decade of electoral politics, Kerala has had just 12 women MPs in the Lok Sabha, as one of the States that has always recorded a low representation of women. It is a simple question. As a State that boasts more number of women than men, with higher human development indicators than other States and a woman Health Minister praised globally for her leadership in COVID-19 management, where are its women in public decision making," asks Shoba Arun, Reader in Sociology at Manchester Metropolitan University, U.K., and author of Development and Gender Capital in India: Change, Continuity and Conflict in Kerala . Also, no political front has ever pushed for a fairer representation of women within party structures. The Assembly has seen eight women Ministers so far -- K.R. Gouri, M. Kamalam, M.T. Padma, Susheela Gopalan, P.K. Sreemathy, P.K. Jayalakshmi, K.K. Shylaja and J. Mercykutty Amma — a miniscule figure against the 200-plus men. There have been icons such as Ms. Gouri and Susheela Gopalan who were unjustly denied chief ministership, as the State is yet to see a woman helming the Cabinet. Basic force Writer Indu Menon observes patriarchy as the basic force that distances women from positions of political leadership. "In Kerala, men fear women coming into power and disrupting our dominant social structure. Look at our fronts promising to protect some very regressive and misogynistic practices in their manifesto. There is no point in expecting gender parity from them," she says. Over the years, political fronts have gone for the unfair tactic of fielding women in seats where winnability is zero. "For women to be taken seriously, we need them to be seen and heard in public domain, with dignity and equality, and for this, our mindsets need to change," says Ms. Arun. The picture is totally different in local bodies where the gender gap is diminishing every time with a crop of capable women coming to the forefront. "It happened because of reservation and in many cases, it ends there. If we want to go to the next level, we will have to challenge many invisible barriers and discriminatory practices within our respective parties,” says a woman politician on condition of anonymity. "It is not easy breaking the glass ceiling and there are several women who get sidelined and silenced in the process. Our involvement or efficiency will not always translate into proportionate representation, and most of the times, we are forced to remain invisible," she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/glass-ceiling-limits-womens-political-foray/article34096462.ece
18 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||3 women and their dissenting acts||Dissenting voices of a few women who have decided to play a part in the State Assembly election may sound muted in comparison to the eruption of vocal protests in public against the candidature of official nominees of major political parties in some constituencies in the past week. Their understated individual expression of dissent or sentiments through unconventional protests such as tonsuring though is subtle but profound defiance of the establishment, which is either the leadership of the parties concerned or the ruling authorities. The outbreak of protests by local leaders and cadres of major political parties against the announcement of their respective candidates in Ponnani, Kuttiyadi, Elathur and Irikkur dominated the election debates in the past week as did Congress leader Lathika Subash’s act of tonsuring her head as a symbolic protest against the denial of the Ettumanur seat to her and her resignation as State president of the Mahila Congress. Ettumanur Ms. Subash’s rebellion, as manifested in her decision to contest as an Independent candidate in Ettumanur, may be upstaged by more pressing concerns and issues that will determine the nature of campaign passion in the coming days. But the symbolism of her individual dissent continues to have potency that will hold on even beyond the forthcoming election. For, it will be seen as a woman leader’s personal protest against the establishment of her own party. Dharmadam No less emblematic is the ‘Walayar mother’ who had her head shaved off last month and started her tour of 14 districts across the State highlighting what she said was denial of justice by the State government and demanding action against the police officer who investigated the deaths of her two minor Dalit daughters who had been sexually assaulted and later found dead. She has announced that she will contest as an Independent candidate against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam. Her candidacy in the CPI(M)’s bastion will capture attention more for its symbolism as an act of questioning the authority by a defenceless individual than for any electoral impact it may or may not make. Vadakara K.K. Rema, widow of slain Revolutionary Marxist Party of India leader T.P. Chandrashekharan, who is contesting in Vadakara, is another symbol of defiance. Her candidacy was announced after days of hesitation that will be seen as a reflection of her sense of vulnerability as an individual, a mother. She finally came out of the shadows following the persuasion from the UDF. Her candidacy will be portrayed more as an act of vengeance against CPI(M) workers who murdered her husband, a CPI(M) dissident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-women-and-their-dissenting-acts/article34096477.ece
18 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Where no front can swear by loyalties||None of the fronts seems to have an upper hand in Kozhikode South, which has never been completely loyal to any party. Incumbent MLA M.K. Muneer choosing not to contest from here again does not sit well with the voters and hence adds to the confidence of both LDF and NDA candidates. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has fielded a woman for the first time in 25 years to defend its sitting seat. However, Noorbina Rashid, despite the position she holds in the party and her illustrious career as a criminal lawyer, is not very popular among party workers. However, the party has succeeded in making a statement in favour of women in the Muslim majority constituency. Though Mr. Muneer had improved his majority in 2016 compared with 2011, the situation is different now. Of the 25 wards of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation that come under the constituency, 15 are represented by LDF councillors, while the UDF has only eight seats, while the remaining two are represented by BJP councillors. The LDF has fielded Ahammed Devarkovil, general secretary of the Indian National League (INL), who is also not a familiar face among the voters. However, the INL plans to cash in on the goodwill earned by the LDF government, besides the apparent resentment among the public over the “poor development” of the constituency in comparison with its neighbour, Kozhikode North. “The sitting MLA has not paid much attention to the constituency. The voters are craving for development,” Mr. Devarokovil told The Hindu . The NDA has fielded another woman, hoping to wrest the constituency from the IUML. Navya Haridas, an ex-techie, is a councillor in the Kozhikode Corporation and the district secretary of the BJP. Navya and her party have high hopes for Kozhikode South. The increasing vote share of the BJP in the constituency is one reason. “Mr. Muneer lacks the courage to face the voters of the constituency once again. It shows how weak the chances of the IUML are,” Ms. Haridas said, adding that Ms. Noorbina was not mature enough, citing her public response to the raising of the minimum marriageable age of women to 21. In the present circumstances, all the fronts have to sweat a bit and play their cards well to sway the voters to their side because the constituency has no unwavering loyalties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-no-front-can-swear-by-loyalties/article34096442.ece
18 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Saying cheese for class photos online||For most students, a year went off just like that, without being able to catch up with their classmates in person even once due to COVID-19. So when it is time for the class photograph at the end of the academic year, they are at a loss. Now, a studio in Kozhikode has come up with just the right solution: online photoshoot. Namitha Premkumar, owner of the studio Phototec Colour Lab here, is the brain behind the idea. “One of the schools we have a tie-up with wanted to do something special for the class photos this year. The initial plan was to make a collage of individual photos. Then we came up with the idea of online classrooms,” she says. The idea is for all students of a class to come online at the same time and their images are captured online by the studio in high resolution. A whole class fits in one A4 size photograph. “We have finished the shoot for all classes of a school in Kozhikode recently and have now moved on to their branches in Thiruvalla and Kottayam,” says Namitha, adding that an advantage is that distance does not matter. “It’s not expensive either,” she says. However, there is one catch. “We can't do this if the strength of the class is too high. The maximum we can fit in a frame is 36 people,” she says. In other cases, two frames are used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saying-cheese-for-class-photos-online/article34096445.ece
18 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID-19 caseload drops again in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 caseload in Kozhikode dropped to 3,147 on Wednesday when more recoveries than fresh cases were reported from the district. According to the District Medical Officer (DMO), 371 people were discharged from hospitals and first-line treatment centres while 246 others tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. There were 233 locally acquired infections, and the source of seven others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation recorded 72 cases of local transmission, Naduvannur 13, and Atholi, Ayanchery, and Kayanna 11 each. A total of 5,804 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 4.23%. The DMO said in a release that people who have fever, cold, sore throat, and breathing difficulties should postpone their COVID vaccination till these symptoms subsided. Meanwhile, a native of Kozhikode district has accused the health authorities of administering COVID-19 vaccine twice in a matter of minutes, after which she is reported to have developed severe fever, headache, and breathing difficulties. The resident of Kettangal was vaccinated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, last Friday. Though a second dose of the vaccine is given after a gap of 28 days, she was reportedly given the second dose within minutes. It is learnt to be a mistake on the part of the nursing staff, she told a section of the media. She developed side-effects after reaching home. The health authorities then asked her to get hospitalised. Though the woman claimed that she had filed a complaint with the Health Department, the District Medical Officer feigned ignorance about any such development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-caseload-drops-again-in-kozhikode/article34096443.ece
18 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Winnable seats still a pipe dream for women candidates||State Mahila Congress former chief Lathika Subash’s ‘tonsure’ protest may have stunned many. The allotment of winnable seats to women in electoral politics, however, is rarely raised as a debate and the discussion mainly revolves around their representation only. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has given the ticket to 15 women this time, 10 of which are in its sitting seats. Of the 11 constituencies allotted to women by the United Democratic Front (UDF), only two are its sitting seats. Among the remaining nine seats, the winning margin of the rival candidates was between 10,000 and 43,000 votes in the last polls. In the 2016 polls, while the LDF fielded 17 women, the UDF gave the ticket to nine. The sitting seats of the LDF where women are fielded this time and the winning margin last time are: Mattannur (43,381), Koyilandy (13,369), Kongad (13,271), Irinjalakuda (2,711), Aranmula (7,646), Kayamkulam (11,857), Kundara (30,460), Attingal (40,383), Vaikom (24,584), and Chadayamangalam (21,928). Only Aroor and Kozhikode South are the sitting seats allotted to women by the UDF this time and the winning margins there last time were 2,079 and 6,327 votes respectively. Some of the other seats and the winning margins of the rival LDF candidates were Parassala (18,566), Kottarakara (42,632), Kollam (17,611), Thrissur (6,987), Tarur (23,068), Mananthavady (1,307), and Vattiyurkavu (14,465).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/winnable-seats-still-a-pipe-dream-for-women-candidates/article34096460.ece
18 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kunhalikutty files papers in Vengara||Seventeen candidates filed nominations for the Assembly election and the Lok Sabha byelection in the district on Wednesday. Sixteen of them were to the Assembly. So far, 23 candidates have filed nominations. Malappuram district Congress president V.V. Prakash filed nomination in Nilambur. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty filed nomination in Vengara. IUML candidate P.K. Firos filed in Tanur. LDF candidate in the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency V.P. Sanu filed nomination before the District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunhalikutty-files-papers-in-vengara/article34096629.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||Election for 3 RS seats on April 12||Election for the three Rajya Sabha (RS) seats from Kerala falling vacant next month will be held on April 12, the Election Commission said on Wednesday. Abdul Wahab of the Indian Union Muslim League, K.K. Ragesh of the CPI(M) and Vayalar Ravi of the Congress are retiring on April 21. The notification for the biennial elections will be issued on March 24. As per practice, votes will counted in the evening of April 12 after conclusion of polling at 4 p.m. The MLAs of the outgoing Assembly, in which the ruling Left Democratic Front has a majority, will elect the three new members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-for-3-rs-seats-on-april-12/article34096481.ece
18 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Modi rule ideal for Kerala also: Sreedharan||Former technocrat and BJP candidate in the Palakkad Assembly constituency E. Sreedharan said here on Wednesday that the National Democratic Alliance government led by Narendra Modi at the Centre was following an ideal culture of governance, and that Kerala and its people should adopt it. “Keralites will soon have to go and work in Bengal and Mumbai if they do not change the culture of governance in the State,” Mr. Sreedharan said. He said the people of Kerala were partly responsible for electing representatives and governments with negative attitude. The State’s attitude towards development should change. “The State got no industry in the last two decades. Wealth will not come without industry. The onus is on those governing the State to create an environment that welcomes industry,” he said. Mr. Sreedharan said that higher education in the State was in ruins. “Some 25 years ago, it was good. Now the standard has gone down. And political appointments in key posts of higher education have become the bane of Kerala,” he said. Failed projects Pointing out projects such as Thiruvananthapuram Light Metro, Kozhikode Light Metro, Nilambur-Nanjangud rail line, Guruvayur-Tirunavaya rail line as examples of failed development schemes because of State’s politics, Mr. Sreedharan said that the State had shelved some good projects he submitted for easing the congestion on roads. “Way back in 1993, I had submitted a detailed project report to start a suburban rail system connecting Thrissur and Aluva, Kollam and Nemom, and Tirur and Kannur. This was one of the best alternatives to ease the increasing congestion on the roads and to reduce accidents as well. But nothing happened,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modi-rule-ideal-for-kerala-also-sreedharan/article34096487.ece
18 March 2021||S.R. PraveenTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||From printed masks to LED symbols, parties spoilt for choice||While a face mask is seen by many as an impediment to their expressions during interactions, especially for the smiles that are part and parcel of vote canvassing, the mask itself is now a tool for political messaging. Since the recent local body elections, the first polls after the COVID-19 outbreak, masks printed with photographs of candidates and party symbols have been much in demand. At Screen Point, better known as ‘kodi kada’, a shop on S.S. Kovil Road in the capital that sells flags, banners, T-shirts and other political merchandise, masks ordered by candidates from other districts too are stacked up to be delivered. “These printed masks are much in demand, especially for the workers involved in door-to-door campaigns or those accompanying a particular candidate in rallies,” says Rayan, whose father S. Sulaiman began the election-time business more than two decades ago. According to the staff at the shop, the business during Assembly or Lok Sabha elections never matches that during the local body elections, where the number of candidates is huge. Most of those candidates come here in person and purchase flags and other material in bulk. During Assembly elections, each party’s local-level committees purchase the material as per funds available to them. Leaders’ images Though this is the first election without veteran Communist leader V.S. Achuthanandan in active campaigning, a white T-shirt with his photograph printed on it gets prominent display in the shop, along with flags and keychains with images of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. LED-lighted party symbols and symbols in the form of balloons are also much in demand. Unlike the situation a few years ago, plastic is not spotted anywhere and all campaign material are made using cloth as per the green protocol. The flags range in price from Rs. 15 to Rs. 150. “We get the cloth material printed in bulk from Surat in Gujarat. Some of the stitching work is done in Tamil Nadu. It is not economical for us to purchase the costly equipment for printing just for the elections,” says a staff. Other than elections, the demand for the stuff comes mainly during political rallies or political events at the local level. At other times, the shop transforms into one for printing and making identity tags, badges and such material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-printed-masks-to-led-symbols-parties-spoilt-for-choice/article34096475.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,098 more test positive||The State reported 2,098 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 60,193 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 10,96,392. The test positivity rate showed a slight increase at 3.49% On Wednesday, with 2,815 recoveries being reported, the active case pool dipped to 25,394 cases. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 10,66,259. Death toll The addition of 13 new deaths during the past few days to the official list of fatalities on Wednesday took the toll to 4,435 deaths. Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Malappuram reported two deaths each, while one death each was reported in Kollam, Alappuzha. Kottayam, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the maximum number of new cases at 255 cases. Kozhikode reported 246 cases, Kollam 230, Thiruvananthapuram 180, Kottayam 169, Malappuram 163, Pathanamthitta 156, Kannur 139, Thrissur 137, Kasaragod 131, Alappuzha 91, Palakkad 75, Idukki 67, and Wayanad 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2098-more-test-positive/article34096449.ece
18 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||180 new cases in capital, 229 recover||The district reported 180 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and 229 recoveries, the district administration said. The active case pool stands at 1,879. The death toll in the district, as per the latest available data, has touched 859. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, local transmission accounted for 125 cases. Meanwhile, 1,185 more people have been quarantined in the district as part of the measures put in place to prevent the spread of infection. This takes the number currently in quarantine to 15,922. In all, 969 people also completed the quarantine period on Wednesday. Containment zone Meanwhile, Panangod in Peringamala grama panchayat has been listed as a containment zone as part of controlling the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/180-new-cases-in-capital-229-recover/article34096659.ece
18 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll officials told to check electoral rolls||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena has asked District Election Officers to examine whether any deliberate attempt has been made to enter the names of voters multiple times in the electoral rolls. The directive was issued on the basis of a complaint filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday in this regard. Mr. Meena sought reports from the poll officials in Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Alappuzha, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts. The officers have been asked to conduct a detailed, factual inquiry and submit their reports by March 20, Mr. Meena said. Mr. Meena also directed the officials to initiate appropriate legal action if the charges were proven correct. Mr. Chennithala had said that he suspected the active connivance of officials responsible for preparing the electoral list. They owed allegiance to the ruling Left Democratic Front.  Reports sought from Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha and Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-officials-told-to-check-electoral-rolls/article34096484.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC orders probe into death of accident victim||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed that a detailed probe be conducted into the death of man in the casualty of Government Medical College Hospital without getting any treatment. The man had been seriously injured in a road accident in front of Ananthapuri hospital here. Sabeer, a resident of Pallam, Vallakkadavu here, who was riding a motorbike died in the accident on March 12. Though he was rushed to the casualty wing of the medical college hospital immediately, he did not get treatment, the complaint by human rights activist Ragam Rahim said. There were no senior doctors in the casualty, and postgraduate students were manning operations, the complaint said, seeking action against hospital staff responsible for Sabeer’s death. Services sought The complaint also sought steps to ensure the services of at least two senior doctors round the clock in the casualty wing of the medical college hospital. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Director of Medical Education to conduct the probe and submit a report within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-orders-probe-into-death-of-accident-victim/article34096658.ece
18 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strike at NTC mills ends||The indefinite strike of the employees of the National Textile Corporation (NTC)'s Vijayamohini mills in Thiruvananthapuram ended on the 203rd day on Wednesday, after the Corporation agreed to restart operations of the mill from March 31. The 23 spinning mills of the NTC, under the Union Textile Ministry, had remained closed since March 2020, despite the Centre granting permission for factories and industries to open in May last year. The protest of the employees began on August 27, after several demands for reopening the mills fell on deaf ears. A pressnote from the South Regional Office of the NTC said the spinning section of the mill can be restarted from March 31 with immediately marketable counts of raw materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strike-at-ntc-mills-ends/article34096660.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child rights panel says ‘no’ to offline exams||The Kerala State Commission for Child Rights has directed that offline (physical) examinations other than board/public examinations should not be conducted in schools in the State in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. The commission was of the view that since people are not free from the pandemic yet, any situation that could lead to its spread should be discouraged. Acting on a petition by parents that several schools in Ernakulam district had completed the exam for Class 9 or had decided to conduct them offline against the directives of the CBSE ignoring the COVID-19 situation, the commission, comprising chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar and members K. Nazeer and Babitha B., directed the CBSE Regional Officer here on Wednesday to issue a circular to all affiliated schools to adhere to its directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-says-no-to-offline-exams/article34096450.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KTU invites applications for PhD admission||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has invited applications for PhD admission in affiliated colleges for the academic year 2020-21. Admissions to both July 2021 and January 2022 batches are offered. Candidates can apply for full-time and part-time PhD. Those working in affiliated colleges and in firms/institutes approved by the university are eligible to apply for the part-time PhD programme. Applications can be submitted online. The last date for submitting applications is March 31. For details, visit the university websitehttps://ktu.edu.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-invites-applications-for-phd-admission/article34096451.ece
18 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP names candidates for four seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has named candidates for the four remaining Assembly constituencies it is contesting. They are Sreemukundan Palliyara (Scheduled Caste reservation constituency Mananthavady), Bitty Sudheer (Karunagapally), M. Sunil (Kollam) and Sobha Surendran (Kazhakuttam). Earlier, the BJP had announced candidates for 115 constituencies. Party State president K. Surendran is contesting in Konni and Manjeswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-names-candidates-for-four-seats/article34096480.ece
18 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||223 more file nominations in State||In all, 223 nominations were filed in the State on Wednesday for the April 6 Assembly polls. Thirty-four nominations were filed in Kozhikode district, 33 each in Ernakulam and Thrissur and 27 in Thiruvananthapuram district. The number of nominations filed in other districts are as follows: Kasaragod-6, Kannur-11, Wayanad-6, Malappuram-19, Palakkad-6, Idukki-6, Kottayam-16, Alappuzha-11, Pathanamthitta-2 and Kollam-13. So far 424 nominations have been filed in the State. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty filed his nomination in Vengara. Left Democratic Front candidate for the byelection in the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency V.P. Sanu filed his nomination before District Collector G. Gopalakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/223-more-file-nominations-in-state/article34096485.ece
18 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NoRKA ex-manager convicted||The Thiruvananthapuram Vigilance Court has convicted a former manager of NoRKA-Roots Thiruvananthapuram over a case involving misappropriation of funds by cooking up cashbook data. The Court convicted Gopakumar hailing from Vilappil village, who had worked in the NoRKA-Roots office in the 2004-05 period. A special investigation unit of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau had found that he had misappropriated Rs. 12,779. He was convicted to two years in prison. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norka-ex-manager-convicted/article34096452.ece
18 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||John Thomas IT Parks CEO||John M. Thomas has taken over as the new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of IT Parks-Kerala. An MBA in Information Systems, Operations and Finance from the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, he succeeds Sasi Pilacheri Meethal. His previous assignment was with Equifax Inc. Atlanta, U.S., as Cloud Data Migration Leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/john-thomas-it-parks-ceo/article34096483.ece
18 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Distribution of EVM, VVPAT starts||Distribution of Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) systems to the Returning Officers in the 13 Assembly constituencies in the district has commenced. The devices used for the ballot system were distributed from the Government Engineering College here. They were dispatched in the presence of representatives of various political parties. Three counters were set up in the college for the process. The devices were transferred to strongrooms set up in the constituencies. The strongrooms were later sealed with the support of the Central Armed Police Force. Representatives of various candidates contesting in the polls too marked their seals. The strongrooms will be guarded by the police till the counting day, said Election Deputy Collector M.H. Harish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-evm-vvpat-starts/article34096626.ece
18 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID-19: 137 fresh cases||A total of 137 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, while 202 people recovered from the disease. According to official data, 134 people who tested positive on Wednesday contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 24 are above the age of 60 and 9 children are below the age of 10. Thirty four people were admitted to hospital for treatment on Wednesday. A total of 7,088 samples were tested. With this, the district has 2,031 active cases, while 39 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-137-fresh-cases/article34096627.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest rally||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-rally/article34096662.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Beyond constituencies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beyond-constituencies/article34096473.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rush of devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rush-of-devotion/article34096454.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Standing by slogan||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standing-by-slogan/article34096465.ece
18 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Property tax hike will not be more than 15% of existing amount, says Botcha||The government has taken a policy decision to rationalise the property tax structure in the State by linking it to the value of the property owned by the assessee, and it does not mean the tax will be increased arbitrarily, according to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana. “The increase in property tax will not be more than 15% of the existing amount,” Mr. Satyanarayana told the media here on Wednesday. The Minister was here to attend a meeting of party MLAs, MP, and newly elected ward members of the Anantapur Municipal Corporation at the residence of MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy. Mr. Satyanarayana, while not disclosing the date from which the new tax regime would come into force, pointed out that those owning houses with a built-up area below 330 sft would be required to pay only Rs. 50 per year. “Under the new tax structure, it will not be possible to influence the tax collectors in assessing the municipal tax. When the TDP cried foul over the government’s move, we showed it the G.O. issued restricting the quantum of increase to a maximum of 15%,” the Minister said. CID notices Referring to the CID notices to TDP national president and Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu and former Minister P. Narayana, the district in-charge Minister said, “The CID works independently. If Mr. Naidu has nothing to hide, why should he worry?” “I too had faced the CBI probe twice based on complaints lodged by Mr. Naidu, but I never cribbed about it. I showed the proofs to the CBI and got a clean chit,” the Minister said. People thanked Thanking the people of Anantapur for voting out the TDP, Mr. Satyanarayana said it was a tremendous performance. “A member of the Muslim minority community will become the Mayor, and a person from the Balija (BC) community his deputy. The election of the second Deputy Mayor will be held later,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/property-tax-hike-will-not-be-more-than-15-of-existing-amount-says-botcha/article34096396.ece
18 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Politics hots up as Tadipatri Chairperson to be chosen today||The politics surrounding the election of the Chairperson of Tadipatri municipality is taking new twists with each passing day ever since the results of the elections were announced. On Wednesday, Srinivasulu, a lawyer, lodged a complaint with Tadipatri Municipal Commissioner P. Narasimha Prasad, alleging that YSRCP candidate Raghavendra Prasad, who won the 36th ward, had three children, but concealed the fact. The Municipal Commissioner, however, rejected the allegations on the ground that this fact was not contested or objected to by the petitioner at the time of filing of nomination. “The Returning Officer has submitted a report that this fact was not brought to his notice by anyone and none had raised an objection. Hence, the demand of the lawyer that Mr. Raghavendra Prasad be stopped from participating in the election of the Chairperson has been rejected,” Mr. Narasimha Prasad told The Hindu . Meanwhile, Minister Botcha Satyanarayana has said that the YSRCP would never try to influence the Chairperson’s election. “As of now, we do not have the required numbers of councillors to elect our candidate as the Chairperson. However, we will never poach,” he said. All newly-elected TDP ward members, who had been camping at a resort, would reach Tadipatri by the night as the Chairperson’s election is scheduled to be held at 11 a.m. on Thursday. HC quashes MLC’s plea Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh High Court has rejected the plea of TDP MLC Deepak Reddy seeking that he be allowed to be included as an ex-officio member of the Tadipatri Municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/politics-hots-up-as-tadipatri-chairperson-to-be-chosen-today/article34096615.ece
18 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Puttaparthi TDP ward member joins YSRCP||The newly-elected ward No.3 member of Puttaparthi Nagar Panchayat Nimmaganti Saileela, who had won on Telugu Desam Party ticket, switched her allegiance to the YSR Congress Party on Wednesday and joined the party in the presence of Puttaparthi MLA Duddukunta Sreedhar Reddy. Telugu Desam Party president B.K. Parthasarathy said the party had issued a whip to all the five members who elected in the Puttaparthi Nagar Panchayat to vote for the party candidate in the election to the chairperson on Thursday. Now it remains to be seen if the ward member votes in favour of the YSRCP candidate or abstains from voting. “If she votes in favour of the YSRCP candidate, we can lodge a complaint with the municipal commissioner, or take legal action,” said party Hindupur district president B.K. Parthasarathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/puttaparthi-tdp-ward-member-joins-ysrcp/article34096104.ece
18 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 cases among students worry teachers, parents in Chittoor||As government and private schools are racing to complete the syllabus for Class X, the incidence of COVID-19 cases among students of some schools in the western mandals has become a concern for teachers and parents as well. Chittoor district has been witnessing an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases during the last month, with a daily average of 40. After over 50 teachers and students at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) administered Veda Patashala tested positive to the virus a few days ago, it’s the turn of the schools in Palamaner, including a private institution. A teacher said that in the last week, fear gripped parents about the incidence of the virus in the region, forcing them to avoid sending their children to schools. A headmaster of a government school at Ramasamudram mandal said that COVID-19 cases among students and teachers in the western mandals was very disturbing at a time when the task of finishing the syllabus and preparing the students for the examinations was almost complete. “We have almost faced a Herculean task in making the students wear face masks and use sanitisers, besides observing physical distance. The moment when we felt some relief, the virus is once again bothering us. Our concern is that several students continue to come to the schools without masks. Also, we are not sure whether the students who wear masks in schools are following precautions after leaving the premises,” he said. District Educational Officer Narasimha Reddy said though the COVID-19 cases had surfaced in some schools, “we are very much alert to the pandemic.” He said that the procedures concerning the syllabus and preparation for the examinations were going on at a brisk pace. The DEO said the revenue, medical and health department staff were fully geared up to tackle the virus in the schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-cases-among-students-worry-teachers-parents-in-chittoor/article34096617.ece
18 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PF official promises steps for timely provisioning of loans||Special Chief Secretary (Labour Department) and EPFO Chairperson B. Udayalakshmi has said that steps will be taken to provide the beneficiaries loans and pensions. Speaking at the Labour Provident Fund Regional Committee meeting held on Wednesday for the first time since bifurcation of the State, Ms. Udayalakshmi said that most of the workers were illiterate, and suggested that awareness programmes be undertaken to provide them benefits. Representatives of the employers and labour unions, as well as representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, urged the government to take steps to ensure that the provident fund benefits reached the beneficiaries expeditiously. Ms. Udayalakshmi assured that steps would be taken to ensure timely provisioning of loans and pensions. Several issues were discussed at the meeting. Earlier, PF State Additional Commissioner and Provident Fund Regional Committee Secretary Krishna Chowdhury said the EPF meeting was held in Hyderabad in 2013. He also explained the details of the provident fund as well as the assistance provided by the Central government. After bifurcation, the EPFO zonal office was shifted to Vijayawada and ROs were functioning in Guntur, Kadapa, Rajamahendravaram and Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pf-official-promises-steps-for-timely-provisioning-of-loans/article34096602.ece
18 March 2021||HANUMAN JUNCTION,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds woman’s death||A 30-year-old woman died under suspicious circumstances here on Wednesday. She was reportedly shifted to a private hospital from a hotel in an unconscious state, and no injuries were found on the body. Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu said the woman was a native of A. Seetarampuram village. Following a complaint, the Hanuman Junction police registered a case of suspicious death. “The body was shifted to the government hospital for post-mortem. We are waiting for the report to know the exact cause of death”, Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-womans-death/article34096682.ece
18 March 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa doctor wins battle over leukaemia||Braving her diagnosis of acute leukaemia, the gynaecologist stood a personification of grit and in steering a new way to the future of blood cancer treatment and bone marrow transplantation in the country. Dr. Rama Devi, who is the head of gynaecology department at a leading medical college in Kadapa, was diagnosed in 2016 with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), a type of high risk blood cancer, who underwent treatment successfully at Yashoda Hospitals of Hyderabad. Her case was quite complex as Dr. Rama Devi had single kidney from birth, blood cancer AML having impacted her vision and a history of hypersensitivity to most antibiotics. “She started growing weak and lost her ability to see clearly with her left eye. She also had history of fever and easy bruising over arms and legs. Extensive blood investigations confirmed her diagnosis to be AML”, said Ganesh Jaishetwar, senior consultant at Yashoda Hospital, Somajiguda. With bone marrow transplant, we can successfully cure leukaemia, myeloma, lymphomas, aplastic anaemia, immunodeficiency disorders and thalassaemia, which were once considered incurable, Dr. Jaishetwar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kadapa-doctor-wins-battle-over-leukaemia/article34096109.ece
18 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shaik Sabjee wins Council polls from Godavari dists.||Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation State president Shaik Sabjee was on Wednesday declared been elected to the Legislative Council from the East Godavari - West Godavari Teachers’ Constituency. Votes polled Hailing from Eluru city in West Godavari district, Mr. Shaik Sabjee polled 7,987 votes, while his prime rival and Independent candidate Gandham Narayana Rao polled 6,453 votes. Eleven persons had contested the elections. In all, 16,054 voters had exercised their franchise, and 15,591 votes were valid. While Illa Satyanarayana polled 300 votes, Ch. Subhas Chandra Bose received 706 votes. Returning Officer and East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy declared the election result at the counting centre on the JNTU-Kakinada campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shaik-sabjee-wins-council-polls-from-godavari-dists/article34096603.ece
18 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,094 farmers’ panels formed to purchase farm machinery||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Wednesday said that 1,094 groups comprising local farmers had been constituted to run the agricultural machinery centres set up at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras in the district by April. According to Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, the State government has framed a policy, providing agricultural machinery on rent to local farmers to minimise the input cost. Mr. Lakshmisha and other district officials on Wednesday held talks with the companies dealing with agricultural machinery to decide price, models of machinery and types of machinery required for farming in various sizes of land holdings. Subsidy on loan “As many as 1,094 farmers committees have been formed, each comprising five farmers. The committes will be attached to RBKs and run the agricultural machinery centres. The government will offer Rs. 40% subsidy and guarantees 50% of the loan taken from banks to the committee to purchase the required machinery,” said Mr. Lakshmisha. Each committee is permitted to purchase machinery worth up to Rs. 15 lakh and provide the same to the needy farmers on low rent. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to launch the programme in April. We are preparing to finalise the list of machinery to be made available in the 1,094 RBKs and complete the documentation process for loan by March 25,” said the Joint Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1094-farmers-panels-formed-to-purchase-farm-machinery/article34096618.ece
18 March 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hectic lobbying on for coveted posts||The ruling YSR Congress Party annexed all the 11 urban local bodies in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh hands down, but finalising the candidates for the coveted posts, a day ahead of the indirect elections slated for Thursday, has become a Herculean task for the party high-command in many of the urban local bodies(ULBs). The party has cleared the name of Gangada Sujatha for the Mayor post in Ongole, ruling party sources said, while they decided on Srinath Reddy for the Chairperson’s post in Sullurpeta, G. Venkataramanamma in Atmakur and Deepika in Naidupeta. But hectic lobbying is on by the aspirants for the key posts of Chairperson as also Vice-Chairperson in other civic bodies. In the handloom town of Venkatagiri in SPSR Nellore district, D. Sharada and N. Bhanupriya, both hailing from the weavers community, have thrown their hats in the ring for the Chairperson’s post, making it difficult for Venkatagiri MLA and former Minister Anam Ramanarayana Reddy to decide between them. The task of selecting the nominee for the Chairperson post became a difficult one also in Chirala Municipality as all the five Chairperson aspirants--B. Jaison Babu, S. Lakshmi, J. Srinivasa Rao, M. Sambasiva Rao and U. Subbaiah-- won the direct elections held on March 10. State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and Chirala MLA Karnam Balarama Krishnamurthy burnt the midnight oil hearing the conflicting views of the 19 candidates who won in the elections to the 33-member house. Compounding the issue at hand for the two leaders was the election of 13 Independents, all supporters of former MLA and YSRCP leader Amanchi Krishnamohan as corporators. In Kanigiri Nagara Panchayat, where the YSRCP won from all the 20 wards, the party had sounded Sk.Abdul Gafoor for the Chairman’s post and P. Shanthi for the Vice-Chairperson post. In Markapur, the names of Ch. Balamuralikrishna and T. Kanakadurga have been have been shortlisted for the Chairperson’s post, while Sk. Ismail and Sk. Salim were vying for the Vice-Chairperson’s post. In Giddalur, R.D. Ramakrishna has been sounded for the Chairperson’s post by sitting YSRCP MLA Anna Ram Babu, party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hectic-lobbying-on-for-coveted-posts/article34096105.ece
18 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stir for port to be intensified||Students under the leadership of Andhra Pradesh Students Joint Action Committee(APSJAC) president Rayapatti Jagadeesh on Wednesday decided to step up agitation for location of a major Central port at Ramayapatnam in Prakasam district. The students, who held a meeting here, urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to impress upon the Centre to locate the major port promised in the State Reorganisation Act in Ramayapatnam after the latter found the coastal village of Dugarajapatnam economically unviable. “We are not for the non-major port(NMP) proposed at Ramayapatnam which the Centre has expressed inability to fund,” Mr. Jagadeesh said and wanted the Chief Minister to fulfil his major poll promise to the district youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-to-step-up-stir-for-major-port-at-ramayapatnam/article34096106.ece
18 March 2021||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister visits Polavaram R&R colonies||Minister for Water Resources P. Anil Kumar on Wednesday visited the spillway works, fixing of gates and hydraulic cylinders, upper and lower dam works at the Polvaram dam site. As part of the two-day visit to the project site and Relief and review on Rehabilitation (R&R) colonies, the Minister took stock of the situation and held a meeting with Polavaram project and Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) officials. Mr. Anil Kumar enquired about the condition of diaphragm wall and coffer dam and directed the officials to take up repair works before floods. Earlier, the Minister along with Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana and other officers visited the colonies in Taduvai, Ramannagudem, Pallapuru and LND Peta villages in West Godavari district. Interaction with villages He spoke with the villagers, local leaders and the officers and enquired about construction of R&R Colonies in the villages. Later, the Minister received petitions from the tribal leaders. Mr. Suryanarayana explained that R&R Colonies were completed and arrangements were being made to shift about 10,000 displaced families in West and East Godavari districts by April-end. R&R incharge commissioner Anand, Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi and other officers were present on the occcasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-visits-polavaram-rr-colonies/article34096621.ece
18 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remodelled station yard commissioned in Tirupati||The remodelled yard at the Tirupati railway station, commissioned recently, is all set to enhance efficiency in train operations by de-congesting movement of trains. The station, the nearest rail point to reach Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, is known for high-density traffic on various routes and hence the decision of the South Central Railway management to remodel the yard. The project was sanctioned in the year 2013-14 as part of the development of south side entry of the station at an outlay of Rs. 77.29 crore. The infrastructure upgradation at the remodelled yard includes two stabling lines and one engine escape line towards Renigunta end and an additional running line in the yard with a length of 640 metres to manage train movement within the station. Electronic interlocking is commissioned to reduce the manual intervention in handling of trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remodelled-station-yard-commissioned-in-tirupati/article34096107.ece
18 March 2021||VEERAVASARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 8.04 lakh ‘stolen’ from Veeravasaram police station||Unidentified persons allegedly stole Rs. 8.04 lakh cash from the Veeravasaram police station, under Palakol Rural Circle limits in West Godavari district. Police registered a case on Wednesday and took up investigation. According to Narsapuram DSP P. Veeranjaneya Reddy, supervisors of government liquor outlets of neighbouring Nouduru, Konithiwada, Rayakuduru and Veeravasaram areas in the district had deposited the money in the police station on March 15 as banks were closed for the last four days. The liquor shop staff who came to the police station to collect the cash to deposit it in banks on Wednesday, found that the money was missing. “One head constable and a constable were on duty round-the-clock in Veeravasaram police station during the last three days. We are inquiring about who entered into the police station, and the staff who were on duty,” Mr. Veeranjaneya Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-804-lakh-stolen-from-veeravasaram-police-station/article34096613.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to make Bharat bandh a success||A preparatory meeting on Bharat bandh in protest against the new farm laws and other issues, slated for March 26, has decided to make the programme a success in every village. Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sanghala Samanvaya Samithi, Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Vedika organised the preparatory meeting here on Wednesday. A poster on the bandh was released on the occasion. In response to the Bharat bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the farmers associations, trade unions and other people organisations have chalked out the plan to make the bandh a success. The bandh is being organised to mark the completion of four months of the protest against the new Central farm laws at the Delhi borders, which started on November 26. Speakers at the meeting demanded the government to scrap the farm laws, withdraw labour codes and energy privatisation bill and stop privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. They also wanted the government to enact new legislation — Support Prices for Crops Guarantee Act, and a law to protect the tenant farmers. Samiti convener Vadde Sobhanadreeswara Rao, CPI State secretary K Ramakrishna, CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, CITU general secretary M.A. Gafoor, All India Kisan Sabha vice president Ravula Venkaiah, AITUC state general secretary G. Obulesu, A.P. Rythu Sangham president Y. Kesava Rao, State general secretary K.V.V. Prasad, A.P. Mouli Rythula Sangham state general secretary P. Jamalaiah, and others spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-make-bharat-bandh-a-success/article34096112.ece
18 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land scam: CID asks Alla to place facts before it today||The CID, which is probing the alleged land scam in Amaravati, on Wednesday served a notice on Mangalagiri MLA Alla Rama Krishna Reddy. The investigation agency had served notices on former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and former Municipal Administration Minister P. Narayana in the case on Tuesday. It directed the MLA to appear in person before it at 11 a.m. on Thursday at the CID Regional Office in Vijayawada, and place the facts pertaining to the case before the investigation officer. Staff Reporter in Nellore writes: The CID sleuths conducted searches on the residences of Mr. Narayana here and in Hyderabad in connection with the land scam. They issued notices to the family members of the former Minister, who had played a key role in the TDP government, asking him to appear before the CID office in Vijayawada on March 22, official sources here said. Basing on the complaint lodged by Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy, the CID had included the names of Mr. Naidu and Mr. Narayana in the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-scam-cid-asks-alla-to-place-facts-before-it-today/article34096610.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC dismisses MLC plea for ex officio membership||A single-judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu, has dismissed the application of MLC G. Deepak Reddy seeking ex officio membership in the Tadipatri municipality. Hearing the writ petition filed by Mr. Deepak Reddy on Wednesday, Mr. Justice Somayajulu turned down his request to allow him to become an ex officio member and exercise his franchise in the election of the chairperson and vice-chairperson of the municipality on March 18. Advocate Dammalapati Srinivas argued that Mr. Deepak Reddy was a voter in the electoral rolls of the municipality, which would make him eligible to be ex officio member of the council, and that his candidature was wrongfully rejected. Rule position Appearing for the municipality, government pleader C. Sumon contended that Section 5(2)(iv)(a) of the A.P. Municipalities Act, 1965, states that an MLC can be an ex officio member of a municipal council only in such municipality where he is a registered voter on the date of filing of his nomination for membership of the Legislative Council. But, as per the affidavit submitted by Mr. Deepak Reddy, at the time of filing his nomination for the Legislative Council, he had declared that he was enrolled as a voter in the Rayadurg municipality. Further, in 2018, Mr. Deepak Reddy had attended two meetings of the Rayadurg municipality as its ex officio member and even signed in the attendance register. “Mere transfer of his vote to Tadipatri does not entitle the MLC to become an ex officio member of the municipality concerned,” Mr. Sumon insisted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-dismisses-mlc-plea-for-ex-officio-membership/article34096605.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. striving for self-sufficiency in petrochemical products’||Industries and Commerce Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Wednesday said that Andhra Pradesh was looking to build self-sufficiency in petrochemical products and drive economies of scale in the downstream chemical industries. For the development of the Petroleum, Chemical and Petrochemical Investment Region (PCPIR), Andhra Pradesh is enabling co-location of bulk, intermediate and speciality petrochemicals players. Besides, the State is talking to MNCs to facilitate joint ventures and technology transfer for introducing key intermediates. Participating in ‘India Chem 2021’, an international conference jointly organised by the Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals and FICCI in New Delhi, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the Visakhapatnam-Chennai, Chennai - Bangalore and Hyderabad-Bangalore industrial corridors, which pass through Andhra Pradesh, dovetail with the largest PCPIR in the nation spread across 640 square km between Visakhapatnam and Kakinada. He pointed out that A.P. had attracted marquee investments in recent times in the chemical and speciality chemical industries that did not depend on availability of basic feedstock such as chloralkali, caustic soda, paints and adhesives. Seventy-plus mega industries and 5,000-and-odd MSMEs invested $2.40 billion in the State, he informed. “Chemicals and petrochemicals are of strategic importance not only for consumer products but also for critical and lifesaving items,” Mr. Reddy said, adding that the Indian chemical industry had numerous opportunities arising from the supply chain disruption in China and trade conflict among the U.S., Europe and China.  Seventy-plus mega industries and 5,000-and-odd MSMEs have invested $2.40 billion in State M. Goutham Reddy Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-striving-for-self-sufficiency-in-petrochemical-products/article34096607.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-A.P. inks pact for digital marketing course||The VIT-A.P. School of Business (VSB) on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Digital Scholar, a firm that offers education in digital marketing. The university Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said the firm has expertise in marketing services and caters to sectors such as banking, hotels, manufacturing industries and educational institutions. “With advancements in technology such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, marketers are better equipped to reach out to the consumers through digital devices,” he said. Dean, VIT School of Business S. Jeyavelu said the BBA course introduced with a specialisation in digital marketing is aimed at achieving all this and more.  Digital Scholar Founder Sorav Jain said that this learning experience would help the students hone their skills and give them an edge over others. Co-founder Rishi Jain said digital technology is the way forward and students would benefit immensely from this collaboration. Director, Digital Scholar Meghana Jain was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-inks-pact-for-digital-marketing-course/article34096619.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.El.Ed first semester examinations in May||The Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) first year first semester examinations for the 2019-21 batch will be conducted in May. In a statement on Wednesday, Director of Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy said April 1 is the last date for the remittance of exam fee by candidates to the Principals concerned without late fee. The principals should remit the exam fee latest by April 3. The last date for submission of nominal rolls in the office of the DEO concerned is April 12 and submission of the NRs by the DEO in the GDE office should be done by April 15.  With a late fee of Rs. 50, the candidates can remit the exam fee to the principals concerned till April 8, while the last date for remittance of exam fee by the principals is April 9, submission of NRs in the DEO office by April 12 and submission of NRs by the DEO by April 15. The web link to upload applications online will be available from March 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deled-first-semester-examinations-in-may/article34096620.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more COVID death, 253 new cases in State||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 253 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The tally increased to 8,92,522 and toll touched 7,186. The number of active cases further increased to 1,694 as 137 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 8,83,642. The recovery rate came down to 99%. The positivity rate of 30,716 samples tested in the past day was 0.82%. The lone COVID death occurred in Guntur district, which also reported 69 new infections in the past day. It was the highest single day tally among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (39), East Godavari (29), Visakhapatnam (27), Kurnool (26), Anantapur (15), Krishna (11), Srikakulam (10), Kadapa (7), Prakasam (7), Nellore (5), Vizianagaram (4) and West Godavari (4). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,734), West Godavari (94,390), Chittoor (88,181), Guntur (76,042), Anantapur (67,906), Nellore (62, 561), Prakasam (62,267), Kurnool (61,011), Visakhapatnam (60,323), Kadapa (55,493), Krishna (49,206), Srikakulam (46,326), Vizianagaram (41,187).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/253-new-covid-cases-in-ap/article34096435.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Course in library science begins from June 1||The next session of the ‘Certificate Course in Library and Information Science’ (C.L.I.Sc) course will be conducted from June 1 to October 31. Director of Public Libraries D. Devananda Reddy, in a statement, said that the course, for which 120 seats have been sanctioned, would be conducted at the P.N. School of Library Science in Vijayawada (40 seats each for English and Telugu medium), Rayalaseema Institute of Library and Information Science at Gandhi Nagar in Kadapa (40 seats each for English and Telugu medium) and Vavilala Samstha Library Science at Arundalpet in Guntur district (40 seats each for English and Telugu medium). Candidates who wish to undergo training must have passed two years of Intermediate Public Examination or its equivalent courses from any UGC-recognised university. The selection of candidates would be based on merit, taking into account the percentage of marks obtained in the qualifying examination. Candidates who have studied Intermediate vocational courses are not eligible. Five marks for bachelor degree and 10 marks for post-graduation degree holders would be added to the total marks obtained in the qualifying examination. Allotment of seats would be made as per the Rule of Reservation, 33 1/3 seats would be reserved for women candidates and 10% seats in each medium and in each institute are reserved for persons working in the Zilla Grandhalaya Samsthas, government libraries and in the office of the Director of Public Libraries. The application form can be obtained from the principals of the institutes between April 1 and 21 and the last date for their submission is April 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/course-in-library-science-begins-from-june-1/article34096113.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APMDC tender document sent for judicial preview||The Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Limited (APMDC) has submitted the tender document for selection of a mine developer and operator for the Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih district in Jharkhand, to the A.P. Judicial Preview Commission. APMDC V-C and MD V.G. Venkata Reddy, in a release on Wednesday, said the APMDC had won the Brahmadiha coal block in the first-ever commercial block auctions conducted by the Ministry of Coal in 2020. The APMDC was the only public sector undertaking to win in the auction, he said. “The coking coal reserves of the block, which are suitable for steel plants, are estimated to be valued at Rs. 1,709 crore,” he said. As per the orders issued by the government, any project valued above Rs. 100 crore has to be sent to the Judicial Preview Commission. The tender document would be available on the commission’s website till March 24 for public comments and suggestions. Prospective bidders and the general public can share their comments on – judge-jpp@ap.gov.in, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apmdc-tender-document-sent-for-judicial-preview/article34096601.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE extends fee payment date||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has extended till March 19 the time for payment of examination fee under Tatkal scheme for IPE March 2021 for Intermediate first and second year private candidates who are seeking attendance exemption (for Arts Group only). The candidates will have to pay Rs. 1,300 in addition to the attendance exemption fee and the examination fee to the Principal of the college and submit Attendance Exemption form and examination application forms to the Principal of the Government Junior Colleges along with the relevant certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bie-extends-fee-payment-date/article34096604.ece
18 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arbitration workshop for APGenco engineers begins||A three-day workshop on alternative dispute resolution methods (arbitration) organised by the International Centre for Alternative Dispute Resolution (ICADR), for engineers of APGenco began at Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS) on Wednesday. Participating as chief guest at the inaugural, Justice B. Siva Sankara Rao, Chairman of Judicial Preview Committee of Government of Andhra Pradesh, explained how disputes were resolved in the olden days. He also gave his perspective on various aspects of arbitration and its importance. Speaking on the occasion, ICADR Hyderabad Regional Centre in-charge J.L.N. Murthy spoke about the amendments made to the Arbitration Act and its salient features that were helping India in becoming a hub for domestic and global arbitration in settling commercial disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arbitration-workshop-for-apgenco-engineers-begins/article34096114.ece
18 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC Council Hall readied for all-important election||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that all arrangements have been made for the election process of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor at the new Council Hall on the second floor of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation’s (GVMC) office, scheduled on Thursday. Mr. Vinay Chand visited the new council hall along with GVMC Commissioner S. Nagalakshmi. He said that the meeting will be conducted at 11 a.m.. He added that all the members of the council and ex-officio members should be present by 10.30 a.m. Meanwhile Narsipatnam Sub-Collector N. Mourya said that elections for Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the swearing-in ceremony for the newly-elected ward members would be held at 11 a.m. in the Council Hall in Narsipatnam. She said that the 28 new ward members and ex-officio members would take part in the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-council-hall-readied-for-all-important-election/article34096686.ece
18 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees rise in COVID cases again||It was on March 17 last year when a 65-year-old man from Alipuram was admitted to a hospital with suspected symptoms of coronavirus. His samples were confirmed positive two days later. The man, with a travel history to Saudi Arabia, was the first COVID-19 case in the city and his 49-year-old wife also tested positive later. From just one case on March 19, 2020, the district has recorded more than 60,800 positive cases in the last one year and the virus has claimed around 540 lives during the period. And among the victims are the people from all sections of the society—doctors, nurses and paramedics, police personnel, government officials, politicians and young and the old alike. On the brighter side, the district has recorded a recovery count of over 60,100, which means a recovery rate of around 98%. After the initial few cases, mostly foreign returnees or their primary or secondary contacts, the first surge of infection was seen in the second week of April, with the return of the Tablighi Jamaat attendees. The virus was new to the medical fraternity then and the treatment was being offered on an experimental basis. Though the initial reaction was panicky, the district administration was swift in its action by forming clusters and demarcating red zones. Yet, cases rose sharply in areas such as Dandu Bazaar, Jalaripeta, Kobbarithota and Narsipatnam. The virus spread was under control till June end, by which the tally was hovering around 1,000. The number crossed the 50,000-mark in the next two months and the death toll rose from just 10 to 400. From just one hospital, the district administration scaled up the hospital facility to over 40, including 22 Category-A facilities. From a few hundred beds with oxygen facility, the number rose over 5,500. For its initial handling of the pandemic, the district administration even received plaudits from the British Medical Journal. ‘Ready for any exigency’ “There was some panic in the initial days. But, we got over it quickly. Our multiple committee system worked well. Today, we are ready to handle any eventualities,” says Collector V. Vinay Chand. After seeing a steep rise in the tally till August, the cases started to decline from September. Between November 2020 and February 2021, the single-day tally was in single digit. Yet, there is a surge in the cases in March. The total number of infection reported in January and February did not cross 350. But, the count has gone past 300 in just 17 days this month. Norms thrown to the wind The health officials attribute the rise in the infection count to three major events associated with huge public gatherings—agitation against the move to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, campaign for municipal elections and Maha Sivaratri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-sees-rise-in-covid-cases-again/article34096681.ece
18 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An anganwadi centre with no power supply||As the clock strikes 10 a.m., tiny tots from in and around Adarsh Nagar troop into the anganwadi centre in their locality. However, their enthusiasm for the day is short-lived as they start feeling hot and stuffy within minutes. The reason? None of the ceiling fans work. “It’s not that the ceiling fans are out of order. We can’t turn them on as there is no electricity connection to the school,” said V. Padma, who has been working at the Anganwadi centre located in Ward 17 of Zone III for the past 12 years. Ms. Padma said that while there was no electricity connection to the school even when she had joined, the centre was given power supply for a period of three years in between. However, it was again disconnected for reasons only known to authorities concerned. Some residents allege that officials of the electricity department have taken away the meter and fuse as the officials in charge of the Anganwadi centre did not pay the power bills. However, several years have passed, but the officials have not bothered to resolve the issue, they rued. The issue came to light recently when B. Bhanu Sri, a contender from the Jana Sena Party for the ULB polls from Ward 17, campaigned in the area along with her husband Srinivasa Patnaik. Mr. Patnaik then highlighted the issue hoping to ensure power connectivity to the school. Around 40 children are enrolled at the Anganwadi centre. Teachers take classes from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Following instructions from the government, awareness programmes for pregnant women and adolescent girls are also conducted at the Anganwadi centre frequently. All activities are being conducted without electricity for several years now. Pleas go in vain The Anganwadi centre, located in the midst of a sprawling suburb, is in stark contrast to its surroundings. “Right next to the Anganwadi centre, there is a Ward Sachivalayam office. Despite asking them for help, none of the staff have responded till now. Moreover, the Sachivalayam office has computers, air-conditioners and all facilities. Parents complain that children suffer from dehydration and nausea due to the heat, especially during summer,” said locals. Gopamma, a resident from the area, said that the centre was in a dilapidated condition a few years ago. The government then provided electricity connection, laid tiles and constructed a bathroom. A few months later, the officials took away the meter apparently due to non-payment of bills, she said. “Very often, my daughter comes home in the middle of the class due to suffocation. The centre does not even have proper drinking water supply,” said Raju, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, whose four-year-old daughter Bhavya Sri studies at the Anganwadi centre. He also complained that many locals dump their household waste right at the entrance of the centre. T. Srinivas, a research scholar from Andhra University, said that the issue was taken up before the Women & Child Welfare Department, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), as well as local politicians, but none of them have taken action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anganwadi-with-no-power-supply/article34096368.ece
18 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fifth Boccia paralympic championship begins||The Fifth Boccia National Championship, paralympic games, was inaugurated at GITAM Deemed to be University, here on Wednesday. Para Boccia Sports Welfare Society of India is organising this national event at GITAM Kodi Ramamurhti indoor stadium. Inaugurating the games, GITAM president M. Sri Bharath said the participants were a source of inspiration for all able-bodied persons. He mentioned that para-athletes had a unique strength of character that combined mental toughness, physical ability and agility to produce sporting performances that redefined the boundaries of possibilities. Individual and team category of competitions would be held for boys and girls over the next two days, Boccia India president Jaspreet Singh Dhallwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fifth-boccia-paralympic-championship-begins/article34096687.ece
18 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo keepers’ 3-day training programme concludes||The three-day training for National Zoo Keepers on ‘Captive Management of Reptiles’ at Indira Gandhi Zoological Park concluded here on Wednesday. Participants from 40 zoo parks across the country participated in the event. Basic biology of reptiles such as turtles, snakes and crocodiles were explained with practical sessions during the programme by Dr. Gowri Mallapur from Central Zoo Authority (CZA), New Delhi. Dr Mallapur answered participants’ doubts after the sessions. DIG of CZA Sonali Ghosh opined that such training programmes should be conducted more frequently in the future. IGZP curator Nandani Salaria thanked the CZA for organising the programme..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-keepers-3-day-training-programme-concludes/article34096689.ece
18 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online FDP at AU from today||A two-week online Faculty Development Programme on ‘Shallow and Deep Foundations’ will begin at the Department of Civil Engineering of Andhra University College of Engineering on Thursday. According C.N.V. Satyanarayana Reddy, coordinator for the FDP, the programme will be inaugurated by G.V. Rao, former professor and head of Civil Engineering, IIT-Delhi. The programme will have 22 technical sessions covering topics of ‘Shallow and Deep Foundations’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-fdp-at-au-from-today/article34096690.ece
18 March 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||36 cases in last 24 hours||The district reported 36 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 60,844 as of Wednesday morning. The number of active cases which stood at 24 on March 1, has now increased to 146. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported this month are 304, as against 268 in February 2021. According to the bulletin, as many as 10 persons have recovered from the virus, which takes the total number of recoveries to 60,158. The death toll remains at 540, as no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/36-cases-in-last-24-hours/article34096688.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Democratic mandate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/democratic-mandate/article34096684.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a new look||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-a-new-look/article34096612.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard grind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-grind/article34096623.ece
18 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||An ex gratia of Rs. 15 lakh each was disbursed to three families of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited employees, who died of COVID-19 last year, at a meeting held in Kothagudem on Wednesday. The cheques were handed over to the next of kin of the three deceased employees by SCCL General Manager, Kothagudem Area, Ch Narasimha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34096429.ece
18 March 2021||CHITTOOR,TELANGANA||VRO in ACB net||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau from Tirupati on Wednesday reportedly caught red-handed a village revenue officer, Rajasekhar, at the revenue office at Ramasamudram mandal of Madanapalle revenue division, while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 8,500 from a farmer for processing a pattadar passbook. According to the ACB officials, the VRO had been allegedly demanding bribe from the farmer to complete his work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vro-in-acb-net/article34096656.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Surge in COVID-19 cases continues||A gradual surge in COVID-19 cases is continuing in Telangana. The State recorded 247 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 3,01,769. After a gap of 48 days, more than 200 cases are being detected on a daily basis since March 12, except on March 14 when fewer tests were conducted. While 60,527 samples were examined, results of 588 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died, pushing up the death toll to 1,659. The new 247 cases include 45 from Mancherial, 41 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 35 from Kamareddy, 29 from Greater Hyderabad region and 10 from Rangareddy. Till March 16 this year, a total of 93,59,772 samples have been put to test. Of all the positive cases detected till date, 2,101 are active while 2,98,009 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surge-in-covid-19-cases-continues/article34096400.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Slight rise in ICU admission of coronavirus patients||Admission of COVID-19 patients in intensive care units (ICU) of hospitals, both government and private, across the State have registered a marginal increase. ICU admissions is considered by State Health officials as an indicator of the impact of virus spread. In December 2020, the ICU admission ranged between 630 and 720 per day. By the end of January 2021, it gradually dropped to 420-460, and then further down to 330-350 in February. The numbers remained more or less same at 340-370 a day from March 1-14. On March 15 and 16, however, over 400 ICU admissions of COVID patients was recorded. A marginal increase is also being observed in case of total bed capacity, which includes regular beds, beds equipped with oxygen supply, and ICU beds. The gradual increase Last December, around 2,000-2500 beds were occupied in government and private hospitals across the State. The numbers fell to 1,300-1,400 by end of January this year. The drop continued and only around 1,050-1,100 beds were occupied by end of February. The total bed occupancy was 1,100-1,200 from March 1-13. But it went up to 1,385 on March 15 and 1,391 on March 16. While the government is bracing for an increased demand for beds in state-run medical facilities, private hospitals, too, are closely monitoring the spike in cases to stay prepared for any eventuality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/slight-rise-in-icu-admission-of-coronavirus-patients/article34096403.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TMREIS more alert after COVID cluster found at its Nagole school||A day after 36 staff and students at one of the schools run by Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS) tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials went into a huddle to chalk out plans to check the spread of the infection to its other institutions. The TMREIS has under its control as many as 204 schools across the State. With Tuesday’s COVID-19 scare at the Nagole branch, the organisation began reviewing COVID protocols, and precautionary measures. According to those who are aware of the developments, thanks to fewer students a larger number of those present on the premises were not infected with the novel coronavirus. It is also learnt that TMREIS president A.K. Khan, who is also Advisor to the Government for Minorities Welfare, and TMREIS secretary B. Shafiullah conducted meetings with teaching and non-teaching staff, including principals and school nurses, to take stock of the situation throughout the day. Sources said that the actual student strength of the Nagole branch is approximately 400. As on Tuesday, there were 184 students present on the premises. TMREIS has also tied up with an NGO, which has been functioning in the heath sector for the past several years, to keep a closer watch on the unfolding health situation of the staff and students. They are also in communication with the health and education departments. “First rapid antigen tests were done on all, RT-PCR tests were done later. We are expecting reports shortly. We have school nurses who are on alert. We have met the students as well. Isolation rooms were designated in case such an emergency comes up, and all those who have tested positive are here. Apart from mild body pains and cold, there is none who has displayed any severe symptom,” Mr Khan told The Hindu . In the dormitories, a space of two bunk beds is being kept so as to ensure that there is physical distancing. A similar approach is being taken in dining halls of schools. “We have have monitored the situation in the other schools. So far, nothing seems to have come up. We have established a control room at the head office (in Banjara Hills). Staff nurses and principals can contact this control room in case there is a health issue in any school. Daily monitoring of the students’ and staff members’ health will be done from here,” Mr Khan added.  We have established a control room at the head office (in Banjara Hills). Staff nurses and principals can contact this control room in case there is a health issue in any school. A.K. Khan, TMREIS president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tmreis-more-alert-after-covid-cluster-found-at-its-nagole-school/article34096408.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti’s criticism of KCR leads to heated exchange of words||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka’s comments on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao not meeting anyone and also that Telangana’s development was seen only in excise revenue and loans acquired by the government drew sharp criticism from the Chief Minister and other Ministers on Wednesday. Mr. KCR took objection to the comments and urged the Speaker to expunge them from the records. The Speaker later, announced that the comments on CM would not go into the records. But an unrelenting Vikramarka continued his criticism against the government saying his voice was being suppressed. Speaking on the motion of thanks to Governor’s address on Wednesday, the CLP leader said that the Chief Minister’s statement on withdrawing the procurement centres this season was not correct and this would impact the farmers. He also wanted to know why the Chief Minister went back on his support to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws of the Central government. Revealing details of his recent interactive meetings with farmers across Telangana, he said the farmers were burdened as the farm loan waiver promise was not honoured. He also said that the re-design of the irrigation projects have put a burden on the State while the Congress-designed projects were better. While the Speaker was repeatedly asking him to finish his speech as the allocated time was over, Mr. Vikramarka took objection to it and said that the Speaker was not giving enough time to the opposition. Congress MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy joined in support of Mr. Vikramarka leading to a heated argument.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhattis-criticism-of-kcr-leads-to-heated-exchange-of-words/article34096422.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social behaviour behind spike, not any mutation: CCMB chief||It is not any new mutated variant of SARS-Cov-2 causing COVID-19, leading to the latest spike in positive cases in many parts of the country but it is most likely due to the “social and behaviour laxity” of the general population, say top scientists involved in the battle against the pandemic for the past one year. However, “if we continue to allow the virus to spread, new variants are likely to emerge and may lead to worse outcomes”, cautions CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra on Wednesday. “There is no evidence, so far, of any peculiar mutation or virus variant causing more infections and surge in the number of cases. While there could be multiple reasons, it is likely that new cases are caused by a dominant variant in a large number of people. So, the surge is not because of any particular variant,” he observes. The contributing factors could be people “not wearing mask properly, gathering in closed environments for functions and meetings”. “Hopefully, these are only small waves that will be controlled soon and not curves going upwards for longer time in multiple locations,” he says. Natural process In a geographically heterogeneous country like India, there are bound to be multiple reasons for increase in infection and they are bound to surface. “What we are witnessing is a natural process of infection when ‘COVID-appropriate’ behaviour is not followed and is definitely a matter of concern. The biggest tool is our face mask, avoiding crowded places especially indoors, washing hands frequently and maintaining personal hygiene,” insists Mr. Mishra. This ‘social vaccine’ has become imperative since the real vaccine is “yet to show its might against the pandemic” as the percentage of population vaccinated has been initially restricted to the frontline, healthcare workers and selective age groups. It could take up to two to three months for the impact to show, while the process of vaccination is picking up, he says. ‘Spread contained’ The CCMB director opines the country seems to have been able to contain the spread of dangerous mutations from the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil so far. The forced quarantine for travellers could be working to some extent, he asserts. “We have noticed these strains to be largely in those with a travel history from among the samples collected in the airports and it has not yet spread across the population, though there have been cases of a few travellers breaking quarantine rules,” he points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-behaviour-behind-spike-not-any-mutation-ccmb-chief/article34096405.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘No response from govt. on Sainik school’||The Telangana government has not responded so far to the Central government’s proposal to set up a Sainik school in Warangal. Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik stated this in Parliament to a question from Nalgonda MP and TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Chevella MP G. Ranjit Reddy. Mr. Uttam Reddy said that the Defence Minister revealed that the Ministry has accorded “in-principle” approval and signed the Memorandum of Agreement on March 2, 2017, for opening of the Sainik school at Warangal District. Thereafter, there has been no response from the TS government. The Defence Minister said the likely date of commencement can be ascertained only after fulfilment of requirements by the State government, according to Mr. Uttam Reddy. He said Telangana is left with no Sainik school after the State bifurcation and Warangal was chosen as one of the spots for seven new schools to be set up in the country. However, there is no response from the TS government, he said. AP has two Sainik schools, Korukonda with an intake of 564 candidates and Kalikiri in Chittoor district with an intake of 622. The Kalikiri school was set up when N. Kiran Kumar Reddy was the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-response-from-govt-on-sainik-school/article34096424.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Counting of MLC polls takes off||The process for counting of votes for the recently concluded Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ Constituency elections for the Telangana Legislative Council has begun as per schedule at the Saroornagar indoor stadium in L.B. Nagar on Wednesday. At about 7 a.m., the strong rooms where the ballot boxes had been kept were opened in the presence of the Returning Officer Priyanka Ala, Election Observer Harpreet Singh, candidates and their agents, and the boxes were brought out and unlocked. GHMC Commissioner and Election Officer D.S. Lokesh Kumar too was present at the counting venue monitoring the arrangements, a statement from GHMC informed. At about 8 a.m., postal ballots were opened, and valid votes were separated from the invalid, before they were mixed with the rest of the ballots. Then began the lengthy process of sorting the 3,57,354 ballot papers into bundles of 25 each. By 7 p.m., bundling of ballots from about 500 polling stations could be completed, and it was well past 9 p.m. before the remaining were sorted. After the bundling was over, valid votes from each bundle were separated, before the first preference votes for each candidate were begun to be counted after around 11 p.m. Counting staff worked in three shifts to facilitate continuous process. A total of 448 officials were deployed as counting and supervising officers, and micro observers. First round In Nalgonda, counting of 3,86,320 ballot papers in the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ MLC poll is under way at the State Warehousing Corporation godowns in Nalgonda town. Returning Officer and District Collector Prashant J. Patil declared the process open at 8 a.m. amid representatives of various political parties and independent candidates on Wednesday. The strong rooms were opened to take the 731 ballot boxes to the counting halls. A total of 56 tables, with seven tables in eight halls, were organised for the counting It was estimated that the result of the first round would be available post 11 p.m. A total of 4,000 counting staff are on shift-wise duty with a police force of about a thousand officials. The entire campus is kept on electronic surveillance with 90 CCTVs.  (With inputs by Nalgonda Staff Reporter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/counting-of-mlc-polls-takes-off/article34096428.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three districts log higher caseload than GHMC region||After almost 11 months, the number of COVID-19 cases recorded in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region were lower than those in other rural districts. Barring a few days in the past, the major chunk of daily positive cases were being recorded in Greater Hyderabad limits, but Tuesday was an exception. Among the 247 cases recorded on March 16, the highest of 45 were from Mancherial, 41 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 35 from Kamareddy. GHMC’s share was 29 cases. In Mancherial, 44 students and teachers from Zilla Parishad High School and six parents of the students were found to have the virus. In Kamareddy, 32 students from Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya, Tekrial, were detected with COVID-19. In Medchal-Malkajgiri, 34 students from Telangana Minority Residential School, Nagole, tested positive for the virus. These cluster of cases led to high number of cases from the districts. Health officials in GHMC limits conducted tests at a hostel in SR Nagar, but only two cases were found there. An exception when the cases in districts were higher than GHMC’s was on April 21 last year. Of the total 56 cases recorded that day, 26 were from Suryapet, and 19 from Greater Hyderabad. District Medical and Health Officials have been directed to increase testing. Testing camps are currently being conducted in villages. With increase in tests, case detection, too, could rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-districts-log-higher-caseload-than-ghmc-region/article34096401.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NISA to host three-day golf championship||National Industrial Security Academy (NISA), the premier training institute of Central Industrial Security Force, will host the inaugural NISA Open Golf championship from March 19 to 21 on its newly-laid golf course at Hakimpet near here, said NISA director C.V. Anand. “The tournament, featuring more than 100 golfers, is being organised at the Academy’s own golf course known as NEPTA (NISA Environmental Park and Training Area). This three-day event will comprise qualifying rounds on March 19 and 20, followed by the final on March 21,” Mr. Anand informed. T-hole golf course The recently constructed T-hole golf course has lush green fairways and international standard greens. “NEPTA has all the required flavours and fervours which the golfers aspire for. Challenging sandy bunkers, roughs, intermediate tree lines and hazards make it challenging even for professional players,” he explained. The tournament is being sponsored by Car Kia Automobiles dealers (36 Jubilee Hills and Gachibowli) and has four categories - NISA Open champion, above 55 years (The Legend Award), under-14 (The Golf Dusk Award) and the Ladies (The X Factor Award). The winners will be adjudged based on their handicap calculated by double Peoria method and markings as per stable ford calculations, Mr. Anand explained. Spot prizes “Spot prizes for each session will also be announced after every session of qualifying round, which will include closest to the pin, arrows strike and bull’s eye,” he concluded.  The tournament will feature more than 100 golfers. The three-day event will comprise qualifying rounds on March 19 and 20, followed by the final on March 21. C.V. Anand, NISA director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nisa-to-host-three-day-golf-championship/article34096406.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four Bangladeshi women rescued in Hyderabad||Four women from Bangladesh, who were forced into flesh trade, were rescued by the Anti Human Trafficking Unit of Rachakonda police, and eight persons, including four organisers, were taken into custody. Acting on a tip-off, the team along with LB Nagar police raided Sai Durga Lodge at LB Nagar, and found that the organisers were running a prostitution racket with female sex workers from Bangladesh, and West Bengal and other parts of the country. The team found four men and four women, two in each room, in compromising positions. The arrested are lodge owner-cum-organiser Desineni Venkateshwar Rao (52), Sakijan Khatun alias Deepika (30) from Darjeeling, Ravi, Mandla Avinash (32), Guguloth Sujatha (27), Kumavath Pancharam (38), Cirra Manish (25), Avaldoddi Madhu (30) and Vikas Kumar Saket (22). The women were sent to a rescue home. PD Act invoked Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar issued Preventive Detention order against Bandre Nanak Singh, a drug peddler from Adilabad district. Singh (23) from Bazarhathnoor peddled ganja, in the limits of Hyderabad Police Commissionerate. “His illegal and dangerous activities in peddling ‘ganja’ among people have been endangering the lives of youth and innocent people, causing irreparable damage to their body organs,including the central nervous system, thereby crippling the mental and physical health of people addicted to drugs,” the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Kumar, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-women-rescued/article34096410.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed by sibling||A 40-year-old Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) division leader was bludgeoned to death by his brother at Shaikpet nalaon Wednesday over a property dispute, police said. Around 11.15 p.m. on Wednesday, the accused, Chinna alias Narender saw his brother, the victim, S Vijay Kumar, who is also a fish vendor, standing on the road near Shaikpet junction and picked up a quarrel with him about his share of money they would get by selling their two-storey building. Chinna, who was already under the influence of alcohol, grabbed a stick and slammed on Vijay's head, which resulted in his instant death, Golconda police said. The act was recorded by the passers-by in their mobile phones. The accused, who fled away from the spot, and went to Kukatpally, was taken into custodyin the wee hours of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-by-sibling-over-property-dispute/article34096412.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR ‘milk specials’ carried 7 cr. litres to Delhi||SCR ‘Doodh Duronto’ specials have transported seven crore litres of milk to New Delhi till date from Renigunta of Andhra Pradesh. This is more than doubling the usual 2-3 million litres carried annually through milk tankers attached to regular superfast trains to serve the purpose. Last year, due to COVID lockdown, when all passenger trains came to a halt, milk transportation became a challenging task and that’s when General Manager Gajanan Mallya alerted officials to go for an alternative through exclusive transportation of milk by running of special trains of ‘Doodh Duronto’. 30-hour journey Starting from March 26, specials have been operated initially on every alternative day and on a daily basis from July 15 with the distance between Renigunta and H. Nizamuddin (2300 km) being covered in 30 hours. ‘Doodh Duronto’ specials are run normally with six milk tankers, each having a capacity of 40,000 litres or about 2.40 lakh litres of milk is carried in a train. Around 296 trips of milk specials have been operated with 1,753 milk tankers transporting seven crore litres, informed a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-milk-specials-carried-7-crore-litres-to-new-delhi/article34096431.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Narayana students ace English Olympiad||In the recently announced results by the Unified Council for Unified International English Olympiad (UIEO), Narayana group students secured six ranks in the top 10 in India and 47 ranks in the top 50. A statement from Narayana group said that Shlok Gupta from Bengaluru – Bellandur Campus secured the all India first rank in his category and their students have also secured 25% of the top 100 ranks in the UIEO exam. Sindhura Narayana, Director of the Narayana group, credited the achievement to the team focused on developing English language skills of the students. All students are given specialised attention and training for improving vocabulary, grammar, comprehension and spoken English, she said. Around one lakh students from Narayana group across India took part in the examination conducted for students of 2nd to 10th Standard by the Unified Council. Along with building a firm foundation in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, and Biology, students are given much needed exposure to language labs and language proficiency methods, said Executive Director Puneet Kothapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narayana-students-ace-english-olympiad/article34096434.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet approves budget||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao presided over a meeting of his Cabinet on Wednesday evening to approve the budget proposals for 2021-22. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao will present the budget in the Assembly on Thursday. Legislative Affairs Minister V. Prashant Reddy will present it in the Legislative Council at 11.30 a.m. on Thursday. Both Houses will adjourn after the presentation and re-assemble on Saturday after a day’s recess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-approves-budget/article34096418.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||13 graduate as radar controllers||Flight Lieutenant A Varadharajan was adjudged first in ‘Order of Merit’, best in theory and best in practical from among the 13 officers graduating from the 138th Air Traffic Surveillance Services Course at Air Traffic Control Officers Training Establishment (ATCOTE) at Air Force Academy on Monday. Nine among the officers hailing from the Indian Air Force, three from Indian Navy and one from Indian Coast Guard graduated as ‘Radar Controllers’. The young military Air Traffic Controllers, after having undergone the 12-week course, can now perform the skilful task of controlling aircraft using modern radars. AFA Commandant Air Marshal I.P. Vipin was the reviewing officer at the graduation ceremony where he highlighted the criticality of radar controllers’ role, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/13-graduate-as-radar-controllers/article34096433.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Incentivise states doing better on health front’||Chevella MP G. Ranjit Reddy has urged the Central government to incentivise the better performing states in health front and not let them feel punished. Speaking in the Lok Sabha on demands on Wednesday, he said that Telangana was one of the best performing states on the health indicators and should be encouraged with incentives to perform further better. Revealing some data, he said the crude birth rate in Telangana is 17 per 1,000 against the national average of 20 while the total fertility rate in Telangana is 1.6 against the national average of 2.2. Similarly, under five mortality in Telangana is 32 per 1,000 live births against the national average of 50 and infant mortality is 27 against national average of 32. Underweight children in Telangana are 29% against the national average of 36%. He suggested that the Health Ministry should think of providing pension to Below Poverty Line (BPL) kidney patients to meet the expenses for dialysis as it is a costly procedure. CM KCR was seriously considering it under a social security scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incentivise-states-doing-better-on-health-front/article34096425.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP approached me for Sagar bypoll, claims Rajagopal Reddy||Congress MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy has claimed that a few BJP leaders had approached him to be the party’s candidate in the Nagarjunasagar bypoll. In an informal chit-chat with reporters, he said despite the offer, he has not thought about it so far. He claimed that the BJP was getting stronger in Telangana and if he was the candidate for the bypoll he would easily win. On the rumours that his wife is likely to join the BJP, he said she was not interested in politics and was forced to contest in the MLC elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-approached-me-for-sagar-bypoll-rajagopal-reddy/article34096426.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL’s vaccine drive for staff, family members||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCCL) has decided to roll out the vaccination cover to all its employees and their family members. The decision was taken after Chairman and MD of the company N. Sridhar spoke to government officials including the Director of Public Health. Accordingly, all employees and workers of the company along with their family members in the priority group – aged above 45 with co-morbidities would be administered vaccine at all area hospitals and dispensaries of the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccls-vaccine-drive-for-staff-family-members/article34096653.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP MLA raises State song in his maiden speech||Newly-elected BJP MLA Raghunandan Rao, in his maiden speech in the Assembly, suggested that after playing the national anthem in the Assembly it would have been better had the Telangana State song ‘Jaya Jayahe Telangana’ been played. In other states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, they play the State song after the national anthem, he said. However, later in his address Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao clarified that ‘Jaya Jayahe Telangana’ was not the State song and the official song was yet to be written. Mr. Raghunandan also raised the disparity of compensation being paid to villages that are getting submerged in his constituency under the Kaleshwaram project. He said different methods were being adopted for farmers who sacrificed lands and those getting compensated for houses being submerged for the same project. “This discrimination is seen in the district represented by the Chief Minister and the Finance Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-mla-raises-state-song-in-his-maiden-speech/article34096423.ece
18 March 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||OGH arranges beds for OMC students||Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) Osmania Medical College students submitted a representation to Osmania General Hospital’s superintendent B Nagender on Wednesday requesting him to admit the college students who suffered from gastroenteritis. The hospitals superintendent said that beds were arranged for the students. The junior doctors said that at least 70 students suffered from the condition and they were admitted to Gandhi Hospital and Fever Hospital. Officials said that the OMC students were not admitted at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) as sufficient beds were not available there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-arranges-beds-for-omc-students/article34096409.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Brief:||The Nallakunta police on Wednesday apprehended an automobile theft offender during vehicle checking at Ambuja lane and recovered six two-wheelers from his possession. The accused, Nallabolu Mukesh (24), a Rapido captain, was a resident of Pusalabasthi, Saidabad, and hailed from Mahabubnagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brief/article34096411.ece
18 March 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||PD Act invoked against ganja peddler||Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar issued Preventive Detention order against Bandre Nanak Singh, a drug peddler from Adilabad district. Singh (23) from Bazarhathnoor peddled ganja, in the limits of Hyderabad Police Commissionerate. “His illegal and dangerous activities in peddling ‘ganja’ among people have been endangering the lives of youth and innocent people, causing irreparable damage to their body organs, including the central nervous system, thereby crippling the mental and physical health of people addicted to drugs,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-invoked-against-ganja-peddler/article34096651.ece
18 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana Grameena Bank bags awards||Telangana Grameena Bank (TGB) has been adjudged The Best IT Risk and Cyber Security Initiatives Bank at the 16th Annual Banking Technology Awards function of Indian Banks’ Association (IBA). In the Best Digital Financial Inclusion Initiatives Bank award category, the regional rural bank was declared the runner-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-grameena-bank-bags-awards/article34096416.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BRF||The Central University of Punjab on Wednesday launched the Telugu version of National Education Policy - 2020 at its Bathinda campus, where Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu was present. Earlier, the university had come up with the Punjabi version, a release said. The function was attended by UoH Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile, Vice-Chancellor of Central Tribal University of AP and member NEP-2020 T.V. Kattimani and K.N. Raghunathan of Vidya Bharati Uccha Shiksha Sansthan, which was the co-host.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34096417.ece
18 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BJP leaders held in Gurrambodu violence released on bail||Several BJP leaders who were remanded in judicial custody, including its Suryapet’s chief Bobba Bhagya Reddy, who was accused one, in Huzurnagar’s Gurrambode Thanda violence last month, were released from Nalgonda District Jail and Huzurnagar sub-jail on Wednesday. The violent outbreak on February 7, ahead of BJP’s Girijana Bharosa Yatra on the disputed land parcel of 540 survey number at Gurrambodu Thanda, witnessed damage and destruction to private property, and stone pelting, resulting in bleeding injuries to police officials on duty. Subsequently, the police had identified 21 persons as accused, including BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay and Dubbak legislator M. Raghunandan Rao, for rioting and violence. In Huzurnagar, Mr. Bandi Sanjay welcomed the released party men. The BJP leaders, during the visit, faced resistance from activists of Swaeroes, an initiative of the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions, near Kodad, for their remarks against senior police officer and secretary of the institutions R.S. Praveen Kumar. The remarks and counter protests were in the light of a video featuring Mr. Kumar in an event in Peddapally, where he was seen taking the ‘Buddha Vandanam’ pledge read out by a local Buddhist family. On Wednesday, there was high tension near Kodad when about 30-40 ‘Swaeroes’ attempted blocking the BJP’s convoy. Videos showed the persons were engaged in heated exchange and minor clash. Suryapet Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran addressed a late evening press meet and said the BJP State chief Mr. Sanjay was not present in any of the vehicles in the blockade, and he was already safely escorted away via Kodad-Miryalaguda route. He clarified that news content circulated on various social media portals was fake. For the incident at the blockade-protest site, based on a petition by Mr. Bhagya Reddy, a few unknown persons were booked for wrongful restraint (S 341), criminal intimidation/common intention of all (S 506 r/w 34 IPC) at Chilkur police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-held-in-gurrambodu-violence-released-on-bail/article34096654.ece
18 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Archaeologist claims finding ‘rare and unique Trimurthi’||A former Officer on Special Duty in the Department of Archaeology & Museums and former director of State Gallery of Arts, Hyderabad, E. Sivanagi Reddy claimed to have found one Trimurthi, “a rare 13th century sculpture”. “The sculpture measures 2.6 x 1.0 x 0.9 feet. It is carved in black granite and no other of its kind was reported from the State so far,” he said, speaking to The Hindu . The searcher was in Nomula village of Nakrekal mandal in the district on Wednesday, when villagers and other enthusiasts were clearing debris at the Yogananda Narasimha Swamy Temple, which was built during the Kakatiya period. During the process, several architectural members of the temple such as Bhairava, Mahishamardhini, Chandi, Chamundi, Veerabhadra, Bhadrakalli and Ganesa, were identified. Mr. Reddy said he was at the village based on an information, and as part of ‘Preserve Heritage for Posterity’, the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravathi’s (CCVA) initiative, to sensitise locals about the importance of historical remains and surfaced sculptures. He described the Wednesday’s finding as unique, “As it represents the Hindu Trio, with one body holding the respective attributes of all the three gods which are Sula, Sankha, Rosary(akshamala) and Danda (hand rest staff).” Mr. Reddy appealed to the Department of Heritage, Telangana, to carry out a thorough searches in and around Nomula village, to find more archaeological sources, and to maintain an inventory for posterity’s sake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/archaeologist-claims-finding-rare-and-unique-trimurthi/article34096657.ece
18 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Panchayat secretary ends life in Sangareddy||In a shocking incident, Mangali Jagan (26), panchayat secretary of Minpur panchayat in Pulkal mandal, committed suicide by hanging at his house on Wednesday. In a suicide note purportedly written by him, Jagan attributed his drastic step to the tensions and pressure in the job. He was native of Isojipet village in the same mandal. According to Pulkal police, Jagan was working in the panchayat as junior secretary. “I am not getting due respect from panchayat president and others. In addition, there was pressure to record works which were not completed. Some are demanding money as I had not paid they are harassing me,” he said in the letter. Pulkal police registered a case. The body was shifted to government hospital for postmortem.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: 4066202000 or 66661117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panchayat-secretary-ends-life-in-sangareddy/article34096652.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Golden delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/golden-delight/article34096650.ece
18 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Domestic help held for beating toddler||A 13-month-old toddler was allegedly beaten by a minor domestic help “out of aggression” causing her life-threatening injuries in Sector 56 here. The juvenile in conflict with law, aged around 13 years, has been detained. The victim sustained multiple fractures with injuries on abdomen, kidney and liver. She was on ventilator, according to the FIR registered on charges of attempt to murder and causing grievous hurt under the IPC on Wednesday. The incident took place on March 15. A case has also been registered against the family under the Juvenile Justice Act for hiring a minor. A police officer, on condition of anonymity, said the domestic help felt annoyed due to constant crying of the toddler and kicked her out of aggression. She, however, said the family never ill-treated her. The toddler’s father in his complaint said he had hired the minor help for babysitting three months ago and paid her Rs. 9,000 per month. On the day of incident, the parents were out shopping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/domestic-help-held-for-beating-toddler/article34096292.ece
18 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Include all for vaccination in affected areas: Punjab CM||As active COVID-19 cases in the State surged to 12,616, with the daily positivity rate climbing to over 5%, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged the Centre to review its immunisation strategy to vaccinate all age groups in selected areas, while announcing a stricter policy to deal with the problem. The Chief Minister also called for occupation-based immunisation for school and college students and teachers, judges, bus drivers and conductors, panch-sarpanch, mayors, counsellors, MLAS, MPs etc. to pave the way for normalisation of crucial activities and check “super-spreaders”. He advocated early opening of courts to end the citizens’ wait for justice, and also of schools and colleges to bridge the gap between poor and affluent families in terms of education. During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s virtual COVID-19 review meeting with Chief Ministers of all States, Captain Amarinder suggested that any area where weekly testing shows a doubling of positivity rates should immediately be considered for vaccination of all age groups. During the meeting, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said that while swiftly acting to the present COVID-19 situation, a mega vaccination drive had been run across the State. “We have planned to launch such mega drives on every Monday and Tuesday to ensure that every beneficiary receives vaccination doses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/include-all-for-vaccination-in-affected-areas-punjab-cm/article34096304.ece
18 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab CM meets Sidhu||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and ex-Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had been at loggerhead for nearly past one-and-a-half years, since the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, met on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-cm-meets-sidhu/article34096303.ece
18 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||FIRs for illegal structures near Tikri protest site||Two FIRs have been registered by Haryana Police in separate police stations at Bahadurgarh against unknown persons for digging borewells and raising permanent structures at farmers’ agitation site near Tikri border. In an FIR registered at Sadar Bahadurgarh police station, the complainant, Sidharth Singh, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Estate Officer, said that unknown persons were raising permanent structures on the agency’s road dividing Sector 10 and 12. The FIR, registered under Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the IPC, further said that illegal borewell were also dug up along the road causing damage to public property. The second FIR was registered at City Bahadurgarh police station under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8B of the National Highways Act. The complainant, Manish Kumar, Human Resources manager at Rohad toll plaza on National Highway-9 said that illegal borewells were being dug up near Najafgarh flyover slip road and demanded for the removal of the encroachment. All-India Kisan Sabha State vice-president Inderjit Singh said: “The Haryana government asks the Central government for an early resolution of the agitation through talks instead of focussing on these ‘frivolous’ issues. The so-called permanent structures are not concrete structures. And it won’t take long to dismantle them once the agitation ends,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/firs-for-illegal-structures-near-tikri-protest-site/article34096291.ece
18 March 2021||Guwahati,||BJP campaign focused on attacking Ajmal||Perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal appears to be the flavour of the poll season for rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In campaign after campaign, the saffron party has attacked Mr. Ajmal, president of the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and a Lok Sabha member. The AIUDF is a constituent of the 10-party Mahajot or grand alliance headed by the Congress in Assam. Campaigning for his party candidate in Barhampur on Wednesday, the State’s Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma devoted much of his speech to the AIUDF chief. “Congress has joined hands with Ajmal to form the next government with him. Congress sold out to him for the lust of power. Can we accept his ideology?” he asked. Referring to a video where Mr. Ajmal allegedly said women should give birth to as many children as possible, Dr. Sarma said: “He is not bothered about the health of women. His sole objective is to become the Chief Minister of Assam at any cost.” Mr. Ajmal had a few days ago said he never was and never would be in the race for the Chief Minister’s chair. He had also made it clear that the AIUDF agreed to join the grand alliance to avoid a split in the anti-BJP and secular votes. The combined vote share of Congress and AIUDF was more in 14 seats that the BJP or its ally Asom Gana Parishad had won in the 2016 elections. Continuing his attack, Dr. Sarma slammed the AIUDF chief for promising to reopen the madrasas if the Mahajot wins the three-phase election ending April 6. “Ajmal wants to reopen the madrasa s. Should people become doctors and engineers or mullah s and maulvi s?” the Minister said. The Sarbananda Sonowal government had two months ago enacted a law to convert 729 State-run primary, upper primary, high and higher secondary madrasas into general schools. “We have to protect Assam. Voting for Congress will mean inviting Ajmal to Dispur [Assam’s seat of power]. If he captures power, the Assamese people will not be able to hold their heads high,” Dr. Sarma said.  Ajmal’s reaction Mr. Ajmal had in an interview used a Bengali proverb — “ Jato dosh , Nando Ghosh” — to explain the BJP’s obsession with him. The adage literally means: “Blame Nando Ghosh for every ill or for everything that goes wrong”. “It is easy to cover up for governance failure in Assam. Just blame it on Badruddin Ajmal and sell his fear by painting him as a representative of Bangladeshis or illegal migrants or Mughals or whatever,” he said.  Ajmal wants to reopen the madrasa s. Should people become doctors and engineers or mullah s and maulvi s? Himanta Biswa SarmaAssam Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-campaign-focused-on-attacking-ajmal/article34096295.ece
18 March 2021||Guwahati,||Leaflet seeks answers from BJP in Assam tea gardens||Has the BJP given you Scheduled Tribe (ST) status? Have you received a daily wage of Rs. 351.33? Did you get land ‘patta’ (record of rights)? These are the first three of 11 questions tea plantation workers — men and women — are being armed with across eastern Assam. The questionnaire, claims the All Assam Adivasi Students’ Association (AAASA), is apolitical although the BJP is mentioned in each query. The AAASA had organised its 18th annual Mahasabha at Halem tea estate in north-eastern Assam’s Biswanath district from March 12-14. An elaborate discussion on the issues that matter most for the plantation workers led to printing the questionnaire.  ‘Promise for change’ “One may assume from the questionnaire that we are batting for Congress or any other opposition parties. The only reason that the questions are aimed at the BJP is that the party has been in power for five years along with its associates and the tea workers largely voted for them for the promised ‘parivartan’ (change) and ‘achche din’ (good days),” AAASA president Stephen Lakra told The Hindu on Wednesday. “The idea behind giving each of our adult community members the 11-question leaflet is not to make any analysis but to let them be aware of the promises made so that they can ask questions to whenever BJP or AGP (ally Asom Gana Parishad) candidates or leaders canvass in their areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/leaflet-seeks-answers-from-bjp-in-assam-tea-gardens/article34096298.ece
18 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||No wage hike for now, says Gauhati HC||The Gauhati High Court has given tea estate owners in Assam the “liberty” to decide if they want to follow the State government’s order on increasing the daily wages of plantation workers by Rs. 50. This effectively means the tea estates can continue to pay Rs. 167 as the daily wage to their workers. Hearing a petition of the Indian Tea Association and 17 tea companies for staying the wage hike, Justice Michael Zothankhuma on March 16 said the interim order passed more than a week ago “shall continue until further orders”. The judge had on March 8 restrained the State government from taking any “coercive action” against the tea estates for not following its February 23 notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-wage-hike-for-now-says-gauhati-hc/article34096302.ece
18 March 2021||JAIPUR,||No illegal tapping: Gehlot govt.||The Congress government in Rajasthan on Wednesday said “no illegal tapping” of telephone conversations of any legislator was carried out during the political crisis in the State in July last year. The phones of some individuals were kept on surveillance by the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police under the Indian Telegraph Act as part of an investigation, it stated. Replying to a debate on the issue in the State Assembly, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal said an inspector in the SOG’s voice logger section had reported after tapping of some phones that attempts were being made to topple the government by horse-trading of MLAs. The phone tapping was done following a tip-off about the supply of explosives and smuggling of illegal weapons. Mr. Dhariwal said the Opposition BJP’s allegations of phone tapping of MLAs, MPs and Ministers and the claim of breach of their privacy were “false and baseless”. “If they prove their allegation with evidence, not only Chief Minster Ashok Gehlot, but all of us are ready to resign,” he said. The Minister said the matter could be settled if Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat agreed to give his voice sample for investigation. The audio clips leaked during the turmoil caused by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion had purportedly carried the conversations between Mr. Shekhawat and several BJP and Congress leaders.  Final reports The SOG has since filed final reports in three FIRs — two of them registered on the complaint of ruling party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi — for attempts to topple the democratically elected government, as the case under Section 124-A (sedition) of Indian Penal Code was not proved. The case was transferred to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, which is still investigating the matter. The BJP members demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the matter and trooped into the well of the House, leading to adjournment of the proceedings twice. When Mr. Dhariwal said the BJP was making an issue in order to protect Mr. Shekhawat , the BJP MLAs created a ruckus in the Assembly. On the BJP’s allegation that the audio clips were prepared in the Chief Minister’s Office and circulated by the CM’s Officer on Special Duty, Mr. Dhariwal said the voice clips were received on WhatsApp and forwarding them did not constitute an offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-illegal-tapping-gehlot-govt/article34096300.ece
18 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Death penalty in 26 days for rape of child||A special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu town completed the trial in a case for rape of a five-year-old girl in 17 days and awarded death penalty to a 21-year-old convict on Wednesday. The police had filed charge-sheet within nine days after the offence and the entire process was completed in 26 days. The convict, Sunil Kumar, had abducted the minor girl who was playing with her cousins in an agricultural farm near her house on February 19 evening. He took the girl away on his two-wheeler and raped her at an isolated place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/death-penalty-in-26-days-for-rape-of-child/article34096301.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||Will form panel to look into attacks on doctors: Maharashtra govt. to HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that it will form a panel to look into attacks on doctors and medical staff by patients’ relatives, and other such grievances faced by doctors. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare told a Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni that the expert panel will be formed within four weeks. Mr. Thakare was responding to a public interest litigation filed by Dr. Rajeev Joshi, seeking judicial intervention to curb violence against health workers. The plea filed through advocate Nitin Deshpande said Maharashtra sees the most such instances of violence. Dr. Joshi said in his plea that the State government had failed to implement legal provisions, including the 2010 Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons Act. Earlier this month, the State had told the high court that the existing legal provisions were enough to deal with cases of such attacks, it was willing to constitute an expert committee to look into any shortcomings, and the need for further steps to curb attacks on doctors and other medical staff. On Wednesday, the court posted the matter for further hearing on March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-form-panel-to-look-into-attacks-on-doctors-maharashtra-govt-to-hc/article34096508.ece
18 March 2021||Mumbai,||HC to hear NCB plea to cancel Showik’s bail||The Bombay High Court will hear the Narcotics Control Bureau’s plea seeking cancellation of Showik Chakraborty’s bail on March 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-to-hear-ncb-plea-to-cancel-showiks-bail/article34096511.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDA invites bids for Dilshad Garden project||As a part of the in situ slum rehabilitation and redevelopment of JJ clusters at Dilshad Garden, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has invited request for proposal (RFP) to select a private partner to undertake the redevelopment project through the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode, the urban body said on Wednesday. Spread across 6.23 hectares, the project is proposed to cover approximately 3,367 households, with a project cost of Rs. 468.10 crore, according to the DDA. “The eligible slum dwellers will be rehabilitated in 60% of the land area and the project will be financed by commercial exploitation of balance 40% land by the developer. Each eligible slum dweller household will be provided with a dwelling unit of approximately 28 sq metre carpet area,” the DDA said. The dwellers will also be provided with a rent support of Rs. 6,000 per month to enable them to relocate temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dda-invites-bids-for-dilshad-garden-project/article34096289.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||DCW notice to police over elderly woman’s death||Taking suo motu cognisance of reports about a 76-year-old woman dying after being allegedly slapped by her son, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Wednesday issued notice to Delhi Police seeking details on steps taken by the force to ensure safety of elderly people in the city. The DCW sought details of the arrested accused, a detailed action report in the matter and whether the deceased was registered under the Senior Citizen Cell of Delhi Police. The women’s panel has sought details on the number of elderly people registered under the cell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dcw-notice-to-police-over-elderly-womans-death/article34096505.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Farmer’s death: examine X-ray report, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday ordered the Delhi Health Secretary to form a board of experts to examine the X-ray report of a 25-year-old farmer who died during the farmers’ protest rally here on the Republic Day. Justice Yogesh Khanna also directed the doctors of Maulana Azad Medical College here to prepare the X-ray report from the original X-ray plate which has been received by Delhi Police from their Uttar Pradesh counterpart. The court posted the case for further hearing on April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-death-examine-x-ray-report-says-hc/article34096288.ece
18 March 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 23,179 new cases||In its highest single-day jump since September last year, Maharashtra reported 23,179 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday as its active cases soared past the 1.50 lakh mark to reach 1,52,760. Just 9,138 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, with the State’s recovery rate dipping to 91.26%, while over 1.20 lakh samples were tested. With 84 deaths (of which 42 were recorded in the last 48 hours and the rest from an earlier period), the toll rose to 53,080. While the case tally has reached 23,70,507. The cumulative recoveries stand at 21,63,391. The State’s case fatality rate has dipped to 2.24%. “Of 1,78,35,495 laboratory samples tested, 23,70,507 (with the case positivity increasing to 13.29%) have returned positive, with over 1,20,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune district reported over 4,700 new cases to take its tally to 4,50,043. As per the State Health Department, no deaths were reported as the toll stayed at 8,158. As per district authorities, the active cases have crossed the 24,000 mark, while the death toll is nearing 9,450. Mumbai reported 2,377 new cases, taking its total case tally to 3,49,974, of which 15,410 are active. Eight fatalities took the city’s death toll to 11,551. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported an all-time high surge of more than 3,500 cases as its total case tally reached 1,82,021, of which 21,496 are active. With 16 deaths, its total death toll has reached 3,613. Spike in Aurangabad Cases continued to pile in Aurangabad in Marathwada, which reported more than 1,000 new cases to take its total tally to 62,351, of which 9,621 are active. Five deaths took the total death toll to 1,311. The Aurangabad district authorities have issued prohibitory orders banning public gatherings till April 4. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported more than 2,000 new cases, taking its total tally to 1,41,946, of which 9,821 are active, while eight deaths pushed its total death toll to 2,106. After days of relatively low surges, western Maharashtra, too, reported higher than usual spikes: Satara reported 303 new cases and one fatality as the total case tally rose to 61,309, of which 1,673 are active, while the total death toll has reached 1,861. Sangli reported 118 cases and zero deaths as the district’s total case tally reached 52,065, of which only 897 are active. Kolhapur reported 49 cases and no deaths as well as its tally reached 50,264, of which just 450 are active. A total of 6,71,620 people across the State are in home quarantine and 6,738 are in institutional quarantine facilities, Dr. Awate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-23179-new-cases/article34096510.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Mirror image?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mirror-image/article34096297.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Quad summit strengthens U.S. hand ahead of talks with China’||The U.S. has sought to build strength before engaging China later this week and the Quad summit is an example of this, a senior administration official said on Tuesday night during a briefing call with reporters. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan are scheduled to meet China’s Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs Yang Jiechi and State Councilor Wang Yi on Thursday and Friday. Both U.S. officials have been extensively engaged with allies, primarily in Europe and the Indo Pacific, since the administration kicked off on January 20. Mr. Blinken is currently visiting Tokyo and Seoul along with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin. Working together “I think sometimes folks think of our allies and partners piece here as just being about choreography that somehow we just need to talk to our allies before we talk to China,” the official, who did not want to be named, said. “I want to stress that that's actually not the case. Obviously that sequencing is part of the equation here, but we're working actually with allies and partners to strengthen our hand.” “The Quad [summit] last week was probably the most important very clear illustration in practical terms of exactly what we're trying to achieve here, bringing together the four leaders in a virtual summit for the first time to actually do something together that we couldn’t do individually, particularly on the vaccine distribution deliverable that was big and affirmative for the region,” the official said. “This isn't just about something that is here to counter China. This is about something that’s actually about doing something that enhances our leverage, enhances the quality of life in the region in meaningful ways,” the official said. U.S. President Joe Biden hosted the first ever summit level meeting of the Quad grouping — the U.S., India, Australia and Japan — last Friday. The group announced a plan to produce and distribute up to 1 billion vaccines to overcome shortages in Southeast Asia and the Pacific. The official said it was important for Beijing to hear directly from Mr. Blinken and Mr. Sullivan and that sometimes there is a “hope in Beijing that our public message is somehow different” from private message. “And we think it's really important that we dispel that idea very early, and that we’re very clear with delivering the same messages in private that you have heard from us in public,” they said. The U.S. has said it will discuss a long list of concerns with China — these include human rights abuses, Chinese aggression in the neighbourhood, an erosion of democratic norms in Hong Kong and some of Beijing’s economic practices and policies. No joint statement A meeting that involved both the Secretary of State and the National Security Adviser is also expected to send a message to Beijing that different parts of the administration were singing from the same song sheet. The official said Beijing had a track record of “attempting to try to play favourites within an administration and in particular to play the Secretary of State and National Security Adviser off each other.” The official also said there will not be a joint statement from the U.S. and China following this week’s meetings and that the U.S. is also not expecting “ specific negotiated deliverables” from the talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/quad-summit-strengthens-us-hand-ahead-of-talks-with-china/article34096003.ece
18 March 2021||Washington,||Putin approved operations to help Trump, says report||Russian President Vladimir Putin authorised influence operations to help Donald Trump in last November’s presidential election, according to a declassified intelligence assessment that found broad efforts by the Kremlin and Iran to shape the outcome of the race but ultimately no evidence that any foreign actor changed votes or otherwise disrupted the voting process. The report released on Tuesday from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence represents the most detailed assessment of the array of foreign threats to the 2020 election. These included efforts by Iran to undermine confidence in the vote and harm Mr. Trump’s reelection prospects as well as Moscow operations that relied on Mr. Trump’s allies to smear Joe Biden, the eventual winner. Despite those threats, though, intelligence officials found “no indications that any foreign actor attempted to interfere in the 2020 U.S. elections by altering any technical aspect of the voting process, including voter registration, ballot casting, vote tabulation, or reporting results”. The document makes clear that even while Mr. Trump has cried foul about the legitimacy of the election, intelligence officials believe Russia sought to influence people close to Mr. Trump as a way to tip the election in his favour. Mr. Trump, whose 2016 campaign benefited from hacking by Russian intelligence officers and a covert social media effort, had seized on an intelligence assessment from August that said China preferred a Biden presidency — even though the same assessment also said Russia was working to boost Mr. Trump’s own candidacy. Tuesday’s report, however, says China ultimately did not interfere on either side and “considered but did not deploy” influence operations intended to affect the outcome. U.S. officials say they believe Beijing prioritised a stable relationship with the U.S. and did not consider either election outcome as advantageous enough for it to risk the “blowback” that would ensue if it got caught with interfering. The primary threats instead came from Russia and Iran, albeit with different intentions. The report says Russia sought to undermine Mr. Biden’s candidacy because it viewed his presidency as opposed to the Kremlin’s interests, though it took some steps to prepare for a Democratic administration as the election neared. It also says Mr. Putin authorised influence operations aimed at denigrating Mr. Biden, boosting Mr. Trump, undermining confidence in the election and exacerbating social divisions in the U.S. Mr. Biden, in an interview that aired on Wednesday on ABC’s “Good Morning America,” said that there would be repercussions for Mr. Putin for a variety of misdeeds, saying, “The price he’s going to pay, you’ll see shortly.” The President recounted that in their first call, held last month, he opened by saying to Mr. Putin that “we understand each other”. When asked in the interview if he thinks Mr. Putin is a killer, Mr. Biden said, “I do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-approved-operations-to-help-trump-us-report/article34095999.ece
18 March 2021||Washington,||Katherine Tai unanimously confirmed as USTR by Senate||The U.S. Senate voted unanimously, 98-0, to confirm Katherine Tai as the next U.S. Trade Representative (USTR). Ms. Tai, whose parents are from Taiwan, is the first woman of colour to hold the position. From determining how to take forward a Trump-era trade deal with China and negotiating with the Europeans on aircraft subsidies and a digital services tax to implementing the U.S. Mexico Canada Agreement, Ms. Tai is expected to have a packed agenda. Ms. Tai, a corporate lawyer, argued — and won — cases for the U.S. against China at the World Trade Organization (WTO) during the Obama administration when she was head of the USTR’s China division. As the Biden administration heads towards its first bilateral meeting with Beijing later this week, questions on how to take the trade relationship forward loom. For now a ‘Phase 1’ trade deal negotiated by the Trump administration is in place. Bilateral trade balances were of central importance to former President Donald Trump’s ‘America First’ policy and a key factor in the dynamics between the U.S. and other countries. China had agreed to purchase $200 billion in U.S. goods in exchange for reduced tariffs on $120 billion worth of products under the agreement. During her confirmation hearing, Ms. Tai called on China to stick to its commitments in the trade deal.  Trade ties with India Ms. Tai was also questioned on restoring India’s access to the U.S.’s preferential trade programme, the Generalized System of Preferences — which was revoked by the Trump administration — as well as being quizzed on access to Indian markets for Washington State’s apples and Montana’s pulses. While she did not commit to specific positions on these, Ms. Tai said she was aware that U.S. interests with India were “manifold” and looked forward to engaging with India on trade. India will seek to negotiate a fresh bilateral trade deal now that there is a confirmed USTR,as per whatCommerce Minister Piyush Goyal said last month. The Minister had said that the government would take a fresh look at “different ideas” to avoid the problems of the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/katherine-tai-unanimously-confirmed-as-ustr-by-senate/article34096084.ece
18 March 2021||Washington,||‘Tough’ to withdraw troops from Afghanistan by May 1, says Biden||U.S. President Joe Biden has said that it would be “tough” to meet the deadline to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan by May 1, as agreed with the Taliban in a deal secured under Donald Trump. “Could happen, but it is tough,” Mr. Biden said when asked about the May 1 deadline in a TV interview broadcast on Wednesday. “I’m in the process of making that decision now.” The Taliban quickly reacted to Mr. Biden’s comments, with a spokesman saying there would be “consequences” if the U.S. did not stick to the agreed timetable — further raising pressure on the fragile peace process. “The Americans should end their occupation in accordance with the Doha deal and fully withdraw their forces from Afghanistan by May 1,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. “If they don’t do it, be it for any reason and pretexts, then they will be responsible for the consequences,” he said, adding that “the people of Afghanistan will make their decision”. Mr. Biden also took a direct swipe at Mr. Trump’s Afghanistan policy, saying it “was not a very solidly negotiated deal” that the then-President oversaw. “The failure to have an orderly transition from the Trump presidency to my presidency... has cost me time and consequences. That’s one of the issues we're talking about now, in terms of Afghanistan,” Mr. Biden added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tough-to-withdraw-troops-from-afghanistan-by-may-1-says-biden/article34096000.ece
18 March 2021||Washington,||As criticism grows, Biden tells migrants not to come to U.S.||President Joe Biden on Tuesday urged migrants not to come to the United States, as criticism mounted over a surge in people arriving at the southern border with Mexico, including thousands of unaccompanied children. “Yes I can say quite clearly don’t come over ... Don’t leave your town or city or community,” he said in an interview with ABC News , addressing the migrants. Speaking hours after his head of homeland security defended the administration’s immigration policies, Mr. Biden also shrugged off claims that his dismantling of former President Donald Trump’s tough stance had encouraged the surge, pointing out that there had been similar surges in 2019 and 2020. “The idea that Joe Biden said ‘come’ - I heard the other day that they’re coming because I’m a nice guy... Here’s the deal, they’re not,” he said. On January 20, his first day in office, Mr. Biden scrapped several of Donald Trump's contentious immigration policies, including halting new construction of a border wall and proposing legislation to create a citizenship pathway for the nearly 11 million people living illegally in the U.S. Republican critics say Mr. Biden’s policies caused a sharp increase in migrants seeking to cross into the U.S. illegally. Not new, says Mayorkas The President spoke a day after top Republican Congressman Kevin McCarthy visited the border in Texas with fellow Republican lawmakers and accused Mr. Biden of creating a “crisis”. Mr. Biden’s chief of homeland security Alejandro Mayorkas on Tuesday also defended the administration's immigration policies. Mr. Mayorkas acknowledged that the United States was “on pace” to encounter more migrants at the border than at any time in two decades, but said such spikes were “not new”, having also occurred in 2019, 2014 and earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-criticism-grows-biden-tells-migrants-not-to-come-to-us/article34096002.ece
18 March 2021||Beijing,||U.S., Japan rapped for ‘collusion’ against China||China on Wednesday accused the U.S. and Japan of colluding to interfere in its internal affairs after the two countries joined forces to warn of “destabilising behaviour” by Beijing in the region. Beijing’s response comes just a day before China’s top diplomats are set to meet top U.S. officials in Alaska in their first face-to-face talks since President Joe Biden’s administration came to power. On Tuesday, U.S. and Japanese Foreign and Defence Ministers warned against “coercion and destabilising behaviour” by China in a joint statement after high level talks in Tokyo. The comments drew a swift rebuke. “The U.S.-Japan joint statement maliciously attacks China’s foreign policy... and is an attempt to harm China’s interests,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters. He added that the two countries had “no right to unilaterally define international relations” or impose their own standards. “This is just another clear example of the U.S. and Japan working in collusion to interfere in China’s internal affairs,” Mr. Zhao said. After their first stop in Japan, Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin and Secretary of State Antony Blinken amet their South Korean counterparts in Seoul on Wednesday to bolster a united front against an increasingly assertive China and the nuclear-armed North.  Before leaving Tokyo,Mr. Blinken accused Beijing of acting more repressively at home and “more aggressively abroad”, citing its activities in the East and South China Seas and towards Taiwan. “It’s important for us to make clear together that China cannot expect to act with impunity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-japan-rapped-for-collusion-against-china/article34095994.ece
18 March 2021||Atlanta,||Eight killed in U.S. spa shootings||Six Asian women were among eight people shot and killed at spas around the U.S. city of Atlanta, raising fears on Wednesday that it might be the most violent chapter yet in a wave of attacks on Asian-Americans. A white man is in custody on suspicion of staging all the three attacks, the police said as a Georgia State Democratic party leader suggested that the attack matched “a pattern” of violence on Asian-Americans during the pandemic. Four of the victims were killed at Young’s Asian Massage near Acworth, a suburb of Georgia State capital Atlanta, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County sheriff’s office told the paper the victims were two Asian women, a white woman, and a white man, while a Hispanic man was wounded. The police separately confirmed that four women had been killed in attacks on two other spas in the northeast of the city. The police told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that all four were Asian women. South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported that the country’s Foreign Ministry had confirmed that four of the victims were of Korean descent. Expressing concern over the incident, President Joe Biden said: “I know that Asian Americans are very concerned because, as you know, I’ve been speaking about the brutality against Asian-Americans for the last couple of months,” he said. “I think that it is very, very troublesome.” Authorities have identified Robert Aaron Long as a suspect in all the three shootings. “The suspect did take responsibility for the shootings,” Captain Baker said. “This is still early, but he does claim it was not racially motivated.” “He apparently has an issue, what he considers a sex addiction, and sees these locations as... a temptation for him that he wanted to eliminate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eight-killed-in-us-spa-shootings/article34095993.ece
18 March 2021||Tokyo,||Japan court backs same-sex marriage||Japan’s failure to recognise same-sex marriage is unconstitutional, a court ruled on Wednesday, in a landmark verdict on the issue that campaigners welcomed as a major victory. Lawyers for plaintiffs in the case said the ruling should pile pressure on lawmakers to accept same-sex unions, but the path to any such recognition is still likely to be lengthy.  The court in northern Sapporo ruled that the government’s current failure to offer same-sex couples ways to “enjoy even a part of the legal effects that arise from marriage... violates Article 14” of the constitution, which mandates equality under the law. Opposition lawmaker Kanako Otsuji, one of the few openly gay Japanese politicians, tweeted she was “truly, truly happy”. “I urge the Diet, as the legislative branch of the government, to deliberate a proposed amendment to the civil code to make same-sex marriage possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japan-court-backs-same-sex-marriage/article34095995.ece
18 March 2021||Hong Kong,||U.S. sanctions 24 China, HK officials||The U.S. sanctioned 24 more Chinese and Hong Kong officials over Beijing’s ongoing crackdown on political freedoms in the semi-autonomous city. The step reflects Washington’s “deep concern” about the erosion of Hong Kong’s autonomy following changes to its election system endorsed by China’s ceremonial legislature last week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement on Wednesday. Foreign financial institutions that deal with the 24 officials would be subject to U.S. sanctions, the State Department said. The imposition of new sanctions “fully exposes the U.S. side’s sinister intention to interfere in China’s internal affairs, disrupt Hong Kong and obstruct China’s stability and development,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sanctions-24-china-hk-officials/article34095997.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Rights group slams new Sri Lanka law||Sri Lanka faced renewed criticism on Wednesday over a new “de-radicalisation” law which rights groups see as another weapon targeting dissidents and minorities in the fractured nation. New York-based Human Rights Watch said new rules expanded the “draconian and abusive” Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) — which a previous government promised to scrap but never did. On Friday, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced new rules under the PTA allowing the detention of anyone suspected of causing “acts of violence or religious, racial or communal disharmony”. HRW said Colombo should immediately withdraw the rules, which the government said was aimed at the “de-radicalisation” of religious extremists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rights-group-slams-new-sri-lanka-law/article34095996.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Pulling India’s democracy back from the brink||Governments, like the citizens that live under their influence, come in a dizzying array of types, challenging simplistic efforts of classification. In spite of all this variation, what remains constant is this: throughout history, governments wield considerably more power over the governed than the other way around. Actually that is a gross understatement. The vast majority of governments that have ever existed have enjoyed essentially unfettered power over their subjects. Of course, some rulers have been more enlightened and benign than others and grasped the insight that ruling is easier when one’s right to do so is viewed as legitimate than simply through coercion; but even such philosopher-kings were not above the exercise of arbitrary power when necessary. And these were the exceptions: most elsewhere, power was maintained and known by its iron fist. Institutional checks Happily, human progress has made this description of state-society relations sound quite anachronistic, even though fundamental alterations in the balance of power between governors and the governed are the happenings of contemporary history. The first institutional check on sovereign power is arguably the establishment of the English Parliament in what British historians term the Glorious Revolution. Tired of unending wars that it was asked to fund through people and treasure, an emboldened nobility asserted its right to be consulted by the monarch in matters of war and the purse. But for the non-Lords of the British Isles, precious little changed. That was the late 1600s, and while the French and American Revolutions of a century later spawned political theory of the highest order proclaiming the inalienable freedoms of all men created equal, the truth is that the era of colonialism, and continued exclusion of women, as well as racial and religious minorities, meant that it was not until the mid-1950s that the revolution only dreamt about for millennia before became reality. Finally, leaders were expected to return periodically to face the judgement of the governed through universal suffrage elections, and their power in office was constrained by a constitution whose guardian was an independent judiciary, and whose actions were scrutinised and made public by an empowered press charged with a sacred responsibility to speak truth to power on behalf of the powerless. In the heady days that followed the Second World War, with colonial rule beating the retreat, the spirit of national self-determination heralded the proliferation of newly independent countries around the world. The ideological battleground of the Cold War forced these new states to choose between democracy, the sine qua non of which was competitive elections, and its many alternatives, the latter often justified by the fig leaf of communist ideology. But a mere few decades later, the collapse of the Soviet Union and the start of a unipolar American era led many erstwhile dictatorships to announce elections. As one commentator infamously stated, it was the end of history and liberal democracy had won the day. Pillars of governance What the democratic triumphalists failed to anticipate was that elections, while vital to the exercise of democracy, are just one leg of the governance stool. The others, equally necessary for the system to hold steady, are the strength and independence of the other public institutions of the state whose fealty was to the Constitution rather than any elected government; and the vibrancy and vitality of the press who served as the people’s representatives, asking questions and uncovering truths that made the powerful squirm, and that levelled the playing field for citizens charged with rendering judgement on incumbents at the next election. But the electoral autocrat, as academic observers labelled them, understood this architecture all too well, and initiated a sustained, often violent, assault on these very institutions, even arguing brazenly that the counter-majoritarian impulses of constitutionalism were in fact anti-democratic! It is a playbook honed and refined by Vladimir Putin (Russia), Viktor Orbán (Hungary), Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (Turkey) — and incompetently (thankfully) attempted by Donald Trump (the U.S.). Global scrutiny and indices It is against this background that the kerfuffle about western academic institutions that generate and publish annual indices of democracy around the world must be understood. Freedom House (based in Washington DC) and the Varieties of Democracy project (V-DEM, based in Gothenburg, Sweden) are two of the more well-regarded efforts to conceptualise and measure the state of democracy globally each year. Their methodologies and indicators are transparently public, and the data sets they provide are widely analysed by researchers worldwide. Like most academic work, their efforts are destined to be ignored by most, but the announcement last month that both indices had independently decided to downgrade India’s democratic rating has set off a firestorm of indignant protest by many who view it as a frontal assault on the current government. India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar dismissed these ratings as irrelevant certificates issued by self-appointed arbiters in the West for which India had little use. Fair enough, though a cynic might point out that the government is all too glad to trumpet positive recognition by western organisations that laud India’s improving investment environment, for instance. Some certificates are more useful than others. What drove the decision to reduce India’s score on these indices? Both Freedom House and V-Dem utilise explicitly multi-dimensional schema that combine many different indicators using, in V-Dem’s case particularly, quite sophisticated statistical techniques. Their methods have been repeatedly peer-reviewed and validated by thousands of studies that establish a very high degree of correlation with other academic efforts to measure democracy. Their key facet is a conception of democracy that is holistic, and that gives considerable weight to the freedom of the press and the independence of the judicial branch. Concerns about the undermining of these institutional checks-and-balances on the power of the Indian state led both institutions to reduce India’s score on their index. (Freedom House also reduced its score for a Trump-battered United States, for those wondering.) Nor are such concerns limited to India as a web search for the phrase ‘democratic backsliding’ will reveal. Democracy has been in retreat globally for a while. Is India less “free” than it was a decade ago? Maybe; maybe not, but it is disingenuous to pretend that the mere perception that it might be so does not have negative consequences for the country’s ambitions to be a fully paid-up member of the Quad, or of the D-10 (a moniker for a group of 10 leading democracies), both of which western clubs require a certificate attesting an applicant’s democratic credentials for admission. One need not agree with the scoring to recognise its import. To do otherwise is to crib about whether the setting or grading of an examination was fair as if this could alter an adverse university admission decision it caused — at a certain point, it is besides the point. Shun the preferred gallery How can India reverse the damage caused? First, the government must resist peevish responses. An international audience increasingly savvy to misinformation sees through the copy-paste Twitter campaigns of pliant celebrities and pro-government bots. India’s democratic credentials are intrinsic to its identity and its greatest source of legitimacy internationally. The suggestion that these credentials have been tarnished merits a serious, thoughtful, and respectful response, rather than a clever quip that plays to one’s preferred gallery but does nothing to assuage one’s critics. Second, the courts and press must own up to their part in this debacle. Institutional independence is a hard-won resource to be husbanded and invested wisely by their custodians. Doing so strengthens them and the government with whom they serve the people. Third, strong democracy requires a strong Opposition, as much as it does an incumbent secure enough to face criticism without getting defensive. Without an Opposition to provide voters a viable alternative, the most powerful check on power devised by human society — elections — loses its power, and with it, so does democracy. For almost 75 years, India’s democratic exceptionalism in the developing world has been a source of genuine pride for its citizens, and made it a beacon for others seeking to learn from its enviable record of holding free and fair elections at all levels of society. But concerns caused by increasing attacks on the press and the erosion of judicial autonomy undermine that image. It is that reality, not the publishing of an academic index, to which the government and the nation must respond. Irfan Nooruddin is the author of ‘Elections in Hard Times: Building Stronger Democracies in the Twenty-First Century’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pulling-indias-democracy-back-from-the-brink/article34095979.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Re-evaluating inflation targeting||As the term of the original agreement between the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on inflation targeting ends on March 31, evaluations of this aspect of monetary policy have begun to emerge in the public domain. Two points have been made: first, that the inflation rate has remained within the prescribed band of 2% to 6% since 2016, when inflation targeting was introduced, and secondly that the RBI has succeeded in anchoring inflationary expectations. In fact, the lower inflation rate has been seen as the outcome of the latter. Our long-term research on inflation in India suggests that the evidence, however, is not conclusive on the efficacy claimed for inflation targeting. Though macroeconomic policy may not be of wide interest, a rudimentary understanding of what is meant by inflation targeting may be useful. Inflation targeting is only one of a set of imagined inflation control policies. Globally, inflation control became de rigueur after the high inflation that followed the oil shock in the early 1970s. In fact, well before inflation targeting was advanced, Milton Friedman had brought inflation control to the centre stage through his relentless highlighting of the ever-lurking threat of inflation. On the other hand, in India, policymakers had engaged with inflation since the 1950s, when plans to industrialise met the challenge of inflation. Thus, scepticism about inflation targeting as a strategy of inflation control does not imply that inflation control is not a legitimate objective of economic policy. While the monetarist Friedman had prescribed money-supply targeting as the means to control inflation, inflation targeting prescribes the use of the interest rate to target inflation. So, really, what is new about inflation targeting is only the instrument chosen, not the goal itself. There is, however, the vague suggestion that it is likely to be more effective than the monetarist approach, as the instrument, the policy interest rate, is under the direct control of the central bank. Logical vulnerabilities However, what has remained hidden in public discourse is the economic model that underlies inflation targeting. This model revolves around the proposition that inflation reflects “overheating”, or economic activity at a level greater than the “natural” level of output, having been taken there by central banks that have kept interest rates too low, at a level lower than the “natural” rate of interest. From this follows the recommendation that the cure to inflation is to raise the rate of interest set by the central bank, the so-called policy rate, which in India is termed ‘repo’ rate. A feature of this theory of inflation is that its central construct, the natural level of output, is unobservable. This makes it next to impossible to verify the explanation, which is also self-referential. The exponent starts out by stating that the inflation rate is rising as the output is higher than its natural level, but when asked how it has been concluded that output is actually higher, the response is “for inflation is rising”. Understanding phenomena on the basis of faith is not scientific. Despite this logical vulnerability, inflation targeting is a reality in that it is the Centre’s stated policy of inflation control. Our work demonstrates that the model that underlies inflation targeting is not statistically validated for Indian data. But instead of going into specifics, we scrutinise in this article whether recent history supports the claim that inflation targeting has been successful on the grounds that the inflation rate has remained within the band agreed to between the government and the RBI, and whether it has been achieved by “anchoring inflation expectations”. Inflation in India entered the prescribed band of 2% to 6% two years before inflation targeting was adopted in 2016-17. In fact, inflation had fallen steadily since 2011-12, halving by 2015-16. This by itself suggests that there is a mechanism driving inflation other than what is imagined in inflation targeting. The view is further strengthened by the finding that the decline in inflation over the five years concerned was led by the relative price of food. While falling food-price inflation per se does not rule out the possibility that expectations of inflation may have fallen in this period, it would be difficult to explain why expectations would have fallen so sharply even in the absence of inflation targeting, considered essential for anchoring expectations. Recall that the adoption of the policy in 2016 came after inflation had entered the prescribed band. RBI data on household expectations show them remaining well above 6% for twelve years up to 2020. Finally, it is the flaring up of both inflation and inflation expectations after March 2020, when the COVID-19 lockdown was announced, that makes it difficult to believe the thesis of an “overheating” economy. Why did expectations soar if they had been anchored through inflation targeting? On the other hand, we can explain the flaring up of inflation in terms of food prices, as supply chains were disrupted due to the lockdown. In conclusion, for the sake of argument, let us assume that over the past five years, inflation in India has been controlled via inflation targeting. It may then be asked what the benefits of this have been. We can think of five variables of interest in this context, namely growth, private investment, exports, non-performing assets (NPAs) of commercial banks, and employment. Conflicting patterns The economy’s trend rate of growth actually began to decline after 2010-11. So, inflation targeting could not have caused it, but it is of interest that sharply falling inflation could do nothing to revive growth, belying the proposition that low inflation is conducive to growth. For investment, there is reason to believe that higher interest rates, the toolkit for inflation targeting, may have been harmful. The swing in the real interest rate of over 5 percentage points in 2013-14 was powered further in 2016, when inflation targeting was adopted, and could have contributed to a declining private investment rate. It is interesting that policy entrepreneurs assert that the benefits of low inflation may be considerable for private investment. We need to say nothing about exports and employment, except that they had fared poorly since inflation targeting became official. Finally, NPAs. It has long been recognised that a central bank focusing on inflation may lose control of financial stability. NPAs have grown since 2016, and the cases of IL&FS, PMC Bank, PNB and YES Bank suggest that poor management and malfeasance in the financial sector could escape scrutiny when the central bank hunkers down to inflation targeting. We end with two points. Inflation control will always be relevant but there is no conclusive evidence that the policy has worked in India. Secondly, the presumed benefits of low inflation are yet to surface. So, we should guard against the possibility that inflation targeting may deliver the worst of all worlds, i.e., raising interest rates, with all negative consequences, without lowering inflation. Lastly, assuming that the decline in inflation in India is due to inflation targeting would stand in the way of acknowledging the source, the vagaries of the price of food.   Pulapre Balakrishnan is with Ashoka University, Sonipat and M. Parameswaran is with the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-evaluating-inflation-targeting/article34095989.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Aligning a missile deal with destination Manila||Earlier this month, India and the Philippines signed the “Implementing Arrangement” for “procurement of defense material and equipment procurement”. This agreement lays the groundwork for sales of defence systems such as the highly anticipated export of the BrahMos cruise missile, through the government-to-government route. As the Secretary, Philippine Department of National Defense publicly acknowledges, the archipelagic country’s intention of purchasing the missile, and a potential export deal for India, moves one step closer to reality. This deal will be of great significance for multiple reasons, and even though the procurement process is progressing steadfastly, there are many challenges that lie ahead. Features of the system Research and development of the BrahMos cruise missile systems began in the late 1990s. Manufactured by BrahMos Aerospace Limited, a joint venture between the Defence Research and Development Organisation and the joint stock company Military Industrial Consortium NPO Mashinostroyenia (earlier known as the Federal State Unitary Enterprise NPOM of Russia), this is the first supersonic cruise missile to enter service. Capable of attaining a speed of Mach 2.8 (almost three times the speed of sound), it has a range of at least 290 km (a new version can reach up to 400km). Travelling with such velocity means that it would be difficult for air defence systems utilising surface-to-air missiles to intercept the BrahMos while making it easier for it to target and neutralise advanced fighter jets such as the Chinese J-20 fighter aircraft moving at less than Mach 2. Even so, efforts to increase the speed and range of the missile in its next iterations are under way, with a goal of achieving hypersonic speeds (at or above Mach 5) and a maximum range of 1,500 km. Early naval and land variants of the BrahMos were inducted into service by the Indian Navy in 2005 and the Indian Army in 2007. Subsequently, an air-launched variant was successfully tested in November 2017 by the Indian Air Force from its Sukhoi-30MKI fighter jet, giving the missile a dominating presence in all three domains. Export as a goal These advanced and powerful capabilities of the BrahMos not only augment the strength of the Indian military but make it a highly desirable product for other countries to procure as well. Exporting the system, hence, has been on the agenda for more than a decade. Doing so would boost the credibility of India as a defence exporter, help it meet the target of $5 billion in defence exports by 2025, and elevate its stature as a regional superpower. Countries such as Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia, the United Arab Emirates, Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa have so far shown an interest in acquiring the systems. Geo-political impact The implications of the Philippines becoming the first country to import the BrahMos would be wide-ranging and consequential in the Indo-Pacific. To begin with, it would caution China, with whom the Philippines has been engaged in a territorial conflict in the South China Sea, and act as a deterrent to Beijing’s aggressive posturing. Indeed, this is why China has been wary of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries acquiring defence systems such as the BrahMos. Further, taking lessons, other nations threatened by Chinese belligerence may come forward to induct the BrahMos into their arsenal, thereby boosting India’s economic, soft, and hard power profile in the region and providing the Indo-Pacific with a strong and dependable anchor with which they can protect their sovereignty and territory. Possible hurdles The Government of India has prioritised making the country ‘Atmanirbhar’ in the defence manufacturing sector and establishing itself as a major defence exporter. The Philippines, on the other hand, has decided to buy the BrahMos out of geopolitical and strategic necessities. Nonetheless, two major roadblocks still remain in the Manila deal. The first is the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which aims to sanction individuals and entities who engage in a “significant transaction” with a listed entity. So far, Turkey and China have been penalised under CAATSA for purchasing the S-400 Triumf air defense systems from Russia. NPO Mashinostroyenia is one of the listed Russian entities. And since 65% of the components, including the ramjet engine and radar seeker used in the BrahMos, are reportedly provided by NPO Mashinostroyenia, the export of the missile systems may attract sanctions. Remarkably, the United States, of which India is a major defence partner, has maintained ambiguity over whether it will introduce sanctions over India’s acquisition of the S-400, licensed production of the AK-203 assault rifle, and export of the BrahMos. Hesitant of being sanctioned themselves, countries may shy away from purchasing the BrahMos. However, there is an excellent case for India to receive a waiver from CAATSA, especially vis-à-vis the BrahMos that can help contain a confrontational China. The second issue pertains to financing. A regiment of the BrahMos, including a mobile command post, four missile-launcher vehicles, several missile carriers, and 90 missiles, reportedly costs around $275.77 million (Rs. 2,000 crore). Ravaged by the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries which are interested in the BrahMos would find it difficult to purchase it. The cost of the systems has been a major hurdle in moving forward to reach a deal with the Philippines. To remedy this, India has offered a $100 million line of credit, and the Philippines is thinking of purchasing just one battery of the BrahMos, consisting of three missile launchers with two to three missile tubes each. With India determined to develop itself as a hub of defence manufacturing, how it handles the sale of the BrahMos would be an important factor in its potential emergence as a net provider of regional security in the Indo-Pacific. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi and Professor, International Relations at King’s College London. Javin Aryan is a research intern at the ORF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aligning-a-missile-deal-with-destination-manila/article34095983.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A Gandhian route in Myanmar||Aung San Suu Kyi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 while she was still under house arrest in Myanmar. In a lecture in 2012, she described the award as a recognition that “the oppressed and the isolated in Burma were also a part of the world, that they were recognising the oneness of humanity”. It is ironical that 30 years later, the Nobel laureate, who turned a blind eye to the suffering of the Rohingya Muslims in her country, is now back under house arrest imposed by the military junta in Myanmar. Several weeks of non-violent demonstrations and a deadly crackdown have roiled the nation since the military coup d’état on February 1, which brought back full military reign following several years of a quasi-electoral rule. However, the most important part about the coup is not the house arrest of Ms. Suu Kyi, but the unstoppable non-violent civil resistance of the Myanmar population. It is as if once again, the Myanmarese have come to regard the Gandhian concept of non-violence as a radically shared social contract that bolsters the intervention of the ethical in politics. Despite the security forces’ harsh methods against protesters, the anti-coup sentiments in Myanmar have so far been non-violent and peaceful.  Mahatma Gandhi chose a spinning wheel as a symbol for his idea of non-violence. It represented two messages: the wheel was the main instrument to protest against India’s growing industrialism, and it was also a symbol of resistance to the British-made clothes that had replaced Indian handmade clothes. In the United States, Martin Luther King turned to the symbol of the “American Dream” as a hope of social justice and equity for every member of the American society. Today, the three-fingered salute that was adopted by activists in Thailand has become a strong symbol of resistance for democracy in Myanmar. A moral strength The growing interest among the new generation of Myanmar activists in Gandhian non-violence is not a new phenomenon. For a long time, during her previous house arrest, Ms. Suu Kyi’s Buddhist spirituality provided her with a moral strength in the direction of non-violent resistance. “Non-violence means positive action. You have to work for whatever you want. You don’t just sit there doing nothing and hope to get what you want. It just means that the methods you use are not violent ones. Some people think that non-violence is passiveness. It’s not so,” she said in an interview many years ago. Her message is in tune with that of peaceful protesters who defy fear. As such, there are many similarities with Ms. Suu Kyi’s argument, which underlined the fact that “it is not power that corrupts but fear. Fear of losing power corrupts those who wield it and fear of the scourge of power corrupts those who are subject to it”. Ms. Suu Kyi saw the non-violent revolution in Myanmar as an attempt by the people to act as the Buddha taught. In Buddhism, she argued, “each man has in him the potential” to realise this. But “under despotic rule, man is valued least, as a faceless, mindless — and helpless — mass to be manipulated at will”. The quest for democracy Today, at the centre of Myanmar’s protest movement, the core quality is inner strength. It is the spiritual steadiness that comes from the belief that non-violent resistance is right, even if it does not bring down the military junta immediately. This is what the late Czech dissident and artist, Václav Havel, called “the power of the powerless”. What the young Myanmar protesters represent is that the powerless do have power, and that power can be manipulated through non-violent means. Let us also not forget that the protesters’ quest for democracy not only presents serious challenges to the authority of the military power in Myanmar and its legitimacy, but also questions the democratic nature of all those global powers that put into question the authenticity of the non-violent resistance of the Myanmar population. Gandhi associated politics with ethics. He once wrote: “I have always derived my politics from ethics or religion and my strength is also derived by my deriving my politics from ethics. It is also because I swear by ethics and religion that I find myself in politics. A person who is a lover of his country is bound to take a lively interest in politics.” The future of Myanmar is not up to the military, it is up to those who follow the example of Gandhi in the streets of Yangon and Mandalay. The military and dictatorial powers in the country are trying to exorcise this spectre, but the winds of Gandhian non-violence are once again blowing strong and are unlikely to dissipate soon. The author is Director of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Nonviolence and Peace Studies at O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-gandhian-route-in-myanmar/article34095991.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking beyond privatisation||In the recent Budget session, the Union government announced its intent to privatise Public Sector Banks (PSBs). While improving efficiency has been cited as the reason for this move, it is not clear whether privatisation brings efficiency or reduces associated risks. Around the world, innumerable private banks have failed, thus challenging the notion that only private banks are efficient. Similarly, if private enterprises are the epitome of efficiency, why do private corporate entities have such large volumes of NPAs? Bank nationalisation ushered in a revolution for India’s banking sector. Before nationalisation, barring the State Bank of India, most banks were privately owned and they largely benefited the rich and the powerful. The nationalisation of 14 private banks in 1969, followed by six more in 1980, transformed the banking sector, created jobs, extended credit to the agriculture sector and benefited the poor. Areas that had so far been neglected, including agriculture, employment-generating productive activities, poverty alleviation plans, rural development, health, education, exports, infrastructure, women’s empowerment, small scale and medium industry, and small and micro industries, became priority sectors for these banks. Equitable growth The move also helped in promoting more equitable regional growth, and this is evident from RBI data. There were only 1,833 bank branches in rural areas in the country in 1969, which increased to 33,004 by 1995 and continued to grow over the next decades. Banking services also reduced the dependence on moneylenders in rural regions. Nationalised banking improved the working conditions of employees in the banking sector, as the state ensured higher wages, security of services, and other fringe benefits. As an institution, PSBs are vehicles of the Indian economy’s growth and development, and they have become the trustees of people’s savings and confidence. The PSBs played a huge role in making the country self-sufficient by supporting the green, blue, and dairy revolutions. They have also contributed significantly to infrastructural development. Public sector banks in India are currently earning considerable operating profits, to the tune of Rs. 1,74,390 crore in 2019-20 and Rs. 1,49,603 crore in 2018-19. Why is the government then, instead of strengthening PSBs, starving them of the required capital and human resources through disinvestment and the proposed privatisation? Placing such a huge network of bank branches and the infrastructure and assets in the hands of private enterprises or corporates may turn out to be an irrational move. It could lead to denial of convenient and economical banking services to the common man; the risks of monopoly and cartelisation may only complicate the issue. Stringent laws Furthermore, in the context of privatisation and efficiency, it is unfair to blame PSBs alone for the alarming rise of NPAs. On the contrary, stringent measures are required to recover large corporate stressed assets, which is a key concern for the entire banking sector. This must include strong recovery laws and taking criminal action against wilful defaulters. So far, the government has not exhibited a firm willingness to implement these measures. Wilful default by large corporate borrowers and subsequent recovery haircuts, imposed through the ill-conceived Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, has resulted in a heap of write-offs, putting a big dent on the balance sheets of PSBs. This has not only affected the profitability of the banks, but has also become an excuse to allege inefficiency. There is an urgent and imperative need to bring in a suitable statutory framework to consider wilful defaults on bank loans a “criminal offence”. A system to examine top executives of PSBs across the country will also help in improving accountability. But privatisation of PSBs is not a definitive panacea for the problems of the banking sector in India. Rajmohan Unnithan is an MP from Kasaragod, Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/looking-beyond-privatisation/article34095992.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Immigration conundrum||It is unlikely that President Joe Biden ever imagined that it would be a cakewalk to undo some of the most damaging policies implemented by his predecessor Donald Trump, but even he might not have anticipated how quickly the thorny question of immigration reform could spiral into a full-blown crisis. In recent weeks, an unprecedented surge of unaccompanied minors at the U.S.’s southern border has pushed the need for comprehensive reform, front and centre. The sudden spike in their numbers in U.S. custody — over 4,000, according to reports — is already wearing federal resources thin. Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas struck a grim note when he said the U.S. was “on pace to encounter more individuals on the southwest border than we have in the last 20 years”. Complicating the entire exercise is the COVID-19 pandemic, which has made it impossible to take down a Trump-era emergency rule that gives border agents the authority to summarily turn away most migrants other than unaccompanied minors, denying them the right to have their asylum claims heard. In a sense, the mounting crisis is related to a sweeping immigration reform proposal unveiled by Mr. Biden’s administration a month ago, as well as smaller bills that the Democrat-controlled Congress could pass with less resistance, including measures to quicken the process for grant of legal status to agriculture workers and “Dreamers”, or undocumented immigrants who entered the U.S. as children. There are also plans under way to redress the ills of the legal migration system, many obstacles to which were erected by the Trump White House, including a controversial rule to raise mandatory minimum pay for foreign workers on the H-1B visa for skilled immigrants that is largely granted to Indian nationals. Similarly, some analysts have estimated that the Biden administration’s proposed immigration bill could potentially increase annual ‘green card’ or permanent residency numbers by 35%. Mr. Biden’s broader, omnibus immigration legislation proposal includes an eight-year pathway to citizenship for the nearly 11 million undocumented immigrants and the use of hi-tech systems for border patrol enforcement. The right, led by the vocal Congressional Republican minority, has attacked all such proposals as not being tough enough and encouraging the border surge, whereas the left, led by Democrats such as Representatives Ilhan Omar and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, have taken on Mr. Biden for not being humane enough. The intractable immigration conundrum that the country has wrestled with from its very inception is whether the American Dream is an inclusivist vision of economic growth premised on embracing diversity and skilled migration, or whether the Trumpian ‘America First’ battle cry for nativist populism will carry the day. What Mr. Biden does in the months ahead will help answer this question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/immigration-conundrum/article34095972.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Allaying concerns||A little over 392 million doses of vaccine have been administered globally, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker, with India accounting for around 9% of them. In the last week, there have been a flurry of reports from Europe, of blood clots developing in a very small fraction of those vaccinated and leading to a cascade of European countries announcing a temporary halt to their vaccination programmes involving the AstraZeneca (AZ) vaccine. WHO and the European Medicines Agency have underlined that there is no causal link between vaccines and the occurrence of such clots. In fact, there are less than 40 such occurrences reported so far, and that is much below the background of about 1,000 to 2,000 blood clots every single day in the general population, say studies based on the U.S. population. These organisations advocate that the ongoing vaccination drives continue, even accelerate, as the rate of vaccination is not keeping pace with what is required to control the pandemic. However, there are good reasons too for the countries to have called for a temporary halt. The AZ, Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have been released under emergency use authorisations, meaning that the entire profile of risks associated with them have not been thoroughly studied. History is replete with instances of vaccines that have been taken off even years after approval after a slight increase in untoward complications. As of now, the risk of dying from serious COVID-19 far outweighs that from vaccine reactions and it is such a calculation that weighs on the minds of regulators before approving vaccines. Unlike drugs administered to the sick, vaccines have a higher bar of proving themselves safe as they are given to the healthy. Regulators of all countries rely on the experiences of others, as exemplified in India alone where it was AZ trials in the United Kingdom that paved the way for approval in India. Therefore, a warning in one country must immediately activate the sensors in another. India has a long experience with vaccinations as well as expertise in evaluating risk; however, transparency and prompt data sharing, thereby building public trust, is not one of its strong suits. This was evidenced by the approval of vaccines in spite of scant efficacy data. There is almost no information by the National Committee on Adverse Events Following Immunisation on the nature of serious adverse events following immunisation. This is in contrast to the frequent analyses shared by organisations such as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on adverse events. Public trust is a key ingredient to successful vaccination programmes and this can be only earned by the government’s zealous attention to allaying concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/allaying-concerns/article34095971.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Stolen airline tickets in U.S.||[New York] Airlines and law enforcement agencies around the world are trying to combat a growing traffic in stolen airline tickets that has reaped huge profits for racketeers on the East and West Coasts (of the U.S.). The airlines say they have lost millions of dollars to well-organised groups that steal blank tickets from travel agencies and airline offices and then sell them to bargain-hunting travellers, often at less than half the regular fare. “The word has gone out that an airline ticket is a very negotiable item,” Mr. Oscar B. Parker, director of security for Eastern Airlines, said in an interview. “People know that when you are trying to board 200 people in half an hour, you don’t always check the tickets as much as you should.” Last year, slightly more than 28,000 blank tickets were stolen in the United States alone. The authorities believe that many were discarded by criminal intent only on a travel agency’s cash. But they know that thousands of others were used for travel throughout the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stolen-airline-tickets-in-us/article34095985.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||New DFI must curb reliance on foreign funds, says K.V. Kamath||Making a case for an upgrade in India’s sovereign rating, former New Development Bank president K.V. Kamath on Wednesday said the new development finance institution (DFI) cleared by the Union Cabinet must be careful about preventing ‘excessive reliance’ on foreign funds. “With all the efforts that the government is making, I would think that the sovereign rating itself would need to move up. I don’t think that they can hold India’s rating where it is; wherever you look at, this rating is misplaced by at least a notch, if not more,” Mr. Kamath said. The Economic Survey 2020-21 had also argued India’s sovereign ratings did not reflect its fundamentals. “Never in the history of sovereign credit ratings has the fifth-largest economy in the world been rated at the lowest rung of the investment-grade (BBB-/Baa3),” it had noted, adding that it also damages foreign portfolio investment flows. Speaking at a programme titled ‘Shaping Development Finance Institutions: New Opportunities and Policy Options’ hosted by the India International Centre and RIS, Mr. Kamath said the new DFI should be able to borrow from abroad at sovereign rates but called for careful consideration before foreign capital was pursued. “The institution will have to carefully assess if you are going to use external borrowing for rupee needs, what the total cost is and if it’s still attractive to a borrower.” He stressed even global development banks’ soft loans were ‘not really soft’ and ‘excessive reliance on international funds’ would not be prudent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-dfi-must-curb-reliance-on-foreign-funds-says-kv-kamath/article34095953.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Automakers risk fines if they don’t flag defects||Automakers may face fines of up to Rs. 1 crore from April 1 for defects in vehicles they fail to voluntarily flag. As per the mandatory recall norms notified by the Centre, a recall of more than six lakh two-wheelers, one lakh-plus four-wheelers and more than three lakh three-wheelers and quadricycles would attract a penalty of up to Rs. 1 crore. For recalling up to 6,000 two-wheelers, a manufacturer would have to pay up to Rs. 10 lakh. The move signals a shift from the prevailing voluntary vehicle-recall regime. Recall trigger The government has set the percentage of complaints for different vehicle categories, which would trigger a recall, in the Central Motor Vehicles (Fifth Amendment) Rules, 2021. For two-wheelers, with annual sales of up to 3,000 units, the government would order mandatory recall if 20% of vehicle owners report an identical problem. For those with up to 6,000 units in yearly sales, there would be a recall if the complaints equal 11% to 30% of total sales. The threshold for passenger buses and trucks is 3% of annual sales. The policy requires auto firms to recall vehicles up to seven years from the date of manufacture, said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati. This would benefit consumers as it exceeds the warranty period offered for vehicle parts in situations where there is no voluntary recall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/automakers-risk-fines-if-they-dont-flag-defects/article34095949.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||NPAs likely to rise in first half of 2021: FICCI-IBA||Asset quality of banks, which saw some improvement in the second half of 2020, is likely to worsen during the first six months of 2021, a survey showed. The findings are part of the 12th round of bankers’ survey carried out by FICCI-IBA between July and December 2020. The survey was conducted on 20 banks, including public sector, private sector and foreign banks. In the current round of the survey, half of the respondent banks reported a decline in NPAs during the second half of 2020. About 78% of participating state-run banks cited a reduction in NPA levels. “However, in terms of outlook, nearly 68% of respondent bankers expect the NPA levels to be above 10% in the first half of 2021,” the survey showed. Close to 37% of respondents expect NPA levels to be upwards of 12%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/npas-likely-to-rise-in-first-half-of-2021-ficci-iba/article34095956.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Blue Star targets 15% market share by 2024||Leading air conditioning brand Blue Star has embarked on an aggressive market expansion strategy to acquire 15% market share in India by 2024 from about 13% currently. The company targets to grow 25% in FY22, ahead of the industry growth, a top executive said. “We started this year with 12.75% market share and are now close to 13%. We are are optimistic about the future and we are outperforming the industry growth,” said B. Thiagarajan, MD. He said the foray into mass premium segment would help the company to achieve its target. “We have strategically repositioned ourselves as a ‘Masstige’ brand with the introduction of our new range of split ACs to cater to the mass market and expand our market reach,” he said. On Wednesday, the company unveiled its new range of ‘Mass Premium’ split air conditioners which are 10% cheaper than the earlier models. The new range is available at prices starting from Rs. 25,990 for a 0.80 TR 3-star inverter split AC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/blue-star-targets-15-market-share-by-2024/article34095959.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Franklin Templeton’s 6 shut plans get Rs. 15,272 cr.||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has said its six shut schemes have received Rs. 15,272 crore from maturities, coupons and pre-paments since closing down in April 2020. The fund house had shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23 last year, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Total AUM The schemes together had an estimated Rs. 25,000 crore as assets under management (AUM). “The six schemes have received total cash flows of Rs. 15,272 crore till March 15, 2021, from maturities, coupons and prepayments since winding up,” the fund house said in a statement. Over the latest fortnight ended March 15 this year, these schemes received Rs. 224 crore. It further said net asset value (NAVs) of all the six schemes were higher as of March 15 this year, vis-a-vis their respective NAVs on April 23, 2020, the date on which the winding-up decision was taken. Franklin Templeton MF said the court-appointed liquidator, SBI Funds Management, is in the process of preparing to liquidate the schemes and distribute proceeds to unit holders at the earliest opportunity.   Net asset value of all the 6 schemes were higher as of March 15 this year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/franklin-templetons-6-shut-plans-get-rs-15272-cr/article34095970.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Despite pandemic, India saw $10-bn VC deals in ’20||India witnessed continued inflow of venture capital (VC) money, with deal value reaching $10 billion in 2020, $1 billion less than in 2019, Bain & Company’s India Venture Capital Report 2021 said. Despite the pandemic, India maintained its position among the top five start-up ecosystems globally, with 7,000 new start-ups founded in 2020 and the emergence of 12 new unicorns to take the country’s unicorn tribe to 37. The top three sectors — consumer tech, SaaS, and fintech accounted — for nearly 75% of all VC investments by value, with consumer tech attracting the maximum funding, the report said. “2020 was truly extraordinary as we saw COVID-19 have a significant impact on our economy and healthcare systems, while also accelerating digital adoption across sectors,” said Arpan Sheth, partner at Bain & Company and one of the authors of the report. The deal volume grew by 7%, with approximately 810 VC deals against 755 seen in 2019, the year which attracted VC investments of $11 billion. In terms of key sectors, consumer tech, SaaS, and fintech continued to lead the way, accounting for 75% of VC investments in 2020, and 14 of 22 deals which were more than $100 million in size. While consumer tech investments grew by 25% over 2019, there was a significant surge in the usage of edtech platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/despite-pandemic-india-saw-10-bn-vc-deals-in-20/article34095943.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slumps 1.1% ahead of U.S. Fed meet||Indian equity markets slumped by more than 1% following nervousness ahead of the U.S. Fed policy meeting on Thursday. An accommodative policy could stabilise global markets, analysts said, adding that the rise in COVID-19 cases fuelled selling pressure. Extending losses to the fourth session in a row, the S&P BSE Sensex fell 1.12% or 562 points to 49,801.62 on broad-based selling. PSU and banking stocks were most impacted. The NSE Nifty 50 too dipped 1.27% to 14,721.30. “The corrective phase continues for our markets and post some consolidation, the broader markets too were seen under pressure ahead of the U.S. Fed Policy. The last-hour correction in the banking index resulted in further pressure; and lack of buying interest is now... resulting in a price-wise correction as well,” Ruchit Jain, senior analyst, Technical and Derivatives, Angel Broking, said. Ajit Mishra, VP, Research, Religare Broking, said, “Markets would first react to the Fed meet outcome in early trade on Thursday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slumps-11-ahead-of-us-fed-meet/article34095946.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Feb. saw 78.27 lakh domestic trips: DGCA||February saw the gap in domestic air traffic from pre-COVID-19 levels narrow to -36.7% with a total of 78.27 lakh trips registered, according to DGCA’s monthly report. This is the narrowest gap among post-COVID-19 domestic traffic levels so far in the financial year. In September, air traffic numbers contracted 65.82%. In December, during the peak travel season, domestic traffic had shrunk 43.72%. All airlines, barring AirAsia India, were able to sell more than 70% of their seats — a key operational parameter. SpiceJet saw a passenger load factor (PLF) of 78.9%. Air India was a surprise second at 78.3% of seats sold and GoAir was third with 76.5% PLF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/feb-saw-7827-lakh-domestic-trips-dgca/article34095947.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Jeep India prices Wrangler at Rs. 53.90 lakh||Jeep India has announced it will introduce the locally assembled Jeep Wrangler starting Rs. 53.90 lakh (ex-showroom). The company would shortly retail the vehicle across India. The Jeep Wrangler is being introduced in two variants — Unlimited and Rubicon — powered by a Bharat Stage VI compliant 2.0-litre, IN-Line 4-cylinder, turbo petrol power train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jeep-india-prices-wrangler-at-rs-5390-lakh/article34095945.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Subscribers under NPS, APY grow 22%||Subscribers under NPS and APY pension schemes grew by almost 22% to 4.2 crore at February-end, government data showed.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/subscribers-under-nps-apy-grow-22/article34095954.ece
18 March 2021||Budapest,||Ruthless City swats Gladbach||The quarterfinals have proved to be the ceiling for Manchester City in the Champions League under Pep Guardiola. The team is back there again, for a fourth straight season, after sweeping aside Borussia Monchengladbach in the last 16. The ruthless nature of City’s 4-0 aggregate win over Gladbach, sealed by another 2-0 victory over the German team in the second leg on Tuesday, smacked of a side in control of its destiny.  “Since the first day I arrived here, five years ago, they told me you have to win the Champions League,” Guardiola said. “So it’s always on our shoulders.” This looks to be City’s best chance of becoming European champion for the first time, though. Thanks to a blistering 12th-minute strike in off the crossbar by Kevin De Bruyne and Ilkay Gundogan’s goal six minutes later after a flowing team move, City racked up a 24th win in its last 25 games in all competitions and a seventh straight clean sheet in the Champions League. City was joined in the last eight on Tuesday by Real Madrid, which beat Atalanta 3-1 to complete a 4-1 win on aggregate. Benzema strikes Real Madrid took advantage of Atalanta’s costly goalkeeping change to make it back to the Champions League quarterfinals after two consecutive eliminations in the last 16. Karim Benzema led the way after a first-half blunder by Atalanta goalkeeper Marco Sportiello, who was among the changes made by coach Gian Piero Gasperini from the 1-0 first-leg loss in Italy. Captain Sergio Ramos and Marco Asensio sealed Madrid’s victory by scoring a goal each in the second half. Atalanta’s goal came from a free kick converted by Luis Muriel late in the game. It was the 70th Champions League goal for Benzema, making him only the fifth player to reach the mark in the competition after Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi, Robert Lewandowski and Raul Gonzalez. Only Ronaldo, Messi and Lewandowski reached the milestone quicker than the French striker’s 126 matches.  The results:   Manchester City 2 (De Bruyne 12, Gundogan 18) bt Borussia M’Gladbach 0. City wins 4-0 on aggregate.   Real Madrid 3 (Benzema 34, Ramos 60-pen, Asensio 85) bt Atalanta 1 (Muriel 83). Real wins 4-1 on aggregate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-swats-gladbach/article34096127.ece
18 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||India seeks quick solutions in its bid to keep the series alive||Much was made of the importance of winning the toss and batting first in the preceding Test series, but as it turns out, the spin of the coin has played an equally vital role in the T20Is. Only this time, opting to field has been the preferred option, leading to easy victories for the chasing side in all three outings so far. Trailing 1-2 in the five-match series, India skipper Virat Kohli will hope to win the toss and bat second in the fourth T20I here on Thursday. Awkward, sticky bounce A combination of factors has contributed to this trend. On the slow Narendra Modi Stadium pitches, the early overs have offered an awkward, sticky bounce. This has forced normally attacking batsmen to bide their time in order to come to grips with the surface. In the first and third T20Is, India’s task was made that much harder by the brilliance of Jofra Archer and Mark Wood. Both England pacers have been rapid, touching the 150 kmph mark, while generating steep bounce from short of a length. They have attacked the stumps as well, evidenced by Wood cleaning up K.L. Rahul with a terrific in-dipper on Tuesday, and when Wood and Archer hit timber to send back Shikhar Dhawan and Rahul respectively in the first outing. Restricted to measly returns in the PowerPlay — 22/3 in the first T20I and 24/3 in the third — India was forced to play catch-up. England captain Eoin Morgan has preferred to chase, a sentiment echoed by teammate Jos Buttler. “In T20 cricket in general, there seems to be a trend where batting second is advantageous,” Buttler said, after his unbeaten 83 on Tuesday. Clarity of thought Buttler was likely referring to the clarity of thought when hunting a fixed target, as opposed to spending time to assess a good total when batting first. The dew factor under lights — which leads to bowlers facing difficulty in gripping the ball — also sways the argument in favour of chasing. India, meanwhile, has some selection questions to answer. Will Suryakumar Yadav — left out for the third T20I despite not getting a chance to bat on his international debut on Sunday — be given another chance to prove his worth? And what of Rahul, who has scored only one run in the series so far. If Rahul is dropped, Ishan Kishan could move up from one-drop to opener — a spot where he tasted great success in the second T20I.  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Yuzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Rahul Tewatia, Rahul Chahar, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini, and Shardul Thakur.   England: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley, and Mark Wood.   Match starts at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-seeks-quick-solutions-in-its-bid-to-keep-the-series-alive/article34096075.ece
18 March 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Sai Pragnay and Akash come up with big centuries||R. Dayanand XI’s M. Sai Pragnay Reddy (150, 93b, 11x4, 12x6) and Akash Bhandari of SBI (170, 148b, 21x4, 7x6) shone in the A1-Division (three-day) league championship here.  The scores: A1-Div. (three-day): Group-A: R. Dayanand XI 311 in 65.3 overs & 241/6 decl. in 35 overs (M. Sai Pragnay Reddy 150, M.A. Shanmukha 40, Shaunak Kulkarni 3/48) bt Deccan Chronicle 220 in 38.2 overs (Pawan Reddy 69, Shaunak Kulkarni 31 n.o., E. Sanketh 3/67, Eshwar 4/8) & 212 in 34 overs (A. Varun Goud 47, Samuel 39, M.A. Shanmukha 3/6, S.S. Shubham 3/33).   BDL 142 in 30.1 overs (K. Hima Teja 40, B. Tejodhar 31 n.o., Ahmed Quadri 6/48, Akash Bhandari 3/36) vs SBI 334/4 in 56 overs (Danny Derek Prince 30, Akash Bhandari 170, B. Sumanth 36, T. Suman 56, Durgesh 3/87).   Group-C: Sri Chakra 280 in 84.3 overs & 3/0 in 2 overs vs Khalsa 318 in 80.4 overs (Karan Kannan 84, Sarthak Bharadwaj 81, K. Aryan Krishna 59, Rohan 3/23).   A2-Div. (two-day): Vijay Hanuman 214 in 82.5 overs bt Deccan Wanderers 211 in 80.1 overs (Kanthi Kiran 60, Krupa Ratnam 37 n.o., C. Durga Prasad 4/50); New Blues 313 in 62.1 overs bt Kosaraju 208 in 54 overs (A. Vikra Vardhan 62, Anirudh Kapil Goud 37, Mayank Gauti 77 n.o., Nadeem 7/72).   Pasha Beedies 323 in 85.2 overs bt Galaxy 225 in 47.3 overs (Amit Kulkarni 63, Darsh Mohal Lal 35, Ram Keshwar 33, B. Ankith 30, Faiz Ahmed 5/62).   Hyd. Wanderers 234 in 84.1 overs lost to Postal 235/5 in 38.5 overs (Md. Shakeer Ahmed 82, S. Nishant Yadav 82, N. Jyothi Sai Krishna 39, Gazi Abbas 3/61); Classic 209 in 69.1 overs lost to Medak Dist. 211/6 in 41.4 overs (Sandeep Raj 88 n.o., P. Rahul Naik 50, M. Siddu Naik 5/64).   Sri Shyam 282 in 58.5 overs bt Telangana 278 in 47.5 overs (A. Bharath 132, Sai Kiran 7/66).   Brothers XI 355/8 in 90 overs bt Aggarwal Sr. 190 in 44.5 overs (Chandrakanth 42, Ananthnag 3/35, Avinash 3/29).   Hyd. Titans 238 in 77.1 overs bt Future Stars 174 in 68.5 overs (Bardosh Khan 42, Salman Bawazir 54, P. Ruthish 3/44, Rishab Bimal Payyan 5/44).   Nizam College 189 in 56.1 overs bt Oxford Blues 163 in 52.4 overs (D. Yashwanth 3/59, K. Anirudh 3/40); Khammam Dist. 252 in 78.1 overs bt Yadav Dairy 130 in 51.1 overs (G. Vardhan 3/26, Sk. Azhar 3/28).   Azad 356 in 84.3 overs bt Lords 118 in 48 overs (Keshav 34, Ganesh Kumar 4/20).   Tirumala 376/7 in 89 overs bt SN Group 141 in 35.4 overs (Avinash Goud 41, Krishang Rao 4/40, Jayant Reddy 3/38).   Victoria 157/9 in 38.3 overs (J. Bunny 113, M. Teja 4/27) lost to Eklavya 158/3 in 32.3 overs (Sathvik Peddi 52, Kush Agarwal 32, K. Vinmukh Raj 54 n.o.).   A3-Div. (one-day): Reliance 127 in 25 overs (Shravan 30, Harsh Mittal 40, C.H. Srinivas 5/18, P.V. Pavan Sai 3/22) lost to Golconda 128/1 in 16.2 overs (B. Pavan Kumar 55 n.o., A. Shiva 52 n.o.).   CK Blues 200 in 41.5 overs (Vighnesh 68, Sunny 4/24) bt Natraj 123 in 28.5 overs.   Satya 225 in 49.1 overs (Nanda Kishore 72, Pavan 34, Umang Jain 3/35, Madhusudhan 3/32) bt Hyderabad Dist. 151 in 29.1 overs (Madhusudhan 70, Jagdish 4/21).   PPM 86 in 26.2 overs (John 3/28, Ritvik 3/13) lost to Navajeevan Friends 87/8 in 25.1 overs (Somsubhra 4/18).   St. Andrew’s 238/8 in 50 overs (Aditya 59, Jathin 53, Shourya 52) lost to Royal 239/6 in 48.3 overs (Gopal 60 n.o., Kiran 71, Hussain 3/33).   Mahaveer 314 in 42.4 overs (Asadullah 120, Prem Sunder 59, Rajeev Sarma 49) bt M.L. Jaisimha 217/8 in 45 overs (Gopi Krishna 70, Gnana Prakash 57); Chums 133 in 34.2 overs (Rehan 65) lost to Navajeevan Friends 136/3 in 29 overs (Pragnyakar 39 n.o.); Picket 296/6 in 50 overs (Vaibhav 34, Srikanth 151 n.o., Hitesh 3/49) bt Reliance 118 in 30 overs (Bavjith 4/24, Aamer 5/23).  Hyderabad posts win Hyderabad scored a five-wicket win over Chhattisgarh in the BCCI senior women’s one-day cricket championship’s Elite Group A match at Surat on Wednesday. Batting first, Chattisgarh was bowled out for 133 with Yashasri (three for 28) and V. Mahesh Kavya (four for 25) being the main wicket-takers. In reply, Hyderabad romped home in the 44th over thanks to useful contributions from D. Ramya (30) and Anuradha Nayak (35).  The scores: Chhattisgarh 133 in 49.3 overs (Shivi Pandey 38, Yashasri 3/28, V. Mahesh Kavya 4/25) lost to Hyderabad 134/5 in 43.1 overs (D. Ramya 30, Anuradha Nayak 35) .  Atharva and Shrishti win Atharva Sriramoju and A. Shrishti won the under-12 boys and girls’ titles in the TSTA State-ranking tournament at the Emanuel Tennis Academy (Bowenpally).  The results: Boys, u-10 (final): D. Tanav bt M. Nirvaan Sai 8-4. Semifinals: Tanav bt C. Sathya Parthiv 8-4; Nirvaan bt A. Lemuel Sanheeth 8-3. U-12, final: Atharva Sriramoju bt Laksh Thapliyal 8-6. Semifinals: Atharva bt Chetan Siva Kumar 8-6; Laksh bt P. Nihilesh 8-3. Girls, u-10, final: O. Harsha Karthika bt Rajanya Sengupta 8-0. Semifinals: Rajanya bt M. Neha 8-7(4); Harsha bt Zoha Qureshi 8-6. U-12, final: A. Shrishti bt E. Yashitha 8-3. Semifinals: Shrishti bt E. Nethrika Reddy 8-4; Yashitha bt K. Sandhya 8-3 .  Jr. Natl. kabaddi Telangana Kabaddi Association will organise the 47th junior Nationals for boys and girls at Suryapet from March 22 to 25. Telangana State Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy will inaugurate. Hockey selections Hockey Hyderabad will organise trials for women at Mudfort ground from 6 a.m. on March 19. Call Alphonze Lazarus on 98498 87595.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-pragnay-and-akash-come-up-with-big-centuries/article34096387.ece
18 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||South Africa finishes in style with a five-wkt. win||South Africa revealed the depth of its resources as it beat India by five wickets in the fifth one-dayer, to wrap up the series 4-1, at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium on Wednesday. Assistance for spinners On a pitch, different from the ones used in the previous matches, there was some support for the Indian spinners in the second innings after the host had lost its fourth toss. Left-arm spinner Rajeshwari Gayakwad troubled the Proteas with three for 13 from 10 overs, but the visitors recovered from being down 27 for three to script a memorable victory. With the high-scoring Lizelle Lee, the ‘Player of the Series’, not playing and South Africa struggling after losing early wickets, there was scope for an intense fight. However, it was not to be. Mignon du Preez and ‘Player of the Match’ Anneke Bosch turned the tide in South Africa’s favour with half centuries and a 96-run partnership, before two smart catches by skipper Mithali Raj revived the hopes in the Indian camp. Taking the team home The aspirations of the home team were dashed as Marizanne Kapp and Nadine de Klerk saw South Africa through with an unbroken 58-run alliance.  Earlier, India was in deep trouble at 53 for three, before Mithali came up with another rescue act, remaining unbeaten on 79 off 104 balls with eight fours and a straight-driven six.  The Indian team suffered both in batting and bowling as Harmanpreet Kaur retired after an uncharacteristically slow knock of 30 off 55 balls. Harmanpreet’s absence was acutely felt as India did not have a capable fifth bowler to capitalise on the favourable situation, while defending a modest total of 188. Quite remarkably, South Africa was able to find the players to bolster the team at every turn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-signs-off-with-facile-win-in-fifth-odi/article34096073.ece
18 March 2021||PATIALA,||Sable betters his own National steeplechase record||Avinash Sable has made a habit of breaking his own records and setting new benchmarks. In the Federation Cup on Wednesday, the steeplechaser set yet another National record, his fifth in three years, while also breaching the Olympic qualification mark, also for the second time. Sable clocked 8:20.20, more than a second off his 2019 National mark. It started with breaking Gopal Saini’s long-standing mark in 2018 and since then, Sable has only gotten better. “I know I have to compete against myself and it is difficult but not impossible. “I set a target before every event and train accordingly, depending on my fitness. “Competing internationally helps because you get pushed to do better,” Sable admitted. Neeraj Chopra, meanwhile bettered his own meet record by almost two metres with a best throw of 87.80m but fell short of a new National mark. With nothing at stake here, however, Chopra could afford to use the event as more of a tune-up. It was still better than the Tokyo entry standard. The other big hope for Olympics, shot-putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor, could only manage a best throw of 20.58m, good enough to winbut way off the qualifying mark of 21.10m.  The results: Men: 110m hurdles: 1. P. Veeramani (TN, 14.57s), 2. Srikanth Madhya CP (Kar, 14.85), 3. Yashwant Kumar (AP, 15.01); 10000m: 1. Abhishek Pal (UP, 29:47.49), 2. Kartik Kumar (UP, 29:48.21), 3. Arjun Kumar (UP, 29:49.46); 3000m steeplechase: 1. Avinash Sable (Mah, 8:20.20), 2. Shankar Lal Swami (Har, 8:34.33), 3. Rajkumar (Har, 8:49.96); High jump: 1. Sarvesh Kushare (Mah, 2.15m), 2. Aadarsh Ram (TN, 2.10m), 3. Geo Jos (Ker, 2.10m);   Shot put: 1. Tajinderpal Singh Toor (Pun, 20.58m), 2. Karanveer Singh (Pun, 18.98m), 3. Devinder Singh (Pun, 18.04m); Javelin throw: 1. Neeraj Chopra (Har, 87.80m), 2. Yashvir Singh (Har, 79.31m), 3. Rohit Yadav (UP, 78.88m).   Women: 100m hurdles: 1. C. Kanimozhi (TN, 13.63s), 2. Agasara Nandini (Tel, 13.88), 3. Nithya Ramraj (TN, 14.08); 3000m steeplechase: 1. Parul Chaudhary (UP, 10:01.06), 2. Komal Jagdale (10:05.43), 3. Chinta Yadav (UP, 10:36.45); Long jump: 1. Priyanka Kerketta (Jha, 6.10m), 2. Rintu Mathew (Ker, 6.07m), 3. Sherin A (TN, 6.07m) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sable-betters-his-own-national-steeplechase-record/article34095965.ece
18 March 2021||DUBAI,||Kohli returns to the top-5||India skipper Virat Kohli, following his stellar performance in the ongoing series against England, broke back into the top five of the ICC T20 batsmen rankings on Wednesday. Kohli, formerly a top-ranked batsman in the format and currently No. 1 in ODIs, gained one slot and a massive 47 rating points after unbeaten knocks of 73 and 77 in the second and third matches against England. He is now fifth. K.L. Rahul remains the top-ranked Indian batsman — he is fourth — despite three failures in the series so far. Shreyas Iyer moved up 32 places to the 31st spot while Rishabh Pant gained 30 spots to be ranked 80th. Among the bowlers, all-rounder Washington Sundar is up two places to 11th while seamers Shardul Thakur (up 14 places to 27th) and Bhuvneshwar Kumar (up seven places to 45th) also gained. Buttler back in top-20 Jos Buttler re-entered the top-20 after his match-winning 83 not out in the third T20I. The knock helped him climb five places to 19th, just two shy of his career-best 17th in October 2018. Jonny Bairstow, who chipped in with 40 and was associated in an unbroken 77-run stand with Buttler in the eight-wicket win on Tuesday, has moved up two slots to 14th in the list led by compatriot Dawid Malan. Opener Jason Roy, with scores of 49 and 46 in the first two matches, advanced four slots to 24th. Fast bowlers Jofra Archer (up 43 places to 34th) and Mark Wood (up 59 spots to 39th), as well as left-arm seamer Sam Curran (up 41 places to 74th) have gained in the weekly update.  K.L. Rahul remains the top-ranked Indian batsman at fourth Shreyas Iyer moved up 32 places to the 31st spot while Rishabh Pant gained 30 spots to be ranked 80th||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-returns-to-the-top-5/article34096244.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||All systems go for World Cup||The National Rifle Association of India president, Raninder Singh, has assured that all the COVID protocols and safety measures are in place for the World Cup in rifle, pistol and shotgun to be staged at the Dr. Karni Singh Range here from Friday. Addressing the media along with the Olympic quota winners on Wednesday, Raninder said that Indian shooters had done exceptionally well to prepare their best for the global competition, despite lack of adequate international exposure for about 15 months. Men’s skeet shooters Mairaj Ahmad Khan and Angad Vir Singh Bajwa did compete in the shotgun World Cup in Egypt recently, and will be keen to step it up and tune themselves for the Tokyo Games. India will have an overwhelming presence with 57 of the total 294 shooters in competition. As many as 53 countries are in the fray even though many leading shooting nations are missing out owing to COVID related travel constraints. The NRAI president thanked the Union government, the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, apart from the Sports Authority of India (SAI) for their support to conduct the competition. Raninder conceded that there was a lot of responsibility in hosting an event of such magnitude and that his team was ready for the challenge. He also hoped that India would add another Olympic quota, the 16th, in men’s rapid fire pistol, through the world ranking system. Fourteen of India’s 15 Olympic quota winners were present at the media conference and expressed their confidence doing well. They were unanimous in suggesting that they had utilised the available time judiciously to hone their skills, which would not have been possible in the normal course owing to a regular string of competitions. After the pre-event training on Thursday, the World Cup will have its first set of events on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-systems-go-for-world-cup/article34096120.ece
18 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Special 100 for ‘pioneer’ Morgan||From making his international debut for Ireland in 2006 to earning his 100th T20I cap for England, it has been an incredible journey for Eoin Morgan. In the third T20I here on Tuesday, Morgan became the first England men’s player and fourth in history — after Shoaib Malik, Rohit Sharma and Ross Taylor — to play in 100 T20Is. Morgan has donned the role of captain in 57 outings, and under his leadership, England has reached the top of the ICC world team rankings. And of course, Morgan was central to England’s most famous limited-overs triumph — at the 2019 ICC 50-over World Cup. With the bat, the Dublin-born southpaw can pull off the unorthodox reverse-sweeps and classic drives with equal ease. The 34-year-old is the crown jewel in England’s white-ball set-up. Emotions ran high before play began on Tuesday, when teammate Jos Buttler spoke a few words and presented a special cap to his captain. “The words that he (Buttler) said did warm my heart. It meant a huge amount to me,” Morgan told the host broadcaster. Buttler was effusive in his praise for Morgan, describing him as a ‘pioneer’. “Morgan has been a pioneer for England’s white-ball cricket. He has always been ahead of the curve, alongside Kevin Pietersen. They were two guys I always looked to in white-balls teams who could do it a bit differently, take the game forward and be ahead of the curve. Selfless “As a leader, Morgan has taken English white-ball cricket to a place it has never been before. We all enjoy playing for him, in the environment he has created. He’s a selfless guy, but I reminded him that today really was about him and it’s no mean feat to get 100 caps,” Buttler said in a media interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/special-100-for-pioneer-morgan/article34096081.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Goutham (110) stars in Galaxy’s thrilling win||B. Goutham’s 110 was the highlight of Galaxy SC’s exciting one-run win over Youngsters CC in a IV-D match of the TNCA league recently.  The scores:   III-A: Egmore RC 253/2 in 50 overs (F. Edwin Richard 73, N. Nirajan 69, R. Rajiv 51 n.o., K. Ashwin 51 n.o.) bt Sir Theagaraya 128/8 in 50 overs (S. Sanjay Shrinivas 54, B. Arvind 3/25).   Southern Railway 196/9 in 50 overs (S. Selva 80, R. Adhitya Rishi 37, P. Dhanasekhar 30) lost to Jupiter SC 198/8 in 47.4 overs (S. Vasanth Saravanan 68, S.V. Muruganantham 56 n.o., M. Sabari Prabhu 4/49).   IV-D: Galaxy SC 236 in 48.3 overs (B. Goutham 110, L. Ashok Kumar 32, A.S. Rangarajan 4/72, Prakalathan Subramanaian 3/65) bt Youngsters CC 235/9 in 50 overs (A. Madhavan 54, U. Udesh Milan 51, B. Ban Singh 31, R. Ram Thilak 3/74).   V-B: Eagle CC 231 in 49.2 overs (M. Vignesh 63, R. Gowthaman 45, M. Iyyappan 34, Dinesh Raj Shanmugam 4/63, A. Sharadh Kishan 3/36) bt HSBC 116 in 31.3 overs (R.G. Sudharsanan 39, S. Haridev 3/25, M. Naveen 3/18).   Young Men’s CC 205 in 49.3 overs (M.S. Sriramnath Kumar 50, A. Arjun 31, K. Sudhakar 4/53, A.S. Arjun Prakash 3/51) lost to Sir Ashley Biggs Institute 209/5 in 47.5 overs (K. Sudhakar 90, V. Aiyappan 52, S. Selvakumar 3/63).   Dorairaj Memorial CC 165 in 48.3 overs (M.N. Abdul Latheef Irfan 50, S. Ricky Praveen 31, A. Ashwin Kumar 4/43) lost to Prasad CC 167/7 in 28.5 overs (M. Sujendran 89, G. Raja Gopal 33, S.M. Beaulet Julin 3/57, V. Sathyanarayanan 3/15).   V-E: Vijay’s RC 271 in 49.4 overs (M. Suriyah 73, M. Rakesh 62, M. Rajasekaran 3/43, Harsha Raj Kumar 3/66) bt Triplicane Friends United CC 256 in 48.3 overs (T.D. Mithilesh 66, A. Chavinth Nadeish 44, M. Dineshkumar 4/51).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goutham-110-stars-in-galaxys-thrilling-win/article34096162.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Five-wkt. hauls by Prashid and Adithya||Medium-pacer H. Prashid Akash (five for 28) bowled Team V to a 164-run win over Team III in the TNCA under-19 round-robin tournament on Wednesday. S. Adithya Geethan’s five for 45 went in vain for Team III.  The scores:   Team V 241 in 49.4 overs (A. Badrinath 86, Sathvik Athmaraman 76, S. Adithya Geethan 5/45) bt Team III 77 in 25 overs (H. Prashid Akash 5/28).   Team VI 285/8 in 50 overs (K. Wafar 62, M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 46, K. Vijay Priyadarsan 44, M. Anish Upadhayaya 39, B. Aaditya 3/43) bt Team II 199 in 46.3 overs (S. Rithik Easwaran 57, R. Vimal Khumar 54, P. Bharathwaj 4/38, M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 4/49).   Team IV 209/5 in 39 overs (P. Nirmal Kumar 54 n.o., S. Arun 53, S. Jayanth 37, L. Ramnath 37) bt Team I 188 in 38 overs (P.L. Harshavardhan Sai 51, V.S. Karthick Manikandan 38, P. Nirmal Kumar 3/38). Match reduced to 39 overs due to delayed start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-wkt-hauls-by-prashid-and-adithya/article34096168.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rushil stuns Arunava; Cauhape shocks Denim||Qualifier Rushil Khosla beat eighth seed Arunava Majumder 6-3, 6-1 in the boys’ pre-quarterfinals of the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament at the SAI Tennis Complex in Bhilai on Wednesday. In another match, Sebastien Cauhape of Belgium defeated the second seed Denim Yadav for the loss of just three games.  In the girls’ section, Amina Salibayeva of the US beat fourth seed Riya Uboveja 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 in the pre-quarterfinals.  Pre-quarterfinal results:   Boys: Nikhil Niranjan (US) bt Nithlan Eric 7-5, 6-1; Ronin Lotlikar bt Torus Rawat 6-4, 6-4; Yuvan Nandal bt Nyo Van Dyck (Bel) 6-1, 6-3.   Daksh Prasad bt Dhanush Patel 6-3, 6-1; Dhruv Hirpara bt Cahir Warik 6-3, 6-2; Daksh Agarwal bt Devaharshith Neelam (US) 6-1, 6-0.   Rushil Khosla bt Arunava Majumder 6-3, 6-1; Sebastian Cauhape (Bel) bt Denim Yadav 6-1, 6-2.   Girls: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Naisha Srivastav 6-3, 6-0; Aarni Reddy Yellu bt Diva Bhtia 6-0, 7-6(7); Rutuja Chaphalkar (US) bt Meher Mishra 6-2, 6-0.   Kristi Boro bt Gargi Pawar 7-6(4), 7-5; Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Saniya Masand 6-1, 6-0; Amina Salibayeva (US) bt Riya Uboveja 4-6, 7-5, 6-3.   Flo Helsen (Bel) bt Sonal Patil 3-6, 6-4, 6-2; Shruti Ahlawat bt Riyah Dugar 6-2, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rushil-stuns-arunava-cauhape-shocks-denim/article34096266.ece
18 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Digvijay stuns Abhinav||Qualifier Digvijay Pratap Singh knocked out fifth seed Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 in the men’s first round of the National hard- court tennis championship on Wednesday. Qualifier Fardeen Qamar fought his way past Bharath Kumaran 6-3, 0-6, 7-5 and will challenge defending champion and second seed Niki Poonacha in the pre-quarterfinals. In the women’s section, Renne Singla cruised past Sudipta Senthil Kumar. Qualifier Smriti Bhasin beat fellow qualifier Pooja Ingale in three sets and will take on sixth seed Soha Sadiq in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results (first round): Men: Vivek Gautam bt Udit Kamboj 6-2, 6-4; Divgijay Pratap Singh bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 3-6, 6-0; Kaza Vinayak Sharma bt Alex Solanki 6-2, 6-4; Kunal Anand bt Parikshit Somani 6-1, 2-6, 6-0; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Chinmaya Dev Chauhan 6-1, 6-2; Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar bt Shashank Theertha 6-0, 6-3; Lohith Bathrinath bt Sai Karteek Reddy 7-6(6), 6-3; Fardeen Qamar bt Bharath Kumaran 6-3, 0-6, 7-5.   Women: Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Gayatri Menon 6-1, 6-2; Renne Singla bt Sudipta Senthil Kumar 6-0, 6-2; Yubarani Banerjee bt Niyati Kukreti 6-2, 7-5; Sravya Shivani bt Anaam Almas 6-2, 6-3; Sai Samhitha bt Ayushi Singh 6-1, 6-1; Prerna Bhambri bt Niditra Rajmohan 6-0, 6-1; Smriti Bhasin bt Pooja Ingale 4-6, 6-3, 6-3; Shrivalli Bhamidipaty bt Adithi Are 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/digvijay-stuns-abhinav/article34095967.ece
18 March 2021||BIRMINGHAM,||Sindhu starts well||P.V. Sindhu began her quest for a maiden All England crown with a straight-game win over Malaysia’s Soniia Cheah here on Wednesday. The World champion, seeded fifth, won 21-11, 21-17 in 39 minutes. However, K. Srikanth and P. Kashyap suffered early exits in men’s singles. Seeded eight, Srikanth lost to to the unseeded Nguyen Nhat of Ireland 11-21, 21-15 12-21 in exactly one hour, while top seed Kento Momota of Japan dispatched Kashyap 21-13, 22-20 in 42 minutes. The duo of Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy got the better of Thailand’s Benyapa Aimsaard and Nuntakarn Aimsaard 21-14, 21-12 in a women’s doubles opener. The men’s pair of Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy also progressed after getting the better of England’s Nikhar Garg and India’s Aniruddha Mayekar 21-7, 21-10 in just 19 minutes. In another match, Dhruv Kapila and M.R. Arjun went down 13-21, 12-21 to the Malaysian pair of Yew Sin Ong and Ee Yi Teo. Cleared to take part Earlier, the Indian contingent was cleared to participate after the players who had tested positive for COVID-19 returned negative in retests conducted by the governing body (BWF) on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-starts-well/article34096069.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Feel I am getting respect from all athletes: Bhavani||C.A. Bhavani Devi, who recently became the first Indian fencer to qualify for the Olympics, feels her achievement has the potential to put the country on the fencing map. During a virtual interaction with the media, Bhavani recalled how the attitude from top athletes towards her has changed over the years. “Earlier, when I travelled alone without a coach for competitions, I felt they did not have the same respect for me compared to other fencers. But now that has changed and I feel I am getting respect from all top athletes,” said Bhavani in the interaction organised by Go Sports Foundation, who have been backing her. “When it was confirmed that I had qualified, top fencers came and congratulated me, saying that I was very strong and no one could stop me. It (the recognitions) was not just for Bhavani but for the whole Indian fencing fraternity.” Financial challenges  On the financial challenges of pursuing a niche sport, the 27-year-old shared an insight into how she had to inflate her father’s annual income to even begin pursuing it seriously. “I realised why the teacher asked me about my father’s annual income because the equipment was very costly and I had to practice with bamboo sticks. “The swords had to be saved only for the competition since I couldn’t afford to break them,” said Bhavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/getting-respect-from-all-athletes/article34096164.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The jivatma’s plight||Sastras point out that the jivatma’s highest goal is salvation and show that this is possible by realising the Supremacy of Brahman and seeking refuge in Him. This is the basis of the principle of Saranagati, surrender, which is central to the Visishtadvaita philosophy. In a discourse, Dr. Sri Venkatesh drew attention to Draupadi’s plight and humiliation as symbolic of that of the jivatma caught in samsara. The sabha is samsara, the Pandavas the five senses, the Kauravas the material pleasures, and Bhishma and Drona the intellect. In this situation, when there is enslavement of the senses to the material world, the intellect stands as a mere spectator and fails in its duty to give proper guidance. Like Draupadi, the jivatma is rendered helpless when being overpowered by the senses that seek the sense objects of the world. Luckily, Draupadi realising that no one but Krishna can help, surrenders to Him. She is led out of the danger to safety. The jivatma too has to seek His feet with faith. If the senses in the jivatma are focused on the Lord and His service, there is the hope that the temptations of samsara can be overcome. The metaphor of the chariot in the Katopanishad emphasises that the jivatma’s ride in this journey of samsara is full of perils and to successfully reach the end, as wise man have done, is to cultivate a pure heart and a mind centered in concentration. The chariot is the body, the atma the rider, the intellect the driver, the mind the reins controlling the senses, the horses. Ideally, when the senses obey the mind, the mind the intellect, the intellect the ego, and the ego the Self, the ride to the goal is safe and sure. This demands a sound intellect that accurately sifts the worthwhile from the worthless, and a controlled mind that keeps the senses under check.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-jivatmas-plight/article34096065.ece
18 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Saif nets two in Customs’ big win||Mohammed Saif Khan netted two goals as Calcutta Customs beat Entally Club 6-2 in a placement round match of the Calcutta Hockey League at the Mohun Bagan ground on Wednesday.  The results: Calcutta Customs 6 (Mohammed Saif Khan 2, Mohammed Zaid Khan, Mohammed Talib Khan, Michael, Sunil Soukar) bt Entally Club 2 (Sandeeplal Prasad, Goutam Sharma).   West Bengal Police 3 (Dipendu Das 2, Pramod Singh) bt Adibasis Club 1 (Anand Champiya); Bishalakshi 1 (Milan Saha) bt Howrah Union 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saif-nets-two-in-customs-big-win/article34096585.ece
18 March 2021||PATIALA,||Two athletes injured||The men’s 3000m steeplechase event saw saw several injuries and the organisers running around to find emergency medical support. While Haryana’s Naveen Kumar Dagar slipped and fractured his tibia and fibula on the left leg, Prince Raj Mishra of Sikkim twisted and dislocated his left ankle. Both accidents happened on turns on the track. While Naveen was being attended to, and lifted into the ambulance, Prince kept writhing in pain before one of the AFI officials brought in his own vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-athletes-injured/article34095966.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||No age-group tournaments till end of May, says BCCI||The BCCI, owing to a resurgence of COVID-19 infections across the country, has suspended junior inter-state tournaments at least till the end of May. BCCI secretary Jay Shah informed the BCCI affiliates about the decision through an email on Tuesday. “While our endeavour was to get in as many matches as possible across different age groups, the prevailing circumstances have forced us to suspend all age-group tournaments,” Shah wrote in the mail, accessed by The Hindu . “I assure you that we will continue exploring a window for organising the age-group tournaments post IPL 2021,” Shah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-age-group-tournaments-till-end-of-may-says-bcci/article34096558.ece
18 March 2021||Sao Paulo,||Maracana renaming splits Brazil||Brazilians would agree that Pele is the greatest football player ever, but they are differing on renaming the historic Maracana stadium in Pele’s honour. The stadium’s name could soon change if Rio de Janeiro Governor Cláudio Castro agrees to honour the three-time World Cup winner. He has until next week to decide after being authorised by the state’s legislature to rename the Maracana as “Edson Arantes do Nascimento — Rei Pele.” The stadium is officially named “Jornalista Mario Filho” for the Brazilian sportswriter credited with the idea to build such a colossus for the 1950 World Cup. If Castro agrees with the legislature, Filho’s name will only stay on a nearby sports complex. The iconic ground was originally named “Municipal Stadium,” which stayed on the arena’s entrance from 1950 until 1966, when Filho died. Co-ordinated campaign Filho had used his newspaper Jornal dos Sports to coordinate a campaign to convince Rio’s citizens that the stadium had to be constructed nearer to the city centre instead of an original plan to build it in a neighbourhood far away. Filho’s grandson, Mario Neto, told Associated Press that he recognises the importance of Pele in Brazilian soccer culture but said the proposed change is “irrational.” “There’s no sense in removing my grandfather’s name,” Neto said on Monday. “If it weren’t for Mario Filho, there would be no Maracana, there would be a 70,000-seater in a distant region. “If it weren’t for Mario,” he continued, “Pele would not have wanted so much to play at the stadium that was once the biggest in the world. This bill skipped the line in front of a lot of important things. As if Rio had no other problems.” The Maracana was Brazil’s main stadium in two World Cups and hosted the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2016 Olympic Games. The Brazilian star scored his 1,000th goal at the Rio stadium on November 19, 1969, and played many memorable matches there. It was also at the Maracana that Pele at age 16 debuted for Brazil, on July 7, 1957. That 2-1 defeat against Argentina also featured his first of 77 goals in the yellow shirt. But most of Pele astonishing performances in Brazil were seen at Santos’ tiny Vila Belmiro, outside Sao Paulo, more than 300 miles from Rio. The state-owned Maracana can hold about 78,000 fans and is home to Rio clubs Flamengo and Fluminense. The governor’s spokeswoman, Denise Ribeiro, told The Associated Press on Tuesday that Castro isn’t ready to make a decision yet, as his priorities are in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, but that he could decide this week. Pele’s spokesman, Joe Fraga, said only that they are monitoring the stadium situation. State lawmaker André Ceciliano, of the Workers’ Party, said he proposed the bill because it is “a fair tribute to a person that is recognized globally and must receive that honour during his life. His legacy in Brazilian soccer and his relevant service for this country justify this.”  Another sponsor was 1994 World Cup winner Bebeto, who is also a Rio state lawmaker. “Pele was the best footballer ever and the Maracana is the biggest stadium in the world. Nothing can be fairer than this,” Bebeto said after the vote. Gerson, a teammate of Pele on Brazil’s 1970 World Cup-winning team, said on his YouTube channel that the possible change in the Maracana’s name is “absurd.” “Why don’t people give his name to the Santos stadium? All they need to do is to call the Vila Belmiro stadium King Pele and the problem is over,” Gerson said. Keeping mum Pele himself has not made any comments about the issue since the bill passed Rio’s state legislature. He is not expected to show up for any ceremony, in case the Maracana is indeed renamed after him, because of hip problems that have limited his mobility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maracana-renaming-splits-brazil/article34096514.ece
18 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Veda sizzles as Karnataka beats TN||Veda Krishnamurthy’s brilliant century (103, 81b, 14x4, 2x6) powered Karnataka to an 86-run win over Tamil Nadu in the BCCI women’s senior one-dayers (Elite Group E) on Wednesday. For Tamil Nadu, Arshi Choudhary (96) and M.S. Shailaja (56) shone.  The scores:   Vidarbha 165/9 in 50 overs (Bharti Fulmali 67, Sushmita Kumari 4/16) bt Himachal Pradesh 140 in 45.3 overs (Tanuja Kanwer 30, Nupur Kohale 4/19).   Points: Vidarbha 4(12),   HP 0(4).   Karnataka 294/6 in 50 overs (S. Shubha 60, Veda Krishnamurthy 103, Niki Prasad 39 n.o.) bt Tamil Nadu 208 in 48.3 overs (Arshi Choudhary 96, M.S. Shailaja 56, Niki Prasad 3/43).   Karnataka 4(12), TN 0(4).   Delhi 332/2 in 50 overs (Shweta Sehrawat 118, Vandana Chaturvedi 58, Neha Tanwar 93 n.o., Arushi Goel 46 n.o.) bt Meghalaya 47 in 31.5 overs (Lalita Sharma 3/12).   Delhi 4(4), Meghalaya 0(0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veda-sizzles-as-karnataka-beats-tn/article34096116.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bopanna & Qureshi duo crashes out||India’s Rohan Bopanna and Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi of Pakistan went down 7-6(4), 2-6, [1-10] to the second seeds Jamie Murray of Great Britain and Bruno Soares of Brazil in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the $1,204,960 ATP tennis tournament in Acapulco, Mexico. The Indo-Pakistan pair, coming together for the event after many years, shared $7,060.  Other results:   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt:   Singles (first round): Aldin Setkic (BIH) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-2, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia:   Singles (first round): Karman Kaur Thandi bt Jana Kolodynska (Blr) 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-and-qureshi-duo-crashes-out/article34096165.ece
18 March 2021||New DElhi,||Winning start from Solanki and Lather||Gaurav Solanki and Sonia Lather produced brilliant performances in the Bosphorus Boxing Tournament in Istanbul to progress to the next round. Solanki looked in control as he blanked Arapov Aidos of Kazakhstan 5-0 to enter 57kg quarterfinals. Lather also dominated her opponent, Rosario Milagros from Argentina, before completing a 5-0 win in the women’s 57kg. Naman Tanwar went down 4-1 to Turkey’s Baki Yalcin Muhammed in the men’s 91kg while P.L. Prasad lost to Kazakhstan’s Abdikadyr Damir 5-0 in men’s 52kg.  The results: Men: 52kg: Abdikadyr Damir (Kaz) bt P.L. Prasad 5-0; 57kg: Gaurav Solanki bt Arapov Aidos (Kaz) 5-0; 91kg: Baki Yalcin Muhammed (Tur) bt Naman Tanwar 4-1.   Women: 57kg: Sonia Lather bt Rosario (Arg) 5-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winning-start-from-solanki-and-lather/article34096125.ece
18 March 2021||ABU DHABI,||Gurbaz delivers for Afghanistan||Opener Rahmanullah Gurbaz smashed a half-century to help Afghanistan register a 48-run win over Zimbabwe in the first T20I on Wednesday. Gurbaz smashed seven sixes and six boundaries in his 45-ball 87 to steer Afghanistan to 198 for five in 20 overs. Rashid Khan (three for 28), Karim Janat (two for 14) and Fareed Ahmad (two for 31) then restricted Zimbabwe to 150 for seven to give Afghanistan a 1-0 lead in the three-match series.  The scores: Afghanistan 198/5 in 20 overs (Rahmanullah Gurbaz 87, Asghar Afghan 55) bt Zimbabwe 150/7 in 20 overs (T. Kamunhukamwe 44, Rashid Khan 3/28) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gurbaz-delivers-for-afghanistan/article34096071.ece
18 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Upstox joins as official partner for IPL||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has roped in Upstox, a digital brokerage firms, as an official partner for the Indian Premier League (IPL), set to begin on April 9. Upstox, with more than 28 lakh customers on its online platform, becomes the first brokerage firm to be a BCCI/ IPL partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/upstox-joins-ipl-as-an-official-partner/article34096118.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||New Hind edges John Bright in thriller||All-rounder Om Keshkamath’s solid 93 (88b, 7x4, 5x6) and Atharva Bhosale’s splendid 4/27 inspired New Hind Cricket Club to a nail-biting eight-run victory over John Bright Cricket Club in the Lord Northbrook CC organised 1st LNCC Omni Global Trophy Invitation under-19 (45 overs) cricket tournament 2021 final at the Wankhede Stadium on Wednesday.  The scores: Final: New Hind 226/9 in 45 overs (Om Keshkamath 93, Sahil Jadhav 35) bt John Bright 218 in 43.4 overs (Akshat Jain 52, Tejas Chavan 45, Jai Jain 34, Dashrath Chavan 31, Atharva Bhosale 4/27). Man-of-the-Match and Series: Om Keshkamath (New Hind).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-hind-edges-john-bright-in-thriller/article34096559.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 07:31 IST,||Sudoku — March 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-18-2021/article34096712.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The other shoe drops||On James Thomas’ vision board for his wedding in April, are the shoes he has always dreamt of wearing: a black and white pair of Jordan 11 ‘Concord’. It took some convincing, but he has coaxed his fiancée into wearing the same pair in all-white, to go with her gown. “Her only condition was that I buy them,” says James, chuckling. James is the co-founder of Bengaluru-based Sole Culture, a community of high-brand sport shoe enthusiasts or, as they call themselves, sneakerheads. At a recent meetup in Bengaluru, fellow sneakerheads gathered at Hard Rock Cafe to exchange, buy, flaunt and most of all talk about all things sneakers. The event, Sneakers Galore, hosted an auction where three pairs of shoes went under the hammer, selling for up to Rs. 20,000. “Our eyes first find the shoes, and then the faces,” jokes James. Quintessentially American, the sneakerhead subculture is finding its way to India through the same inspirations as it did in the US: basketball and hip-hop. Jordans by Nike, Yeezys by Adidas, ASICS, Balenciaga, and New Balance are finding place in Indian closets. These sell in the range of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 30,000; limited edition or custom ones can be priced higher, running up to a lakh. “I never anticipated this kind of growth in the number of Indian sneaker enthusiasts in the past couple of years,” says 40-year-old Delhiite Atul Sharma. “When I started my blog Sneaker Talk India in 2017, I knew only a handful of sneakerheads,” he says. The blog, which has now evolved into a community of 10,000 people, was Atul’s way of starting a conversation with fellow collectors, discussing the latest drops and reviewing them. Every year, Atul hosts the Kicks Exchange festival for sneakerheads to meet and trade shoes. They have so far met in Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, and Jaipur. Atul, who owns 150 pairs of shoes, buys a pair almost every month. His 10-year-old daughter already has around eight pairs herself. “I haven’t bought many for her because her feet are still growing. Once she is old enough, I will maybe stop buying for myself and start buying just for her,” he says. Every shoe has a story At Sneakers Galore, a special section was dedicated to basketball giant Kobe Bryant, who passed away last year in a helicopter crash. Sports, and basketball in particular, is a major draw for Indian sneakerheads. Bengaluru-based Nandith Jaisimha recalls the first pair of Adidas — all black sport shoes — that he got when he was 13. Soon, he went on to become a State-level basketball player. When Nandith buys sneakers, he looks for comfort and style, but most importantly, the story behind the shoe. With a collection of over 100 shoes, that is an omnibus of stories to tell. He has a custom closet built in his bedroom to put a section of his shoes up on display, which he keeps rotating and cleaning every couple of months. The ones he does not use, he passes on to kids in the neighbourhood who play basketball. It is his way of giving back. “Take for example, the day Vince Carter, a basketball player from the US who retired last year, dunked over a seven-footer French player Frederic Weis. He was wearing the same model of shoes that I wore yesterday [the Nike Shox BB4],” narrates Nandith, to explain how each of his shoes has a piece of history attached to them. Over in Hyderabad, his friend and fellow sneaker-head Jaideep Singh agrees with him. Ask his age and the 35-year-old responds, “I was born the year the original Air Jordan 1s was released.” A passion for sneakers is all you need to qualify as a sneakerhead; you need not be a collector, adds Jaideep. “Would you call a person an art aficionado only if they collected rare paintings? Sneakers are like that to us; they help us express who we are,” says the advocate. To Jaideep, his sneakers represent the glory days of the 1990s: they stand for Michael Jordan, Shaquille O’Neal, Kobe Bryant. “I am not interested in Yeezys because I didn’t grow up idolising Kanye West,” he says. Homegrown passion But to the younger lot of sneakerheads, the style inspirations come from the Indian music industry. The growth of sneaker culture here is closely related to the boom in regional rap, with rappers and musicians often flaunting customised bling. And here is where India is finding — forgive the pun — its own feet. Rapper Raftaar’s Pharrell NMD Hu have reflective text ‘Raftaar’ and ‘Kalamkaar’ lit up on each half. They were customised for him by designer Nishant Fogaat, who shuttles between New Delhi and Osaka, Japan. “Asian countries are the major exporters of fabric for shoemaking. So why don’t we have shoes specific to Indian heritage?” asks Nishant. He has experimented with adding Indian prints like paisleys, folk arts such as warli and sanjhi , as well as Japanese kimono prints, to designer shoes. Celebrities, including cricketers (Virat Kohli), actors (Harshvardhan Kapoor) and musicians (Badshah), make up a significant portion of his clients. He works in collaboration with Nike, Puma and other brands; they direct the stars, whom they have signed on, to him for custom makes. “My clients either get the final customised shoes from me, or buy their own and send them to me for additional work. Sometimes I stitch them from scratch,” says Nishant. The hypebeast culture The music industry and celebrities have been Naveen Kumar’s biggest influence; it was after all, a 50-Cent song that inducted him into the culture. At his ECR home in Chennai, the 25-year-old has a budding collection of 17 sneakers, mostly high-tops — used mainly by athletes, these extend above the ankle. “I really like GV Prakash and Arya’s collections. Arya is a hypebeast for sure. I do hope that one day I can call myself a hypebeast,” he says. Hype culture is where the affluent are dressed head to toe in designer gear — the more limited the edition, the better. It is what is driving the market today. “I remember the day I got the Nike Black Pigeon for 150 US dollars [less than Rs. 11k], I posted a picture of them on my social media. The same day, I got a call from a random 16-year-old kid in Delhi, offering me Rs. 50,000 for it,” says Jaideep, “It’s capitalism on steroids!” The child, he explains, was a reseller looking to flip and sell shoes at higher than the retail price. Resale accounts such as these have been mushrooming all across social media. Since there are not many options available to buy in India, other than stores such as VegNonVeg and Superkicks and other online platforms, many collectors get their contacts in the US and Europe to get them to India, and re-sell them. “The resale market right now is a bubble that can burst any time,” believes Nishant, “But even if it does, I hope the passion for shoes among people remains.”  “Would you call a person an art aficionado only if they collected rare paintings? Sneakers are like that to us; they help us express who we are.” Jaideep Singh, sneaker enthusiast       Bottoms up Before Nishant Fogaat started designing sneakers, he founded a business in caps made from worn out shoes. When the soles of his first pair of shoes lost all traction, he cut them open, and used the pattern to make a cap. The idea took off, and that is how he and his friends became literal sneakerheads. Restoration of old shoes is another growing market, says Nishant. “A lot of these hype-driven youngsters ask to restore worn out shoes, and then sell them for higher prices.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-other-shoe-drops/article34095932.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||When art tastes like freedom||It was the first time 44-year-old S Sathyamoorthy faced the camera. Originally from Salem, Sathya, now a resident of Chennai and an LIC agent, walked into the set of Pagaivanukku Arulvai last month and donned a prisoner’s outfit as asked by the film’s director Anis. By the time the cameras stopped rolling, Sathya was overcome with déjà vu; it was a grim throwback to the days he spent incarcerated in Puzhal Central Prison (and Vellore Central Prison before that) — he had served 16 years from 2002 following conviction on a murder charge. Sathya is just one of at least 40 former prison inmates who will receive acting credits in Anis’ upcoming film that is set in a prison. Produced by 4 Monkey Studios, Pagaivanukku Arulvai , also starring M Sasikumar, is expected to release in May 2021. “One of the guys called home from the film set to say that sir [Anis] has made us prisoners in the movie too,” quips 43-year-old R Srinivasan, a friend of Sathya’s and another former lifer. Life beyond prison It is at Anis’ office in Valasaravakkam that I meet Sathya, Srinivasan and eight others, all of whom are in their forties and have served terms between 14 to 25 years on murder charges. Anis takes the banter lightly because nobody in the group is a stranger to him; he has been associated with them since 2016 when he first visited Puzhal Central Prison to train inmates in theatre. Anis is the secretary of Prison Theatre, an agency he co-founded with Vetri Duraisamy, son of former Chennai Mayor Saidai Duraisamy, who serves as its president. The group I meet includes ‘ Sirai gaana ’ B Manikandan — known for his uncanny ability to beat a rhythm out of an empty vessel and reel out verses about life inside prison. Mani has sung a song composed by Ghibran for Pagaivanukku Arulvai . There is also 45-year-old ‘Thirukkural’ K Munusamy who has two undergraduate degrees, which he gained whilst incarcerated; Munusamy can flawlessly recite the wholeThirukkural.Among the others, one is adept at playing the keyboard, another, adholak, while a third is an “excellent poet”, exclaims Anis — clearly, all of them have an eye for art. Unearthing such talent — as a means to offer distraction or aid in rehabilitation — was the objective when Anis walked into the prison in 2016. Sponsored by the Government of Tamil Nadu, the filmmaker also had the support of former Superintendent of Prison-I, Puzhal, V Rukmani Priyadarshini. She says, “Reformation through art was the aim. We had to make people who had no emotions experience a few... like love, pity and mercy, even if it meant generating them artificially. In a drama, these convicts had an opportunity to become one with the role and feel these emotions.” Emotional is how Srinivasan, too, describes the time he spent at the workshop. “We liked the way he interacted and taught us. He even ate prison food alongside us. We had all these new emotions that we wanted to connect to, and it meant we kept looking forward to the workshop the next day,” he explains. It presents a stark situation, especially when Srinivasan follows it up with, “There have been times when many of us have woken up at night and felt like ‘offing’ ourselves. Prison life is depressing.” Tackling stigma It means a lot to inmates that someone coming from the outside treats them with dignity — a privilege not extended to them by society — and keeps a promise. Says Munusamy, “So many people come inside prison and promise jobs to us. But the words they spoke when we were locked up and how they treated us when we were out were markedly different. That is why it was a surprise that Anis sir kept his word. It was unexpected and hence so much sweeter.” After the week-long workshop, Anis organised the first drama featuring the then Puzhal inmates, titled Haasyakaarargal — an experience that Thiruvur K Damu, 45, says was unique since “we discovered there were variations to laughter”. The group has since performed in at least three different locations, including SPACES in Besant Nagar. With its screen début imminent, is the group looking to pursue opportunities in films going forward? Anis interjects: “I have told them explicitly that is not an option. The last thing I want is for one of them to run from one production office to another with their photos in hand. I want them to dedicate a small amount of time from their routine lives to art... this venture [of making them a part of his film] is also to create a discussion on giving them opportunities and to break societal stigma against former prisoners.” Munusamy concurs that the stigma is real, often in-your-face and affects other members in the family. “A relative of mine is looking for a groom for his daughter and the prospective alliance got to know that our family has someone who had been to prison for murder. That was a deal-breaker. In villages, the term kolagaara kudumbam (the murderer’s family) is common usage. It is vile but this happens,” he says. Anis adds: “I’m hopeful that the stigma will be broken.” Priorities matter Whilst this group of former lifers are examples of novel ideas like utilising theatre for rehabilitation working wonders, these initiatives are few and far between. The reason: such goodwill depend on the acceptance from serving jail authorities. Srinivasan remarks: “The prison’s atmosphere is a reflection of the jail authorities’ mindset.” Rukmani agrees. “It is true. For me, reformation was priority. As an officer, you need to work harder, sometimes over and beyond your call of duty to make changes happen because it isn’t easy to convince the Government to sign such proposals. Some officers prefer to run a strict administration and there are others who encourage prisoners to cultivate crops. So, mindset really matters.” Now the Superintendent of Vellore Central Prison, Rukmani however remarks that she is happy for her former inmates and will be watching the film featuring “my prisoners” at a theatre when it releases. The feeling is mutual. “We know Rukmani ma’am will be happy with our progress,” Sathyamoorthy says.  The words people spoke when we were locked up and how they treated us when we were out were markedly different ‘Thirukkural’ K Munusamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-art-tastes-like-freedom/article34095937.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The bros are back!||They are back! Possibly Marvel Cinematic Universe’s most-loved bromance and a duo that features in most highlight reels because of the actors’ off-screen friendship. Marvel Studios’ The Falcon and The Winter Soldier , all set to premiere on March 19, reunites superheroes Sam Wilson and Bucky Barnes. More importantly, it brings back stars Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan, who have garnered global fandom for their hilarious banter on social media and in real-life, as Marvel follows up the success of WandaVision with another hotly-anticipated series. Directed by Kari Skogland and created for television by Malcolm Spellman, the series plays out over six episodes and takes place following the events of Avengers: Endgame . Along with Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige, Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan join MetroPlus over a video call. Why is The Falcon and The Winter Soldier a story that needed to be told?  Sebastian: At the end of Avengers: Endgame , you are left with a question mark about what is next. You are also wondering how these two guys are going to handle it, and also, what does Captain America mean? So that in itself is really worth exploring. Going deeper into their story and having six hours to really flesh out who these guys are, and going into their psychology at this point felt very accurate and earned. What does Kari Skogland bring to this project?  Anthony: Kari is very good with character development and hiding exposition. When you watch her work, you are getting information from the characters but it doesn’t feel like she is spoon-feeding you. A lot of the things in the script which, for the characters, either didn’t work or weren’t put together right, she worked out those moments to make those arcs and transitions smooth. Her smarts is something that can’t be questioned. Do you think Marvel made the show in the first place because of your real-life friendship, which has a crazy fandom in itself?  Sebastian: That definitely helped for sure (smiles). That scene together in Captain America: Civil War was a real jumping-off point for us, and they have paired us together now for a couple years. Somebody out there at Marvel was smart enough to see that they could explore it further.  Black Panther , which featured a cast of Black actors, was a monumental film for Marvel. And now Anthony, you are the lead in a show like this. How does that make you feel?  Anthony: It is a very personal experience. I am very fortunate to do what I love, and I have always wanted to do this. That being said, with the idea of representation, or what it means for the Falcon going forward in the Marvel Universe… Sam Wilson is kind of the eyes and ears of the audience. You know, he is not a superhero. He is a regular guy that was asked by Captain America to come help out. Of course, there is pride and recognition that comes along with that. But you just have to take it all in stride and never lose sight of yourself, because it would be so easy to become something that I am not. The Marvel and Disney+ collaboration is off to a flying start with WandaVision . Do you guys feel a certain level of pressure to follow that up at all?  Sebastian: I don’t think so, because we are such different shows. If anything, it has been really nice to just have them kind of usher Marvel into the streaming world, if you will. It gave us a chance to sort of hone in on our series a little bit more because we got stopped during the pandemic. Are there any particular scenes that you enjoyed the most during the shooting?  Sebastian: I would say any time that we have a staring contest is always an interesting time because it is sort of about who breaks first. And that is usually me (laughs). Also, whenever I am guessing whether or not Anthony has had his lunch before the scene because that is going to affect our energy going into it. Real men eat!  Anthony: (laughs uproariously)I agree, and also have to say there are a lot of scenes and lines between just the two of us in the show. One of my favourite scenes is the one on the cargo plane that is in the trailer. I find that to be so funny. Because the Winter Soldier is trying so hard to just be my friend. And I am so over him and the idea of him! What has been your biggest takeaway from the year that was?  Anthony: Appreciation. Just slowing down, smelling the roses and really appreciating the opportunity that we have to do what we love. It is a big thing for me. It really put things in perspective for me to have it all snatched away, and now having the opportunity to go back to it. The Falcon and The Winter Soldier premieres March 19 on Disney+ Hotstar   Exploring the dynamic According to Kevin Feige, president of Marvel Studios and chief creative officer of Marvel, the series gave filmmakers a chance to dive a little deeper into two intriguing characters. “Anthony and Sebastian are spectacular actors and we felt like we hadn’t explored their stories enough as Sam Wilson and Bucky Barnes. We wanted to learn more after the interactions they had in The Winter Soldier and Civil War . It was a very fun dynamic,” he says. Like any Marvel offering, while action takes the precedence, Kevin adds that the show explores the emotional trauma these superheroes go through. “You may feel it more because we have more time with a show, but it is something we have always tried to do. Iron Man 3 was all about Tony Stark’s PTSD from Avengers , essentially. What is great about Marvel characters is their flaws: as crazy and extraordinary as the MCU can get, it is grounding in the experiences and the emotions of the character.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-bros-are-back/article34095904.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Kicking up dust||Pragabhal Das has been carrying the weight of Muddy on his shoulders for close to six years now. Sometime in 2015, Pragabhal got the germ of an idea, off-road racing, based on the conversations he had with friends who are professional racers. With no prior experience in films, Pragabhal wanted his début to be unique. He developed the script against the backdrop of mud racing, with revenge worked in the spine. “I have always been interested in all-terrain vehicles, although I have never participated in races,” says Pragabhal, over phone from Palakkad. “When I spoke to real-time racers, it triggered a spark.” The pre-production work alone took three years to complete, as it involved complex action sequences. Billed as India’s first film on off-road racing, Pragabhal says he wanted to shoot the racing portions in a realistic fashion without any compromise, which explains the longer pre-production time. He had the storyboard ready when he met the producer, who, he says, was supportive of his idea. “The location hunt alone took us a year,” he says, adding that they went into filming in 2019. They had shot 30 hours of footage employing over 14 cameras to capture the mood. Pragabhal says the post-production, too, was time-consuming, given that Muddy is a “technical film”. He worked closely with his editor San Lokesh (of Raatchasan fame) to bring the final runtime down to 130 minutes. “As it is an adventurous action film, I wanted a solid technical team. We were even careful that the sound design did not affect the background score.” Pragabhal tried pitching the script to stars, but he could not get the desired support as he was a newcomer. He went ahead with new faces and real racers. For a film that does not boast of big names, the reception for the teaser (16 million views in under a month) reaffirmed Pragabhal’s confidence in Muddy , which is gearing up for a theatrical release in May. At one point during the filming, Pragabhal thought about the universality of his subject and began to explore the option of making it into a pan-Indian film. “As it is a sports film, I wanted all audiences to watch it. Even if you don’t speak the language, you can probably enjoy the visuals,” he says. Pragabhal shot the talkie portions in Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada; Muddy is also getting a dubbed release in Hindi. Every stage of production threw up new challenges, agrees Pragabhal. The biggest lesson he learnt in his six-year journey was: “Not to look back and keep going without losing confidence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kicking-up-dust/article34095909.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a long way to Tipperary||Though it is close to afternoon when we reach Yercaud, the hill station nestled in the Shevaroy range of the Eastern Ghats around 1,500 metres above sea level, is still blanketed in late winter mist. Thanks to the lockdown, Yercaud’s winding roads and bylanes are quiet these days, though the lakeside sellers of fried chilli fritters and steamed corn are back in full force. The recent construction boom has changed Yercaud forever, with its verdant fruit orchards and coffee plantations slowly giving way to real estate projects meant for the well-heeled. Some of the heritage structures though, especially those attached to plantations, have reinvented themselves as homestays. The Tipperary Bungalow, a colonial-era house that is considered to be among the oldest buildings (approximately 120 years) in Yercaud, is one such property, perched upon a mini peak of its own. The house is part of the eponymous 70-acre working coffee farm that also cultivates jackfruit, avocado, banana, wild turmeric and pepper. On any day, visitors to the property — now functioning as a heritage bed-and-breakfast homestay — set in four acres, can expect to see local fauna like gaur and spotted deer from the veranda that opens out to views of the valley below from the master suite. Like many relics of the British Raj, Tipperary Bungalow has a storied past that lives only in oral recollections. “Though my father purchased this property in 1970, we weren’t really aware of its original British owners, the Dickens family, until quite recently,” says N Satyendran, a former engineer and commercial pilot who runs the estate today. Clan of coffee growers Whether the Dickens family of Yercaud was related to the famous Victorian author Charles Dickens (1812-1870) remains debatable in the absence of any documentary evidence, but there is little doubt that this India-based British clan did much to develop the commercial cultivation of coffee and other crops in the hill station. “My great grandfather Alfred Ernest Stark Dickens (1844-1898) came to Yercaud in 1881; he had five sons and five daughters, and most of them were in the coffee business. Five generations of our family were based in Yercaud from the 1880s until 1950s, so there were at least 15 coffee plantations, each with their houses, run by us in that period,” says Anna Dickens, over a WhatsApp phone call from London. Approaching her 80th birthday, Anna is perhaps the Tipperary Bungalow’s last link to its British owners. She visited Yercaud in 2005, and was reportedly moved to tears when she saw her birthplace (she was born here on August 7, 1941). A visit to the cemetery at the Holy Trinity Anglican Church in Yercaud shows the number of members from the Dickens family who are interred here. “My aunt Gwendoline and her husband Leslie Dickens were the last occupants of the Tipperary. They sold the property in the 1950s before leaving India,” says Anna. Original structure Considering that Yercaud got its first metalled roads only in the early 20th Century, the Tipperary and other buildings of its vintage in the hill station are obviously great examples of native engineering using rudimentary infrastructure. “We have tried to maintain the original style of the building, though quite a bit of it was in disrepair when we acquired it,” says Satyendran. “The polished red oxide floors are still the same, and the thick stone walls keep the building insulated from extreme cold and heat through the year.” Anna remembers the Tipperary as being a popular meeting spot for the local British community. “We were a very musical family; and I played the antique grand piano that is still there in the reception room when I visited in 2005, though we don’t really know how it was transported up there in those days!” laughs Anna. The Dickens had a very busy social life, she adds. “We used to have picnics, dance and tennis parties very frequently. And people also used to dress up a lot, because I’ve got photographs of my aunts in fancy dress as well,” says Anna. As the wind sighs through the ancient willow tree guarding the Tipperary Bungalow, the mist clears, and then clouds up the area once again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/its-a-long-way-to-tipperary/article34095942.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Turn the pages of a city||Chennai is celebrated through the prism of history for its kaleidoscope of cultural influences. But how do you distill the essence of a city and bottle it for a young reader? Authors Arthy Muthanna Singh and Mamta Nainy, partners at Syllables27, have taken their readers on a journey across Indian cities through the ‘Off We Go Series’, with pit stops at Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Jaipur, and in the latest: Chennai. The series is a culmination of the work done at Young INTACH in collaboration with Talking Cub.  To Chennai, To Chennai , narrated by young Vijayalakshmi Srinivasan, snakes through the city, paying homage to its seats of culture at Kalakshetra Foundation, Cholamandal Artists’ Village, Theosophical Society and its bounty of Nature at Guindy National Park, Nochikuppam fishing village and the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology. Mapping her way through the city while sightseeing with relatives, ‘Viji’ treats readers to a microcosm of Chennai culture — through monikers ofpaati,chiti,kanna’andkutti; recipes for homemadekaapiand idlis; the geometrical genius of akolam; and the pretty pavadai and pallankuzhi . “Left to me, this book would have been the first in the series. I confess I am biased, having spent a very large part of my life on a tea plantation in the Nilgiris. Tamil is the first Indian language I ever spoke,” says Arthy, adding, “My father travelled often to Madras, and I remember twiddling my toes at Marina Beach, buying mallige puu to string onto my well-oiled hair, or just vegetating under the Adyaraalamaram.” Mamta Nainy elaborates on the delicate curation of the narrative of a city, steeped in stories: “The series was born out of a need to acquaint young readers not just with the histories and the built heritage of Indian cities but also with the accidental poetry that the city experience inspires.” The book’s illustrator, Vibha Surya, spent most of her life in Chennai, and to her, the exercise in nostalgia was a worthy pandemic venture. “I went through endless sphotographs of my childhood, and visited a few places as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/turn-the-pages-of-a-city/article34095939.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A harmony across borders||To those unfamiliar with the timbila, the closest frame of reference is the xylophone, says Mozambican musician, teacher and traditional music researcher Cheny Wa Gune over a phone call. “It is homemade, out of wood. The sound is melodic and seems metallic, even though there is no metal in it — only wood and membrane. It is a great accompaniment for the traditional dances of Mozambique, as are percussion instruments like mbira and xitende,” adds the man who plays them all. Cheny, is part of the musical duo Cheny & Xixel, which also includes singer, dancer and composer Xixel Langa. The two will be going live next weekend to a hopefully multinational audience, as part of Culturas 360, a joint initiative by nine music festivals around the world. IndiEarth XChange based in Chennai; Sunfest in London, Ontario and Canada; MMM (Mozambique Music Meeting) Festival in Maputo; MARE in Santiago de Compostela, Spain; Ollin Kan Festival in Mexico City; Kriol Jazz Festival in Praia, Cape Verde; Havanna International Jazz Festival in Havanna; WOMAD Chile and Artes á Rúa in Evora, Portugal, are bringing together artistes from their roster. The string of online performances is spread over two days in the coming week. Sonya Mazumdar of IndiEarth Xchange Chennai, explains the raison d’être of Culturas 360: “The pandemic broke the spine of the music industry, across countries. Apart from artistes — who are the crux of everything — festivals were affected, too. Most festivals are standalone properties, where everything including money and months of work by multiple people are all geared towards that one event on those particular set days.” If that calendar is affected, she adds, it economically affects numerous freelancers whose main work is to help set up such festivals on the ground. “Even now [a year after the pandemic began], we can’t plan an event unless we are 500% sure that it will happen,” she points out, adding that the idea of Culturas 360 is to distribute the earnings they get among the artistes and team. IndiEarth, having always focussed on lesser-known artistes from multiple cultures and nations, is bringing a mixed roster of talent to this event as well. Sarod player Pratik Shrivastava from India; throat singers Khoomei Beat from the Republic of Tuva, Maloya-centred musician Maya Kamati from Reunion Island and mystical and contemporary act Siti and The Band from Zanzibar are IndiEarth’s contribution to the line-up. Also present are intriguing acts such as Kalimarimba, featuring Argentine percussionist Piny Levalle and Chilean dancer Claudia Campusano; and E.T.E, an offering of classical, jazz and traditional Quebecois music by Canadian trio Élisabeth Moquin, Thierry Clouette and Élisabeth Giroux. A total of 18 diverse acts are in the fray, states Sonya, adding, “Each of these festivals has one thing in common. They are not about the usual type of entertainment, but about the artistes, diversity and culture.”  Culturas 360 goes live on March 27 and 28. For details and to watch, visit culturas360.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-harmony-across-borders/article34095916.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Auto anna to the rescue||N Basker is an auto driver. But on most days, his passengers are furry four-legged creatures. The Chennai auto driver is an animal lover and comes to the rescue of pet parents, when autos and cabs refuse to carry animals. “In such a situation the pet owner is often distressed. Especially in the case of an injured animal, there is bound to be blood and waste matter. I have no qualms about these issues or cleaning up and I gladly ferry them to and from their destination,” says the 42-year-old, who started the pet auto service in 2019. Over the years, his service has picked up momentum, and aiding the process is Help Voiceless, his Facebook page which people reach out to in times of need. There have been numerous instances where Basker has received SOS calls from people informing him about an injured puppy or cat. And no matter where he is, he says he always races to the spot — whether it is Mamallapuram or OMR (Old Mahabalipuram Road) in peak traffic. A resident of Mandaveli, Basker says the distance does not matter; what does is the animal. He is a regular at clinics, animal hospitals and organisations such as BMAD (Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary) where he is often seen rushing in with an injured or abandoned pet. “A friend taught me how to handle animals that are hurt and comfort them,” he adds. So far, more than 200 animals have been in his auto, including birds and the occasional clueless calf. “I’m particularly attached to street dogs, as they do not have a family,” says Basker. “I’d love to have my own pets but I live in a rented house,” he adds. However, that does not stop him from fussing over the dogs around his locality. Every day he feeds around five dogs a meal of chicken and rice. Even if he has not had a great day in terms of income, he does not let that affect their meal. “I get rice from the ration shop for Rs. 5 a kilogram and chicken legs for Rs. 10 for 10 pieces [the butcher shops give him a special rate],” he says, “It is not a big deal!”  Connect with Basker on 9445159587.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/auto-anna-to-the-rescue/article34095919.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Don’t want to be unidimensional’||Faria Abdullah is still coming to terms with the response to her Telugu, film Jathi Ratnalu. “It is sinking in, one step at a time,” she says, in between visiting cinema halls for post-release promotions.  Jathi Ratnalu, directed by KV Anudeep, has taken the box office by storm. Naveen Polishetty, Priyadarshi and Rahul Ramakrishna star as three friends who migrate to Hyderabad in search of better prospects who find themselves sucked into a whirlwind of unexpected events. All through lockdown, producers Vyjayanthi Films waited for theatres to re-open, not wanting to take the OTT route. Faria looks back at the seemingly never-ending wait and says, “Nagi (producer Nag Ashwin) asked us whether the film should have an OTT release or wait for theatres to re-open. I had completed filming 95% of my scenes and 90% of dubbing in 2019, and it was a long wait for me. Impatient to see myself on any screen, I voted for OTT. But he held on. Soon after the film’s preview and theatrical release, I messaged Nagi, thanking him for not listening to me. This is a once-in-a-lifetime experience for a newcomer like me.” Her experience in theatre prepared her for Jathi Ratnalu. “The stage prepares you for everything — acting, networking and social skills. On stage, you have to be present in the moment and think on your feet. Once, my sari nearly came undone. I quickly went backstage, took the strings off someone’s hoodie, tied my sari, and got back on stage.” While many actors state that cinema, unlike theatre, has scope for retakes, Faria differs. “You can improvise when you perform the same play again. In cinema, you can’t do that.” Away from the cameras, her interests include abstract painting, poetry and dance. She is also a movement practitioner: “I love freestyle dancing and I let music dictate my moves,” says Faria, who also briefly learnt Kathak, hip hop, house, waacking, belly dancing and dance hall styles. Faria has not signed any new films yet. “I am open to acting in Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Hindi and even English. Who knows?” She does not want to limit herself to acting: “I’ve always been multi-hyphenate, expanding my skill sets and integrating them to my personality. I don’t want to be unidimensional.” Does she think that Jathi Ratnalu , beneath its hilarious veneer, is a black comedy on survival in the big city? “It can be watched just as a fun film and later, one can ponder what it was about. I think there is an element of black comedy. We don’t realise that real development is when you can succeed staying true to your roots. That is what I believe in and I am glad I could begin my career from Hyderabad.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dont-want-to-be-unidimensional/article34095911.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Like home, back in Normandy||For years, home cook Virginie Bompoil has been familiarising Chennai with hearty, simple French flavours, a far cry from fussy coq au vin s and bœuf bourguignon s. It is a further cry still from the steak-and-Scotch offerings of On The Rocks, Crowne Plaza, yet that is where we revisit her story. For Virginie is the first in a line of cooks who will be taking over the restaurant’s kitchen for its Curate series. “I got my passion for food from my grandmother and my dad — my grandmother cooked so well that we would spend three hours on the dining table every Sunday,” she begins. In 2008, Virginie and her husband came to India for the first time. The sheer scale of bustle in Mumbai was “A big shock — I was born in a village of 350 people; I am a country girl,” she laughs. But the couple saw enough of the place to love it, eventually moving and settling in Chennai. For her leg of the Curate series, Virginie will be serving five different sets of menus that diners can pick from, each featuring soups, salads, appetisers, mains and dessert. Some names in the list are familiar, like the croque monsieur, salad nicoise with anchovy, French onion soup and ratatouille. Says Virginie, “The French onion soup is what my mother used to make on Sundays; so is the croque monsieur.” Both fall under the category of “hearty”, though in different ways — a soup that is full-flavoured but almost light as water, and a rich, filling multi-layered ham and cheese sandwich. The desserts are just as indulgent: an apple tart served with ice cream, a crème brulee and fluffy profiteroles. April will see On The Rocks being helmed by Bengaluru chefs Kanishka Sharma and Pallavi Mithika Menon, co-founders of degustation pop-up company Navu Project. In May, Delhi duo chef Jamsheed Bhote and Hanisha Singh, owners of Plats Restaurant, Delhi take over the kitchen, setting a fresh menu of their own.  Curate at On The Rocks is open for dinner service through the month. Call the restaurant at 24994101 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/like-home-back-in-normandy/article34095913.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Heading out?||Capture the stars For years, Space Chennai has been helping schoolchildren fall in love with astronomy and the world of outer space. The team is now holding astrophotography camps on Saturdays, taking participants out to the hills of Yelagiri and teaching them how to study the night sky and capture it with cameras and smartphones. Seats are limited.  At YMCA Camp Yelagiri, March 20. Call 7338819954.  Stronger with silambattam At this workshop conducted by silambattam expert Adhi Vishnu, learn the weapon-based martial art of South India. Silambatam improves flexibility, agility, strength, speed, stamina and hand-eye coordination. The workshop will take participants (10 years old and above) through the basic steps of the art form.  At DakshinaChitra, Muttukadu, March 20, 10.30 am to 4 pm. Fee Rs. 500. Conveyance to and from venue will be provided. For details, call 988421739.  A forest at home Learn how to assemble a terrarium at this workshop. All material from the jar to the soil mix and plants will be provided. A terrarium is a self-sufficient ecosystem of its own, planted to look like a mini-garden.  At VA Gallery, Kotturpuram, March 20, 4 to 6 pm. For details, call 955106011.  Shop vegan The third edition of The Conscious Market, will be focussing on vegan-friendly, cruelty-free clothes, beauty products and decor.  At ExpressAvenue Mall, Central Atrium, March 20 and 21, 10am to 10 pm.  Affordable luxury The Summer Edition by Contempo curated by Anita Bhandari and Pooja Tatia, brings together 35 designers from across the country who will be showcasing apparel, accessories and home decor.  At Bombay Brasserie, Nungambakkam, only today till 8 pm. For details, call 9840091990  Cackle in safety The standup comedy show Mask On, Laugh Off featuring Aaquib Jaleel and Sudarshan Ramamurthy aka Soda, allows a limited audience with physically distanced seating, and mandates masks throughout the dual set. The humour itself flows free, making no claims about minding Ps and Qs, so keep an open mind.  @Backyard, Adyar, March 20, 7 pm. Tickets on www.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/heading-out/article34095927.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The bros are back||They are back! Possibly Marvel Cinematic Universe’s most-loved bromance and a duo that features in most highlight reels because of the actors’ off-screen friendship. Marvel Studios’ The Falcon and The Winter Soldier , all set to premiere on March 19, reunites superheroes Sam Wilson and Bucky Barnes. More importantly, it brings back stars Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan, who have garnered global fandom for their hilarious banter on social media and in real-life, as Marvel follows up the success of WandaVision with another hotly-anticipated series. Directed by Kari Skogland and created for television by Malcolm Spellman, the series plays out over six episodes and takes place following the events of Avengers: Endgame . Along with Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige, Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan join MetroPlus over a video call. Why is The Falcon and The Winter Soldier a story that needed to be told?  Sebastian: At the end of Avengers: Endgame , you are left with a question mark about what is next. You are also wondering how these two guys are going to handle it, and also, what does Captain America mean? So that in itself is really worth exploring. Going deeper into their story and having six hours to really flesh out who these guys are, and going into their psychology at this point felt very accurate and earned. What does Kari Skogland bring to this project?  Anthony: Kari is very good with character development and hiding exposition. When you watch her work, you are getting information from the characters but it doesn’t feel like she is spoon-feeding you. A lot of the things in the script which, for the characters, either didn’t work or weren’t put together right, she worked out those moments to make those arcs and transitions smooth. Her smarts is something that can’t be questioned. Do you think Marvel made the show in the first place because of your real-life friendship, which has a crazy fandom in itself?  Sebastian: That definitely helped for sure (smiles). That scene together in Captain America: Civil War was a real jumping-off point for us, and they have paired us together now for a couple years. Somebody out there at Marvel was smart enough to see that they could explore it further.  Black Panther , which featured a cast of Black actors, was a monumental film for Marvel. And now Anthony, you are the lead in a show like this. How does that make you feel?  Anthony: It is a very personal experience. I am very fortunate to do what I love, and I have always wanted to do this. That being said, with the idea of representation, or what it means for the Falcon going forward in the Marvel Universe… Sam Wilson is kind of the eyes and ears of the audience. You know, he is not a superhero. He is a regular guy that was asked by Captain America to come help out. Of course, there is pride and recognition that comes along with that. But you just have to take it all in stride and never lose sight of yourself, because it would be so easy to become something that I am not. The Marvel and Disney+ collaboration is off to a flying start with WandaVision . Do you guys feel a certain level of pressure to follow that up at all?  Sebastian: I don’t think so, because we are such different shows. If anything, it has been really nice to just have them kind of usher Marvel into the streaming world, if you will. It gave us a chance to sort of hone in on our series a little bit more because we got stopped during the pandemic. Are there any particular scenes that you enjoyed the most during the shooting?  Sebastian: I would say any time that we have a staring contest is always an interesting time because it is sort of about who breaks first. And that is usually me (laughs). Also, whenever I am guessing whether or not Anthony has had his lunch before the scene because that is going to affect our energy going into it. Real men eat!  Anthony: (laughs uproariously)I agree, and also have to say there are a lot of scenes and lines between just the two of us in the show. One of my favourite scenes is the one on the cargo plane that is in the trailer. I find that to be so funny. Because the Winter Soldier is trying so hard to just be my friend. And I am so over him and the idea of him! What has been your biggest takeaway from the year that was?  Anthony: Appreciation. Just slowing down, smelling the roses and really appreciating the opportunity that we have to do what we love. It is a big thing for me. It really put things in perspective for me to have it all snatched away, and now having the opportunity to go back to it. The Falcon and The Winter Soldier premieres March 19 on Disney+ Hotstar   Exploring the dynamic According to Kevin Feige, president of Marvel Studios and chief creative officer of Marvel, the series gave filmmakers a chance to dive a little deeper into two intriguing characters. “Anthony and Sebastian are spectacular actors and we felt like we hadn’t explored their stories enough as Sam Wilson and Bucky Barnes. We wanted to learn more after the interactions they had in The Winter Soldier and Civil War . It was a very fun dynamic,” he says. Like any Marvel offering, while action takes the precedence, Kevin adds that the show explores the emotional trauma these superheroes go through. “You may feel it more because we have more time with a show, but it is something we have always tried to do. Iron Man 3 was all about Tony Stark’s PTSD from Avengers , essentially. What is great about Marvel characters is their flaws: as crazy and extraordinary as the MCU can get, it is grounding in the experiences and the emotions of the character.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-bros-are-back/article34096588.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||When art tastes like freedom||It was the first time 44-year-old S. Sathyamoorthy faced the camera. Originally from Salem, Sathya, now a resident of Chennai and an LIC agent, walked into the set of Pagaivanukku Arulvai last month and donned a prisoner’s outfit as asked by the film’s director Anis. By the time the cameras stopped rolling, Sathya was overcome with déjà vu; it was a grim throwback to the days he had spent incarcerated in Puzhal Central Prison (and Vellore Central Prison before that) — he had served 16 years from 2002 following conviction on a murder charge. Sathya is just one of at least 40 former prison inmates who will receive acting credits in Anis’s upcoming film that is set in a prison. Produced by 4 Monkey Studios, Pagaivanukku Arulvai , also starring M. Sasikumar, is expected to release in May 2021. “One of the guys called home from the film set to say that sir [Anis] has made us prisoners in the movie too,” quips 43-year-old R. Srinivasan, a friend of Sathya’s and another former lifer. Life beyond prison It is at Anis’s office in Valasaravakkam that I meet Sathya, Srinivasan and eight others, all of whom are in their 40s and have served terms between 14 and 25 years on murder charges. Anis takes the banter lightly because nobody in the group is a stranger to him; he has been associated with them since 2016 when he first visited the Puzhal Central Prison to train inmates in theatre. Anis is the secretary of Prison Theatre, an agency he co-founded with Vetri Duraisamy, son of the former Chennai Mayor, Saidai Duraisamy, who serves as its president. The group I meet includes ‘ Sirai gaana ’ B. Manikandan — known for his uncanny ability to beat a rhythm out of an empty vessel and reel out verses about life inside prison. Mani has sung a song composed by Ghibran for Pagaivanukku Arulvai . There is also 45-year-old ‘Thirukkural’ K. Munusamy who has two undergraduate degrees, which he gained whilst incarcerated; Munusamy can flawlessly recite the wholeThirukkural. Among the others, one is adept at playing the keyboard, another, adholak, while a third is an “excellent poet”, exclaims Anis — clearly, all of them have an eye for art. Unearthing such talent — as a means to offer distraction or aid in rehabilitation — was the objective when Anis walked into the prison in 2016. Sponsored by the Government of Tamil Nadu, the filmmaker also had the support of former Superintendent of Prison-I, Puzhal, V. Rukmani Priyadarshini. She says, “Reformation through art was the aim. We had to make people who had no emotions experience a few... like love, pity and mercy, even if it meant generating them artificially. In a drama, these convicts had an opportunity to become one with the role and feel these emotions.” ‘Emotional’ is how Srinivasan, too, describes the time he spent at the workshop. “We liked the way he interacted and taught us. He even ate prison food alongside us. We had all these new emotions that we wanted to connect to, and it meant we kept looking forward to the workshop the next day,” he explains. It presents a stark situation, especially when Srinivasan follows it up with, “There have been times when many of us have woken up at night and felt like ‘offing’ ourselves. Prison life is depressing.” Tackling stigma It means a lot to inmates that someone coming from the outside treats them with dignity — a privilege not extended to them by society — and keeps a promise. Munusamy says, “So many people come inside prison and promise jobs to us. But the words they spoke when we were locked up and how they treated us when we were out were markedly different. That is why it was a surprise that Anis sir kept his word. It was unexpected and hence so much sweeter.” After the week-long workshop, Anis organised the first drama featuring the then Puzhal inmates, titled Haasyakaarargal — an experience that Thiruvur K. Damu, 45, says was unique since “we discovered there were variations to laughter”. The group has since performed in at least three different locations, including SPACES in Besant Nagar. With its screen début imminent, is the group looking to pursue opportunities in films going forward? Anis interjects: “I have told them explicitly that is not an option. The last thing I want is for one of them to run from one production office to another with their photos in hand. I want them to dedicate a small amount of time from their routine lives to art... this venture [of making them a part of his film] is also to create a discussion on giving them opportunities and to break societal stigma against former prisoners.” Munusamy concurs that the stigma is real, often in-your-face and affects other members in the family. “A relative of mine is looking for a groom for his daughter and the prospective alliance got to know that our family has someone who had been to prison for murder. That was a deal-breaker. In villages, the term kolagaara kudumbam (the murderer’s family) is a common usage. It is vile but this happens,” he says. Anis adds: “I’m hopeful that the stigma will be broken.” Priorities matter Whilst this group of former lifers are examples of novel ideas like utilising theatre for rehabilitation working wonders, these initiatives are few and far between. The reason: such goodwill depend on the acceptance from serving jail authorities. Srinivasan remarks: “The prison’s atmosphere is a reflection of the jail authorities’ mindset.” Rukmani agrees. “It is true. For me, reformation was priority. As an officer, you need to work harder, sometimes over and beyond your call of duty to make changes happen because it isn’t easy to convince the government to sign such proposals. Some officers prefer to run a strict administration and there are others who encourage prisoners to cultivate crops. So, mindset really matters.” Now the Superintendent of Vellore Central Prison, Rukmani, however, remarks that she is happy for her former inmates and will be watching the film featuring “my prisoners” at a theatre when it releases. The feeling is mutual. “We know Rukmani ma’am will be happy with our progress,” Sathyamoorthy says.  The words people spoke when we were locked up and how they treated us when we were out were markedly different ‘Thirukkural’ K. Munusamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/when-art-tastes-like-freedom/article34096492.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The other shoe drops||On James Thomas’ vision board for his wedding in April, are the shoes he has always dreamt of wearing: a black and white pair of Jordan 11 ‘Concord’. It took some convincing, but he has coaxed his fiancée into wearing the same pair in all-white, to go with her gown. “Her only condition was that I buy them,” says James, chuckling. James is the co-founder of Bengaluru-based Sole Culture, a community of high-brand sport shoe enthusiasts or, as they call themselves, sneakerheads. At a recent meetup in Bengaluru, fellow sneakerheads gathered at Hard Rock Cafe to exchange, buy, flaunt and most of all talk about all things sneakers. The event, Sneakers Galore, hosted an auction where three pairs of shoes went under the hammer, selling for up to Rs. 20,000. “Our eyes first find the shoes, and then the faces,” jokes James. Quintessentially American, the sneakerhead subculture is finding its way to India through the same inspirations as it did in the US: basketball and hip-hop. Jordans by Nike, Yeezys by Adidas, ASICS, Balenciaga, and New Balance are finding place in Indian closets. These sell in the range of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 30,000; limited edition or custom ones can be priced higher, running up to a lakh. “I never anticipated this kind of growth in the number of Indian sneaker enthusiasts in the past couple of years,” says 40-year-old Delhiite Atul Sharma. “When I started my blog Sneaker Talk India in 2017, I knew only a handful of sneakerheads,” he says. The blog, which has now evolved into a community of 10,000 people, was Atul’s way of starting a conversation with fellow collectors, discussing the latest drops and reviewing them. Every year, Atul hosts the Kicks Exchange festival for sneakerheads to meet and trade shoes. They have so far met in Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, and Jaipur. Atul, who owns 150 pairs of shoes, buys a pair almost every month. His 10-year-old daughter already has around eight pairs herself. “I haven’t bought many for her because her feet are still growing. Once she is old enough, I will maybe stop buying for myself and start buying just for her,” he says. Every shoe has a story At Sneakers Galore, a special section was dedicated to basketball giant Kobe Bryant, who passed away last year in a helicopter crash. Sports, and basketball in particular, is a major draw for Indian sneakerheads. Bengaluru-based Nandith Jaisimha recalls the first pair of Adidas — all black sport shoes — that he got when he was 13. Soon, he went on to become a State-level basketball player. When Nandith buys sneakers, he looks for comfort and style, but most importantly, the story behind the shoe. With a collection of over 100 shoes, that is an omnibus of stories to tell. He has a custom closet built in his bedroom to put a section of his shoes up on display, which he keeps rotating and cleaning every couple of months. The ones he does not use, he passes on to kids in the neighbourhood who play basketball. It is his way of giving back. “Take for example, the day Vince Carter, a basketball player from the US who retired last year, dunked over a seven-footer French player Frederic Weis. He was wearing the same model of shoes that I wore yesterday [the Nike Shox BB4],” narrates Nandith, to explain how each of his shoes has a piece of history attached to them. Over in Hyderabad, his friend and fellow sneaker-head Jaideep Singh agrees with him. Ask his age and the 35-year-old responds, “I was born the year the original Air Jordan 1s was released.” A passion for sneakers is all you need to qualify as a sneakerhead; you need not be a collector, adds Jaideep. “Would you call a person an art aficionado only if they collected rare paintings? Sneakers are like that to us; they help us express who we are,” says the advocate. To Jaideep, his sneakers represent the glory days of the 1990s: they stand for Michael Jordan, Shaquille O’Neal, Kobe Bryant. “I am not interested in Yeezys because I didn’t grow up idolising Kanye West,” he says. Homegrown passion But to the younger lot of sneakerheads, the style inspirations come from the Indian music industry. The growth of sneaker culture here is closely related to the boom in regional rap, with rappers and musicians often flaunting customised bling. And here is where India is finding — forgive the pun — its own feet. Rapper Raftaar’s Pharrell NMD Hu have reflective text ‘Raftaar’ and ‘Kalamkaar’ lit up on each half. They were customised for him by designer Nishant Fogaat, who shuttles between New Delhi and Osaka, Japan. “Asian countries are the major exporters of fabric for shoemaking. So why don’t we have shoes specific to Indian heritage?” asks Nishant. He has experimented with adding Indian prints like paisleys, folk arts such as warli and sanjhi , as well as Japanese kimono prints, to designer shoes. Celebrities, including cricketers (Virat Kohli), actors (Harshvardhan Kapoor) and musicians (Badshah), make up a significant portion of his clients. He works in collaboration with Nike, Puma and other brands; they direct the stars, whom they have signed on, to him for custom makes. “My clients either get the final customised shoes from me, or buy their own and send them to me for additional work. Sometimes I stitch them from scratch,” says Nishant. The hypebeast culture The music industry and celebrities have been Naveen Kumar’s biggest influence; it was after all, a 50-Cent song that inducted him into the culture. At his ECR home in Chennai, the 25-year-old has a budding collection of 17 sneakers, mostly high-tops — used mainly by athletes, these extend above the ankle. “I really like GV Prakash and Arya’s collections. Arya is a hypebeast for sure. I do hope that one day I can call myself a hypebeast,” he says. Hype culture is where the affluent are dressed head to toe in designer gear — the more limited the edition, the better. It is what is driving the market today. “I remember the day I got the Nike Black Pigeon for 150 US dollars [less than Rs. 11k], I posted a picture of them on my social media. The same day, I got a call from a random 16-year-old kid in Delhi, offering me Rs. 50,000 for it,” says Jaideep. “It’s capitalism on steroids!” The child, he explains, was a reseller looking to flip and sell shoes at higher than the retail price. Resale accounts such as these have been mushrooming all across social media. Since there are not many options available to buy in India, other than stores such as VegNonVeg and Superkicks and other online platforms, many collectors get their contacts in the US and Europe to get them to India, and re-sell them. “The resale market right now is a bubble that can burst any time,” believes Nishant, “But even if it does, I hope the passion for shoes among people remains.”  “Would you call a person an art aficionado only if they collected rare paintings? Sneakers are like that to us; they help us express who we are.” Jaideep Singh, sneaker enthusiast       Bottoms up Before Nishant Fogaat started designing sneakers, he founded a business in caps made from worn out shoes. When the soles of his first pair of shoes lost all traction, he cut them open, and used the pattern to make a cap. The idea took off, and that is how he and his friends became literal sneakerheads. Restoration of old shoes is another growing market, says Nishant. “A lot of these hype-driven youngsters ask to restore worn out shoes, and then sell them for higher prices.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-other-shoe-drops/article34096590.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Kicking up dust||Pragabhal Das has been carrying the weight of Muddy on his shoulders for close to six years now. Sometime in 2015, he got the idea of a film on off-road racing, based on the conversations he had with friends who are professional racers. With no prior experience in films, Pragabhal wanted his début to be unique. “I have always been interested in all-terrain vehicles, although I have never participated in races,” says Pragabhal, over a phone call from Palakkad. “When I spoke to real-time racers, it triggered a spark.” He developed the script, but the pre-production work alone took three years to complete, as it involved complex action sequences. Billed as India’s first film on off-road racing, Pragabhal says he wanted to shoot the racing portions in a realistic fashion. He had the storyboard ready when he met the producer, who, he says, was supportive of his idea. “The location hunt alone took us a year,” he says, adding that they went into filming in 2019. They had shot 30 hours of footage employing over 14 cameras to capture the mood. Pragabhal says the post-production, too, was time-consuming, given that Muddy is a “technical film”. He worked closely with his editor San Lokesh (of Raatchasan fame) to bring the final runtime down to 130 minutes. “As it is an adventurous action film, I wanted a solid technical team. We were even careful that the sound design did not affect the background score.” Pragabhal tried pitching the script to stars, but he could not get the desired support as he was a newcomer. He went ahead with new faces and real racers. For a film that does not boast of big names, the reception for the teaser (16 million views in under a month) reaffirmed Pragabhal’s confidence in Muddy , which is gearing up for a theatrical release in May. At one point during the filming, Pragabhal thought about the universality of his subject and began to explore the option of making it into a pan-Indian film. “As it is a sports film, I wanted all audiences to watch it. Even if you don’t speak the language, you can probably enjoy the visuals,” he says. Pragabhal shot the talkie portions in Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada; Muddy is also getting a dubbed release in Hindi. Every stage of production threw up new challenges, agrees Pragabhal. The biggest lesson he learnt in his six-year journey was: “Not to look back and keep going without losing confidence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kicking-up-dust/article34096589.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a long way to Tipperary||Though it is close to afternoon when we reach Yercaud, the hill station nestled in the Shevaroy range of the Eastern Ghats around 1,500 metres above sea level, is still blanketed in late winter mist. Thanks to the lockdown, Yercaud’s winding roads and bylanes are quiet these days, though the lakeside sellers of fried chilli fritters and steamed corn are back in full force. The recent construction boom has changed Yercaud forever, with its verdant fruit orchards and coffee plantations slowly giving way to real estate projects meant for the well-heeled. Some of the heritage structures though, especially those attached to plantations, have reinvented themselves as homestays. The Tipperary Bungalow, a colonial-era house that is considered to be among the oldest buildings (approximately 120 years) in Yercaud, is one such property, perched upon a mini peak of its own. The house is part of the eponymous 70-acre working coffee farm that also cultivates jackfruit, avocado, banana, wild turmeric and pepper. On any day, visitors to the property — now functioning as a heritage bed-and-breakfast homestay — set in four acres, can expect to see local fauna like gaur and spotted deer from the veranda that opens out to views of the valley below from the master suite. Like many relics of the British Raj, Tipperary Bungalow has a storied past that lives only in oral recollections. “Though my father purchased this property in 1970, we weren’t really aware of its original British owners, the Dickens family, until quite recently,” says N Satyendran, a former engineer and commercial pilot who runs the estate today. Clan of coffee growers Whether the Dickens family of Yercaud was related to the famous Victorian author Charles Dickens (1812-1870) remains debatable in the absence of any documentary evidence, but there is little doubt that this India-based British clan did much to develop the commercial cultivation of coffee and other crops in the hill station. “My great grandfather Alfred Ernest Stark Dickens (1844-1898) came to Yercaud in 1881; he had five sons and five daughters, and most of them were in the coffee business. Five generations of our family were based in Yercaud from the 1880s until 1950s, so there were at least 15 coffee plantations, each with their houses, run by us in that period,” says Anna Dickens, over a WhatsApp phone call from London. Approaching her 80th birthday, Anna is perhaps the Tipperary Bungalow’s last link to its British owners. She visited Yercaud in 2005, and was reportedly moved to tears when she saw her birthplace (she was born here on August 7, 1941). A visit to the cemetery at the Holy Trinity Anglican Church in Yercaud shows the number of members from the Dickens family who are interred here. “My aunt Gwendoline and her husband Leslie Dickens were the last occupants of the Tipperary. They sold the property in the 1950s before leaving India,” says Anna. Original structure Considering that Yercaud got its first metalled roads only in the early 20th Century, the Tipperary and other buildings of its vintage in the hill station are obviously great examples of native engineering using rudimentary infrastructure. “We have tried to maintain the original style of the building, though quite a bit of it was in disrepair when we acquired it,” says Satyendran. “The polished red oxide floors are still the same, and the thick stone walls keep the building insulated from extreme cold and heat through the year.” Anna remembers the Tipperary as being a popular meeting spot for the local British community. “We were a very musical family; and I played the antique grand piano that is still there in the reception room when I visited in 2005, though we don’t really know how it was transported up there in those days!” laughs Anna. The Dickens had a very busy social life, she adds. “We used to have picnics, dance and tennis parties very frequently. And people also used to dress up a lot, because I’ve got photographs of my aunts in fancy dress as well,” says Anna. As the wind sighs through the ancient willow tree guarding the Tipperary Bungalow, the mist clears, and then clouds up the area once again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/its-a-long-way-to-tipperary/article34096494.ece
18 March 2021||March 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Turn the pages of a city||Chennai is celebrated through the prism of history for its kaleidoscope of cultural influences. But how do you distill the essence of a city and bottle it for a young reader? Authors Arthy Muthanna Singh and Mamta Nainy, partners at Syllables27, have taken their readers on a journey across Indian cities through the ‘Off We Go Series’, with pit stops at Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Jaipur, and in the latest: Chennai. The series is a culmination of the work done at Young INTACH in collaboration with Talking Cub.  To Chennai, To Chennai , narrated by young Vijayalakshmi Srinivasan, snakes through the city, paying homage to its seats of culture at Kalakshetra Foundation, Cholamandal Artists’ Village, Theosophical Society and its bounty of nature at Guindy National Park, Nochikuppam fishing village and the Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology. Mapping her way through the city while sightseeing with relatives, ‘Viji’ treats readers to a microcosm of Chennai culture — through monikers ofpaati,chiti,kannaandkutti; recipes for homemadekaapiand idlis; the geometrical genius of akolam; and the pretty pavadai and pallankuzhi . “Left to me, this book would have been the first in the series. I confess I am biased, having spent a very large part of my life on a tea plantation in the Nilgiris. Tamil is the first Indian language I ever spoke,” says Arthy, adding, “My father travelled often to Madras, and I remember twiddling my toes at Marina Beach, buying mallige puu to string onto my well-oiled hair, or just vegetating under the Adyaraalamaram.” Mamta Nainy elaborates on the delicate curation of the narrative of a city, steeped in stories: “The series was born out of a need to acquaint young readers not just with the histories and the built heritage of Indian cities but also with the accidental poetry that the city experience inspires.” The book’s illustrator, Vibha Surya, spent most of her life in Chennai, and to her, the exercise in nostalgia was a worthy pandemic venture. She says, “I went through endless photographs of my childhood, and visited a few places as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/turn-the-pages-of-a-city/article34096493.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||CM appeals to Centre to take back Bill||Addressing supporters at Jantar Mantar on Wednesday, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Central government to take back the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, introduced in the Lok Sabha by the latter. Hundreds of party supporters, MLAs, and Ministers, protested against the Bill at Jantar Mantar. “People are unhappy that the BJP government has introduced a Bill in Parliament, which says that from now, Delhi government means LG. Then what will be the meaning of us? What will be the meaning of the people of Delhi? What will be the meaning of the CM and the will of the people? Then why was the election conducted? Then why did people vote? Then there is no meaning of people giving us 62 out of 70 seats,” the AAP chief said. He said the Supreme Court had said that all powers should be with the government and no file has to go to LG. “The BJP does not believe in the people, democracy, and Constitution. It does not want to follow the orders of the Supreme Court,” he said. ‘Unfair means’ Mr. Kejriwal said that in the Assembly election in 2015, AAP won 67 out of 70 seats, and in 2020, 62 out of 70 seats and added that in the civic body byelections held recently, the BJP did not win a single seat. “People are rejecting BJP for AAP, but the BJP does not want to accept this fact. They only want to rule Delhi through unfair means,” he said. “They are doing this across the country, they hold elections and where they cannot win, they dismantle the government. Now that they cannot buy AAP MLAs despite trying, they want to dismantle the government by bringing in a law,” he added. AAP senior leader Manish Sisodia said that the Bill is not only an act to curtail the powers of the Delhi government, but it is to also stop the Kejriwal model from making progress in Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh, because the BJP is threatened. Sandeepni Mishra, 9, a Class IV student, who was holding a placard at the protest site, said that she has come with her father to protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Modiji has brought a black law to give more power to the LG. I have come to protest against it. I attended online class in the morning, but skipped the afternoon session,” Ms. Mishra said. When asked how the Bill will affect him, AAP MLA Praveen Kumar, said that scores of people come to the MLA office daily to address their problems. “Once this Bill is passed, the MLAs won’t have any assurance that they can solve the issues as LG will have the powers. People go to the MLA office when their sewers are not working, or electricity is down and not to the LG office. What is the point of them voting for us if they have to rely on the LG?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-appeals-to-centre-to-take-back-bill/article34096285.ece
18 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dictatorship of Modi govt. can now be seen in Delhi: Congress||Delhi Congress on Wednesday held a dharna at Jantar Mantar to protest against the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced by the BJP government in the Lok Sabha. The Congress leaders said that the Bill was an assault on democracy as it would take away powers from the democratically elected government and the wishes of the people and place it in the hands of a person appointed by the Central government. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the “dictatorship” of the Narendra Modi government that people have been getting to see across the country can now be seen in Delhi as well with the attempt to dilute the powers of the elected government via the Bill. The party called for the immediate withdrawal of the Bill. “The elected MLAs of Delhi will have no power to take decisions on behalf of the people, who have voted them to power through a democratic process. All the power will be with one man that is appointed by the Centre who will have no clue as to what the people of Delhi want. This is a dangerous Bill as it will make a mockery out of democracy,” Mr. Kumar said. The Delhi Congress also questioned why the Delhi government had been silent for 45 days as the Union Cabinet had approved the presentation of the Bill in the Lok Sabha on February 3. Questions silence “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who is known for sitting on dharna for every issue did not even bother to raise this issue despite it diluting the power of his own chair. On one hand he promised full Statehood for Delhi before the elections and on the other stays silent when the CM’s powers are being diluted,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar alleged that the AAP was the “B team” on the BJP and therefore supported the Union government’s decision to snatch the powers of Jammu and Kashmir, and relegate the State to the status of Union Territories and was doing only a “token” protest against the Bill. . Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt pointed out that when the party asked for permission to protest at Jantar Mantar, they were told not to bring more than 1,000 people or build a stage but was very clear that the police had given permission for the AAP’s “token” protest by rolling out a red carpet and allowing them to build a stage for their event. “In Puducherry, the Congress government put up a fight against the BJP and ultimately, Kiran Bedi the then Lt. Governor was brought back to Delhi. In Delhi, Mr. Kejriwal has no such power. He should sit on dharna till the Bill is not revoked instead of making a show of protest,” Mr. Dutt said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dictatorship-of-modi-govt-can-now-be-seen-in-delhi-congress/article34096282.ece
18 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Two sentenced to life imprisonment for raping Dalit woman||A Gautam Buddha Nagar court on Wednesday sentenced two men to life imprisonment for raping a Dalit woman after abducting her at gunpoint and posting the video on the Internet. Special Judge Ved Prakash Sharma found Phire and Dharmi guilty under sections 376D (gangrape), 366 (kidnapping) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison/intoxicant with the intent to commit a crime) of the IPC and Section 3(2)5 of SC/ST Act. They have also been fined Rs. 10,000 each. Meanwhile, the third accused Sateesh was acquitted for want of evidence. Government lawyer Dharmendra Jaint said the FIR was registered on August 25, 2018, four months after the crime. “The convicts and the victim belonged to the same village in Surajpur of Greater Noida. The girl was on the way to her college, she was stopped by the main accused Phire and with the help of his friends Dharmi and Sateesh, he abducted her after administering her an intoxicant. They took her to a nearby jungle where Phire and Dharmi raped her and made a video of the incident. Sateesh was driving the vehicle.” Mr. Jaint told The Hindu that after the incident, Phire threatened her that they would kill her family members if she disclosed about the incident. “She kept silent out of fear. However, on August 18, 2015, the accused asked her to courier a pistol and when she refused do so, they threatened to make the rape video viral. The victim’s sister found the video on the Net and brought it to her notice. “The victim, then, shared her ordeal and an FIR was filed.” The video is a piece of vital evidence, Mr. Jaint said. “The police investigated the case and the accused admitted to their crime,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-get-life-imprisonment-for-raping-dalit-woman/article34096287.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||AAP’s protest unwarranted, says BJP||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Wednesday termed “unnecessary and unjustified” the Aam Aadmi Party’s protest over the amendment to the GNCTD Act since they were undertaken as per the directions of the Supreme Court. From time to time starting with his January 2014 dharna at Rajpath threatening to boycott Republic Day celebrations, the announcement to cut New Delhi’s water supply in 2015 and the June 2018 dharna within the precincts of the L-G house, the Chief Minister had himself created anarchic situations, he said. “In all Union Territories with their own assemblies, including J&K and Puducherry, the Lt. Governors have some extra Constitutional rights, therefore to say that Delhi government’s rights are being curtailed is wholly unjustified,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “It is surprising to see Congress protesting on the issue. Between 1998-2013, Congress was in power in Delhi and the Centre but it did not increase any power of the local government as it is demanding today,” he also alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aaps-protest-unwarranted-says-bjp/article34096283.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||Rai hits out at Centre over air pollution issue||Attacking the Central government, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the Delhi government had submitted a request to the Commission for Air Quality Management to end stubble burning, but now the Commission has become non-functional and the Centre is “not serious” about curbing air pollution. “Nine of the top 10 polluted cities are in Uttar Pradesh. Delhi used to be polluted, but the condition is slowly improving, with reports stating there has been a dip of 15% in pollution levels. The reason behind this is the consistent and diligent efforts of the Arvind Kejriwal government,” said Mr. Rai. He said that the Delhi government has been working to bring about a fuel change policy, tree transplantation policy, a progressive Electric Vehicle policy and installing smog guns. Mr. Rai said that the Centre had done nothing to shutdown brick kilns or the polluting thermal power plants. BJP hits back The Delhi BJP, on the other hand, demanded the setting up of an expert committee to remedy issues related to pollution. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said it would not be superlative to say that along with free electricity and water, the Kejriwal government has also “distributed death freely” by allowing the unchecked spread of pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rai-hits-out-at-centre-over-air-pollution-issue/article34096587.ece
18 March 2021||New Delhi,||536 new cases take virus tally to 6,45,025||Delhi witnessed 536 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, the highest since January 1, taking the total number of cases to 6,45,025, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. On January 1, 585 cases were reported and then the cases reduced and even dropped below 100. But the number of new cases crossed 200 mark in February last week and has been increasing since then. Also, three deaths were reported, taking the total number of deaths to 10,948. A total of 80,856 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,31,375 people have recovered and there are 2,702 active cases. The number of active cases has also been on the rise. A total of 28,394 beneficiaries took the vaccination and there was one minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 13,609 were people who are 60 years of age and above and 2,433 people were between 45 and 59 years of age. 101-year-old takes jab Meanwhile, a 101-year-old man from Karol Bagh, Brij Prakash Gupta, took the vaccine at BLK Super Speciality Hospital. He is fine and there was no complications, said the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-decline-daily-cases-breach-500-mark-again/article34096286.ece
