20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five States account for 80% of new infections||India reported 39,726 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, the highest since November 29 last year. It also reported 20,654 recoveries and 154 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Health Ministry said. Three States — Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab — currently account for 76.48% of the total active cases. “Some States in the country are reporting a surge in the daily new COVID-19 cases. Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh together account for 80.63% of the daily new cases,” a press release from the Ministry said. It added that Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 25,833 (65% of the daily cases). It is followed by Punjab with 2,369, while Kerala reported 1,899 new cases. India’s total active caseload stands at 2.71 lakh (2,71,282). The release added that the country’s cumulative recoveries stand at 1,10,83,679 on Friday, with a national recovery rate of 96.56%. Sixteen States/UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours. These include Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-states-account-for-most-new-cases-maharashtra-alone-65/article34114115.ece
20 March 2021||MYSURU,||Elusive tiger found dead, gunshot wounds noticed on carcass||The tiger responsible for three human deaths in Ponnampet taluk of Kodagu district was found dead in an elephant-proof trench on Friday, close to the village where the last human death due to a tiger attack occurred early this month. The carcass of the tiger (Nagarahole 13_U285) was found near a place called Lakkunda, close to the tiger reserve boundary and authorities said it (carcass) was at least three to four days old. Takhat Singh Ranawat, Chief Conservator of Forests, Madikeri Circle, said six gun pellets had been recovered and it was the same tiger for which a shoot order had been issued. Forest personnel, who had launched a combing operation after the third human killing on March 8, had sighted the tiger and the accompanying marksmen and the veterinarians had taken a shot at the animal. As the tiger was not found despite combing the area, it was speculated that the marksmen had missed the mark. However, the recovery of the pellets confirmed that the tiger was injured in the firing and died around three or four days ago, Mr. Ranawat said. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said they matched the stripe patterns with those from the images of the tiger obtained from camera traps during the combing operation. “The match is perfect and confirms that the carcass was that of the same tiger for which a shoot order was issued,” he added. However, samples of the viscera would be sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for scientific authentication, he added. The region around Ponnampet and Srimangala had witnessed a series of agitations following the human deaths. The issue was also raised in the Assembly and various farmers’ groups have been protesting since the last two weeks. On the discovery of the carcass with gunshot wounds, some of the farmers’ representatives were taken to the spot and the matching stripe patterns were shown to convince them that it was indeed the same tiger that they were looking for. The Forest Department had established a camp in the region and it encompassed 150 personnel drawn from different circles, including trackers from Bandipur, Nagarahole and staff from Madikeri circle not deployed as fire watchers apart from Soliga tribals and tracking dog Rana. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said the camp would now be disbanded. War of words But this led to a fracas between the authorities and farmers who said that the carcass was at least four days old but fresh cattle kills were also reported even on Friday and wanted the combing operation to continue. The combing operation should continue till the forensic analysis was completed and the report confirmed that it was the same tiger, the farmers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elusive-tiger-found-dead-gunshot-wounds-noticed-on-carcass/article34114405.ece
20 March 2021||Patna,||Bihar braces for second wave of COVID-19||With COVID-19cases gradually rising in Bihar and apprehensions of a second wave of the pandemic, the State Health Department has cancelled the leave of all doctors and health workers till April 5 with immediate effect. The order cancels leave of all Medical Officers, Principals, Superintendents, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, and other technicians and assistants. Health workers on leave have also been asked to report to duty as soon as possible. However, those on maternity and study leave have been excluded. “The leave of doctors and health workers has been cancelled to maintain special vigil and surveillance to contain the spread of second wave of the pandemic,” said the order issued by Anil Kumar, joint secretary, State Health Department. On March 17, following an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the COVID-19 situation across the country, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had said that the “situation in the State is under control but we should be careful”. “Bihar government is alert and has decided to increase the number of daily COVID-19 tests. We will soon hold a meeting on the situation. It has been decided to take the number of daily tests to 70,000,” the Chief Minister said. He added that “since Holi (festival) is round the corner, people will be visiting the State from different places. We have to be careful”. Earlier, the State government had made it mandatory for those travelling to Bihar from Kerala, Punjab and Maharashtra to show their RT-PCR test report. “Passengers without report will be required to undergo a rapid antigen test upon arrival and anyone testing positive for the disease will be sent to isolation centres,” said the government’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-braces-for-second-wave-of-covid-19/article34114574.ece
20 March 2021||Kolkata,||Ticket distribution in West Bengal a big challenge for BJP||After tasting considerable success in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used defections as a political tool in the run-up to Assembly elections and leaders from the Trinamool Congress started joining the saffron party in large numbers without any screening. Though State unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh initially spoke about the need for checks and balances, he did not pursue it. These defections and the top-down approach in selection of candidates has turned out to be a major challenge for the BJP. Not only has the process triggered protests across the State — with party offices being attacked and two candidates even refusing to contest — it also has the potential to hurt the BJP’s electoral prospects, feel political observers. Even 24 hours after two candidates, Sikha Mitra Chowdhury and Tarun Saha refused to contest from Chowringhee and Belgachia Kashipur Assembly seats respectively, the party has not been able to come out with alternative names. Not letting any chance go, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also took a swipe at the BJP saying, “The BJP does not have any old party leaders now. Old BJP leaders are all sitting at their home crying”. On Friday, the Trinamool Congress leadership held a press conference with BJP nominee Tarun Saha by their side. Ms. Mitra Chowdhury said that she received a call from Congress president Sonia Gandhi late on Thursday night. Senior Trinamool Congress leader Firhad Hakim said that Mr. Saha was busy putting billboards of TMC hours before his name was announced by the BJP. ‘Teething problems’ State BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya described the development as “teething problems” and said when a party grows some incidents are bound to occur. Political observers however feel that what the BJP is witnessing in West Bengal is more serious. “In the past week the TMC has been able to derive much political mileage. The injury to the Chief Minister and the embarrassment to BJP after its candidate list was made public have worked in its favour,” said Biswanath Chakrborty, psephologist and professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. Different model In West Bengal, the BJP has been adopting the model it had tried in the north-east, particularly Assam and Tripura, Prof Chakraborty said, adding that such an approach of getting leaders from other parties to form government might not work in West Bengal. “Politics here is intrinsically an existential issue particularly in rural areas, centred around beneficiaries at the panchayat level. If candidates from the opposition party join any political party above the permissible limit such discord is bound to happen,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ticket-distribution-in-west-bengal-a-big-challenge-for-bjp/article34114576.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Two involved in fake invoicing racket of arecanut arrested||Officials of the Preventive Unit, Mangaluru Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST), have unearthed an organised fake invoicing racket of arecanut. They have arrested two traders from Sirsi in Uttara Kannada on the charge of being part of an organised group involved in GST evasion to the tune of Rs. 17 crore. A release issued by the office of Central Excise and Central Tax, Mangaluru, on Friday identified the arrested as Suresh Chatrabhoja Bhanushali and Shridhar Hegde, owners of Shrinivas Traders and Shyam Traders, Sirsi. A court has remanded them in custody till April 1. As a part of a drive against fake invoicing, the officials carried out careful analysis of documents and the digital returns filed. It indicated that an organised group was issuing invoices without the actual supply of arecanuts. Hence, officials searched the registered premises of suspected group members, including transporters, in Sirsi, Puttur, Mangaluru, and Chitradurga. “Most of the premises were found to be non-existent, completely empty, or without any furniture/computers/records etc., indicating that the premises were being used only as a front to get registration under GST and carry out the illegal activities. Various incriminating documents and telephone recordings have been seized by the CGST officials, pointing to GST evasion of around Rs. 17 crore, against which recovery to the tune of Rs. 3.2 crore has been affected by CGST,” the release said. Imamuddin Ahmad, Commissioner, CGST, Mangaluru, directly supervised the team of officials, led by Rajesh Poojari, Assistant Commissioner, and including Rajgopal K. and Pushpendra Singh, Superintendents, and Partha Sarathy Dey, Shailendra Jain, Arpit Kamra, and Abhinav Kumar, inspectors, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-involved-in-fake-invoicing-racket-of-arecanut-arrested/article34114624.ece
20 March 2021||Pune,||State reports another high: 25,681 cases||In its second-highest single-day case spike since the pandemic began in March, Maharashtra on Friday reported 25,681 new COVID-19 cases as its active case tally climbed to 1,77,560. A total of 14,400 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours with the State’s recovery rate dipping to 90.42%. As many as 70 deaths were recorded (of whom 43 were reported in the last 48 hours and the rest from an earlier period), which pushed the fatality toll to 53,208. While the total case tally has reached 24,22,021, the cumulative recoveries stand at 21,85,965. Pune district reported another staggering surge of over 5,100 new cases to take its total case tally to 4,60,114. With Pune district reporting the highest daily case surge in the State, the administration has decided to restart four hitherto closed COVID-19 care centres. While appealing to citizens to not believe in rumours of a lockdown, Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said that the heightened spike must also be viewed in the context of the vastly ramped up sample testing currently under way. “At least 20,000-25,000 samples are being tested daily across Pune district,” Mr. Prasad said. Mumbai city, too, reported a massive surge of 3,063 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,55,914 of whom 18,850 are active. Ten fatalities took the city’s death toll to 11,569. Nagpur district in Vidarbha added more than 3,200 cases as its total cases went up to 1,89,150.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-another-high-25681-cases/article34114652.ece
20 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Three meet watery grave in the Godavari||Three persons, including a woman, a boy and a girl, met a watery grave after getting trapped in the undercurrents of the Godavari while taking bath in the river in Bhadrachalam on Friday. Two others were rescued by locals, who pulled the duo out from the deeper point of the river, sources said. The deceased were identified as 40-year-old Varalakshmi, 15-year-old Surekha and 12-year-old Charan. A woman identified as 35-year-old Bhavani, of Ayyappa Colony in the temple town, survived the tragedy but lost her son Charan in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-meet-watery-grave-in-the-godavari/article34114724.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Six killed in separate accidents||Six persons, including four women, were killed in two separate road accidents that took place in Warangal Rural and Nirmal districts on Friday. In Warangal Rural, four women passengers, travelling in an autorickshaw, died on the spot, after an MUV coming in the opposite direction rammed their vehicle on the outskirts of Nirkala village, about 20 km from Warangal town. The victims were identified as Madishetty Sambalaxmi, 60, Mohammad Mahbabubi, 64, Palakurthi Sarojana, 60, and Atmakuri Bharathi, 55, all agricultural labourers from Atmakur village. The accident took place around 7.30 a.m. when the victims along with other villagers were going to Rangapur in Nallabelli mandal to harvest crop. “A speeding vehicle which was going towards Warangal from Mulugu crashed into the auto and turned turtle. Occupants of the car and a few travelling in the auto escaped with minor injuries,” Atmakur police said. The injured were rushed to MGM Hospital in Warangal for medical assistance, and the bodies were shifted to the hospital morgue. In another car accident that took place at Kadam in Nirmal district, two persons died on the spot. According to Kadam police, the accident took place around 12.30 a.m. on Friday on the outskirts of Nawabpet village when the driver of the car, Gangadhar from Chinna Camp, lost control of the wheel and hit a roadside tree. Gangadhar and another occupant Sai suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. Their bodies were shifted to Government Hospital, Khanapur, for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6-killed-in-road-accidents/article34114479.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘State resolutions on Central laws are fine’||The Supreme Court on Friday prima facie found no harm in State Legislative Assemblies, such as those in Kerala and West Bengal, passing resolutions against Central laws like the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act or the controversial new farm laws. A Bench, led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, said these resolutions are merely “opinions” of the majority members of a Legislative Assembly and do not have the force of law. The court was hearing a PIL filed by a Rajasthan-based NGO, Samta Andolan Samiti, that said State Assemblies, such as of Rajasthan, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal, have no business passing resolutions against Central laws that come under the Union List of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The Samiti, represented by senior advocate Saumya Chakraborty, asked the Supreme Court to quash the resolutions and declare them void. The hearing mostly focused on the resolution passed by the Kerala Assembly on December 31, 2019, criticising CAA as a law violating the right to equality. The Assembly had called upon the Centre to abrogate the CAA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-can-pass-resolutions-against-central-laws-sc-says/article34114106.ece
20 March 2021||MYSURU,||Row over plan to shift vintage steam locomotive from Mysuru||A controversy has broken out over a plan to shift a vintage steam locomotive on display at the Mysuru Rail Museum, to Hubballi. The steam locomotive was manufactured in England and brought to Mysore State Railway at a cost of Rs. 57,971 and placed on lines during November 1922. Built by Kerr, Stuart & Co Ltd. of England, it used to haul passenger trains on the Bowringpet-Kolar Railway constructed by the Mysore Durbar between 1913-16 and financed by the District Board of Kolar from the proceeds of a debenture loan. Later owing to financial constraints, the cost was borne equally by the Durbar and the District Board and the then Maharaja of Mysore had expressed his gratitude to the Kolar District Board and the people of the region for having come forward to finance the project to serve the mineral rich district of Kolar. But a technical team from the headquarters of South Western Railway in Hubballi recently visited Mysuru Rail Museum to study the feasibility of shifting the vintage steam locomotive for display in front of SWR zonal office in Hubballi. This irked Mysuru MP Pratap Simha who dashed off a letter to the General Manager of South Western Railway questioning the move. The rail museum in Mysuru went through a major renovation and restoration at a cost of over Rs. 9 crore, and relocation and shifting the loco would not only disturb the existing exhibits but would also impact the landscaping as heavy duty cranes have to be deployed for its shifting. Mr. Simha said the museum in Mysuru was the first regional rail museum in the country and it was his desire to develop it to world-class standards. The Maharaja’s Salon has been donated to the National Rail Museum in New Delhi and now this vintage steam locomotive was proposed to be shifted, he complained. Mr. Simha said the contributions of the Wadiyar dynasty in the development of railways in the Mysore Kingdom from 1864 to 1950 was primarily responsible for making Mysore a model state during the British rule in India. “Therefore, it becomes our responsibility to preserve the legacy,” he added, stating that officials concerned should be directed to maintain a status quo on the issue and initiate further steps to nurture the Mysuru Rail Museum.  The steam locomotive was manufactured in England and brought to Mysore State Railway at a cost of Rs. 57,971 and placed on lines during November 1922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-plan-to-shift-vintage-steam-locomotive-from-mysuru/article34114404.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Amaravati land scam’: HC stays CID probe into involvement of Naidu, Narayana||The former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and the former Minister for Municipal Administration in the Telugu Desam Party government P. Narayana on Friday got relief from Andhra Pradesh High Court in the criminal proceedings initiated by Crime Investigation Department (CID) for their alleged involvement in the assigned lands scandal in Amaravati, as Justice C. Manavendranath Roy of the High Court stayed the investigation for four weeks. After hearing the arguments on behalf of the government by Additional Advocate-General Jasti Nagabhushan, and senior advocates Siddhartha Luthra and Dammalapati Srinivas for the petitioners, Justice Roy said he needed to explore the contours of the immunity available to Mr. Naidu and Mr. Narayana under the A.P. Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Act, 2014, while taking due cognisance of the fact that they were Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the CRDA which was entrusted with the overall task of development of the capital city in the Vijayawada-Guntur region. The advocates who appeared for Mr. Naidu and Mr. Narayana argued that all official actions in pursuance of the CRDA Act enjoyed an immunity under Section 146 of the said Act. They insisted that G.O No. 41 through which the Land Pooling Scheme (Formulation and Implementation) Rules, 2015 were notified, had been placed for post-facto approval of the former Chief Minister and that he had no role in their coming into force. Mr. Nagabhushan said as a person at the helm of affairs, Mr. Naidu could not disown his role in the issuance of the impugned G.O No. 41 (dated February 17, 2016). He contended that the G.O was surreptitiously brought into force and assigned lands which would be normally resumed from encroachers in terms of the A.P. Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act of 1977, were taken under the pooling scheme in clear violation of norms. This resulted in benefits to the encroachers and caused a huge loss to the State exchequer, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amaravati-case-naidu-gets-hc-relief/article34114032.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Free polls not possible with a biased ECI, says Trinamool||In a direct attack on the Election Commission (EC), the Trinamool Congress has said that the “partisan and biased approach” of the panel has made “free, fair and transparent elections” in West Bengal a distant reality. Six-member team A six-member delegation met the poll panel in Delhi to raise the incident of clashes in Nandigram on Thursday . “It is becoming increasingly clear that free, fair and transparent elections in the State of West Bengal is becoming a distant reality. This is evident from the partisan and biased approach taken by the Election Commission of India,” the party’s memorandum submitted to the commission said. Security at booths The Trinamool Congress particularly flagged the EC’s decision of not permitting the State police within 100 m of a polling station. The Election Commssion has noted that only Central forces would be deployed close to the polling stations. The party said this was an “unprecedented” decision and cast aspersions on the reputation of the police administration in the State. The EC had not taken such a decision for the other three States and the Union Territory of Puducherry holding simultaneous polls. The Trinamool also sought to remind the Commission that the State police had worked with governments led by other political parties too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-slams-partisan-and-biased-ec/article34114113.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Nadu-Nedu: NABARD ready to give Rs. 2,000 cr.||National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Chairman Govindarajulu Chintala is apparently floored by the Nadu-Nedu programme of the State Government. In this regard, the NABARD is likely to sanction Rs. 2,000 crore for the Nadu-Nedu as sought by the State government. “I am very much impressed with the Nadu-Nedu programme. The NABARD has already sanctioned Rs. 1,200 crore under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund during the current fiscal. There shouldn't be any problem to sanction Rs. 1,500 crore to Rs. 2,000 crore during the next financial year,” he said. The allocation to the RIDF was increased to Rs. 40,000 crore from Rs. 30,000 crore in the recent Union Budget. More than 48% allocations usually go to the southern States. The Telugu speaking States tap 10 to 15% of the RIDF funds. Given these conditions, it would not be difficult to sanction Rs. 2,000 crore to improve the condition of schools, he explained. NPAs Mr. Chintala was interacting with the media at a programme organised by AP Working Journalists Federation on Friday. To a question on NPAs and classification of the account of Reliance Commercial Finance Ltd, the NABARD Chairman said the NPAs was a regular process. The NABARD could collect Rs. 250 crore from the Reliance out of about Rs. 1,100 crore. The process was on, he said. When asked whether the NABARD would be able achieve the set target for agricultural credit, he said Rs. 15 lakh crore was the target for the current fiscal. So far, more than Rs. 13.8 lakh crore worth credit was disbursed, he said.  It will not be an issue to achieve the remaining portion, the NABARD chairman added. To another question, Mr. Chintala confirmed that NABARD would hold 10% share in Ferbine, the Tata-promoted company. The RBI has invited applications from the NUE (new umbrella entities) licence. The Ferbine is being set up as a national payments infrastructure rivalling National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The experience of NABARD in rural areas would be useful to the proposed Unified Payments Interface (UPI). Also, competitiveness will develop in e-commerce and online retail transactions, Mr. Chintala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nabard-willing-to-sanction-rs-2000-cr-for-nadu-nedu/article34114697.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Vaccination launched in apartments in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched COVID-19 vaccination at residential apartment complexes in the city, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Launching containment activities in areas such as Ayanavaram, he said civic officials had vaccinated four lakh residents in the 15 zones of the Corporation. “We are planning to cover 50,000 persons every day as part of the vaccination programme,” Mr. Prakash said. The civic body has made arrangements for a vaccination camp for 2,000 residents in Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, near Ripon Buildings, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. Residents are requested to carry official identification cards to participate. “The number of COVID-19 cases has been high in cities because of population density. Chennai, with over 30,000 residents per sq km registered a rise in cases last year. We have reduced cases in the past year by operating on many verticals. But the recent rise in cases has stressed the need for vaccination,” he said. The Corporation has also started vaccination camps at 80 markets. As many as 15,000 persons at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex were inoculated. “The Corporation has started vaccination camps at 400 locations. We have the capacity to vaccinate 60,000 people per day. But we have reached 30,000 only this week. We will be able to reduce the rate of transmission after vacccinating 25 lakh residents in Chennai after two months,” Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccination-started-in-apartments/article34114216.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||COMEDK to stick to counselling schedule||After around 15,000 seats in private colleges under the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK) quota went vacant, the consortium has decided to stick to its original schedule agreed upon in the consensual agreement. It stated that it will not wait for the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) to conduct counselling sessions. S. Kumar, executive secretary of COMEDK, said that in the previous years, the consortium would revise its schedule each time the KEA tweaked its schedule. “But the KEA schedule is postponed time and again as they first want the medical counselling to be completed. As a result, our counselling is delayed and there are no takers for our seats. Therefore, we will stick to the timeline mentioned in the consensual agreement,” he said. The COMEDK UGET 2021 will be held on June 20. According to the consortium, the test will be conducted in 150 cities across the nation with 400 test centres in online mode. Last year, around 63,000 students registered for the test. Organisers attributed the low number of test takers last year to the fact that the entrance test was postponed thrice due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/comedk-to-stick-to-counselling-schedule/article34114181.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Centre asks HC to stop WhatsApp’s new privacy policy||The Centre on Friday asked the Delhi High Court to restrain WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy, which is likely to take effect on May 15. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), in an affidavit, said the policy was not in tune with the IT (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011. “Notably, the rules require a body corporate who collects, stores or otherwise deals with data to issue a privacy policy providing for certain safeguards, in addition to imposing various other obligations. The impugned privacy policy violates the 2011 Rules..,” MeitY said. The Ministry said WhatsApp’s policy “fails to specify types of sensitive personal data being collected”. “Crucially, there is no distinction between personal data or sensitive personal data which is being collected,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-asks-hc-to-stop-whatsapps-new-privacy-policy/article34114303.ece
20 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Terror biggest hurdle to Indo-Pak. relationship’||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday termed Pakistan-sponsored terrorism as the biggest hurdle to normalising relations between India and Pakistan. He also said Pakistan’s Chief of Army Staff, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, should back his rhetoric on peace with India with solid action. General Bajwa should first control “his ISI”, and then talk about stability in Indo-Pak relations, said the CM, adding that India cannot afford to go soft on Pakistan till they walk the talk and prove their sincerity. “Infiltration into India from across the border is still happening, Indian soldiers are being killed at the borders every day. They (Pakistan) are dropping arms and heroin into Punjab via drones every other day. Efforts to create trouble in my State continue to take place. All this should stop first, only then we can talk peace,” said Captain Singh. “Given the way the situation has evolved over the past few months, Pakistan’s increasing collusion with China, which has been causing a whole lot of trouble for India on the other border, is a matter of concern,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biggest-hurdle-to-indo-pak-peace-is-terror/article34114107.ece
20 March 2021||Pune,||Lockdown an option: CM||Expressing concern over the relentless surge in COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that while a lockdown was an option to curb the spread of the contagion, he still expected cooperation from the people in following pandemic norms. Mr. Thackeray, who was speaking during a tour of Nandurbar district in north Maharashtra, said that the situation had become considerably grimmer after the State reported its highest single-day jump of nearly 26,000 cases on Thursday since the eruption of the pandemic in March last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-an-option-cm/article34114653.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Unearthing Carnatic compositions from Kerala||It is a common assumption among many that there exists hardly any Carnatic music composition in Malayalam, considering the fact that often one gets to hear compositions in other south Indian languages in most concerts. Now, Sangeetha Bharathi, run by musician K. Omanakutty, is involved in unearthing known and unknown Malayalam compositions, to bring them back into the spotlight. The Sangeetha Bharathi, along with Bharat Bhavan, will be organising a music festival from April 1 to April 17, exclusively with these compositions by composers from Kerala. Speaking at a press conference here on Friday, Ms. Omanakutty said that they unearthed many brilliant compositions, which were not known to many, for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unearthing-carnatic-compositions-from-kerala/article34114738.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Spreading cheer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spreading-cheer/article34114413.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 6,660 nominations received||With Friday being the last day for the filing of nominations for the April 6 Assembly election, 6,665 sets of nominations (as of 11 p.m.) have been received by the Election Commission. Of them, 986 nominations have been received from women and three from transperson candidates.  Several candidates of major parties have filed multiple nominations for contingency. The total number is expected to go down after Monday, following scrutiny, rejection and withdrawal. For the 2016 Assembly election, 6,627 sets were received. Of them, 719 were filed by women and four by members of the third gender. After scrutiny, rejection and withdrawal, 3,728 candidates contested. The highest number of nominations, 95, was received in Karur. Mettur in Salem district and Kangeyam in Tiruppur district followed, with 73 and 58 nominations respectively. At Edappadi in Salem district, where AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is contesting, 38 sets have been filed. Mr. Palaniswami himself has filed four sets. In Bodinayakanur, 51 sets have been received. These included three from AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. For the byelection in the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency, 22 sets have been received, including eight from Independents. One woman has also filed her papers. The nominations received for the Assembly election and the byelection will be scrutinised on Saturday. The last date for withdrawal is on March 22 DMK president M.K. Stalin has filed four sets in Kolathur, which has received a total of 55 nominations. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan filed his nomination in Katpadi, where 22 sets have been received. Mettur in Salem district received the highest number of nominations from women candidates, 19, followed by Srivilliputhur, with 14. Three sets have been received from transpersons in Mylapore and Madurai South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-than-6660-nominations-received/article34114213.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Placards prove handy in SC virtual hearings||Placards, which are used to convey powerful messages during protests, cheer sportspersons or give cues to actors, are making their presence felt in a new arena — the Supreme Court. In court, they act as silent referees, guiding lawyers — some of whom aren’t so tech-savvy — through often patchily connected virtual court hearings. With the virtual court system gaining more than a foothold in the judicial system lately, the placards are proving to be invaluable. Often lawyers presenting their arguments are seen but not heard by the judges during virtual hearings. At times, they are heard but not seen. On these occasions, the white-sleeved hand of an anonymous court staffer pops up at the bottom of the screen, holding a placard with a suitable message. From the simple “please unmute” in the first months of virtual hearings last year, there are now a number of placards, including “you are visible but not audible” and “you are audible but not visible”. The latest placard read: “Please pause your argument”. This comes up when judges suddenly go into a huddle while a lawyer is arguing. It’s not that lawyers don’t have a placard or two up their sleeve. Recently, a lawyer held up a placard saying: “Please unmute me”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/placards-prove-handy-in-sc-virtual-hearings/article34114302.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Telangana sees spike in cases||The State witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases on March 18. This is the first time in at least two months that the number of positive cases has breached the 300-mark.Page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-sees-spike-in-cases/article34114434.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC told to stop WhatsApp’s new privacy policy||The Centre on Friday asked the Delhi High Court to restrain WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy, which is likely to take effect from May 15. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), in an affidavit, said the policy was not in tune with the IT (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-told-to-stop-whatsapps-new-privacy-policy/article34114650.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra cuts office attendance||In the wake of rising cases, the Maharashtra government on Friday issued guidelines restricting attendance at private offices, except those in essential services, at 50%. The measures will be effective till March 31.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-cuts-office-attendance/article34114116.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Inoculation drive will be extended||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday asserted that there should not be any doubt regarding the efficacy and safety of the COVID-19 vaccines and informed the Lok Sabha that the vaccination drive will be extended soon.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inoculation-drive-to-be-extended/article34114117.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Subsidised sand for low-cost houses’||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R. Nirani on Friday informed the Legislative Assembly that the State government was planning to formulate a new sand policy to ensure supply of sand at a cost ranging from Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 per tonne for those constructing houses costing less than Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/subsidised-sand-for-low-cost-houses/article34114161.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||SIT records Jarkiholi’s statement||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) questioned and recorded the statement of the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in connection with the alleged CD scandal, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-records-jarkiholis-statement/article34114162.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre vetoes Delhi’s ration delivery scheme||The Centre has vetoed the Delhi government’s scheme for doorstep delivery of rations, which was set to include rice, wheat flour and sugar. “Foodgrains under National Food Security Act cannot be clubbed with State’s scheme,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-vetoes-delhis-ration-delivery-scheme/article34114304.ece
20 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Kolkata nearby||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the fear of free-thinking and confident critics makes the Bharatiya Janata Party keep them behind bars. He made an indirect reference to jailed activist and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, a critic of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act who is contesting the upcoming Assembly polls from jail. Interacting with college students in eastern Assam’s Lahowal, Mr. Gandhi said the BJP is scared of confidence in opponents and critics. The saffron party keeps such critics behind bars, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article34114573.ece
20 March 2021||new delhi,||HC rejects Mufti plea to stay ED summons||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to stay the summons issued to former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. The ED has now summoned Ms. Mufti for March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-mufti-plea-to-stay-ed-summons/article34114684.ece
20 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||SP, RLD back ‘social alliance’ in U.P. polls||In what could be seen as the beginning of of the campaign for the Assembly elections in 2022, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal vice president Jayant Chaudhary on Friday rooted for a ‘social alliance’ to oust the Bharatiya Janata Party from power in U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-rld-back-social-alliance-in-up-polls/article34114685.ece
20 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Schools, colleges closed in Punjab after surge||Amid rising cases of COVID-19, the Punjab government has announced State-wide restrictions beginning Saturday, with closure of educational institutions till March 31 and restrictions on entry to cinemas and malls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-colleges-closed-in-punjab-after-surge/article34114686.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Subsidised sand for homes costing less than Rs. 10 lakh’||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R. Nirani on Friday informed the Assembly that the State government was planning to formulate a new sand policy to ensure supply of sand at a cost ranging from Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 per tonne for those constructing houses costing less than Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/subsidised-sand-for-homes-costing-less-than-rs-10-lakh/article34114407.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Council proceedings washed out||Proceedings in the Legislative Council got washed out on Friday over alleged corruption in approving new nursing and allied health sciences colleges in the State, with JD(S) remaining adamant over their demand for a House committee probe, which was again rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/council-proceedings-washed-out/article34114408.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||SIT records Ramesh Jarkiholi’s statement||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) questioned and recorded the statement of former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in connection with the alleged CD scandal on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-records-ramesh-jarkiholis-statement/article34114409.ece
20 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||LDF manifesto balances growth and welfare||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) election manifesto released on Friday promised increased spending on social welfare, health and education. It pledged modernised transport and urban infrastructure, industrial corridors, high-speed rail connectivity, free housing for the poor, enhanced social welfare pensions, improved public services, better child and elderly care, rapid re-skilling of unemployed youth and creation of a knowledge-based world-class economy. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said reversing inequality, protecting secular and progressive values, defending federalism, raising the standard of living, and building a welfare State were the overarching political imperatives of the front. Pension for homemakers The front would increase monthly welfare pension from Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 2,500. An estimated 60 lakh persons would benefit. It would include homemakers in the expanded pension net. The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes would get free and modern housing. The LDF announced special schemes to rehabilitate Gulf returnees and further bolster the public distribution system. It promised 40 lakh new employment opportunities, a Rs. 5,000-crore coastal development package, welfare schemes for taxi and autorickshaw drivers, coir and agriculture workers, traditional seafaring fishers, toddy tappers and cashew workers. A 50% hike in farm wages is a key election promise. The manifesto emphasised the State's tourism potential. It projected future Kerala as a Mecca of liberal arts, a magnet for creative persons and an oasis of secular and progressive values. The LDF manifesto strived to shore up its core base while attempting to woo fence-voters as it approached a tight three-cornered electoral contest on April 6. The open-handed blend of increased social welfare benefits with stress on infrastructure development, reservation for economically disadvantaged forward community persons, resistance to majoritarian politics and strident opposition to the Centre's "trespasses" on to federalism lie at the heart of the LDF's election pitch. Other key LDF pledges included 18,000 new start-ups, an industrial investment totalling Rs. 10,000 crore, creation of an electronic and pharmaceutical hub, 60% increase in agriculture income, piped drinking water for households, universal broad-band Internet coverage at an affordable rate, women empowerment, emphasis on water transport, environment protection, insulating the State against the ravages of climate change and hunger, and corruption-free State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ldf-manifesto-balances-growth-and-welfare/article34114029.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘More tourists visiting Kashmir’||Tourist inflow in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has risen from over 3,700 persons in January 2020 to 19,000 persons in January 2021, Tourism Minister Prahalad Singh Patel informed the Rajya Sabha on Friday, during a debate on the working of his Ministry. Mr. Patel said the government would not change the goalpost of doubling the number of foreign tourists by 2024, despite the year 2020 being a “zero year” because of the COVID pandemic. “I want to thank the domestic tourists who supported Indian tourism in these testing times,” he said. Mr. Patel was responding to Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan’s statement that earlier, foreign tourists used to come to India to visit Jammu and Kashmir, but that changed because of the law and order situation there. She said there was a need to address this issue. Mr. Patel said: “Many members spoke about Jammu and Kashmir. Let me tell you in January 2020, J&K had only 3,000-odd tourists while in January 2021, nearly 19,000 tourists went there.” He was only referring to domestic tourists. He also said that after the Tourism Ministry’s meetings with the Hindi film industry, 26 films were currently being shot in the Union Territory. Mr. Patel also countered the criticism that the government did not come forward to help the tourism sector. ‘More hotels listed’ “Whenever any stakeholder has asked us for help, we have come forward. Now let me tell you, that till recently, the Tourism Ministry only had a list of 1,400 hotels. Can anyone believe that India has only 1,400 hotels? Because of our efforts during the pandemic, now 39,000 hotels have been registered on our portal,” he said. He said the current vaccine export from India would vastly improve the country’s image. “Despite the fact that 2020 was a zero year, I will not change the target set by PM Modi to double the number of foreign tourists coming to India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-tourists-visiting-kashmir/article34114054.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Not required to vaccinate all: Vardhan||Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that there should be no doubt regarding the efficacy and safety of the two vaccines being administered in India and informed the Lok Sabha that the COVID-19 vaccination drive will be extended in the coming days. In a separate written reply, the Minister also said studies had shown that children in the age group of 0-14 were less affected by COVID-19. Replying to a question by Congress leader Ravneet Bittu on apprehensions being expressed regarding the vaccines, Dr. Vardhan said India had vaccinated close to four crore people and so far, the side effects of the vaccines had been recorded at 0.000432%. “There should not be any misconception regarding the COVID-19 vaccines and the people should avail the facilities given by the government and get themselves vaccinated.” the Minister said. He added that the current process was a result of the efforts put in by the people in the Ministry under the direction of the Prime Minister. To another question from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule about universal immunisation against COVID-19, the Minister said it was not scientifically necessary to vaccinate every person. “Every vaccine doesn’t require universal immunisation and all these priority groups whom we are vaccinating today like healthcare staff first and then senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 years, it will be extended in the coming days — all these are based on experts’ opinion,” Dr. Vardhan said, adding that vaccination was a dynamic process just like the knowledge about the virus. Experts on the job He said there was a well-defined group of experts called the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC) which decided on the priority groups based on scientific parameters. Replying to question on thalassemia patients by BJP MP Maneka Gandhi, Dr. Vardhan said not a single thalassemia patient was deprived of blood during the COVID-19 pandemic period and it was given free of cost to these patients. In response to a written question on the government’s COVID treatment plan for children in the age group of zero to 14, he said infection among children was mild and most of them remain asymptomatic. “Hence no specific action plan has been formulated in the current response phase to minimise the adverse effects of COVID-19 on such children,” Dr. Vardhan said in the written reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-required-to-vaccinate-all-vardhan/article34114067.ece
20 March 2021||Kolkata,||The road to the Matua vote is through Dhaka||On March 27, the first day of polling in West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be paying obeisance to Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect, in Orakandi in Bangladesh. The Matua Dalits who shifted to West Bengal from East Bengal, that is now Bangladesh, are at the centre of the BJP’s politics around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA). They constitute one-fifth of the State’s Scheduled Caste population and can influence the outcome in around 40 Assembly seats. The BJP hopes that the Prime Minister’s visit will be the wind in its West Bengal sails. Santanu Thakur, MP from Bongaon and a Matua leader, who will be accompanying Mr. Modi to Bangladesh, said, “We are happy that the Prime Minister is visiting Orakandi, which is sacred to the Matuas. We are proud of the development.” An Ambedkarite section fears a backlash against the community in Bangladesh, and even suggests it may not be unintended. “There are nearly a crore Matuas in Bangladesh today. The Prime Minister’s visit will put them at the risk of violence by Islamists, and I guess that is what the BJP wants. They can then campaign on the Hindu-Muslim agenda in West Bengal,” said Sharadendu Biswas, Matua activist and director of the Jai Bhim India Network. ‘Not refugees’ Taking the campaign across the International Border that divides Bengalis on religious lines could help the BJP in the election, but it also proves the futility of the CAA as an instrument of appeasing the Matuas, according to Mr. Biswas. “Orakandi is our sacred place, which is not in India. But India is also our land. Matuas resent the use of the term refugees. We are not refugees here,” said Mr. Biswas. With the community still continuing cross-border connections that are religious and social, the BJP’s idea of a rigid border between the two countries is threatening for the Matuas. “We are for soft borders that allow communications amongst us, though we are divided between two countries.” “As far as the sealing of the borders between West Bengal and Bangladesh goes, we have not heard about any such proposal and I cannot comment in advance. It is a thing of future,” Mr. Thakur said. East Bengal became East Pakistan in 1947 on the basis of religious nationalism; in 1971 it became Bangladesh on the basis of linguistic nationalism. On both occasions millions of people crossed the border. The birth of Bangladesh unravelled the two-nation theory on the one hand, but subsequent developments pushed more non-Muslims out of the country. Immigrants from Bangladesh did not think anything amiss in India until 2003, when the then BJP government amended the Citizenship Act, 1955 to insert a definition of an “illegal migrant”, who could be jailed or deported. The Matuas rose in protest. The BJP promised the new CAA that made a distinction between Hindus and Muslims who had crossed over. “The Matuas were very excited at the beginning. But gradually they began to realise that gaining citizenship under the 2019 CAA would be a demeaning process — accept that you are illegal, declare that you were persecuted etc.,” said Mr. Biswas. Mamata’s stand Meanwhile, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee declared that Matuas were already Indian citizens and they needed no new law — she continues to maintain that position. Matua leaders in non-BJP parties demand that all those who were on the voter list in 2019 should be considered citizens without any further process. Faced with questions on its implementation, the BJP has gone silent on the CAA in 2021. Home Minister Amit Shah has said rules will be notified in due time. Non-BJP parties also don’t talk about the CAA — as any criticism of it is widely seen as Muslim appeasement. The BJP is committed to implementation of CAA, said Mr. Thakur. “The Centre alone can assure its implementation. It does not matter what the Trinamool Congress says. The Centre has assured the implementation of the CAA and we are hopeful of its implementation.” Limited options The BJP has tied itself in a knot over its citizenship politics, but Matuas have limited options. Being victims of Islamism, a large segment of them find Hindutva appealing. Many of them also resent Ms. Banerjee’s pandering to Muslims. Matua politics of the BJP is premised on the view that India is the natural homeland for all Hindus. They still can have their sacred sites across the political borders of India, Mr. Modi’s planned visit to Orakandi suggests.  (With inputs from   Shiv Sahay Singh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-road-to-the-matua-vote-is-through-dhaka/article34114003.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||MSME sector flags infra issues||When asked about the issues they expect to be settled after the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, entrepreneurs and companies say the one sector that has been constantly suffering because of both the State and the Centre is the MSME sector. As per the data provided in the recently launched MSME policy, the State has around 23.60 lakh registered enterprises providing employment opportunities to about 151.61 lakh people with a total investment of Rs. 2,73,241 crore. “Since the 2015 [Chennai] floods, things have not worked well for the sector. [Machinery was marooned then.] There were mounting losses and debts and non-availability of proper financial help from the government. GST was also a concern, but that has nothing to do with the State government,” said a veteran industrialist requesting anonymity. Representatives from many industrial estates said infrastructure should be the top priority of the government. When IT parks and SEZs can have good roads, why not the roads leading to MSMEs, they asked. K.E. Raghunathan, convener of the Consortium of Indian Associations, said any support could be extended only with the right data on the number of existing MSMEs and on employment of both formal and informal workers, which are not available. “Also, the State government should control or regulate or support MSMEs against the huge raw material price increase in the last six months and also safeguard the interest of exporters using the RoDTEP scheme, which is yet to formulate rates for this year,” Mr. Raghunathan said. Power cuts R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Tirumazhisai Industrial Estate, said that there had been unscheduled power cuts and poor quality of power. He pointed out that there were no substations or proper roads or an effective storm water drainage and adequate sewage treatment plants. Many MSME units in Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai said skilling and training had really not helped the sector. Even now there was a huge shortage of labour, they said. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said payments for orders catering to PSUs or government departments should be released to MSMEs within a month or 45 days. Smaller units in the sector said banks had never been considerate with them and most Central schemes did not reach them .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/msme-sector-flags-infra-issues/article34114000.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||New IT rules target digital news producers, says plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre to respond to a petition challenging the new Information Technology rules which seek to regulate digital news media. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh asked the Ministries of Electronics and Information Technology and Information and Broadcasting to submit their responses on the plea by April 16, the next date of hearing. The petition filed by Quint Digital Media Ltd. has been tagged with a similar petition filed earlier by the Foundation for Independent Journalism and The Wire news portal. The latest petition has challenged the constitutional validity of the IT Rules under the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000. “The present petition challenges the IT Rules, 2021 only in so far as they affect digital news portals, and is not with reference to ‘publishers of online curated content’, that it, OTT media platforms or any other entities sought to be regulated by the impugned Rules,” the plea said. Vague conditions It said the new rules purport to apply to “publishers of news and current affairs content” as part of digital media, and consequently regulate these entities under the Rules by imposing government oversight and a Code of Ethics which stipulates such vague conditions as “good taste”, “decency” and prohibition of “half-truths”. “Creating a differential classification by way of subordinate legislation, when not contemplated by the parent IT Act, is an overreach by itself and this has been done to specifically target digital news portals, by subjecting them to an unprecedented regulatory burden and state interference, which no other form of news publication is subject to,” the petition said. The petitioners said they bring out a wholly digital news and current affairs publication called The Quint and are directly impacted by the new IT Rules, which is also an overreach by subordinate legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-it-rules-target-digital-news-producers-says-plea/article34114047.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID may have doubled poverty in India||India’s middle class may have shrunk by a third due to 2020’s pandemic-driven recession, while the number of poor people — earning less than Rs. 150 per day — more than doubled, according to an analysis by the Pew Research Center. In comparison, Chinese incomes remained relatively unshaken, with just a 2% drop in the middle class population, it found. The report, released on Thursday, uses World Bank projections of economic growth to estimate the impact of COVID-19 on Indian incomes. The lockdown triggered by the pandemic resulted in shut businesses, lost jobs and falling incomes, plunging the Indian economy into a deep recession. China managed to avoid a contraction, although growth slowed, the report said. “The middle class in India is estimated to have shrunk by 3.2 crore in 2020 as a consequence of the downturn, compared with the number it may have reached absent the pandemic,” said the report, defining the middle class as people with incomes of approximately Rs. 700-1,500 or $10-20 per day. NREGA demand up “Meanwhile, the number of people who are poor in India (with incomes of $2 or less a day) is estimated to have increased by 7.5 crore because of the COVID-19 recession. This accounts for nearly 60% of the global increase in poverty,” the report added, estimating an increase from almost 6 crore to 13.4 crore poor people. It also noted the record spike in MGNREGA participants as proof that the poor were struggling to find work. The vast majority of India’s population fall into the low income tier, earning about Rs. 150 to 700 per day. Pew’s projections suggest this group shrank from 119.7 crore to 116.2 crore per day, with about 3.5 crore dropping below the poverty line.  The middle income group is likely to have decreased from almost 10 crore to just 6.6 crore, while the richer population who earn more than Rs. 1,500 a day also fell almost 30% to 1.8 crore people.  Pew warned that the situation may actually be worse than estimated. “The methodology in this analysis assumes that incomes change at the same rate for all people,” it said. “If the COVID-19 recession has worsened inequality, the increase in the number of poor is likely greater than estimated in this analysis. The middle class may have shrunk by more than projected,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-may-have-doubled-poverty-in-india/article34114069.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Railways to ensure women’s safety||Rattled by a surge in incidents of crimes against women passengers, the Indian Railways have rolled out an elaborate security plan to ensure safety of women on their premises. Of the 23 million passengers who travel in trains across the railway network everyday, about 4.6 million are women passengers. A majority of complaints from women related to molestation, eve teasing, harassment, and unauthorised entry of male passengers in coaches reserved for women, among others. “In suburban railway networks such as Mumbai, women passengers are victims of shoving, objectionable touching, groping, bullying etc. In addition, women become victims of chain/mobile snatching, handbag lifting and other instances of thefts of luggage. In the recent past, a surge in incidents of crime against women (including rape) in trains and railway premises has been a major area of concern,” Arun Kumar, Director-General, Railway Protection Force (RPF), said in a note sent to all Principal Chief Security Commissioners of Zonal Railways early this month. Asking RPF personnel to coordinate with the State Railway Police and create a database of criminals involved in crimes against women, Mr. Kumar called for a short and long-term security strategy to ensure safety of women on railway premises. Adequate number of surveillance cameras and Light Masts covering vulnerable locations in railway stations, yards, parking areas, ends of platforms, etc., would deter criminals, he noted. ‘Lock empty trains’ Mr. Kumar said empty trains should be locked before being moved to yards for washing. While apprehending unauthorised persons or those found to be under the influence of alcohol on railway premises, he said exemplary action should be taken against railway staff involved in such offences. The RPF Director-General said the Railways was providing free Internet to passengers and steps should be taken in coordination with service providers to ensure denial of access to porn sites. Passengers in distress can dial 182, the Railway helpline operational round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-to-ensure-womens-safety/article34114074.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘BJP is going to find it difficult to win even one seat in Kerala’||There may be factionalism within the Congress but the various factions always come together to fight an election, says senior Congress leader and MP from Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor . He speaks about his hopes of a possible turnaround of the UDF’s electoral prospects in the Kerala Assembly election, why the BJP cannot succeed in the State, and the G-23. Edited excerpts:  The opinion polls suggest that the CPI(M)-led LDF is sweeping the polls in Kerala. Your comments? These opinion polls are unreliable. As the British Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, famously said, “a week is a long time in politics” and we have almost four weeks to go before voting. Even the most recent polls were taken a few weeks ago. So, I believe that between the weeks that the polls were taken and the weeks remaining for the campaign, this election is going to turn around and the UDF will win. Recently P.C. Chacko quit the Congress, blaming factionalism in the party’s Kerala unit. Isn’t this factionalism dragging the Congress down? P.C. Chacko is a very respected former colleague. But he is a former NCP leader and he has now done ‘ghar wapsi’ to the NCP. On the question of factionalism, it is a bane of all partiesand we may not be exempt from our share. But the factions have always come together when it comes to fighting elections. What is interesting about the Congress is that whatever factions there are, they sink their differences and work unitedly for the victory of the party and the UDF. The LDF has Brand Pinarayi, while the UDF doesn’t have any chief ministerial face. Aren’t you going into the election with a handicap? I don’t think so. When there is an incumbent Chief Minister, that person de facto becomes the brand leader. In the previous elections, the CPI(M) too did not have a chief ministerial face. The Congress traditionally does not project a chief ministerial candidate, particularly when there is no incumbent. The good thing is that we have a galaxy of leaders to choose from and so many people of such outstanding talent. We all know who our senior-most leaders are and I would assure you that the voters will know who they want when they pick the victors. The BJP has been making every effort to expand its presence in Kerala. How do you see the BJP’s poll prospects? I think the BJP is going to find it difficult to even manage its record success of winning one seat out of 140. Even that one seat, Nemom, will be difficult to hold, especially since both the Congress and the CPI(M) have put up strong candidates there. But I will say that the BJP’s overall credibility may have reached its plateau. It has gone, over the last 15 years, from being a 6% party to being a 15% party. I think it may have explored the limits of what may be possible. I would be somewhat sceptical that there will be much more of an increase, largely because the ethos of Kerala is different from that of north India, where the BJP has shaped its communal strategy, its polarisation tactics. It has an effective organisation and lots of money. But money and muscle do not alone win you an election. You need to be able to appeal to the sentiments of the voters. The BJP’s ethos is at variance with the sentiments of Kerala public, which is largely free of bigotry. There were speculation about you going to contest the Kerala Assembly election. Have you been considering embracing State politics? I did not seek it. I have a job here and I am content with the role I am playing in Parliament both as an MP of the Congress and Chairman of the IT Standing Committee. I tend to see my political orientation largely as national and international. But nonetheless if the party were to ask anything of me, I would not say no in the interest of the party and Kerala. But I did not seek it and indeed the party did not ask me. So, here I am. You were one of the 23 leaders, now known as the G-23, who wrote to Congress President Sonia Gandhi. But since then you seem to have taken a step back from the group. You were not seen in the recent public meeting addressed by some members of the G-23 in Jammu, where many belligerent comments were made against the party’s central leadership. Why is that? I couldn’t go to Jammu. In any case, I was in Kerala conducting manifesto consultations and I couldn’t have been anywhere else. The G-23 is not some sort of organisation that the media has concocted; it is a group of like-minded Congress leaders who are talking about strengthening the Congress. Apart from myself, every other person that I am aware of in the group has openly said that they want to work for the victory of the Congress in these five State elections. I don’t see any contradictions between them and the Congress leadership or between them and me. If people like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari are saying that they want to see the victory of the Congress in these five State elections and I am actually going to the State to which I belong and represent in Parliament in order to work for that victory, what is the contradiction? I am not disowning anybody. I have not made any belligerent comments. I want the party to be stronger.  I believe that between the weeks that the [opinion] polls were taken and the weeks remaining for the campaign, this election is going to turn around and the UDF will win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-is-going-to-find-it-difficult-to-win-even-one-seat-in-kerala/article34114005.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||TB detection in Karnataka takes a hit||Ahead of the World Tuberculosis (TB) Day on March 24, Karnataka’sTB detection has taken a beating due to short supply of cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification technique (CBNATT) test kits. The State usually requires 20,000 CBNAAT cartridges every month, but has a stock of a mere 5,845 as on Friday. The diagnostic kits supplied every quarter to States by the Central TB Division have not been dispatched to Karnataka after December 10, 2020. The State has 65 CBNAAT and 98 Truenat machines spread across districts. Truenat is another chip-based, point-of-care, rapid molecular test for TB diagnosis. Although the State has a stock of 1,27,000 Truenat chips, this facility is either not available in some districts or is limited to a few centres. Diagnosis in Bengaluru Urban has been severely hit owing to the lack of Truenat machines. While health officials said testing and detection of new TB cases was going on, they admitted that the State had not received CBNAAT cartridges after December 10. Attributing this to logistical issues, State Joint Director (TB) Ramesh Chandra Reddy told The Hindu on Friday that supply for all States is through the Central TB Division. “We have reminded the CTD that we need more stocks and they have assured us that they will dispatch shortly. We require around 20,000 cartridges monthly and nearly 2.5 lakh annually. The delay is due to logistical issues faced at the central level,” he said. TB is a preventable and curable airborne disease, which affects the lungs and includes symptoms of cough for more than two weeks, night sweats, fever, loss of appetite and weight. Extra pulmonary TB, includes swelling of lymph nodes, and affects the abdomen, kidney and other organs. TB and COVID-19 The country is now four years away from the 2025 TB elimination target. The COVID-19 pandemic has hit screening and detection of new cases, mainly because TB and COVID-19 have similar clinical symptoms. In 2020, Karnataka failed to reach its TB notifications target set at beginning of the year. Of the target of 1.35 lakh, only 65,929 TB notifications were received in 2020. There was a 28% drop in notifications, in comparison with 2019, according to the Centre’s Nikshay portal. Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor and activist, pointed out that the pandemic and unplanned lockdown has, in fact, been a major setback to many of the national health programs.“Due to lack of public transport during the lockdown and also with many healthcare facilities converted into dedicated COVID-19 centres, we can expect multi-drug resistant TB cases to rise, which will be a setback for the national TB program,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tb-detection-in-karnataka-takes-a-hit/article34114164.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Close Bengaluru gyms, party halls, pools: BBMP||The number of COVID-19 cases detected in Bengaluru on Friday shot up to 1,037. With the city accounting for 65% of cases in Karnataka, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has sought for restrictions to be imposed again. Civic officials are planning to recommend that the State government close open air gyms in parks, regular gyms, swimming pools and party or community halls in apartments to stem the spread of the virus. It also plans to suggest reduced occupancy in film theatres. Speaking to reporters on Friday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that five zones – East, West, South, Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli – were reporting more than 100 cases a day. In comparison, the number of cases is fewer in Rajarajeshwarinagar, Dasarahalli and Yelahanka zones. “In light of the increase in cases, we have already had preliminary discussions with the Chief Secretary, Additional Chief Secretary and officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare. We will recommend closure of gyms, swimming pools and party/community halls in apartments, apart from closure of open air gyms in all BBMP parks,” he said. Admitting that there was no data on the number of cases that could be attributed to the closed setting of cinema theatres, Mr. Prasad said that the civic body would recommend bringing down the occupancy to 50% with alternate seats left vacant.  The BBMP will also monitor and strictly enforce guest restrictions in marriage halls (200 people) and open air venues (500 people). If there is any violation, cases will be booked under Disaster Management Act on those who had sought permission for the event and the owners of marriage halls. Mr. Prasad also reiterated that it is the responsibility of mall management and owners of shops in malls to ensure that citizens follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance, and sanitising and washing of hands. “Marshals cannot go everywhere to enforce this. Random checks will be conducted and if there are any violations, action will be taken against mall management and shop owners,” he said. The civic chief also noted that exhibitions being held in the city, especially those where the organisers are from other cities, are not following protocols. “We will initiate action against the organisers and hold them responsible,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/close-bengaluru-gyms-party-halls-pools-bbmp/article34114042.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 6,400 nominations received in Tamil Nadu||Friday being the last day for the filing of nominations for the April 6 Assembly election, 6,438 sets of nominations (as of 10 p.m.) were received by the Election Commission. Of them, 959 nominations have been received from women and and three from transperson candidates. As usual, several candidates of major parties have filed multiple nominations for contingency. The total number is expected to go down after Monday, following scrutiny, rejection and withdrawal. For the 2016 Assembly election, 6,627 sets of nominations had been received. Of them, 719 sets had been from women candidates and four from members of the third gender. After scrutiny, rejection and withdrawal, 3,728 candidates had contested in all 234 seats. Karur witnessed the highest number of nominations received -- 91. Mettur in Salem district and Kangeyam in Tiruppur district followed with 73 and 58 nomination sets respectively. In the Edappadi Assembly constituency in Salem district, where AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is contesting, 29 sets of nominations have been filed. Mr. Palaniswami has filed four sets himself. In Bodinayakanur Assembly constituency, 51 sets have been received including three from the AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam.  DMK president DMK president and Leader of the Opposition in the House M.K. Stalin has filed four sets of nominations in Kolathur Assembly constituency, which has received a total of 55 nominations. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan filed his nomination in the Katpadi Assembly constituency, where 22 sets of nominations have been received. Mettur in Salem district received the highest number of nominations from women candidates -- 19 followed by Srivilliputhur which received 14 sets from women candidates. Three sets of nominations have been received from transpersons in Mylapore and Madurai South Assembly constituencies. As for the bypoll for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency scheduled on April 6, 19 sets of nominations have been received, including eight from independent candidates. One woman candidate has filed her papers for this bypoll. The nominations received for the general elections in 234 Assembly constituencies and the bypoll in Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency would be scrutinised on March 20 i.e. Saturday. The last date for withdrawal of candidatures, if they wish to, is on March 22 (Monday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-6400-nominations-received-in-tamil-nadu/article34114166.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||LS passes MMDR amendment Bill||The Lok Sabha on Friday passed a Bill to amend the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act (MMDR Act) through a voice vote, with Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi stating that the amendments will create jobs and allow private players with enhanced technology into the mining sector. “The reform in the mining sector would generate 55 lakh direct and indirect jobs. To enhance mining activity, we will allow the private sector with enhanced technology in mineral exploration,”Mr. Joshi told the Lok Sabha while moving the Bill. He said India produces 95 minerals and has same potential like South Africa and Australia but the mining sector was under-explored and India still had to import minerals like gold and coal. The Minister said the mining sector right now contributes 1.75% to the country’s GDP but the proposed reforms will raise the contribution to 2.5% as it seeks to make a large number of mines available for auctions by resolving legacy issues. Mr. Joshi said the Bill removes the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and seeks to introduce an index-based mechanism by developing a National Mineral Index (NMI) for statutory payments. The National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET), to see the functioning of the sector, will be made an autonomous body. ‘Exclude tribal areas’ Taking part in the debate, Congress MP Vincent Pala asked why the Mines and Minerals Bill was being amended every year and said either the officials of the Ministry were incompetent or some lobby was at work. He asked the government asked to exclude tribal areas under the Sixth Schedule. “We are not against mining operations but we are against the way the hasty auctions which you are doing,” S.S. Ulaka, another Congress MP said. He suggested that a joint committee that included tribal members of Parliament, those from mining areas, besides oficials from the ministries of Tribal Affairs ministry, Environment and Forest ministry and Mines Ministry should be formed. Extending his support to the Bill, Biju Janata Dal MP, Pinaki Misra said the Mines Ministry and the Environment Ministry should work in synergy to promote the growth of the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-passes-mmdr-amendment-bill/article34114052.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. questions Global Hunger Index method||Union Minister of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala, in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, questioned the methodology and data accuracy of the Global Hunger Index (GHI) report, which has placed India at 94th out of 107 countries in 2020. Mr. Rupala claimed that children considered healthy were also counted to determine the ranking. The Minister said that the government had written to NGO Welthungerhilfe, which compiles the report, expressing concerns about their methodology, data accuracy and sample size and was yet to hear from them. Mr. Rupala was responding to a question by Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party who pointed out that the Minister’s written reply showed that India’s ranking had improved from 102 in 2019 to 94 in 2020. Mr. Singh sought to know why India was ranked below countries such as Nepal, Bangladesh and Myanmar, when it was among top 10 food-producing countries in the world. Mr. Rupala said, “Some NGO in the world has done the survey. We have asked them on what basis have you reached this conclusion? They have not replied yet. Whenever a street dog gives birth in our village, even though it bites, our women provide them with sheera (sweet dish). So, in a country where such a tradition exists when an NGO comes and releases such a report about our children, we should not be sensitive to such reports. As far as these surveys are concerned, even healthy and strong children are counted... there should be awareness in society, our dynamic minister Smriti [Irani] ji has started a jan andolan, and 13 crore events have been done.” In a written reply, the Ministry stated that according to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-4, the percentage of wasted, stunted and malnourished children in 2015-16 stood at 21, 38.4 and 35.7, respectively. It said that compared to NFHS-4 data, the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (CNNS) of 2017-18 showed an improvement of 4%, 3.7% and 2.3% in wasted, stunted and malnourished children respectively. The first-ever CNNS was commissioned by the government in 2016 and was conducted from 2016-18, led by the Union Health Ministry, in collaboration with the UNICEF. The findings were published in 2019. CNNS includes only nutrition data, whereas NFHS encompasses overall health indicators. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that 10 lakh children were malnourished in the country. According to the GHI website, the data for the indicators come from United Nations and other multilateral agencies, including the World Health Organisation and the World Bank. GHI is a peer-reviewed annual report, jointly published by Concern Worldwide, an Ireland-based humanitarian group, and Welthungerhilfe, a Germany-based NGO, designed to comprehensively measure and track hunger at the global, regional, and country levels. It says the aim of publishing the report is to trigger action to reduce hunger around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-questions-global-hunger-index-method/article34114057.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra cuts office attendance by 50%||In the wake of rising cases of COVID-19, the Maharashtra government on Friday issued guidelines restricting attendance at private offices, except those in health and other essential services, at 50%. The measures will be effective till March 31. As per the guidelines issued by the State government, no drama halls and auditoriums can be used for religious, social, political or cultural programmes. Any violation of rules will lead to closure of the said establishments. All drama theatres and auditoriums would operate at 50% capacity only. The government, while restricting 50% attendance in private establishments has, however, exempted the manufacturing sector. The owners will have to ensure compliance with safety norms. Meanwhile, a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray stressed on the need to increase daily vaccinations to three lakh, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said it had set an aim of vaccinating one lakh citizens in the next 45 days. Considering the rise in the number of patients, the civic body has asked all government and private hospitals to make preparations of beds as in July 2020. Directions have been issued to ensure availability of beds, oxygen, and ICU beds. BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal urged private hospitals to ensure that at least 1,000 eligible citizens were vaccinated every day. Mumbai is registering around 2,500 fresh cases every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cuts-office-attendance-by-50/article34114061.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||AIIMS to study effect of Gayatri Mantra, pranayama||The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has funded a clinical trial at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, to determine if the chanting of the Gayatri Mantra, a religious hymn, and performing the Yoga practice of pranayama, can aid the quality of recovery as well as cure COVID-19 quicker in a subset of patients. The clinical trial, formally registered with the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) clinical trial registry (a compulsory requirement for human trials), aims to recruit 20 COVID-19 patients with “moderate symptoms”. Divided into two groups, one will get the standard treatment and the other, along with the standard treatment, will be subject to a regimen of chanting and breathing exercises for 14 days, supervised by a certified yoga instructor. Then the groups will be compared on whether those who have received the additional treatment show measurably improved markers for inflammation or cell-injury. Among the causes for severe COVID-19 is an exaggerated reaction by the body’s immune systems to the presence of the virus, which leads to severe cellular inflammation and damage that can prove fatal. While several experimental therapies exist, there is yet no specific drug proven to improve health outcomes. The latest study, however, will not test the effect of the intervention on severely ill patients. It will evaluate whether there are differences in the groups on the time taken to test negative, and the length of hospital stay. They will also be evaluated on whether they have reduced fatigue and anxiety disorder. Dr. Ruchi Dua, pulmonologist and Associate Professor at AIIMS, told The Hindu that recruitment for the study had already begun. She had applied for funding from the DST in a response to an open call for applications to fund projects to develop COVID-19 relevant therapies, drugs and interventions. She has been funded with Rs. 3 lakh for conducting the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiims-to-study-effect-of-gayatri-mantra-pranayama/article34114063.ece
20 March 2021||Patna,||Bihar cancels leaves of doctors and health workers till April 5||With the COVID-19 cases gradually rising in Bihar and an apprehension of a second wave of the pandemic, the State Health Department cancelled leaves of all doctors and health workers till April 5 with immediate effect. Earlier on Wednesday, following an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had said that “situation in Bihar is under control but we should be careful”. The Health Department has cancelled leaves of all medical officers, principals, superintendents, doctors, nurses, paramedical staffs and other technicians and assistants in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases and apprehension of a second wave of the pandemic in the State. Health workers on leave have been asked to report to duty as soon as possible. However, those on maternity and study leave have been excluded from the purview of the order. “The leaves of doctors and health workers have been cancelled to maintain special vigil and surveillance to contain the spread of the second wave of the pandemic,” said the order issued by Health Department Joint Secretary Anil Kumar. Govt. alert: CM Earlier on March 17, following an interaction with the Prime Minister on COVID-19 situation across the country, Mr. Kumar had said, “Bihar government is alert and has decided to increase the number of daily COVID-19 tests.” “We’ll soon hold a meeting at district level too on the situation of COVID-19 and it has been decided to take the number of daily tests to 70,000 again,” he said. He added, “Since Holi is around the corner, people will be visiting the State from different places. We have to be careful.” The State government has already made mandatory for those travelling to Bihar from the States of Kerala, Punjab and Maharashtra to provide their RT-PCR test report. “Passengers without a report will be required to undergo a rapid antigen test upon arrival and anyone testing positive will be sent to isolation centres,” said the order. New cases As many as 107 new cases were reported in the State by Thursday. So far, Bihar has reported 2,63,265 COVID-19 cases with 1,555 deaths and a recovery rate of 99.26% .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-cancels-leaves-of-doctors-and-health-workers-till-april-5/article34114308.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘LDF’s wrongdoings’ to figure in UDF manifesto||The United Democratic Front (UDF) will put forward in its manifesto an action plan to repair all that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has destroyed in the past five years, UDF convener M.M. Hassan has said. Speaking at ‘Janavidhi 2021’ organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists here on Friday, he said Kerala needed a government that would work for its development and protect the faith of believers of all religions. The UDF’s manifesto would be released on Saturday. “Across Kerala, we have seen corruption in the garb of development. Atrocities against women and children have increased and the government has protected the accused,” Mr. Hassan said. Accusing the CPI(M) of having an unholy nexus with the BJP with the sole aim of coming back to power, he accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of being silent on the allegation. He dared Mr. Vijayan to file a defamation case against RSS ideologue R. Balashankar if his claims regarding the BJP-CPI(M) nexus were false. However, Mr. Hassan dismissed BJP MLA O. Rajagopal’s comments on an electoral understanding between the Congress, the Indian Union Muslim League, and the BJP to defeat the Left. He said there was not much to read into the shifting of some Congress leaders to the BJP, saying that none of them was contesting in the election as BJP candidate, while some local leaders of the Left were. Mr. Hassan said Mr.Vijayan’s statement that the government would take a stance on women’s entry to Sabarimala only after the final verdict of the Supreme Court was meant to fool the people. He asked whether the LDF was ready to file a revised affidavit in the court regarding this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ldfs-wrongdoings-to-figure-in-udf-manifesto/article34114510.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||LS passes Bill on Devendrakula Vellalars||The Lok Sabha on Friday passed The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to put seven castes under one nomenclature of “Devendrakula Vellalars” with some exceptions for some of the castes in certain districts of Tamil Nadu. The castes include Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan, Kalladi, Kudumban, Pallan, Pannadi and Vathiriyan. Not a single MP from Tamil Nadu was present in the Lok Sabha when the Bill was debated and passed. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier accepted a recommendation of a committee to reclassify the seven sub sects under the generic name ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ and forwarded it to the Centre. Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot said the change in nomenclature was a long pending demand of the community and did not involve either the deletion or addition of any community in its ambit. He also said the reason why a whole new addition was not made to the Scheduled Castes list and specific caste names previously given to these seven castes were being mentioned in the bracket was to ensure that old caste certificates issued to these communities under the old name not be rejected. The Opposition, while supporting the Bill, pointed out that the government was acting on the demand only because elections were on in Tamil Nadu. “I have gone through the files of this case and the demand has been there for a while, and should have been expedited, but the government dragged its feet just to time it with elections,” said Congress MP Amar Singh.  Rahul Shewale of the Shiv Sena demanded a “proactive” approach from the Union government on the issue of Maratha reservation and breaching the 50% cap on reservation set by the Supreme Court in the Indira Sawhney case. Mr. Gehlot in his reply said it was the Maharashtra government that had moved an appeal in the Supreme Court in the case and the Centre was neither a party to the case nor had its opinion been sought by the Supreme Court. BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi commended the Bill as being related to the self respect of the Devendrakula Vellalar community who had been in ancient times, warriors and agriculturists and had gradually lost their status over time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-passes-bill-on-devendrakula-vellalars/article34114024.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Andhra Pradesh has made huge investment on Pattiseema project’||The expert witness appearing for Telangana before the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT-II) in the ongoing hearing for re-allocation of water between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Ghanshyam Jha, has submitted that Andhra Pradesh has made huge investment on Pattiseema lift and drawing over 100 tmc ft of water every year and the facts establish the apprehension that it is permanent. Pattaiseema lift was taken up by the Andhra Pradesh Government in 2015, completed in 2016 and functioning from 2017 Kharif season “with an objective to supplement water to the Krishna Delta and the upland areas of Krishna and West Godavari district till the completion of Polavaram project (its right canal)”. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report of 2017 faulted the Andhra Pradesh Government for not taking necessary clearances for Pattiseema from the Central Water Commission (CWC) as per the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act since it is linking the two inter-state rivers. The CAG had also observed that its (Pattiseema’s) lifetime would only be three years as per AP’s calculation. Mr. Jha, a former Chairman of the CWC, was cross-examined by senior counsel appearing on behalf of Andhra Pradesh R. Venkatarami before the full tribunal – chaired by Justice Brijesh Kumar and Members Justice Rammohan Reddy and Justice S. Talapatra – in New Delhi on Friday mostly on diversions of Godavari river, Polavaram project and Pattiseema lift irrigation scheme. The AP’s counsel drew the attention of Mr. Jha to various documents like GO 1 and 200 of the AP Government and letter written to the Centre by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister in September 2015 stating that Pattiseema is a temporary scheme and it will be non-functional once the Polavaram project is completed. However, the Telangana’s witness countered the view by quoting a question (545) raised in Lok Sabha in 2015 wherein it was mentioned that Pattiseema was not part of Polavaram and water drawals made by AP were over 100 tmc ft every year. The Telangana’s witness also expressed his apprehension before the tribunal that as huge investment was made in the project (Pattiseema), it would not be discontinued. Chairman of the tribunal Justice Brijesh Kumar intervened and observed that some clarity is missing in the letter written by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister in September 2015 and GO 1. The Andhra Pradesh’s counsel also cross-examined Mr. Jha drawing his attention to several questions placed at Andhra Pradesh’s witnesses M. Visveswar Rao and K.V. Subba Rao earlier – in the previous sittings of the tribunal. Mr. Jha also asserted that a project project can’t be taken up without approvals just because Polavaram project is delayed. The tribunal Chairman intervened and suggested the Andhra Pradesh’s counsel not to put questions to the witness by placing reliance on the questions and replies of Andhra Pradesh’s witnesses. The tribunal postponed the next hearing, continuation of the cross-examination of Mr. Jha, to April 28 to 30. Senior advocate V. Ravinder Rao, advocate on record Nikhil Swami, engineers R. Koteswar Rao, S. Vijay Kumar, K. Venkata Narayana and others attended the proceedings on behalf of Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/andhra-pradesh-has-made-huge-investment-on-pattiseema-project/article34114689.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Centre asks Delhi HC to stop WhatsApp’s new privacy policy||The Centre on Friday asked the Delhi High Court to restrain WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy, which is likely to take effect from May 15. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), in an affidavit, said the policy was not in tune with the IT (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011. “Notably, the rules require a body corporate who collects, stores or otherwise deals with data to issue a privacy policy providing for certain safeguards, in addition to imposing various other obligations. The impugned privacy policy violates the 2011 Rules..,” MeitY said. The Ministry said WhatsApp’s policy “fails to specify types of sensitive personal data being collected”. “Crucially, there is no distinction between personal data or sensitive personal data which is being collected,” the Ministry said, apart from WhatsApp failing to notify users on details of collection of sensitive personal information. “The privacy policy mentions the involvement of third-party service providers that may have access to the data. However, the names of these service providers and other associated details have not been provided,” it said. ‘Withdraw consent’ “This is also the case for other Facebook companies, that are allowed to receive and share information about the user from and with WhatsApp,” the Ministry said. “The new privacy policy fails to provide an option to withdraw consent retrospectively.” The Ministry’s stand came in response to a petition filed by Seema Singh, represented by advocate Meghan, challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, which provided for sharing information with third party service providers and other Facebook companies. The High Court has posted the case for April 20. This policy is mandatory for the users to use the platform, and also mentions that the data will be used by the company and its holding companies for them to analyse, said the petition, also filed by advocate Meghan and Vikram Singh. This is the one of the petitions filed before different courts across India against WhatsApp’s new privacy policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-asks-delhi-hc-to-stop-whatsapps-new-privacy-policy/article34114049.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||More arrests likely in Mumbai explosive-laden car case||Suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested last week in Mumbai for allegedly planting an explosives laden car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s mansion, has been “singing about many things” but they are irrelevant to the case, a senior National Investigation Agency (NIA) official said. The official said more arrests were likely in the case. The NIA arrested Mr. Vaze, an assistant police inspector (API) on March 13 under various charges of forgery, criminal intimidation, criminal conspiracy and the Explosives Act. “He knows where to draw silence, it is understandable, that is his right. He is not sharing relevant information pertaining to the case but otherwise talks a lot. His actions are rogue but he was not acting in thin air, we have to unearth the entire conspiracy,” said the official. The official said the NIA was so far not investigating the mysterious death of Mansukh Hiran, the last occupant of the Scorpio car that was found near Ambani mansion ‘Antilia’ on February 25. The case is being probed by Maharashtra Police. The explosives case was transferred to the NIA on March 8 from the Maharashtra Police. The Mumbai Crime Branch officer, who is a former member of the Shiv Sena, in his previous stint as a police officer has been accused of custodial killing. He has been under suspension since 2004 and was reinstated in June 2020 by the Maharashtra government. Twenty pieces of unassembled gelatin sticks were found in the car. A typed letter in broken English recovered from the car addressed to “nITA bHABI aur mKESH bhyya aur fEMILI” (Nita Ambani, Mukesh Ambani and family) said this was “just a trailer”. The letter warned that the next time there would be a bomb. The letter is now in the possession of the NIA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-arrests-likely-in-case-of-explosives-laden-car/article34114072.ece
20 March 2021||PALAKOL,||A.P. Governor steps in to aid migrant workers||With Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan quickly responding to their plea for help, 23 migrant workers from Odisha, most of whom are women, have at last been freed from the “clutches of a labour contractor” and sent to their native places. About 400 workers had come to the State through some intermediaries and joined Sandhya Marines, an aqua unit at Palakol. A labour contractor, Srinivas, who provides workforce to the company, has allegedly been harassing the workers and collecting money forcibly from them. The workers, with the help of a leader from Odisha, had approached the Governor at Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada on Thursday, and poured our their woes to him and sought his immediate help. Responding to their plea, Mr. Harichandan directed West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik to look into the issue. The workers later met Mr. Narayan Naik in Eluru, who arranged a vehicle for them to reach Palakol. Mr. Narayan Naik too visited Palakol and interacted with all the workers and inquired into the allegations. “The workers, all native of Kendrapara district in Odisha, had came to Palakol a few months ago and joined the aqua unit. The company is paying them Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 per head for processing shrimp. Mr. Srinivas is allegedly collecting the money given to them by force,” Mr. Narayan Naik has said. Mr. Narayan Naik and Narsapuram DSP P. Veeranjaneya Reddy interacted with the workers as well as the company, and also enquired about the facilities being provided by the management. “Based on the complaint, we have registered a case against the contractor in the Palakol Town police station. Twenty-three workers, mostly women, have said that they want to return to their native villages. We have arranged transportation and sent them on Friday,” Palakol CI Ch. Anjaneyulu said. “The company has been directed to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) and arrange a complaint box on the unit premises. About Rs. 1 lakh cash collected from the workers has been recovered and handed over to workwers. Stern action will be taken against those who harass the migrant labourers,” the DSP warned. “The company management has treated us well and paid wages promptly as per the agreement. But the contractor has harassed us. We thank the Andhra Pradesh government and the officers for responding to our problem and sending us back,” the migrant women said. Mr. Narayan Naik directed the company representatives to follow the Labour Laws and Rules, provide proper accommodation, drinking water, toilet and medical facilities to the workers. The migrant women thanked the Governor, the SP, the DSP and other officers for helping them return to their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-governor-steps-in-to-aid-migrant-workers/article34114039.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||6 tigers missing in Ranthambore||Six tigers — four adults and two sub-adults — have been unaccounted for since March 2020 in the Ranthambore tiger sanctuary, Rajasthan. However, State forest officials are not willing to label them “missing” and denied reports that they may have been poached. Independent wildlife groups such as Tiger Watch have alleged that the tigers have been missing for over a year and that “negative human intervention being a cause [poaching]” could not be ruled out. The National Tiger Conservation Authority, a wing of the Union Environment Ministry, has constituted a committee to ascertain the disappearance of the tigers. R.P. Gupta, Secretary, Environment Ministry, said while a report was still awaited from the State, it was not unusual for tigers to move outside the reserve — even as far as Mathura, Uttar Pradesh; Bharatpur in Rajasthan and Dati in Madhya Pradesh — but they have not ruled out other causes. There have been no camera trap images of the six creatures since March, T.C. Verma, Chief Conservator of Forests, Ranthambore Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu . Ranthambore’s estimated 70 tigers exceeded its carrying capacity, he said, and newer tigers were driving out older ones and so the tigers had possibly branched out of their territories. “We have conducted searches for over the last one year and have so far come across no carcasses or any other sign of them. But we have had instances of a tiger disappearing for many years and then re-emerging. I would say no harm has come to them and they have probably moved to adjoining forests.” Qamar Qureshi, scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, said the disappearance of tigers was a cause for concern. “The details are sketchy but generally established adults don’t venture very far. So if it is this category of tigers and so far not captured on camera, then there is cause for concern. Also the particular territories in Ranthambore are notorious for poaching,” he told The Hindu . The Ranthambore Reserve is the only source of tigers in the territory with about 53 tigers constituting over 90% of the population in this block, as per the latest census made public last year. India has 2,967 tigers, a third more than in 2014, according to results of a census made public on July 29 last year. Ranthambore, according to this exercise, had 55 tigers. Madhya Pradesh has the highest number of tigers at 526, closely followed by Karnataka (524) and Uttarakhand (442). Chhattisgarh and Mizoram saw a decline in tiger population and all other States saw an increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-tigers-missing-in-ranthambore/article34114065.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Please pause your argument, says pop-up||Placards, which are used to convey powerful messages during protests, cheer sportspersons or give cues to actors, are making their presence felt in a new arena — the Supreme Court of India. In court, they act as silent referees, guiding lawyers — some of whom aren’t so tech-savvy — through often patchily connected virtual court hearings. With the virtual court system gaining more than a foothold in the judicial system lately, the placards are proving to be invaluable. Often lawyers presenting their arguments are seen but not heard by the judges during virtual hearings. At times, they are heard but not seen. There are also times when judges stop listening to the lawyer and confer with each other in the middle of a hearing, but the lawyer unknowingly continues with his submissions. On these occasions, the white-sleeved hand of an anonymous court staffer pops up at the bottom of the screen, holding a placard with a suitable message to the camera in the courtroom. Over time, the repertoire of placards has increased to anticipate every technical trouble that could crop up during a court hearing. From the simple “please unmute” in the first months of virtual hearings last year, there are now a number of placards, including “you are visible but not audible” and “you are audible but not visible”. The latest placard read: “Please pause your argument”. This comes up when judges suddenly go into a huddle while a lawyer is arguing. It’s not that lawyers don’t have a placard or two up their sleeve. Recently, a lawyer held up a placard saying: “Please unmute me”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/please-pause-your-argument-says-pop-up/article34114100.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre asks HC to stop WhatsApp’s new policy||It added that WhatsApp also failed to notify users on details of collection of sensitive personal information. “The privacy policy mentions the involvement of third-party service providers who may have access to the data. However, the names of these service providers and other associated details have not been provided,” it said. “This is also the case for other Facebook companies, who are allowed to receive and share information about the user from and with WhatsApp,” the Ministry said. “The new privacy policy fails to provide an option to withdraw consent retrospectively.” The Ministry’s stand came in response to a petition filed by Seema Singh, represented by advocate Meghan. The High Court has posted the case for April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-asks-hc-to-stop-whatsapps-new-policy/article34114307.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scrap 1886 lease on Mullapariyar Dam: plea||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to examine a plea to terminate the lease deed concerning the Mullaperiyar dam, originally signed between the Maharaja of Travancore and the British Secretary of State for India in Council for ‘Periyar Project’ in 1886. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar issued notice to the Centre and other parties, including Tamil Nadu and Kerala on a petition filed by an NGO, Suraksha Public Charitable Trust. The petition contended that the States of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, which succeeded the original signatories of the lease deed in 1970, have breached the terms of the deed. It said both States have not taken care of the safety issues concerning the dam. Tamil Nadu has “not carried out the construction of an evacuation tunnel at low level to make possible evacuation of water in the event of a distress to oldest dam in India, as prescribed mandatory in the ‘Guidelines for Preparing Operation and Maintenance Manual for Dams’. This is a breach of the terms of the lease deed”, the petition said. Tamil Nadu did not carry out the necessary repairs on the dam, it added. It said that Kerala, as the “landlord” of the 8,000 plus acres on which the dam is situated, should terminate the lease with “tenant” Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scrap-1886-lease-on-mullapariyar-dam-plea/article34114094.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||State resolutions on Central laws are fine: SC||“It is the opinion of the majority in the Kerala Assembly... They have not told people to disobey the law, they have only told Parliament to abrogate the law. It is only an opinion and does not have the force of law,” Chief Justice Bobde addressed Mr. Chakraborty. But the petitioner said that the Kerala Assembly should not be having an opinion whether the law is “good, bad or indifferent”. 60 petitions “Since they (State Assemblies) cannot make laws on the subjects in the Union List, they cannot also have a casual opinion on them,” Mr. Chakraborty argued. He said the Resolution was made even as about 60 petitions were pending in the Supreme Court against the CAA. “We are with you if you say that Kerala Assembly has no jurisdiction to set aide the law made by Parliament. But do they have no right to express an opinion?” Chief Justice Bobde asked. The senior lawyer said the Kerala Assembly procedure is clear in mandating that the House should not pass a resolution in matters which do not concern the State. “How can you say this is not a concern of the state?” the CJI asked. The court adjourned the case for four weeks, asking the petitioner to do further research on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-can-pass-resolutions-against-central-laws-sc/article34114022.ece
20 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala police book unnamed ED officials||The Kerala Police Crime Branch (CB) has booked unnamed Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on the charge of conspiring to dishonestly implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the UAE gold smuggling case. In an FIR filed in the court of Judicial First Class Magistrate-II, Ernakulam, on March 13, the CB said ED officials had coerced suspect Swapna Suresh on consecutive days in August last to state Mr. Vijayan had a stake in the racket. The agency deposed that the crime occurred in a cabin in the ED’s office in Kochi. The investigators had Swapna in custody for several days and had subjected her to prolonged interrogation. The CB has booked the unnamed officials on the charge of conspiracy and fabrication of evidence. It would soon move the court for permission to question them. The FIR was the off-shoot of a CB preliminary inquiry to verify the authenticity of an accusatory voice recording purportedly belonging to Swapna. The widely circulated voice clipping had triggered a controversy with the narrator, implying that “investigators” had “coerced” her into giving false evidence against Mr. Vijayan. Agency not named However, the narrator did not name any specific agency in the clip. Recently, the Customs Department had revealed that Swapna had “stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of Hon’ble Chief Minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) and Hon’ble Speaker (P. Sreeramakrishnan).” The deposition threatened to strain Centre-State relations further. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) saw a BJP-backed conspiracy to discredit the government ahead of the Assembly polls on April 6. The LDF workers had laid siege to Customs offices across the State in protest against the BJP’s politicisation of the Central law enforcement. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said Swapna was in Central agencies’ custody since July last. Central agencies had used her protracted incarceration without any scope for bail to arm-twist her into implicating the government in the international racket. Border enforcement was a Central subject. The failure to detect the bulk contraband gold movement via the UAE consulate’s diplomatic channel was the Centre’s failure. An ED official said the agency would resist the CB move legally. He said the agency sensed an attempt at the State government level to sabotage the gold smuggling-related money laundering and foreign currency smuggling investigations.  ED officials had coerced suspect Swapna Suresh on consecutive days in August last to state the Chief Minister had a stake in the racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-police-book-unnamed-ed-officials/article34114031.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Five States account for 80% of new infections||These include Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. Meanwhile the India Medical Association in a release on Friday said it is painful to note that despite adequate health care, infrastructure encasement, public awareness and stringent control measures for the mitigation of the pandemic, there is a continuous spike in the cases across the country forecasting the beginning of the second wave. Dedicated test “We urge everyone to come forward with a more dedicated test, trace and carry on appropriate protocol for treating without falling prey to un-scientific selfish- centered promotion of certain drugs and procedures,” noted the release. Association national president J.A. Jayalal said, “In this context we have raised questions on the usage of certain tablets (Coronil) as a medicine for the Corona infection. “When questions were sent to Central Drug Standard Control Organisation through RTI it replied that no certificate or permission for the use of Coronil for treatment of COVID-19 is given by them.” Curative drug He added that while IMA acknowledges and respects the valuable contribution of pure Ayurveda drugs, “using it as an only curative drug for infected people will be a dangerous one. In the pandemic we need to be extra cautious as any false hope will enhance the spread of the disease. Everyone should take the COVID vaccination and adopt the principles of COVID appropriate behaviours like physical distancing, hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and appropriate masking to protect the people from spread of Infection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-states-account-for-most-new-virus-cases/article34114043.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Free polls not possible with a biased ECI’||The decision cast aspersions on the reputation of the police administration in the State. The ECI had not taken such a decision for the other three States and the Union Territory of Puducherry holding simultaneous polls. The Trinamool also sought to remind the Commission that the State police had worked with governments led by other political parties too. “Propriety demands that there should be proper coordination between the State and Central forces to ensure free and fair elections and that combined groups of both State and Central police forces be deployed within 100 m of the polling station,” the memorandum said. The party also expressed disappointment with Election Commission for not agreeing to their demand to tally the Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) results with Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) in every booth. The EVM-VVPAT are tallied in a randomly selected sample. The ECI has argued that tallying each and every EVM with the VVPAT will delay the counting and declaration of results. To back its claim, the ECI has quoted the Supreme Court judgment ahead of the 2019 elections, which allowed for tallying of only a randomly selected sample instead of the entire lot. “It may be noted that the very purpose of installing VVPAT machines at considerable costs has deliberately been made redundant and ineffective,” the party memorandum said. ‘Withdraw decisions’ Only 100% tallying of VVPAT and EVMs could assure the voters that his/her choice had indeed been recorded, the Trinamool Congress said. The party asked the ECI to withdraw both these decisions. The memorandum was signed by Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’ Brien and Rajya Sabha MP Nadimul Haque, Lok Sabha MPs Saugata Roy, Mahua Moitra, former MP Pratima Mondal and Yashwant Sinha, who recently joined the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-cong-slams-partisan-and-biased-ec/article34114044.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Terror is biggest hurdle to Indo-Pak. relationship’||He added that India cannot afford to go soft with Pakistan till they walk the talk and prove their sincerity with concrete actions. Collusion with China “Infiltration into India from across the border is still happening, Indian soldiers are being killed at the borders every day. They (Pakistan) are dropping arms and heroin into Punjab via drones every other day. Efforts to create trouble in my State continue to take place. All this should stop first, only then we can talk peace,” said Captain Singh. “Given the way the situation has evolved over the past few months, Pakistan’s increasing collusion with China, which has been causing a whole lot of trouble for India on the other border, is a matter of concern,” said the Chief Minister. “If Islamabad seriously wants peace with New Delhi, they should send out the message to Beijing, loud and clear, that Pakistan is not with them in the dangerous escapades at the Line of Actual Control (LAC),” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/biggest-hurdle-to-indo-pak-peace-is-terror/article34114045.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea seeks candidates’ names, details on EVMs||The Supreme Court on Friday asked a petitioner who wants to replace political party symbols from electronic voting machines with the names and details of the candidates to serve a copy of his petition to the Attorney-General. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, did not issue formal notice on the plea by petitioner, advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, at the present stage. “How does a party symbol on an EVM cause prejudice?” Chief Justice Bobde asked senior advocate Vikas Singh, for Mr. Upadhyay. “The voters will cast their vote on the basis of the intrinsic value of the candidate and not by the popularity of the political party fielding him,” Mr. Singh replied. He said the petitioner had written to the Election Commission but did not receive a reply. “It will help electors to vote and support intelligent diligent and honest candidates, which is not possible in today’s scenario. It will not only weed out casteism and communalism from our democracy but also control use of black money and benami transaction in election. Ballot and EVM without political party symbol will control dictatorship of political party bosses in ticket distribution and forced them to give ticket to those who religiously work for people’s welfare,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-candidates-names-details-on-evms/article34114050.ece
20 March 2021||KASARAGOD,||COVID-19 negative proof must to enter Karnataka||Karnataka has made COVID-19 negative certificate mandatory for people from Kerala to cross the border. On Friday, Karnataka officials blocked vehicles, including Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses, on the Thalappady border. Following protests by local people, officials granted exemption but said COVID-19 negative certificate of tests taken within 72 hours would be mandatory to enter the State from Saturday. In February, Karnataka had imposed restrictions and allowed entry from Kasaragod to Dakshina Kannada district through only five roads due to the ‘rising’ COVID-19 cases in Kerala. There were protests on the border, following which the Karnataka government opened the roads. However, at a meeting convened by Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday it was decided that only those with COVID-19 negative certificate be allowed to cross the border.  Following protests, officials grant exemption but seek certificate of tests taken within 72 hours from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-negative-proof-must-to-enter-karnataka/article34114587.ece
20 March 2021||Kannur,||Raghunath named UDF candidate in Dharmadam||The confusion regarding the United Democratic Front candidate in Dharmadam is finally over, with the Congress formally handing over to the Election Commission a letter assigning the party symbol to District Congress Committee secretary C. Raghunath on Friday. Mr. Raghunath filed his papers on Thursday soon after Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee working president K. Sudhakaran declined to be in the fray in the constituency. However, there was uncertainty after KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said he did not know about Mr. Raghunath’s candidature and the party was yet to announce its candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raghunath-named-udf-candidate-in-dharmadam/article34114027.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 4 cr. doses administered||India has administered more than four crore COVID-19 vaccination doses so far, the Health Ministry said in a release. A total of 4,11,55,978 vaccine doses have been given, according to the provisional report on Friday. On the 63rd day of the nationwide drive, 18,16,161 vaccine doses were given till 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-4-cr-doses-administered/article34114097.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Enforce norms, States told||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla has asked all States to “strictly enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing among people”. In a letter sent on Friday, Mr. Bhalla said: “After the steady decline in cases for about five months, for the last few weeks, the number of cases are showing an increasing trend in several parts of the country. It has been observed that it is largely due to laxity in the observance of COVID appropriate behaviour by the people, especially in crowded places.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/enforce-norms-states-told/article34114101.ece
20 March 2021||Chandigarh,||‘Marriage can be registered via video chat’||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed registration of marriage through videoconferencing as it set aside a decision of a single-judge Bench. The order was delivered on March 9 by a Bench of Justices Ritu Bahri and Archana Puri while hearing an appeal. The petitioners — Ami Ranjan and his wife Misha Verma — approached the court, filing the appeal against the judgment of a single-judge Bench of the High Court, whereby a writ petition, filed by the petitioners seeking quashing of the order issued by the Deputy Collector-cum-Marriage Officer, Gurugram, was dismissed. It was held that there was no provision for registration of the marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, without the parties appearing in person before the marriage officer.  ‘Exemption not sought’ In the appeal, it was submitted that the wife, a medical professional, was on COVID-19 emergency duty in the United States and that the husband wanted to go there to meet his wife, but for that he had to attach a marriage certificate along with an application for obtaining visa. On account of lack of marriage certificate, the parties were facing unprecedented hardship. The court, overruling the judgment of the single-judge Bench, observed the husband was not seeking complete exemption of appearance of his wife before the Registrar of Marriage. He was seeking that his wife be allowed to appear through videoconferencing so that the marriage could be registered, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marriage-can-be-registered-via-video-chat/article34114309.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Adyar Cancer Institute gets new chairman||The governing body of the Cancer Institute (WIA), Adyar, has unanimously elected N. Sugalchand Jain, who was co-chairman till recently, as chairman of the institute. Mr. Jain was closely associated with V. Shanta, who passed away on January 19, and the Cancer Institute for the past 35 years. “Dr. Shanta’s sudden demise has left a heavy sadness in all of us. But the governing body and the doctors and staff of the Cancer Institute have resolved to continue her legacy and goals and provide healthcare to all in need,” Mr. Jain said in a letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adyar-cancer-institute-gets-new-chairman/article34114220.ece
20 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Anti-crime drive in U.P. a model: CM||The action taken by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh against criminals and mafia elements had become a “standard” for the rest of the country, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday as he completed four years in power, the first BJP CM to do so. Mr. Adityanath said under his government, all festivals were celebrated in a peaceful manner unlike during the previous regime. There had been no riots in the State in the last four years, he said. Mr. Adityanath also said that since 2017, the State had received investments of over Rs. 3 lakh crore, helping employ 35 lakh youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-crime-drive-in-up-a-model-cm/article34114046.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka plans new policy on sand||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R. Nirani on Friday informed the Legislative Assembly that the State government was planning to formulate a new sand policy to ensure supply of sand at a cost ranging from Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 per tonne for those constructing houses costing less than Rs. 10 lakh. In his reply to C.N. Balakrishna (JD-S) during the question hour, Mr. Nirani said the proposal on supplying sand at subsidised cost to the poor was expected to help many people constructing houses under various government schemes. Other stakeholders have to purchase sand as per the royalty fixed by the government. The government was expecting a royalty of Rs. 154 crore from sand in 2020–21, he said. He said all districts had been facing shortage of sand as demand was much higher than supply. Officials at district and taluk levels had been spending nearly 50% of their time on regulation and management of sand by issuing licences and passes for extraction and transportation of the material. Mr. Balakrishna, H.D. Revanna, K. Annadani and other JD(S) members alleged that adulterated sand was being supplied by mixing it with soil and no action had been taken against private players who were indulging in such a business. The police were in collusion with sand suppliers and natural resources were being looted across the State, they alleged. Mr. Balakrishna claimed that M-sand manufacturers too were supplying inferior quality sand to buyers. There was no regulation or control on the exploitation of sand in Hassan and other districts owing to shortage of staff in the Mines and Geology Department, the JD(S) member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/subsidised-sand-for-low-cost-homes/article34114026.ece
20 March 2021||KHAMMAM,||Stone for IT hub phase-II to be laid on March 27||The foundation stone for the IT hub phase-II (IT Tower-II) will be laid by Information Technology and Industries Minister K T Rama Rao in the IT hub complex here on March 27. The State government on Monday accorded administrative sanction for Rs. 36 crore for setting up the IT Tower-II with a built-up space of 55,000 square feet in Khanapuram Haveli locality here. The decision was taken to meet the additional demand for built-up space at the existing IT hub in the town. The IT hub was inaugurated by Mr Rama Rao in December last year. The IT hub building of 41,250 square feet is fully occupied with various IT/ITES companies setting up their offices in the building complex, sources in the IT hub said. The IT Tower-II will be constructed in the same campus next to the IT Tower-I. Speaking to newsmen here on Friday, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said Mr Rama Rao will lay the foundation for the IT hub phase-II and inaugurate the new ultramodern bus stand built in seven acre land with as many as 30 platforms and all modern amenities for passengers and the TSRTC staff on March 27. Mr Rama Rao will also lay the foundation stone for the new municipal office building in Sattupalli town on the same day. Hailing the huge budgetary allocation of Rs. 150 crore for Khammam Municipal Corporation, he said it would help further improve the civic amenities and develop the town on all fronts. Responding to a query on the possible impact of the new party mooted by former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister late Dr Y S Rajasekhar Reddy’s daughter Sharmila, he said people of Khammam have seen several regimes in the past. Now they are standing solidly behind the able leadership of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stone-for-it-hub-phase-ii-to-be-laid-on-march-27/article34114691.ece
20 March 2021||AIZAWL,||Assam Rifles seizes 120 bags of hair||In a first-of-its-kind in smuggling along the Myanmar border, Assam Rifles seized 120 bags of human hair, which came from the Balaji temple at Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh, without any valid documents. “It was coming from Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh and it was also found during investigation that such consignments are being shipped illegally from many pilgrimage sites,” according to a local security official. The consignment from India enters Myanmar and is taken then onwards to Thailand, where they are processed and shipped to China, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-rifles-seizes-120-bags-of-hair/article34114096.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||MP flags rising influx of refugees||More than 700 “refugees” from Myanmar are said to have entered Mizoram in the past few days, taking the total number of such persons fleeing the military crackdown in the neighbouring country to around 1,000, according to K. Vanlalvena, a Rajya Sabha member from the ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) party. A delegation from Mizoram including Mr. Vanlalvena met Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai on Friday and Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Thursday seeking their intervention. On Tuesday, he informed the Rajya Sabha that more than 300 people had entered Mizoram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-flags-rising-influx-of-refugees/article34114055.ece
20 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Candidate breaks down after ‘betrayal’||special correspondent   Rafiqul Islam was on cloud nine when the AIUDF gave him ticket for western Assam’s Jaleswar Assembly constituency on March 7, instead of renominating Sahab Uddin Ahmed. But his joy was short-lived as the party replaced him with Reza Mahammad Abdullah Amin. He broke down at his “last public appearance” and said the AIUDF chief, Maulana Badruddin Ajmal, should have shot him instead of stabbing him in the back. “This betrayal is too much of a shock to bear,” an aggrieved Mr. Islam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/candidate-breaks-down-after-betrayal/article34113993.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||25% candidates in Bengal elections have declared criminal records, says ADR report||Devesh K. Pandey   A study of the affidavits submitted by 191 candidates contesting in the first phase of the West Bengal Assembly election has revealed that 48 of them, or about 25%, have declared their criminal records, according to a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms. The report said 42 candidates have declared that they have serious criminal cases against them. While 12 candidates have declared cases related to crimes against women, one of them faces a rape charge. Eight candidates are involved in murder cases and 19 are involved in attempt to murder cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-candidates-in-bengal-elections-have-declared-criminal-records-says-adr-report/article34113995.ece
20 March 2021||Guwahati,||BJP selling hatred to divide people, says Rahul||special correspondent    Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the BJP for “selling hatred” while reaffirming his party’s commitment to nullifying the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and raising the daily wage of tea plantation workers to Rs. 365 if the party is voted to power in Assam. Mr. Gandhi is on a two-day visit to campaign for the 10-party Mahajot (grand alliance) in the State. He also took a swipe at the RSS saying, “There is one force in Nagpur [RSS headquarters] that is trying to control the country, but the youth must resist this attempt with love and confidence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-selling-hatred-to-divide-people-says-rahul/article34113997.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Rs. 43.77 lakh||average assets per candidate contesting in the first phase (30 seats) of the West Bengal Assembly election. 10% of the candidates are crorepatis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-4377-lakh/article34114010.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||48 %||of the candidates contesting in the first phase of the West Bengal election declared that they were graduates or more, while 50% declared that they were between '5th pass' and '12th pass'||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/48/article34114011.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘32 railway projects progressing in State’||Thirty-two railway projects costing Rs. 64,429 crore and covering a length of 5,704 km, falling fully/partly in A.P., are in several stages of planning, approval and execution as on April 1, 2020. “Of them, railway lines measuring 336 km have been commissioned at a cost of Rs. 10,455 crore up to March 2020,” Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal said in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, in reply to a question asked by YSRCP member Parimal Nathwani. The average annual budget allocation for infrastructure projects and safety works in A.P., during 2014-19 had increased to Rs. 2,830 crore from Rs. 886 crore during 2009-14, he said. “It is a 219% increase over the average annual budget allocation of 2009-14,” he said. In 2019-20, the allocation was further increased to Rs. 3,885 crore and to Rs. 4,910 crore in 2020-21. “In 2021-22, the highest-ever outlay of Rs. 5,812 crore has been proposed for these projects,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32-railway-projects-progressing-in-state/article34114036.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Man held for cultivating poppy||A 45-year-old man who was cultivating opium poppy in an agriculture field at Lemur village in Kandukur mandal of Rangareddy district was arrested by Rachakonda police here on Thursday. Police seized 390 kg of opium poppy straws in 20 bags and a mobile phone, all worth Rs. 20 lakh, from the possession of Dandupally Chennakeshavaulu, a native of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. His partner 43-year-old Dhimmir Venkataramana from Chittoor district, was arrested by the Special Enforcement Bureau of Madanapalle police on March 16. The accused cultivated the narcotic drug yielding plant and sold it to their customers in and around Bengaluru, the police said.  Good market “They were having good contacts with the people in Bengaluru who are willing to purchase the opium poppy straw for higher rates,” Commissioner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat said. He said that the duo took a land parcel on lease and cultivated the banned crop for the past few months. Acting on tip-off, Kandukur police conducted raids at Lemur village and found opium poppy straw and arrested Chennakeshavaulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-held-for-cultivating-poppy/article34114454.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects Mufti plea to stay ED summons||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to stay the summons issued to former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh declined any relief to the 61-year-old saying, “We are not giving any stay.” The court has posted the hearing on her petition for April 16. The ED has now summoned Ms. Mufti for March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-mufti-plea-to-stay-ed-summons/article34114059.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Lloyd Austin begins India visit by meeting PM Modi||United States Secretary of Defence General (Retd.) Lloyd J. Austin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the start of a three-day visit to India, the first such outreach by the new U.S. administration less than two months after President Biden assumed office. “India and the U.S. are committed to our strategic partnership that is a force for global good,” Mr. Modi said in a tweet after the meeting on Friday evening. The Ministry of External Affairs’ Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava added that their discussions “covered bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest”. Gen. Austin, who will meet Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday, is expected to discuss Indo-U.S. strategic cooperation, defence sales and technology transfer, as well as Indo-Pacific strategy as a part of the Quad. In addition, he is likely to deliver a message on the U.S.’s concerns over India’s plans to take delivery of the Russian S-400 missile defence system later this year, which could attract U.S. sanctions under its CAATSA (Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act) law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lloyd-austin-begins-india-visit-by-meeting-pm-modi/article34114071.ece
20 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab and Haryana High Court allows registration of marriage through videoconferencing||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed registration of marriage through video-conferencing as it set aside a decision of a single Bench. The petitioners — Ami Ranjan and his wife Misha Verma — had filed the appeal, in which it was submitted that the wife, a medical professional, was on COVID-19 emergency duty in the United States and that the husband wanted to go there to meet his wife, but for that he had to attach a marriage certificate. along with the visa application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-allows-registration-of-marriage-through-videoconferencing/article34114075.ece
20 March 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Polls will end dynastic politics of DMK: CM||The Assembly elections will bring an end to the dynastic politics of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Friday. Campaigning for the party candidate Thamarai S. Rajendran, Mr. Palaniswami claimed that even an ordinary AIADMK functionary could rise to become an MLA, Minister, Member of Parliament or even the Chief Minister, citing his own case. But none in the DMK, other than those in the family of the party leader, could even dream of heading the party and becoming the Chief Minister, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said he had climbed up the ladder step by step to occupy the highest post in the State and had not “crawled” to become the Chief Minister as claimed by Mr. Stalin. The DMK leader’s remarks only displayed his arrogance. Due respect should be shown to the office of the Chief Minister and Mr. Stalin had failed to do so, he said. Terming the DMK-led front as an opportunistic alliance, Mr. Palaniswami claimed that Mr. Stalin had bluffed to gain victory in the Lok Sabha elections but he now stood exposed. This time people were vigilant, he said claiming that the victory of the AIADMK was assured. Mr. Palaniswami also wondered what happened to the petitions received by Mr. Stalin during the Lok Sabha polls while campaigning across the State. The petitions received now by him would also meet the same fate, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polls-will-end-dynastic-politics-of-dmk-cm/article34114362.ece
20 March 2021||C. JaisankarTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Land of modern rice mills needs a dedicated substation||Manachanallur, a fast-developing suburb, is hardly a few kilometres away from the Cauvery and Kollidam rivers. Yet many parts of the constituency face shortage of drinking water. In Manachanallur town panchayat, water is supplied on alternate days, and in some places once in five days. The ubiquitous ‘If elected, I’ll find a solution to water issue’ tops the poll promises of all candidates contesting here this Assembly election too. Manachanallur constituency was formed in 2008 after the delimitation exercise by adding some areas from Thottiam and Musiri Assembly segments. Agriculture and allied activities are the main livelihood of people here. But for Manachanallur and S. Kannanur (Samayapuram) town panchayats, all are villages. About 2,500 hectares along the Kollidam river have assured irrigation and the rest of the areas depend on seasonal rains. There are 50 modern rice mills in and around Manachanallur, providing direct employment to about 5,000 labourers and indirect employment to 10,000 more. The mills dry about 1,200 tonnes of paddy a day using driers and produce about 600 tonnes of single-boiled rice. But fluctuation in power supply has forced the mills to scale down production. Setting up of a substation at Manachanallur to stabilise power supply has been a long-pending of mill owners. It is served by Samayapuram substation which was established more than fifty years ago. “We require about 420 volts to run the mills. But we get only 340 volts. Only a dedicated substation at Mannachanallur will solve the issue,” says M. Sivanandam, president, Mannachanallur Taluk Rice Mill Owners’ Association. The millers made this representation and power tariff rationalisation among other demands to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during his visit to Manachanallur in December 2020. Bus stand, college  The electorate here need a proper bus stand, Government Arts and Science College and a check dam with a causeway across Kollidam river between Nochiyam and Srirangam. The AIADMK has won the elections in 2016 and 2011. While the AIADMK has fielded former Minister N. Paranjothi by replacing incumbent Parameswari Murugan, the DMK has fielded S. Kathiravan, a Perambalur- based educationist. The AMMK, Makkal Needhi Maiam and Naam Thamizhar Katchi have also fielded their candidates. Though supporters of Ms. Parameswari are a bit disappointed over the denial of the ticket again, the AIADMK campaign managers claim there is no discontent. Banking on the welfare schemes of the AIADMK government, Mr. Paranjothi is reaching out to the voters. “Every family has benefited in some way or the other during the last five years. The AIADMK manifesto has also gained the confidence of the voters,” says Mr. Paranjothi. Mr. Kathiravan, a newcomer to politics, believes that the alliance arithmetic and the anti-incumbency will work in his favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-of-modern-rice-mills-needs-a-dedicated-substation/article34114348.ece
20 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Seeking impetus for tourism and the silk weaving industry||The temple town of Kancheepuram has a historic connection to the Dravidian movement, being the birthplace of DMK founder and first Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai’s. While the AIADMK has fielded alliance partner PMK’s candidate P. Magesh Kumar, the DMK has re-nominated its sitting MLA C.V.M.P. Ezhilarasan. For a pilgrimage town which has several ancient Vaishnavite and Saivite temples drawing lots of visitors, the State administration has done little to promote spiritual tourism, residents said. After all these years, the State government is constructing a Yatri Nivas. Unlike Mamallapuram, the Tourism Department has not even printed a guide to promote the constituency’s many temples. The traditional silk weaving industry, as famous as the ancient temples of Kancheepuram, has taken a big hit because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The livelihood of silk saree weavers, who flourished in the town, is now in the doldrums post-lockdown and the lack of any monetary support, similar to loan waivers announced for farmers. Dip in demand V. Ramalingam, 52, a saree weaver, comes from a family where two generations are involved in weaving. He said the pandemic-induced lockdown had resulted in the restriction of marriage celebrations, leading to a severe fall in demand for silk sarees. This has left the weavers without an income, pushing entire families into penury. He pointed out that Pillayarpalayam, which was once the nerve centre for silk saree weaving and housed over 10,000 weavers, now has merely 3,000 living in the locality. Several traditional weaving families have moved out, seeking better job opportunities. Also, the State government has failed to complete the Rs. 100 crore weavers park project, for which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone as early as 2017. At present, a big plaque with the name of the 75 acre park is the only sign of its existence. The temple town’s other big issue is traffic congestion, caused by encroachments and poor management. The traffic scene in the entire locality resembles a gridlock of one-ways with vehicles piling up in all junctions and motorists flouting regulations. S. Bhaskaran, a resident of Mandapam Street in Kancheepuram, said though the government had developed several Outer Ring Roads and linked them with the highways to Arcot, Vandavasi and Vellore, due to a lack of awareness, motorists were still using the interior roads of the town, causing traffic congestion. He also rued a lack of flyovers at important junctions to ease traffic snarls. The residents also fault the district administration for failing to take steps to remove encroachments and renovate Vegavathi river, which flows through the town. Despite constructing more than 2,000 flats for relocating encroachers, they had not been allotted to anyone, according to residents. Sitting MLA Mr. Ezhilarasan has, on his part, taken up several civic development works. He said the construction of a trauma care centre, housing MRI, CT and ultrasound scan equipment at a cost of Rs. 51 lakh, in the Kancheepuram Government hospital was a major achievement. Local amenities The MLA said with local area development funds, he had installed modern bus shelters in over eight places, implemented the digging of 40 drinking borewells, renovated the dilapidated Arignar Anna Stadium, installed new benches and chairs at government schools, laid cement roads and commissioned reverse osmosis plants in hospitals and schools at a cost of around Rs. 30 lakh. Among the projects which were put forward to the government but remain unfulfilled are checkdams on Palar river at Perumbakkam and Veppadu, and the extension of the Cauvery Integrated Water Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeking-impetus-for-tourism-and-the-silk-weaving-industry/article34114222.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGO introduces tool kit to promote workspace diversity||The International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care (PCVC), a city-based non-profit organisation, introduced an audio-visual learning tool kit on fostering diversity and inclusion in workspaces at a virtual event on Friday. This is part of PCVC’s initiative ‘Workspace Diversity and Inclusion: From Legality to Cultural Change’ along with the U.S. Consulate General, Hyderabad. The kit will help organisations implement practices and policies to create safe and healthy workspaces. It can be used as an effective training tool to facilitate dialogue on diversity and inclusion. Representatives from 55 companies from a variety of sectors attended the event and they were invited to sign up for free pilot workshops. According to PCVC, organisational changes are required to support the increased workforce participation of women and gender minority staff in the formal sector. Rashmi Singh, executive director, programmes, PCVC, said, “We believe that while it is critical for women and queer communities to have safe, respectful homes, it is equally important that workplaces too have culture and policies that embrace them.” David Moyer, public affairs officer, U.S. Consulate, Hyderabad, and Uma Rao, vice-president, Human Resources, Ashok Leyland, stressed on building a community that broadens its perspectives and puts an end to violence and discrimination at workspaces.  While it is critical for women and the queer community to have safe, respectful homes, it is equally important that workplaces too have culture and policies that embrace them Rashmi Singh Executive director, programmes, PCVC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-introduces-tool-kit-to-promote-workspace-diversity/article34114224.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 doctors to be redeployed to Chennai for COVID-19 duty||The steady rise in the number of fresh COVID-19 infections has led to the Health department stepping up its response with regard to infrastructure and manpower. While COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) are being readied in Chennai and many other districts, the department is all set to redeploy manpower from less-affected districts to Chennai. Like last year, when doctors from a number of districts were deployed to Chennai to manage the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Health Department may post doctors from districts where there are fewer COVID-19 cases or where the situation is under control to the city. “We are deputing 300 doctors working under the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services to the Directorate of Medical Education in Chennai as there is a slight rise in cases,” R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said. Already, 625 doctors, 325 laboratory technicians and 1,250 multipurpose health workers recruited last year for COVID-19 work have been given an extension till May. “We have doctors who have completed their postgraduation. There are 550 non-service PGs engaged in COVID-19 work now. We are extending the Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship period that ends in March for two months (April and May) for COVID-19 work,” he added. Care centres The Tamil Nadu Housing Board’s flats in Athipet are being converted into COVID-19 care centres. Along with this 4,600 bed facility, another care centre with 300 beds will be available at the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, Egmore. Similar facilities are being created in districts too. With the buildings of educational institutions released from COVID-19 requirement, officials have turned to other facilities. “In districts, there are facilities other than educational institutions, such as new buildings of the housing board or slum clearance board, hospital buildings constructed recently for a speciality but yet to be activated and bigger trade complexes. Decentralised decisions will be taken as beds and mattresses are already in position,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 health centres have been augmented with additional oxygen facilities, he added. Dr. Narayana Babu said in the first phase, four blocks — each consisting of 1,150 beds — were being readied at Athipet CCC while two other blocks were kept on reserve. “Each of four government medical college hospitals in Chennai will be allotted a block at Athipet. We will be posting 150 doctors. At present, we have adequate facilities in medical college hospitals. Patients will be moved to the CCCs if there is a spillover,” Dr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-doctors-to-be-redeployed-to-chennai-for-covid-19-duty/article34114227.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman with rare tumour operated on at Cancer Institute||P. Mahalakshmi, 26, had been suffering from severe pain in her back for six months. She sought medical help near her residence at Pounjur in Chengalpattu district. She resigned her job as a machine operator in a private firm as the pain was excruciating. Her husband is an agricultural labourer. When medicines did not help, a biopsy was done and it revealed a cancerous tumour that had advanced into the kidney and intestine. She was administered concurrent chemotherapy and radiation from August to December 2020 without relief. “Doctors there referred me to Cancer Institute in Chennai for treatment,” said the mother of two. She managed to come to the Institute in mid-January and investigation revealed that she was suffering from condrosarcoma. “She had increased pain and was unable to walk. The tumour was invading the L3 vertebra. It spread to the kidney, intestine, duodenum, inferior vena cava and colon. We did sagittal en bloc spondylectomy,” said Anand Raja, consultant urosurgeon who led a team of seven doctors that operated on her. Doctors held long discussions on the surgery that was performed earlier this month. Since only the right half of the vertebra was affected one-third of the vertebra was preserved to ensure spinal stability, he said. “Chondrosarcoma arises from the bone. The tumour was a huge mass and had developed from L3 vertebra and spread through the abdomen. It involved blood vessels, intestine, right ureter and kidney. One affected kidney had to be removed,” Dr. Raja said. “We explained to the patient the risks involved in the surgery as the vertebra would be exposed and an injury to nerves could result in loss of movement,” he said. “The patient was motivated enough and gave us the confidence to go ahead.” Head of anaesthesia Kalpana Balakrishnan said the 17-hour surgery began around 9 a.m. and ended around 1.30 a.m. the next day. The patient had suffered excessive blood loss during surgery and was on ventilator support for a day. Five days after the surgery, she was provided physiotherapy. “She is completely cured. The biopsy results show that all margins of possibility of recurrence is low,” he said. Ms. Mahalakshmi is able to walk and is not on medication. Head of surgical oncology Arvind Kishnamurthy said the bone cancer was a form of solid cancer. Condrosarcoma does not respond to chemotherapy and radiation. “This is a rare cancer as normally cancers spread from other organs to bones. We have done our best to remove the tumour. The message is that surgery, though old, is still the gold standard for such cancers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-with-rare-tumour-operated-on-at-cancer-institute/article34114226.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Additional Central paramilitary forces will arrive before poll’||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Friday said additional companies of the Central paramilitary forces will be deployed in sensitive areas ahead of the election. Mr. Aggarwal visited several places in the city and inspected poll preparation and bandobust arrangements. Additional Commissioners of Police accompanied him. Later, talking to mediapersons, he said as per instructions of the Election Commission of India (ECI), poll preparation works were under way in the city. In addition to flying squads and static surveillance teams, police personnel are also conducting checks on vehicles and lodges. From the day of poll announcement, Rs. 6.8 crore in cash and 30 kg of gold worth about Rs. 15 crore have been seized, he said. Mr. Aggarwal also said the police had constituted special teams to execute pending non-bailable warrants (NBWs). As many as 1,540 NBWs had been executed in the last three weeks and 448 were still pending, he said. Around 1,751 anti-social elements were bound over under Section 110 of the CrPc. So far, 1,796 licensed firearms have been handed over to the police and 966 licencees have been given exemptions. Mr. Aggarwal said, “Two central paramilitary companies from the Border Security Force are stationed here and conduct daily flag marches along with police personnel in sensitive areas. In vulnerable and critical areas, paramilitary forces and personnel of the Tamil Nadu Special Police will be deployed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-central-paramilitary-forces-will-arrive-before-poll/article34114247.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellers Association appeals to poll panel for guidelines||Many jewellery shops in the city are experiencing a dip in footfalls as customers are hesitant to purchase and carry home jewellery since the model code of conduct was enforced. Jewellers in the city noted that sales were severely affected as footfalls had dropped by a minimum 30% due to fear of being questioned by Election Commission static surveillance teams or seizure for carrying cash or gold. Business was reviving after relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown period and such measures would further cripple the trade, they said. Moreover, transactions between manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers had dropped by 40%. This is to avoid seizure of jewellery meant to be supplied to retailers despite having supporting documents. Office-bearers of the Jewellers and Diamond Traders’ Association Madras recently represented to the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu, to lay down guidelines on documents to be carried with ornaments to avoid seizure and also instruct field-level officers. S. Santhakumar, association general secretary, said the recent Budget announcements on import duty and a drop in gold prices had helped bring in more customers into jewellery stores. However, business had slowed down despite the wedding season. Though jewellers or staff carried various documents, they faced several hardships and there were many instances across the State where the ornaments were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellers-association-appeals-to-poll-panel-for-guidelines/article34114268.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TMC promises to remove middlemen from agriculture||The Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) (TMC), part of the AIADMK-led National Democratic Alliance, on Friday released a 35-point manifesto, promising among other things to bring full prohibition, make child adoptions easier, remove middlemen from agriculture, and protect water bodies. TMC president G.K. Vasan, who released the party’s manifesto in Chennai, said the party’s goal was to make Tamil Nadu and India a strong force. Mr. Vasan said the party will work to ensure that middlemen are removed from agriculture so that farmers get the full price for their produce, reduce dependence on imported palm oil by cultivating various crops other than sugarcane and grains, and improve labour welfare. The party will also work towards reducing the number of liquor shops in Tamil Nadu and not allow setting up of new liquor shops, with a goal of full prohibition. He said the party intends to not provide permission for establishing self-financing schools in future and will work to strengthen government and government-aided schools. The TMC has also promised to create a separate board for household helpers, make adoption of children for childless couples easier, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmc-promises-to-remove-middlemen-from-agriculture/article34114262.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases cross 1,000-mark in T.N.||After a span of 80 days, fresh COVID-19 infections crossed 1,000 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. A total of 1,087 persons tested positive for the infection in the State, taking the overall tally to 8,64,450. December 28, 2020, was the last time the State recorded over 1,000 cases (1,005 patients). The tally has been steadily rising since March 5 in many districts, especially Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Thanjavur. While the daily count crossed 400 in Chennai, both Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded a little over 100 cases each. In Chennai, a total of 421 persons tested positive, followed by 105 in Chengalpattu and 102 in Coimbatore. Tiruvallur recorded 78 cases and Thanjavur had 64 cases. Kancheepuram recorded 37 cases, Tiruppur 29, and Salem 27. Fewer than 10 cases A total of 20 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. Four returnees from Qatar, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Kerala were among those who tested positive for the infection in the State. For the second day, the State recorded nine deaths — four in Chennai, two in Chengalpattu, and one each in Nilgiris, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur. Among the deceased were two persons who were in their 50s. A 54-year-old man from Thanjavur, who had diabetes, was admitted to a private hospital on March 16 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days. He died the next day due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 57-year-old man from Chengalpattu with obesity and dyslipidemia was admitted to a private hospital on March 10 with complaints of fever and cough for 10 days and difficulty in breathing for two days. He died on March 17 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. To date, 12,582 persons have died due to COVID-19 in the State. While 610 persons were discharged after treatment on Friday, the active cases stood at 6,690. To date, 8,45,178 persons have been discharged after treatment. In the last 24 hours, 73,201 samples were tested. To date, a total of 1,86,30,686 samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-cross-1000-mark/article34114271.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Candidate barred by EC can’t enter fray: HC||The Madras High Court on Friday rejected a contention that the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) order disqualifying a person from becoming an MP or MLA for three years could not be considered a disqualification against contesting the election as such and therefore he/she must be allowed to contest the polls without rejecting the nomination papers. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy termed such contention as “fallacious” and refused to accept it. The judges said conduct of elections lead to considerable expenditure of public money and therefore allowing a disqualified candidate to contest the election might result in a futile exercise if such a candidate ends up winning. The observations were made while disposing of a writ petition filed by S.F. Mohammed Gaddafe, who had been fielded as Naam Tamilar Katchi’s candidate in Harbour constituency in Chennai. The petitioner challenged an order passed by the ECI on July 26, 2018 disqualifying him from being an MP or an MLA for three years. ‘Approach EC’ The disqualification order was passed for his failure to submit the election expense account when he contested from Mudukalathur in the 2016 Assembly election. The petitioner said he came to know of the disqualification very late and could not take steps in time to get the disqualification order quashed. Disapproving of the attempt by the petitioner to squeeze into the electoral fray, the judges said the petitioner could approach the ECI within two weeks and directed the latter to resolve the issue within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidate-barred-by-ec-cant-enter-fray-hc/article34114252.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1, 24, 581 more people vaccinated in State||Another 1,24,581 persons were vaccinated against COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Till date, 19,66,845 persons were inoculated in the State. Of 1,24,581 people, 46,881 were senior citizens. While 40,252 people aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities were vaccinated, a total of 20,295 frontline workers and 17,153 healthcare workers were also covered. Covishield was administered to 37,287 senior citizens, 31,036 people with co-morbidities, 16,368 frontline workers and 14,980 healthcare workers, while the remaining 9,594 senior citizens, 9,216 people with co-morbidities, 3,927 frontline workers and 2,173 healthcare workers received Covaxin. A total of 5,77,970 senior citizens, 5,43,259 healthcare workers, 4,37,455 frontline workers and 4,08,161 people with co-morbidities were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-24-581-more-people-vaccinated-in-state/article34114269.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club will aid govt.’s vaccination drive||The Rotary Club of Madras (RCM) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Health Department to support and strengthen the government’s COVID-19 vaccination drive. The pact was signed by club president Kapil Chitale and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on March 17. The MoU assigned RCM as the Nodal Rotary Club to coordinate Rotary India’s assistance with the government’s vaccination drive through its affiliate/sister entities, charitable trusts, fellow Rotary Clubs and partnering corporates, a press release said. RCM will donate two 14-foot refrigerated vaccine trucks, two eight-foot refrigerated vaccine trucks, 10 ice-lined refrigerators, 10 deep freezers and 1,000 vaccine carriers. The Health Secretary agreed to consider empanelling government approved hospitals and medical centres run by Rotary Clubs and Rotarians, along with other suggested measures, to increase Rotary’s involvement in the vaccination drive, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-club-will-aid-govts-vaccination-drive/article34114214.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T raids lead to cash seizure of Rs. 5.32 crore||As part of election screening, the Income Tax Department has been conducting searches across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry since the polling dates were announced. On March 16, the department conducted searches on five premises in Chennai. The premises belong to five entities who, in addition to their regular business, are also acting as cash handlers. The action resulted in a cash seizure of Rs. 5.32 crore, according to a statement from I-T Department on Friday. Two days ago, the department investigated a business group — Anitha HealthCare and Anitha Texcot India Private Limited. The searches were conducted on eight premises in Tiruppur, Dharapuram and Chennai. The searches revealed that the group is engaged in the practice of suppressing profits by inflating purchases and other expenses. The unaccounted income thus generated was utilised for investments in land and expansion of business. The search also resulted in seizure of unaccounted cash of Rs. 11.5 crore. The unaccounted income detected so far is Rs. 80 crore. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-raids-lead-to-cash-seizure-of-rs-532-crore/article34114272.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three from Tripura held for selling marijuana||Personnel from the Koyambedu police station on Thursday arrested three persons from Tripura, including a woman, for allegedly possessing ganja for the purpose of selling. Following a tip-off that ganja was being sold to college students in Nerkundram and Koyambedu, the police mounted surveillance and conducted searches. They nabbed a man driving around the localities suspiciously. On searching his vehicle, the police found 1 kg of ganja. He was identified as Jamal, 24, from Tripura. After interrogating him, the police recovered another 4 kg of ganja from his lodgings. The police also arrested a woman Morina, 45, and Nijamudin, 23, both from Tripura. The trio were remanded in judicial custody for smuggling contraband from their home State and selling it in the city. Meanwhile, personnel from the Taramani police station arrested three accused who were stocking ganja in a house and recovered 5 kg of the contraband from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-from-tripura-held-for-selling-marijuana/article34114223.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One person arrested for GST fraud||K.M. Ravichandran, Commissioner of GST & Central Excise, Chennai South Commissionerate, has ordered the arrest of one person engaged in buying GST registrations for fictitious concerns by misusing KYC documents of other individuals, and then selling them to those involved in issuing fake invoices. So far, the arrested person has bought five such concerns, passing fake credit to the tune of Rs. 44.29 crore, according to a statement. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody. Investigation is on, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-person-arrested-for-gst-fraud/article34114228.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK expels MLA||The AIADMK on Friday expelled sitting Perundurai MLA Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam from the party, after he filed nomination papers for the election as an Independent candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-expels-mla/article34114243.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea against use of reserved party symbols||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission (EC) to not allow recognised political parties to field alliance party candidates in the Assembly election under their reserved symbols. The petition sought to forbear the Returning Officers from allotting DMK’s ‘rising sun’ symbol to any of its allies. Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan, a member of AIADMK between 2011 and 2017, filed the case by contending that the DMK had entered into electoral pacts with many of its allies, including the MDMK, and allotted seats to their members with a rider that they would contest on the ‘rising sun’ symbol. He wondered how such pacts could be entered into when none could be a member of more than one political party. The petitioner claimed that one of the allies, Vaiko of MDMK, had told journalists that all six candidates of his party would contest on the DMK’s ‘rising sun’ symbol due to a practical necessity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-against-use-of-reserved-party-symbols/article34114253.ece
20 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||BIS conducts awareness programme||The Bureau of Indian Standards, southern regional office, conducted a consumer awareness programme for women self help groups and members of non-governmental organisations at Singaperumalkoil, Chengalpattu, on Thursday. G. Bhavani, Scientist-E, BIS, spoke on how to identify fake ISI mark and the role of SHGs in consumer protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bis-conducts-awareness-programme/article34114273.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 communities take the lion’s share in ticket||The communities — Vanniyakula Kshatriya, Mukkulathor (‘Thevars’) and Kongu Vellalar (Gounders) — account for the lion’s share of candidates nominated by the coalitions led by the DMK and the AIADMK. According to a study of the caste configuration of the candidates, conducted by a group of persons under the banner ‘Forum for Real Social Justice and Inclusion’, these communities constitute 38.46% of the candidates of the DMK-led front and 47.44% of those of the AIADMK-led alliance. The DMK and its allies have nominated 36 Vanniyakula Kshatriya candidates and 27 candidates each of Kongu Vellalar and Mukkulathor. The respective figures for the AIADMK-led alliance are 42, 32 and 37, says R. Subash, one of the members who conducted the study. The DMK-led coalition has put up 13 Tulava Vellala or Mudaliar candidates and 15 Naidu candidates. But the AIADMK-led alliance has nominated just 10 Naidu candidates. The DMK-led front has nominated 7 candidates of the Hindu Nadar community and the AIADMK-led front, eight. As for the religious minorities, the DMK-led front has chosen 11 Muslims and 10 Christians, including 7 Nadars, while the AIADMK-led front has put up 4 Muslims and 8 Christians, including 6 Nadars. The DMK-led combine has nominated three Isai Vellalar candidates and the AIADMK-led coalition, none. The AIADMK-led alliance has put up two Brahmins, whereas the DMK-led front, none. As for the 44 seats reserved for the SCs, an academic who is doing an independent study of the caste breakdown of the candidates says that though the Arunthathiyars live in large numbers in western districts, several reserved seats have been given to other SC communities. The DMK-led front has selected four Arunthathiyars and the AIADMK-led alliance, three. The two alliances have put up 14-15 Devendrakula Velalar candidates each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-communities-take-the-lions-share-in-ticket/article34114236.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) bats for liquor prohibition||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Friday released the party’s Assembly election manifesto, which batted for liquor prohibition, protection of State autonomy and live telecast of Assembly proceedings, among other aspects. The CPI(M) is contesting in six Assembly seats as part of the DMK-led alliance. While the DMK’s manifesto is silent on prohibition,both the Congressand the CPI(M) manifestos mention it. The CPI(M)’s manifesto blamed liquor as the main reason for crimes against women, and said it would seek prohibition in a phased manner. It said the party would work for a ban on the sale of narcotic drugs and the rehabilitation of people addicted to alcohol and drugs. On the DMK manifesto being silent on prohibition, Mr. Balakrishnan said the alliance has got together to defeat the AIADMK-BJP front and alliance partners could have different objectives. According to the manifesto, the CPI(M) would also urge the Centre to appoint one of the three persons nominated by the Chief Minister as the Governor as per the recommendations of the Sarkaria Commission. The party would also press for the removal of Governors as Chancellors of universities and call for a ban on Governors from expressing their differences on State government decisions in public forums. Live proceedings It called for live telecasts of Assembly proceedings and immediate publication of government orders. The CPI(M) will also call for education to be moved back to the State list and seek a ban on NEET and other competitive exams. The manifesto called for the State government to take over sale of beach sand and also granite mining, which would result in higher revenue generation. CPM said it would work on the elimination of corruption and seek the effective functioning of the Lokayukta .  The manifesto also said the party would work for the withdrawal of the Centre’s farm laws and work for the development of agriculture, protection of MSMEs and overall industrial development in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-for-phased-liquor-prohibition-ban-on-neet/article34114251.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile mill workers continue higher education, get job placement||For 22 young women, who are all workers at a textile mill in Coimbatore, there is new-found hope as they will soon start a fresh career at insurance and mobile phone manufacturing companies. The women, employed at KPR Mill, had pursued school and college education for the last few years at the in-house education facility even as they worked at the mill and its garment units. Placement camps This year, the mill organised placement camps and 22 candidates, who have completed graduation or post-graduation courses, were placed at two companies - Tata Electronics (14 candidates) and Ensuranze (eight candidates). Preetha from Karur, who worked at KPR's garment unit at Arasur here, had to find employment when she was studying in Class X to support her family. “When I learnt that KPR Mill helped its workers to continue studies, I joined the mill's garment unit in the checking department. I continued to study Class X at the open school conducted by the mill. After finishing Plus Two, I joined B.Com (CA) at the education facility in the unit. I used to work eight hours at the garment unit and attend classes for two hours every day. On Sundays, I had classes from morning to evening,” she says. About a couple of months ago, the management informed the students about placement opportunities and encouraged the students to develop their soft skills. Last week, Preetha took a written test and was selected by Tata Electronics. “I have work experience in textiles. Now, I will learn about mobile phones and develop my skills in that area,” said Preetha, who started Tata Electronics' training programme here on Friday. Similarly, Pavithra from Vellore will complete MBA this year through the open university education provided by the mill to its workers. An employee of the mill for the last eight years, she attended the campus placement organised by the mill last month and was selected by Ensuranze. She is now attending a soft skill training organised by the mill for 53 workers who are completing under-graduate or post graduation programmes this year. K. Somasundaram, Vice President of KPR Mill, told The Hindu that four more companies were expected to select candidates from the mill in the next few days. 3000 workers studying Having started the education programme for five to 10 workers in 1998, the mill now has 3,000 of its 22,000 workers studying school or higher education courses. Almost 40 % of the workers are from other States and last year, the mill launched education courses for them too. “Our Chairman has asked us to target campus placement for 1,000 workers a year in different sectors. Hence, we have launched training programmes for workers who are in the final year courses. As many as 53 workers are undergoing a 45-day soft skill training. With this, the workers will get into skilled jobs in the corporate sector and will have a new career,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-mill-workers-continue-higher-education-get-job-placement/article34114293.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MNM will bring TN out of debt: Haasan||The Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) manifesto for the 2021 Assembly election was a vision document with a 10-year time frame and not a plaster to cover current problems, president Kamal Haasan said while releasing the document here on Friday. “It is not a plaster to cover the current problems like State’s debt. It is not like how others do it, by offering freebies. It is an organic, living document,” he said, adding that it was MNM’s vision to bring the State out of debt by increasing revenue and promoting growth. Washing machines and other items that political parties promised as freebies would increase the State’s burden, or, in other words, increase the per capita debt, and that meant political parties were cheating people by playing on their gullibility. MNM, on the other hand, would skill youth, women and the unemployed to help them improve their incomes or get jobs, Mr. Haasan said. MNM vice-president, V. Ponraj, said the party, if voted to power, would usher in a separate entrance examination for medical colleges, SEET, on the lines of NEET. This was to protect the State’s rights, he said, adding that the party would fight a legal battle with the Centre if this is not possible. Mr. Haasan also spoke about turning State-run enterprises profitable by making the employees shareholders. IT raids Mr. Haasan said the income tax raid at the premises of party treasurer Chandrasekaran was a raid on an individual. This had nothing to do with the MNM and there shouldn’t be a trial by media. There would be action against Chandrasekaran if he was guilty and until then, he was innocent, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-will-bring-tn-out-of-debt-kamal/article34114266.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nominations filed on last day||On Friday, the last day of the window period the Election Commission of India had given for filing nomination for the 2021 Assembly election, 130 persons filed their nominations in Coimbatore. Notable among those were Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani’s wife V. Vidyadevi, who filed nomination as the AIADMK’s dummy candidate for the Thondamuthur constituency. Likewise, DMK’s nominee for the Kinathukadavu constituency, Kurichi Prabhakaran’s wife P. Gowri filed nomination as the dummy candidate. DMK’s nominee for the Mettupalayam Assembly constituency T.R. Shanmugasundaram filed nomination as did his wife S. Vijayalakshmi as the dummy candidate. In Sulur constituency, DMK’s K. Nithyanandan filed nomination as a dummy candidate. The DMK had allotted the constituency to the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi. Four AMMK candidates also filed nominations. This takes the total number of persons who had filed nominations to contest in the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district to 317. Tiruppur A total of 281 nominations were filed by 226 nominees across the eight Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district on Friday. Kangeyam Assembly constituency saw 58 nominations, Palladam constituency- 44 nominations, Tiruppur North constituency-38 nominations, Madathukulam- 33 nominations, Tiruppur South- 32 nominations and Udumalpet- 29 nominations. The two reserved constituencies namely Avinashi and Dharapuram saw the filing of 25 and 22 nominations respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-filed-on-last-day/article34114284.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘I-T raid against treasurer not related to party’||MNM president Kamal Haasan said the Income Tax raid at the premises of party treasurer Chandrasekaran was a raid on an individual. It had nothing to do with the MNM and there should not be a trial by media, he added. There would be action against Mr. Chandrasekaran if he was found guilty and until then, he was innocent, said Mr. Haasan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-raid-against-treasurer-not-related-to-party/article34114259.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||12-year-old boy injured in leopard attack||A 12-year-old boy from Sholayar near Valparai, around 125 km from Coimbatore city, was injured in an attack of a leopard on Thursday evening. The victim has been identified as S. Eswaran, whose parents run an eatery at Sholayar bazaar, nearly 25 km from Valparai. Eswaran was attacked by a leopard when he was playing with two of his friends outside his house on Thursday evening. According to Forest Department sources, a leopard that came with its cub attacked the boy. The carnivore tried to drag the boy into bushes by biting his neck. However, his friends reportedly held his legs firm after which the animal left and withdrew into bushes. Eswaran was rushed to the Government Hospital at Valparai from where he was shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital at Pollachi. He was later referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Forest Department officials, quoting the doctors who examined Eswaran, said that the the injury was not serious and he was out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-attacks-boy/article34114246.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Election observers for Coimbatore district||Officers deputed as general observers and security (police) observers reached the district on Thursday and had a discussion with the district administration officials on Friday, said a release from Collector K. Rajamani. The Election Commission of India had deputed seven general observers and two security observers, who would monitor the conduct of elections on April 6. If the members of the public wished to report violations and take issues to the observers’ notice they can reach them over phone. The general observers are Swarochisha Somavanshi (94899-46716) for Sulur Assembly constituency; Hrisheekesh Modak (94899-46717) for Mettupalayam and Kavundampalayam constituencies; Saurabh Bhagat (94899-46718) for Coimbatore North; Gopal Meena (94899-46719) for Thondamuthur and Kinathukadavu; Rajesh Sukumar Toppo (94899-46720) for Coimbatore South; Vinod Prasad (94899-46721) for Singanallur, and Seema Vyas (94899-46722) for Pollachi and Valparai. The security (police) observers are Manmohan Kumar Bhasal (94899-46730) for Coimbatore South, Singanallur, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi and Valparai, and Hiremath Sudhir Kallaya (94899-46729) for the other constituencies, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-observers-for-coimbatore-district/article34114290.ece
20 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Codissia seeks early issue of certificates to exporters||The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association has appealed to the Union Government to take measures so that exporters get the Certificate of Origin for concessional duty without delay. Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu said, in a press release, India had trade agreements with several countries and based on the agreement, an importing country got duty concessions for its imports from India. The Certificate of Origin for concessional duty should be issued by the Export Inspection Agency. Earlier, Indian exporters got the certificate on the same day of applying when they did so online. However, the MSMEs here now reported that there was ‘undue delay’ in getting the certificate. So, the exporters were unable to provide all the documents to the overseas buyers on time and it resulted in delayed payments. The MSMEs were hit by cash crunch and when they got the payments late, exports were not remunerative, he said. Mr. Ramesh Babu appealed to Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal to ensure that the agencies concerned issued the Certificate of Origin on time for exports by MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/codissia-seeks-early-issue-of-certificates-to-exporters/article34114294.ece
20 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized from godown||The Thondamuthur police on Friday seized banned tobacco products from a godown that was allegedly rented by a DMK functionary. Ponraj, a member of DMK youth wing from Thondamuthur, was booked for illegal sales of alcohol on Thursday. The police searched the godown allegedly rented by Ponraj at Elango Nagar on Friday and found banned tobacco products. Efforts are on to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized-from-godown/article34114282.ece
20 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sealing of illegal brick kilns in Thadagam Valley begins||The District Administration on Friday began sealing the illegal brick kilns that were causing environmental damage in the Thadagam Valley. Sources in the District Administration told The Hindu that officials from the Departments of Revenue, Geology and Mining, Forest, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation were involved in the process. The officials began sealing the illegal brick kilns operating in five village panchayats in Thadagam Valley -- Chinna Thadagam, Veerapandi, Nanjundapuram, Somaiyampalayam and Pannimadai. Around 50 police personnel were deployed for security. The Revenue Department officials sealed the illegal brick kilns and chambers following the Madras High Court order issued on February 10 and the subsequent direction from District Collector K. Rajamani. With nearly 200 brick kilns and chambers operating illegally in the Thadagam Valley, it was proposed that around 20 of these located on the borders of forest areas would be sealed in the first phase on Friday. Following this, the owners will be asked to close down the remaining brick kilns and chambers themselves, failing which the District Administration would continue with the sealing process, sources said.  Activist T.M.S. Rajendran, one of the petitioners in the High Court, urged the District Administration to seal all the illegal brick kilns and chambers in Thadagam Valley at the earliest. “If not, we will send a petition to the CBI to intervene in this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sealing-of-illegal-brick-kilns-in-thadagam-valley-begins/article34114286.ece
20 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK resolved Cauvery row’||AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday asserted that it was his party’s government that retrieved the livelihood rights of farmers by winning the battle on the Cauvery issue. Campaigning for party candidates A. Arunmozhidevan and sitting Minister M.C. Sampath in Bhuvanagiri and Cuddalore constituencies, Mr. Palaniswami said it was only because of the sustained efforts of party supremo and late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa that the State’s rights in water share were protected. Alleging that the DMK government headed by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had failed to take the required steps to procure the State’s share of Cauvery water, Mr. Palaniswami said that a dam across the Kabini was built during the term of Mr. Karunanidhi as Chief Minister. “Though the DMK was in power both at the Centre and in the State then, nothing was done by Mr. Karunanidhi, his son and Deputy Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and other Central Ministers to prevent the construction of the dam,” he alleged. “Had they (DMK) taken any steps, the ryots would not have faced any hardship and the Delta region would have received Cauvery water,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that it was onlyAmma(Jayalalithaa) who fought a legal battle in the Supreme Court and ensured that the final verdict on the Cauvery Water Dispute was published in the Government Gazette. Hitting out at the DMK president, he said that Mr. Stalin was only indulging in a pipe dream that he would capture power in the State. “People are fully aware that the DMK rule would be a rule of devastation of law and order as was seen in the past. People have been living in amity with each other and the record of Tamil Nadu being a peaceful State would be shattered if the DMK is voted to power,” he added. Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK president was hoodwinking the people by collecting petitions during his campaign and making tall promises of resolving people’s issues within 100 days of coming to power. The DMK has been collecting petitions in boxes from people as they are known for receiving ‘boxes’ (suitcases), he said. The DMK would never stage a comeback, he said.  Accusing the DMK of introducing the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) to safeguard its position in the Congress-led UPA government, the CM said Mr. Stalin could not continue deceiving the people by uttering lies. He also pointed out that an agreement for hydrocarbon exploration was signed during the previous DMK regime. On the other hand, the AIADMK government had scrapped the project and declared the delta region a Protected Agricultural Zone, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-resolved-cauvery-row/article34114245.ece
20 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Sampath||S. Prasad   Industries Minister M.C. Sampath made a virtual gaffe while seeking votes in the Cuddalore constituency recently. The Minister, who was listing the welfare schemes of the government, said a monthly dole of Rs. 1,500 for women and the door delivery of rations were among the highlights of the AIADMK government. When all basic requirements are met by the government, a situation will arise where women will not have to depend on husbands, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sampath/article34114235.ece
20 March 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Observers appointed for Dharmapuri||The Election Commission of India has appointed the following general observers, expenditure observers and police observer for the all the five Assembly constituencies in Dharmapuri district for the conduct of free and fair elections. They will be available to take complaints or grievances in the corresponding locations. R.K. Dinesh Singh is the general observer for Dharmapuri and Paapireddipatty constituencies. He may be reached at 6379468651; and will be available at Suite No.1, PWD Circuit house, Dharmapuri between 9.30 a.m and 10.30 a.m. Kamal Johan Lakra (mobile number: 79043 53378) has been appointed general observer for Palacode and Pennagaram and he will be available at Suite No 2, PWD Circuit house, Dharmapuri between 9.30 a.m and 10.30 a.m. Pankaj (mobile number: 8838332081) has been appointed general observer for Harur (Reserved) constituency and he will available for the public at the Inspection Bungalow, PWD Department, Morappur between 10 a.m and 11 a.m. Expenditure observers Prakash Nath Barnwal (mobile number:7806879834) for Dharmapuri, Paapireddipatty and Harur (Reserved) constituencies, and Biswarup Das (mobile number: 7806845131) for Palacode and Pennagaram constituencies will be available at Suit No.3 and 2, Power Grid Guest House, Somenehalli between 10.30 a.m and 11.30 a.m. Chakkirala Sambasiva Rao (mobile number: 9345058391) has been appointed as the police observer for the Assembly constituencies. General public, political parties and mediapersons are requested to bring election-related complaints, if any, to the notice of the concerned observers in person or over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/observers-appointed-for-dharmapuri/article34114382.ece
20 March 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi takes a dig at PMK alliance with AIADMK||“What happened to the list of corruption charges (against AIADMK Government) submitted by PMK leader Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss to the Governor”,” DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin asked while campaigning at Karimangalam in Palacodde Assembly constituency on Friday. The PMK leader submitted a long list of charges of corruption against the AIADMK government to the Governor. He (Dr.Anbumani Ramadoss) called O. Paneerselvam names. Today, they have aligned with the AIADMK without any shame, said Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin. The PMK had alleged “several thousands of crores in corruption by the AIADMK ministers and yet they have joined the corrupt bandwagon”. Campaigning for DMK candidate P.K. Murugan, who will face off AIADMK’s Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan in Palacodde, Mr. Udhayanidhi Stalin also alleged that the “mystery” behind the death of the AIADMK supremo Jayalalithaa remained unsolved. He cautioned the people that votes for the AIADMK and its the candidate would go to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi-takes-a-dig-at-pmk-alliance-with-aiadmk/article34114395.ece
20 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||229 nominations filed in Dindigul district||With the closing of nominations on Friday, the officials have announced that 229 papers have been filed in Dindigul district. The nominations, which opened on March 12, came to a close on Friday. Dindigul district has Dindigul, Natham, Vedasandur, Palani, Oddanchatram, Athoor and Nilakottai Assembly constituencies. Apart from the recognised political parties, Independents and dummy candidates too had filed papers. Ramanathapuram  In Ramanathapuram, 132 nominations were received by the officials. According to the data available, Tiruvadanai had 32 nominations, Mudukulathur 38, Paramakudi (SC) 24 and Ramanathapuram had 38 nominations filed by the parties and Independents. Sivaganga  The district, which has Tirupathur (35), Sivaganga (26), Manamadurai (20) and Karaikudi (30), Assembly Constituencies had a total of 111 nominations filed till the last day, officials said. Theni In Theni, from the Bodinayakkanur, Periakulam, Cumbum and Andipatti constituencies, a total of 152 nominations were received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/229-nominations-filed-in-dindigul-district/article34114378.ece
20 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water scarcity remains a perennial problem||Though agriculture is the major economic activity in the Anthiyur Assembly constituency, water scarcity remains a perennial problem for farmers as promises by politicians to construct check dams and divert water are yet to be fulfilled. The farmers have been demanding check dams across Maniyachi Pallam stream and at Valukkuparai, both in Bargur hills, and diverting the water to Varattupallam Reservoir. Though the projects will serve people in plains, many in the hill area oppose them as they feel that water diversion will adversely affect forest resources, wild animals, people, cattle and agricultural lands. The storage capacity of the reservoir, located at the foothills of Bargur hills, is less than one tmc and deepening the reservoir is the only solution to enhance storage. Also, they wanted a check dam at Thoni Maduvu in Kolathur Taluk in Salem district besides extending the West Canal of Mettur Dam to irrigate farm lands. Betel leaves grown in Anthiyur is no longer a lucrative crop as farmers seek Geographical Indication tag to tap wider markets. Over 20,000 and odd people living in 33 hamlets in Bargur hills continue to seek ST community certificates, patta for land, mobile network connectivity, healthcare and adequate public transport facility, higher secondary school and priority for local people in appointments in government jobs in the hill area. Most of them have mortgaged their tamarind trees to private lenders for a meagre sum and interest-free loans to get them released from the debt is yet to happen. In the absence of adequate transport facilities, people are unable to market their produce directly, paving the way for exploitation by middlemen. Without sustainable income, many families migrate to plains leading to the children being drop-outs and turning as child labour. Also, locals seek more concrete steps to save the indigenous breeds of Bargur cattle. The constituency was represented seven times by the AIADMK, thrice by DMK and once by Pattali Makkal Katchi. DMK’s A.G. Venkadachalam, who unsuccessfully contested in 2016, takes on AIADMK’s K.S. Shanmugavel this time. Both candidates promised to solve the water problem and also improve the livelihood of the farming community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-scarcity-remains-a-perennial-problem/article34114401.ece
20 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||194 candidates file nominations||A total of 194 candidates filed 229 nomination papers to contest in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district as filing of nominations ended on Friday. Filing of nominations began on March 12 and candidates of main political parties and independents filed their nominations during the six days. Filing of nomination ended at 3 p.m. on Friday and 92 nominations were filed on the day. A total of 194 candidates filed their papers for the election. Nominations filed in each Assembly constituency: Erode (East) – 23 candidates, Erode (West) – 22, Modakkurichi – 24, Perundurai – 34, Bhavani – 23, Anthiyur – 28, Gobichettipalayam 27, and Bhavanisagar (Reserved) – 13 candidates. Scrutiny of nominations will take place on March 20 and nominations can be withdrawn till 3 p.m. on March 22. Allocation of symbols and final list of contesting candidates will be announced on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/194-candidates-file-nominations/article34114387.ece
20 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||People warned against safety norm violations||Over 1,000 persons were imposed spot fine of Rs. 200 for not wearing masks in public places across the district on Friday. The district administration had cautioned people against the spread of COVID-19 and made wearing of mask mandatory. Also, it had advised the people to ensure personal distancing while in public places. Officials from the department of revenue, health and corporation workers along with police personnel inspected shops and also monitored the movement of public on arterial roads and in market areas. Over 1,100 persons who were not wearing masks were levied fine on a single day. Corporation officials said that shops in the city limits were inspected to check whether hand sanitisers were kept at the entrance and thermal scanners were used to scan customers. They said that the inspection would continue in the coming days and added that more cases were registered against people for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-warned-against-safety-norm-violations/article34114386.ece
20 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Seized||Election officials seized 1,336 grams of gold jewellery and cash for want of documents in the district. Members of the flying squad checked a two-wheeler on Erode – Sathyamangalam Road and found the jewellery and Rs. 2 lakh. Likewise, officials checked a car at Veerapampalayam Pirivu and found Rs. 1,42,100. Officials seized the cash and handed it over to the Returning Officer of the Erode West Assembly constituency. Also, an official team seized Rs. 80,000 from a two-wheeler rider at Manickampalayam Housing Unit area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized/article34114383.ece
20 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Contact numbers of observers||Election-related complaints can be taken up with the observers for the constituencies in the district. A release said that general observers can be contacted at Erode East – Navdeep Rinva (91500-20720), Erode West - Alonu Chatterjee (91500-20721), Modakkurichi and Perundurai – Yogesh Kumar (91500-20722), Bhavani and Anthiyur – Prasanth Kumar Mishra (91500-20723) and Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar – Narbu Wangdi Bhutia (91500-20724). Expenditure observers can be contacted at Erode East and Erode West – Arup Chatterjee (91500-20727), Modakkurichi and Perundurai – Sanjeev Kumar Dev (91500-20726), Anthiyur and Gobichettipalayam – Arjun Lal Jat (91500-20728) and Bhavani and Bhavanisagar – Bhawani Shankar Meena (91500-20729) Sunil Kumar Naik will be the police observer and he can be contacted at 91500-20725, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contact-numbers-of-observers/article34114388.ece
20 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle||S.P. Saravanan   Vehicles being used for campaigning for the Assembly election are fast becoming an attraction among people. Curious onlookers are busy trying to figure out the parties behind the flags, especially when the flag belongs to a lesser known outfit. The vehicles not just carry the flags of one party, but also those of its electoral partners. The campaign vehicle of the AIADMK is fully painted with the “two leaves” symbol, and carries flags of the PMK, the Tamil Manila Congress and the Puthiya Needhi Katchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle/article34114238.ece
20 March 2021||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||Kancheepuram||R. Srikanth   The Kancheepuram Collectorate has gone one step further to call for 100% voter participation — messages are printed on token slips issued to patients visiting government hospitals and stickers are being pasted on autorickshaws and application forms needed to admit patients to primary health centres. In some instances, district officials are also asking electors not to take money for votes, and are printing messages like “No note for vote”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kancheepuram/article34114233.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Shortcomings in functioning of infrastructure facilities||Tirupparankundram Assembly constituency gets hundreds of devotees every year. Although this constituency has major public infrastructures like the proposed All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the IT park at Vadapalanji and Madurai airport, there are several shortcomings in the functioning of these facilities. Tirupparankundram constituency has a few areas that fall within the purview of Madurai Corporation like Tirupparankundram, Avaniapuram, Harveypatti and Tirunagar. Rural areas, including Nagamalai Pudukottai, Vadapalanji, Valayapatti, Kombadi and Thoppur, fall within this constituency. Not much progress The delay in commencing the construction of AIIMS at Thoppur is one of the main issues that has been repeatedly highlighted. Although it has been more than two years since the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone, there has not been much progress. “Why is the State government showing a lackadaisical attitude towards setting up AIIMS? There is an urgent need to sign the loan agreement with Japan International Cooperation Agency and begin the construction,” says V.S. Manimaran, Coordinator of People’s Movement for AIIMS Madurai. Underutilised IT park The IT park at Vadapalanji, spread around 245 acres, largely remains underutilised. K. Nagaraj, Managing Director of Aparajitha Corporate Services Private Limited, says that the government must incentivise the IT companies and encourage them to set up their companies in the IT park. “The government must aid in creating an ecosystem that will encourage more IT companies to set up their units,” he adds. The non-announcement of Madurai airport as an international airport is another long pending demand. The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry had made several petitions demanding the award of point of call to Madurai airport, says its senior president S. Rethinavelu. “The leaders who are contesting the elections must commit to the voters that they will definitely ensure that Madurai airport is declared an international airport,” he says. Lack of parking facility The lack of parking facility and sufficient number of toilets around Subramaniaswamy Temple at Tirupparankundram is another major issue here. B. Muthu Alagesan, a resident near the temple, says that during festivals and ‘muhurtham’ days, the whole Tirupparankundram area gets congested due to lack of parking facility. Saravana Poigai, the pond of Subramaniaswamy Temple, is severely contaminated. Its rejuvenation is another necessity.  ‘Madura Malli’  The farmers from pockets where ‘Madura Malli’ is cultivated demand setting up a scent factory in Tirupparankundram constituency. People belonging to the Mukkalathors constitute a significant vote share in the constituency. The AIADMK has fielded V.V. Rajan Chellappa, the sitting MLA of Madurai North constituency, to contest from Tirupparankundram. The CPI (M) has fielded S.K. Ponnuthayi here. P. Saravanan, the sitting DMK MLA of Tirupparankundram, joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortcomings-in-functioning-of-infrastructure-facilities/article34114614.ece
20 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) candidate banks on peoples’ trust and support||A 12-feet model of an LPG cylinder is getting readied in the CPI(M) office in Mahaboobpalayam as a campaign tool for the party and its candidate. “The size is symbolic of the escalating cost of the domestic LPG cylinder and will power my canvassing in the coming days,” says S.K. Ponnuthayi, who has got the ticket to contest from the Tirupparankundram Assembly constituency. Earlier this week, with her husband R Karunanidhi at the wheels, she campaigned in his autorickshaw and the news went viral. But she is not exactly amused. “The vehicle has been our source of income for the past two decades and I have been ferried in it innumerable times. Now everybody thinks an autorickshaw driver’s wife has made it big!” she exclaims. “We both were active party workers and met in the party office two decades ago, got married and decided that one of us will be an active political worker,” says the 46-year-old. Her husband chose to eke out a living by driving an autorickshaw while Ms. Ponnuthayi went on to carve her own path starting from her native Sattur in Virudhunagar district where she joined the Arivoli Iyakkam movement in her teens. Her father ran a cycle repair shop and as the eldest of six siblings, she dropped out after class XII and joined the Student’s Federation of India. Working in Madurai, she became the State committee member of CPI(M) and the State secretary of All India Democratic Women’s Association. In the last three decades, she has been a relentless field worker and full-time party worker waging a fight against child sexual abuse, violence against women and relocation of TASMAC shops to residential clusters near villages following the ban on liquor shops on highways. She is a fighter, says Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. “She comes from a humble background and is a refreshing change in times when elections are all about big money and rich politicians take auto rides only as a gimmick,” he says. “Ponnuthayi as a grassroots woman candidate, shows the road ahead to the multitudes,” he adds and reminds that Madurai has voted in the past for P. Mohan and N.Nanmaran, who were ordinary citizens with simple backgrounds. Pitted against AIADMK’s seasoned politician V.V. Rajan Chellappa, Ms. Ponnuthayi is unruffled and is banking on peoples’ trust and support. Issues that affect the ordinary, middle class and poor people are at the core of her campaign. She believes the giant LPG cylinder model she plans to unveil on her campaign trail next week will be an instant connect with the masses. “The incumbent legislator did not solve the drinking water problem in the constituency among other basic amenities and with more women voting in every election, I know the electorate will hear me loud and clear,” she adds. Always a hard worker, the routine now from the crack of dawn to well past midnight to meet as many people during door-to-door and other meetings does not fluster her. In the middle of her campaign, Ms. Ponnuthayi, who filed her nomination on Thursday, says, “watch out for my new innovative campaign style in the coming days.” To get more women out into public service is something she sees as key to progress and says, “change will take place only through women.”  (Tirupparankundram is one of the oldest Assembly segments in Tamil Nadu since 1957 election. AIADMK has won here eight times and DMK five times. Dr.P. Saravanan is the incumbent MLA who won on DMK ticket and has now joined BJP)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-candidate-banks-on-peoples-trust-and-support/article34114617.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Set up tribal university in T.N.’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction for establishment of a tribal university in Tamil Nadu, to preserve the culture and tradition of tribal communities. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi sought response in the petition filed by S. Selvagomathi, the Joint Director of the SOCO Trust and the Managing Trustee of the Justice Shivaraj V. Patil foundation, Madurai. She sought the establishment of the University in either Dindigul or the Nilgiris district. She said that Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh had Tribal Universities, she said. Indira Gandhi National Tribal University in Amarkantak, Madhya Pradesh and Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh in Vizianagaram were established considering the substantial number of tribal communities in these States. Tamil Nadu also has a substantial number of tribal communities, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/set-up-tribal-university-in-tn/article34114623.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CRS inspects new second railway line||Commissioner of Railway Safety, Abhai Kumar Rai, on Friday inspected the newly-laid second railway line between Tirumangalam and Virudhunagar. After a trolley inspection between Tirumangalam and Virudhunagar railway stations, the CRS took up a speed trial later in the day. A similar exercise taken up on Virudhunagar-Thulukkapatti stretch on Saturday will conclude the two-day inspection will conclude between Tirumangalam and Thulukkapatti railway stations. The second broadgauge line has been laid as part of Madurai-Thoothukudi/Vanchi Maniyachchi-Nagercoil track doubling project. The 41-km stretch is one of the bottleneck portion (Tirumangalam-Thulukkapatti) on Tirunelveli-Madurai section where Shencottah-Virudhunagar broadgauge line joins. CRS has already cleared newly-laid line between Tirunelveli and Kovilpatti and Maniyachchi and Thattaparai. On commissioning of the 41-km long second line, a second line will be available for 105 km between Tirunelveli and Madurai railway stations. Divisional Railway Manager, V.R. Lenin, Chief Administrative Officer, Railway Constructions, K. Raveendra Babu, Chief Project Manager, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited, Kamalakara Reddy, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crs-inspects-new-second-railway-line/article34114373.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SRM University wins tournament||SRM University, Chennai, emerged winners at the 27th N. Muthiah Ambalam Memorial State-level Inter-Collegiate Volleyball Tournament held in the American College. Around 10 teams from across Tamil Nadu participated in the event. In the finals held on Friday, SRM University defeated Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College, Pollachi. The Muthiah Ambalam memorial trophy and cash prize of Rs. 20,000 was awarded to the winners and the Rajadurai Ambalam trophy and cash prize of Rs. 10,000 was awarded to the runners-up of the volleyball tournament. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) M. Baskaran congratulated the winners. Principal M. Davamani Christober was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-university-wins-tournament/article34114621.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Question candidates’||A forum of followers of the Gandhian principles has urged voters to question the candidates contesting the 2021 Assembly elections on their poll promises. Question if such promises can be realised and don’t blindly accept them, the forum members advised the voters at a press meet here on Friday. Will those who are elected promise to resign if they don’t fulfill their promise, asked members of A Mission for Gandhian Politics. The members said that corruption was everywhere. Also none of the parties was focusing on the total prohibition of liquor. These questions have to be raised to the candidates who come to the doorsteps during campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/question-candidates/article34114622.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Steady increase in active cases in Madurai||There has been a steady increase in the COVID-19 active cases recorded in Madurai district for the past two weeks. The active cases reached 105 on Friday, crossing the 100-cases mark after many weeks. The doctors and health department officials stress that the public must strictly comply with COVID-19 safety precautions to prevent a second wave of COVID-19 cases in the district. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said that around 70 patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital on Friday. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that no clusters were formed in Madurai. The rise in positive cases are all indigenous cases from the city. A majority of the cases are reported from Madurai Corporation limits. "A large number of residents aged above 50 are testing positive for COVID-19," he added. The officials point out that there is a poor compliance with usage of facemasks and maintaining personal distancing at public places. K. Senthil, president of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors' Association, said that following safety precautions and continuing COVID-19 vaccination must be done simultaneously. He said that it will take more than one more year till a large proportion of the population is administered COVID-19 vaccination. "It is important to understand that both vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin - do not have 100% efficacy. So, it is important to follow safety precautions even after the vaccine is administered. Even if the beneficiaries do not test positive for COVID-19, they might become carriers of the virus," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-covid-19-cases-reach-105-in-madurai/article34114371.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||ITF Junior Tennis tournament in Madurai||The third edition of the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Junior tournament was inaugurated here on Friday. Four state of the art synthetic courts with floodlights have been prepared for the week-long event that will be held in the Madura College. Around 120 players from India and abroad will be participating in the qualifying event and the main draw of the Under 18 tournament. The qualifying round will be held over this weekend and the main tournament will commence from Monday. The boys and girls will be competing in singles and doubles categories, the organisers said. The organisers of the tournament said that the quality of the courts matched the international standards. Multi layered rubberised coating was given to asphalt surface and these synthetic courts were easier to maintain when compared to the other court surfaces, they said. Secretary of the Madura College Board S. Natanagopal said that COVID-19 protocols will be adhered to at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/itf-junior-tennis-tournament/article34114612.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 128.65 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 42 cusecs and a discharge of 300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.53 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 39 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,954 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34114369.ece
20 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||293 nominations filed in Madurai district||A total of 125 nominations were filed for the upcoming Assembly elections in Madurai on Friday, the last day for filling nominations. According to a press release from the district administration, a total of 293 nominations were filed from March 12 to 19. The total nominations are: Melur (22); Madurai East (26), Sholavandan (32), Madurai North (28), Madurai South (21), Madurai Central (29), Madurai West (36), Tirupparankundram (37), Tirumangalam (36), and Usilampatti (26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/293-nominations-filed-in-madurai-district/article34114610.ece
20 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber||Vignesh Vijayakumar   Former TV journalist and YouTube vlogger Deepan Chakkravarthi S. filed nomination on Thursday to contest as an independent in the Assembly poll from the Namakkal constituency. He said he filed his nomination papers to create awareness among the youth about the election process and the responsibilities of public representatives. Mr. Deepan has also started a video series, “ MLA ennum naan ”, detailing the procedures in contesting an election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber/article34114360.ece
20 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Filing of nominations for Assembly poll ends||Over 480 candidates have entered the fray for the April 6 Assembly election when filing of nominations came to a close on Friday. While most leaders of political parties had already filed their nomination since the window opened on March 12, some submitted papers even before formal announcements were made by the respective parties. Among those who filed nomination on the concluding day were Congress candidate and former Minister M.O.H.F. Shajahan in Kamaraj Nagar, and V. Saminathan, BJP’s Puducherry president, apart from candidates from the DMDK, the AMMK, Naam Tamilar Katchi and Makkal Needhi Maiam. According to provisional data, the highest number of candidates was in Yanam (24), Orleanpet, Villianur, Mangalam and Mannadipet (23) and the least in Kadirkamam (nine). In the city, Indira Nagar had just 10 nominations while the number of candidates entering the fray was fewer in Karaikal enclave where Karaikal-South had 11, Thirunallar and Nedungadu 12, and Neravy TR Pattinam 13. The scrutiny of nominations is set to take place on Saturday while Monday is the deadline for withdrawal of nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filing-of-nominations-for-assembly-poll-ends/article34114720.ece
20 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress, AINRC to come face to face in 8 Assembly seats||The remaining candidates list published by the All India N.R. Congress on Friday pointed to a direct fight between the party and its rival Congress in eight Assembly segments. AINRC candidates are pitted against those of the Congress in constituencies such as Kadirgamam, Indira Nagar, Ariyankuppam, Manaveli, Embalam (SC), Nettapakkam (SC), Nedungadu (SC) and Mahe. Two turncoats In Kadirgaman and Indira Nagar, the traditional strongholds of AINRC chief N. Rangasamy, the party fielded two turncoats from the Congress against the candidates of the national party. While AINRC has fielded N. Ramesh against Congress nominee P. Selvanadane in Kadirgamam, the principal Opposition party has pitted A.K.D. Arumugham against Congress candidate M. Kannan in Indira Nagar. Mr. Ramesh and Mr. Arumugham, who were considered close to former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, deserted the Congress just a few days after the announcement of the election. In the three reserved constituencies of Embalam, Nettapakkam and Nedungadu too, the candidates of the rival parties will come face to face. An interesting fight will be on the cards in Embalam, where AINRC’s U. Lakshmikandan, son of fiery trade union leader and former legislator P. Uthiravelu, will take on former Minister M. Kandasamy. In another reserved constituency of Nettapakkam, former AINRC Minister P. Rajavelu, brother of Mr. Uthiravelu, will face sitting legislator V. Vizeaveny. The AINRC has again fielded sitting legislator S. Chandrapriyanga from Nedungadu. She will be pitted against the Congress’s A. Marimuthu. In Mahe, the party has fielded former chairman of the Wakf Board V. P Abdul Rahman against Congress first-timer Ramesh Preambath. The other candidates announced on Friday are B. Gobika (Thirubuvanai), S.V. Sugumaran (Villianur) and G. Pannirselvam (Ozhukarai).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-ainrc-to-come-face-to-face-in-8-assembly-seats/article34114716.ece
20 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Francophonie Day to be celebrated||The Consulate General of France in Puducherry and Chennai is celebrating French language on the occasion of the International Day of Francophonie on Saturday. A press note from the Consulate said a highlight would be the conferment of the Palmes académiques (Order of Academic Palms) on Ramaya Kichenamourthy, Tamil scholar and vice-president of Alliance Francaise. The oldest French civilian award, instituted by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1808, is awarded to foreigners and French people who actively contribute to the expansion of the French language and of francophone cultures in the world. This year, the International Organisation of La Francophonie (OIF) has chosen the theme "Francophone women, resilient women". The event will mark week-long celebrations of French language, francophone cultures and their core values. Shared by 300 million people in five continents, the majority of Francophones are under the age of 30 and keep its values at heart from the commitment to freedom, the rule of law, democracy, human rights to gender equality. In India, there are more than 6,00, 000 French speaking Indians and more than 9,000 French nationals. The occasion also affords an opportunity to look ahead to the end of 2021 as in November, the 18th Summit of the Francophonie will take place in Djerba, Tunisia, located in Northern Africa, setting the stage for Francophonie actors all around the world to meet there to set out their priorities. France will focus on several priorities, including the promotion and teaching of the French language, political stands, democratic governance, and economic and digital challenges. The south of India will also welcome its international Francophonie event with the Festival of “Les rencontres francophone of Pondicherry and South India” (Francophones meetings) at the end of October, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/francophonie-day-to-be-celebrated/article34114721.ece
20 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With 61 new cases, tally of active cases crosses 300 after months||The number of active COVID-19 cases crossed 300 for the first time in months after 61 persons tested positive from 1,347 tests carried out in the last 24 hours across the Union Territory. Puducherry accounted for 39 new cases, Karaikal 15 and Mahe seven. No cases were reported in Yanam. The active cases stood at 317. Of this, 160 patients were in hospitals and 157 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 4.52%, case fatality rate 1.67 % and recovery rate 97.54%. The tally stands at 674 deaths, a total of 40,262 cases and 39,271 recovered patients. The number of tests carried out so far was an estimated 6.5 lakh with over 6.04 lakh returning negative. Meanwhile, 1,307 more members of the public got their first dose of Covid vaccine, along with 980 healthcare personnel and 352 frontline workers in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. The cumulative number of those immunised was 38,234 — 17,277 healthcare staff, 6,249 frontline workers and 14,708 members of the public. Cuddalore district reported nine fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 25,334. While 24,973 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 73. In Villupuram district, eight persons tested positive, taking the tally of positive cases to 15,330. Kallakurichi district reported two positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,921.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tally-of-active-cases-crosses-300-after-months/article34114357.ece
20 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP, Cong. have no right to talk about Statehood’||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) has accused the Congress and the BJP of ignoring the demand for Statehood for Puducherry while being in power at the Centre. Introducing the party candidates for the Puducherry Assembly poll near the AFT ground on Friday, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said the BJP was in power for the last six years at the Centre. The party had done nothing to accord Statehood for the Union Territory. The AINRC and the AIADMK had aligned with the BJP for the Assembly poll, he said, adding that the three parties had no moral right to talk about Statehood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cong-have-no-right-to-talk-about-statehood/article34114717.ece
20 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Officials seize unaccounted cash, liquor||Unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 2 crore, a large stash of Set Top Boxes and a huge haul of illicit liquor were seized in different places by the flying squad and police teams enforcing the model code of conduct for the April 6 Assembly election in Puducherry. According to Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh, officials of the Flying Squad of Kadirkamam, Thattanchavady and Indira Nagar Assembly segments intercepted a vehicle in Thanthai Periyar Nagar during a surprise check and seized the cash. Though the people carrying the cash in the vehicle disclosed during enquiry that it was from a private bank, they could not present valid documents to show the destination the cash was being taken to. On suspicion that the cash was intended for illegal distribution to voters while the model code of conduct for the Assembly poll was in force, the officials handed the cash over to the Income Tax Department for further investigation. Mr. Singh said the cash was in the denominations of Rs. 500, Rs. 200 and Rs. 100, and the vehicle used for transportation was a private van normally used by banks. In another incident, the flying squad of Embalam, Nettapakkam and Bahoor segments, acting on a tip-off, seized around 30,000 set top boxes worth about Rs. 2 crore from a house on Mariamman Koil Street, Kattukuppam. The STBs were stocked in the first floor of the house with the owner residing in the ground floor. Flying Squad officials seized the stock and sealed the site. In another raid, over 3,650 litres of arrack kept in the backyard of an arrack shop in Nedungadu constituency, were seized. A team seized 57 barrels, each with 50 l capacity and 20 gunny bags, each with 40 l capacity, valued at Rs. 7.3 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-seize-unaccounted-cash-liquor/article34114718.ece
20 March 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Bullock||Rajesh B. Nair   The PMK , which is fighting alone in the Union Territory for the Assembly election, took a symbolic step to show its displeasure against the BJP. The party decided to contest alone after it was denied seats. The candidates in the fray, on Friday, took out a rally from the Vanniyar Sangam office to the Registrar of Cooperative Society in a bullock cart to express anger against the rising prices of petroleum products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bullock/article34114232.ece
20 March 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||A swimming record||Shyamala Goli, 48, of Telangana, swam in 13 hours and 40 minutes from Talaimannar in Sri Lanka to Arichalmunai near Dhanushkodi on Friday. On reaching the shores, she told reporters that though many had swam in English Channel, I wanted to do it in India so that I chose the Ram-Setu. Rajesh Trivedi, a senior IPS officer, encouraged me to do it a year ago. I have been swimming for the last four years. ‘Last year, I tried to come, but due to covid-19, I had to cancel. Again, I took this year. Special thanks to the High Commission of India and Sri Lanka. Captain Vikas Sood, the top official in the High Commission, helped me a lot in getting permission and flagged off. She said “I reached the IMBL in five hours. Weather was fine there. But the current was very strong here. I struggled but finished it finally in 13 hours and 40 minutes.” “ I want to be a role model to all womenfolk. I want all the kids to swim here as we have an epic tale behind this location,” she said. Thanking all the Central and State agencies and official teams which helped her in this mission, she said that it was an Indo-Sri Lanka friendship event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telangana-woman-swims-from-talaimannar-to-arichalmunai/article34114380.ece
20 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Preventive measures intensified in Salem||The district administration and the public health department have intensified COVID-19 preventive measures and increased testing to prevent the spread of disease. According to health officials, checks in public places have been intensified to ensure that the public are following COVID-19 protocols like wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and ensuring hand sanitisation. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services for Salem, said that they have increased average number of tests each day. Dr. Subramani said, “on an average 2,000 swab samples are being taken a day at present to contain the spread of the disease. While around 10 cases were being reported a day earlier, an average of 15-20 cases are being reported at present.” He added that stern checks are being conducted at the public places to ensure that all safety protocols are being followed. According to officials, the COVID-19 vaccination drive has also been intensified in the district. Health officials said that from Monday, vaccination drive would be conducted at 200 centres in the district. Dr. Subramani said that as on Thursday, 1,12,291 persons have taken first dose of vaccination in the district of which 31,341 are aged above 60 years and 33,079 are aged between 45-60 years. About 13,140 persons have received second dose of vaccination, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preventive-measures-intensified-in-salem/article34114391.ece
20 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Platform ticket rate increased to Rs. 50||The Salem division of Southern Railway has increased the platform ticket rates at four railway stations as part of measures to contain COVID-19 pandemic. According to a release, the division has increased platform ticket rates to Rs. 50 at Salem, Tiruppur, Erode and Coimbatore railway junctions to restrict overcrowding at railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/platform-ticket-rate-increased-to-rs-50/article34114398.ece
20 March 2021||SALEM/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||27 cases in Salem||A total of 27 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Friday. According to health officials, 25 cases were indigenous and two patients have returned from Namakkal and Dharmapuri. Seven cases were reported in Namakkal, of which three patients have returned from Theni, Salem, Karur and one patient has returned from Kolkata. Erode district reported 15 new cases, taking the tally to 15,039. While 10 persons were discharged, 123 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-cases-in-salem/article34114392.ece
20 March 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||412 nominations received in Salem||As many as 412 nominations were received in Salem for contesting in the elections. According to officials, the highest number of nominations was filed on Friday, 165 applications. Among the 11 constituencies in Salem, highest number of nominations have been received in Mettur, 73. In Namakkal, 214 nominations have been received for six constituencies. Highest number of nominations have been received in Kumarapalayam, 45. The nominations would be scrutinised on Saturday and the last date for withdrawing candidature is March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/412-nominations-received-in-salem/article34114393.ece
20 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||11 students and 10 teachers of Thanjavur school test positive||A group of 11 students and 10 teachers of a private school in Thanjavur have tested positive for COVID 19 on Thursday. According to Collector M.Govinda Rao, one of the teachers resides in Tiruchi and her husband had tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Subsequently, she had also tested positive and hence all the 1,123 students, teachers and non-teaching staff were subjected to the test. As on Friday, 11 students and 10 teachers tested positive and hence the school was ordered to remain shut for the next 14 days, he added. Earlier, 55 students of an aided government school at Ammapettai tested positive last week, and six students of an aided school at Kumbakonam tested positive on Wednesday. The Health Department has urged students and parents to strictly adhere to the standard operating procedure. Many teenagers were being infected by the novel coronavirus now. In order to ascertain whether the teenage group had become susceptible to the mutated virus or not, the samples collected from this group were being forwarded to the virology institute in Pune, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-students-10-teachers-of-thanjavur-school-test-positive/article34114279.ece
20 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘CM mortgaged T.N.’s rights over Cauvery’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday alleged that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami mortgaged Tamil Nadu’s rights over the Cauvery with the Ministry of Jal Shakti. Addressing an election rally at Orathanadu, where he campaigned for the candidates fielded by the party and its allies in the eight Assembly constituencies in Thanjavur district, he listed out the efforts of late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in establishing the State’s right over Cauvery river water over the decades. The Chief Minister had blamed and held Karunanidhi responsible for the problems in sharing of Cauvery water between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Strongly criticising Mr. Palaniswami for attempting to taint the image of Karunanidhi on the issue, Mr. Stalin said it was the present Chief Minister who had mortgaged the State’s right over Cauvery waters with the Ministry of Jal Shakti.  Mr. Palaniswami never bothered to act or even hear the pleas of the Opposition parties to save the interests of the State by scuttling the Karnataka government’s proposal to construct a dam across the River at Mekedatu, the DMK leader said. “We urged him to convene an all-party meeting and arrange for a meeting with the Prime Minister on this issue, but he remained silent. Such being the case, Mr. Palaniswami is trying to project the former Chief Minister Karunanidhi in bad light, which he should desist from,” Mr. Stalin added. ‘Farmer’ comment Taking a dig at the Chief Minister’s claim of being a farmer, the DMK president said had he been a real farmer, he should have opposed the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Union government. But the Chief Minister belittled the farmers agitating in New Delhi as “middlemen”, he added. He assured the voters that a new district would be created with Kumbakonam as the headquarters and Thiruvonam would be made a separate taluk if the DMK is voted to power. Mr. Stalin ended his campaign speech by calling upon people to get the COVID-19 vaccine to save society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-mortgaged-tns-rights-over-cauvery/article34114249.ece
20 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Bow and arrow||V. Venkatasubramanian   While some candidates tried attracting attention by arriving in bullock carts and two wheelers to file their nominations, the Shiv Sena nominee for the Kumbakonam Assembly constituency, Velmurugan, on Friday arrived at the Returning Officer’s office, carrying his election symbol, “a bow and arrow”, literally. However, he was allowed to enter the R.O.’s chamber to submit his papers only after leaving the bow and arrow outside the chamber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bow-and-arrow/article34114230.ece
20 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Commission premises safer than film set’||Actor Rajinikanth can appear before the Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission for deposition without the fear of contracting COVID-19 as its premises are safer than the sets of Annaaththae, for which shoot is under way, said counsel for the Commission Arul Vadivel. The Commission is probing the killing of 13 persons in police firing in the anti-Sterlite protests. Summoned twice Speaking to mediapersons in Thoothukudi on Friday, Mr. Vadivel, after the 26th sitting of the Commission said Mr. Rajinikanth, citing various reasons, did not appear before the Commission. Mr. Rajinikanth was summoned in February 2020 and January 2021 for his comments that he had credible evidence to prove that anti-social elements had infiltrated the protests, and this had led to the police firing. ‘In-camera session’ “It is an in-camera proceeding in the presence of five persons, including the counsels, and it is not like the sets of Annaaththae where there would be a large gathering. Hence, the Commission’s premises is safer than Annaaththae sets,” Mr. Vadivel said. He said the Commission would also investigate the police personnel deployed at the protest venue and the Collectorate when the firing took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jegadeesan-commission-premises-safer-than-film-set/article34114264.ece
20 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Commission premises safer’||Actor Rajinikanth can appear before the Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission for deposition without the fear of getting contracted COVID-19 as the Commission’s premises is safer than the sets of ‘Annaaththae’ for which the shooting is now going on, counsel for the commission Arul Vadivel has said. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Arul Vadivel, after the 26th sitting of the Commission probing the killing of 13 persons in police firing in the anti-Sterlite protest, said Mr. Rajinikanth, citing various reasons, did not appear before the commission. He was summoned to appear in February 2020 and January 2021 for his comments that he had credible evidence to prove that the anti-socials had infiltrated the protest which led to police firing. “It is an in-camera proceeding in the presence of five persons including counsels and it is not like the sets of ‘Annaaththae’ where there would be large gathering. So, the commission’s premises is safer than ‘Annaaththae’ sets,” Mr. Arul Vadivel said. He informed that the commission would probe the police personnel deployed at the protest venue and at the Collectorate when the firing took place. During the commission’s 26th sitting, 31 of the 45 persons summoned were questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commission-premises-safer/article34114376.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||High alert in Tiruchi and Thanjavur||The district authorities in Tiruchi and Thanjavur have initiated steps to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the light of clusters being identified. A further spread can only be contained by swift action, officials say. In Thanjavur district, where at least two clusters, both of government school children were found, enforcement of COVID-19 protocol is being intensified. A COVID Care Centre has been readied in Vallam, as most patients who test positive are asymptomatic. Special squads formed to overlook election activity in the district have also taken on the additional responsibility of monitoring mask-wearing, Collector M. Govinda Rao told The Hindu . The squads levy fine and also monitor schools. Minor violations attract fines while serious offences could lead to booking the school authorities for risking the lives of children, he said. Students’ initiative Mr. Rao said the students who tested positive in Ammapettai and Alathur had approached him to distribute awareness videos they have made. “They want to tell their peers what they had got wrong about the COVID-19 protocol and how they can avoid it. These videos are being circulated to other schools as an awareness message,” he said. Meanwhile, in Tiruchi, where a cluster of 10 college students was detected, authorities have decided to emphasise the importance of the vaccine. “There are two ways to curtail the spread - through mask-wearing, which is temporary, and vaccination, which is permanent,” a senior official of the Health Department said. The number of session sites for vaccination is being increased for public convenience. While there are 30 government centres and 42 private ones, from Monday onwards, all block Primary Health Centres and Mini Clinics will be able to administer the vaccine, while five more private facilities have been given approval, S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi, said. The positivity rate in the district is still well below one per cent, he added. Mask-wearing is also being enforced across the district. “We have begun slapping fines through officials of the civic bodies, revenue and police. Only if we begin strict enforcement now can we ensure safety during polling,” the official said. Meanwhile, the number of throat swabs processed has crossed 3,000 a day. Target groups such as interstate travellers, foreign travellers, primary contacts and patients with co-morbidities have been identified and are being monitored, he added.  Taking no chances  Enforcement of COVID-19 protocol has been intensified in schools  Fine for minor violations and booking of case for serious offences COVID Care Centre has been established in Vallam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-alert-in-tiruchi-and-thanjavur/article34114350.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Familiar rivals clash for the third time||Battling a familiar opponent and anti-incumbency, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, who has weathered many a storm under the AIADMK government, is aiming for a third consecutive win from his home turf of Viralimalai in Pudukottai district. Interestingly, it is the third time in a row for the DMK’s M. Palaniappan, too. Having lost the previous two elections to the Minister, he is mounting an all-out bid to wrest the constituency. Viralimalai was made a constituency after the delimitation process. This is the third election since 2011. Encompassing over 80 panchayats, three panchayat unions and a couple of town panchayats, Viralimalai is largely a drought-prone constituency where agriculture is the primary occupation. Kallars and Adi Dravidars are spread all over the constituency, which also has a mix of Agamudaiyars, Udayars, Naickers and Mutharaiyars. Substantial infrastructure development has taken place in five years in Viralimalai, which houses the famous Sri Subramanya Swamy Temple atop a hillock. However, there are issues which remain to be addressed. While the main roads connecting Viralimalai with Pudukottai and Keeranur have been re-laid, several interior villages do not have good access roads. A Cauvery combined drinking water scheme provides supply even to the interior areas. Yet, the supply is made once in four to six days, depending on the location, say residents. Locals also complain about illicit sand mining from jungle streams. The long-pending demand for the establishment of a government arts and science college remains unmet, forcing students to travel to either Tiruchi or Pudukottai for higher education. Lack of jobs has forced many educated youths to go out in search of greener pastures. The gem cutting industry has been in the doldrums for nearly two decades. Several fabrication units at Mathur are in the grip of recession. Besides a slew of projects, Dr. Vijayabaskar counts the laying of a ghat road to the Sri Subramanya Swamy temple; setting up of a Regional Transport Office at Illupur; establishment of a TNSTC depot near Ilupur; creation of a Revenue Divisional Office at Illupur; creation of a separate taluk at Viralimalai; and construction of a new bus stand at Viralimalai among his achievements. He has also organised free eye screening camps. He also considers the recent laying of the foundation for the Cauvery-Gundar linking project near Viralimalai among his achievements. His work, especially after Cyclone Gaja and the pandemic, has generated goodwill. But the DMK camp has been bolstered by party president M.K. Stalin’s blitz against Dr. Vijayabaskar, highlighting his “corrupt” deeds. The DMK chose to retain Mr. Palaniappan as he put up a tough fight in 2016 and lost by 8,447 votes. Given the high stakes, the arch rivals are engaged in a no-holds-barred contest. There are indications that it would be another close race.  Several interior villages do not have good access roads. Locals complain about illicit sand mining from jungle streams at several villages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/familiar-rivals-clash-for-the-third-time/article34114240.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sharp spike in central region||The central region on Friday recorded 124 cases of COVID-19 with 64 patients hailing from Thanjavur where a death was also reported, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 54-year-old man with a history of diabetes and acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the infection at a private hospital in Thanjavur. Among the 64 who tested positive in Thanjavur were 21 patients from a private school, and the rest from colleges in the district. “So far 121 patients, including students and teachers, have been identified from various schools and colleges in the district. However, they are asymptomatic and recovering quickly,” a health official said. On Friday, 51 patients were discharged and sent for home quarantine. Among other districts, 15 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur and 13 each in Tiruchi and Nagapattinam. Eleven patients undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged. Karur and Pudukottai reported eight cases each. Two patients tested positive in Ariyalur, and one in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-spike-in-central-region/article34114351.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A flurry of nominations in the Central region||There was a flurry of nominations on the last day of filing of papers on Friday. As many as 108 candidates filed their nominations in the district. Tiruchi East attracted 30 nominations. In Tiruchi West, 27 nominations have been received. Twenty-seven nominations were received for Musiri too - 11 of them on Friday. In Thuraiyur, 24 nominations have been filed. Twenty-four nominations have been filed in Srirangam. Twenty-six nominations each have been filed for Tiruverumbur and Lalgudi. In Manapparai, 28 nominations have been filed. Karur In Karur constituency, 90 candidates have filed 97 nominations. Forty-six candidates have filed their papers for Aravakurichi. In Krishnarayapuram, 32 candidates have filed 36 nominations. Nagapattinam A total of 123 nominations have been filed for the six Assembly constituencies in Nagapattinam district. Ariyalur Twenty-two candidates have filed their nominations for Ariyalur. The Jayamkondam constituency has also attracted 22 candidates. Perambalur The two constituencies of Perambalur and Kunnam have attracted 49 nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-flurry-of-nominations-in-the-central-region/article34114363.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Go to mini clinics for jab||The district administration has made COVID-19 vaccine available at all mini clinics. The move is expected to improve accessibility for the public to take the jab, officials said. Tiruchi district had vaccine session sites at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and 30 other government centres, including primary healthcare centres (PHCs) and 42 private hospitals. To further increase the availability of the vaccine, 60 mini clinics in the district will be stocked with COVID-19 vaccine where the public can get the vaccine for free. People eligible - those over the age of 45 with co-morbidities and all senior citizens over the age of 60 can walk into their nearest mini clinic with a valid photo identity card and get a shot of the vaccine. Those who wish to register in advance may do so onwww.cowin.gov.in. All necessary arrangements and stock of both vaccines - Covaxin and Covishield - have been made available, a release from the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-to-mini-clinics-for-jab/article34114352.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala visits Srirangam temple||V.K. Sasikala, the confidante of the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa visited Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple here on Friday. She offered worship to the deities of Lord Ranganathar, goddess Sri Ranganayagi Thayar, Sri Chakrathazhvar and Sri Ramanujar during her one-and-a-half-hour visit to the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-visits-srirangam-temple/article34114354.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 100.97 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 55 cusecs and the discharge 1,500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34114355.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||658 nominations filed for 22 Assembly constituencies||Independent candidates flooded the election offices in all four districts as filing of nominations for the April 6 Assembly polls came to an end on Friday. The four southern districts, housing 22 Assembly segments, have received 658 nominations (Tirunelveli – 189, Tenkasi – 146, Thoothukudi – 204 and Kanniyakumari – 119). On the last day of nomination, 89 candidates, mostly independents, filed their nominations in Tirunelveli district. In Tirunelveli Assembly segment, 21 nominations were submitted on Friday to take the total number of nominations filed for this constituency to 40. In Palayamkottai, the total number of nominations touched 32 as 17 candidates filed their nominations on Friday. Ambasamudram has 32 nominations including 16 nominations filed on Friday and 13 nominations were filed in Nanguneri on the last day to take the total number of nominations to 40. Radhapuram had 23 nominations on Friday to have 45 nominations. In all, five Assembly constituencies of Tirunelveli district have received 189 nominations (Tirunelveli – 40, Ambasamudram – 32, Palayamkottai – 32, Nanguneri – 40 and Radhapuram - 45). In Tenkasi, 82 nominations (Sankarankovil (Reserved) – 13, Vasudevanallur (Reserved) – 14, Kadayanallur – 27, Tenkasi – 17 and Alangulam – 11) were received on Friday. In all, the district has received 146 nominations (Sankarankovil (Reserved) – 27, Vasudevanallur (Reserved) – 22, Kadayanallur – 37, Tenkasi – 33 and Alangulam – 27) since March 12. In Thoothukudi, 204 nominations (Vilaathikulam – 26, Thoothukudi – 34, Tiruchendur – 37, Srivaikundam – 33, Ottapidaaram (Reserved) – 30 and Kovilpatti – 44) have been received for the six Assembly segments in the district. On the last day, 101 nominations (Vilaathikulam – 9, Thoothukudi – 17, Tiruchendur – 25, Srivaikundam – 17, Ottapidaaram (Reserved) – 8 and Kovilpatti – 25) were received. In Kanniyakumari, 54 nominations (Kanniyakumari – 10, Nagercoil – 11, Colachel – 5, Padmanabhapuram – 11, Vilavancode – 11 and Killiyoor – 6) were received on the last day. In all, the six constituencies of Kanniyakumari district have collectively received 119 nominations (Kanniyakumari – 21, Nagercoil – 28, Colachel – 15, Padmanabhapuram – 22, Vilavancode – 17 and Killiyoor – 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/658-nominations-filed-for-22-assembly-constituencies/article34114758.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Second richest candidate in the district||The Congress candidate for Nanguneri Assembly constituency Ruby R. Manoharan, a realtor and the national party’s State treasurer, has declared the assets owned by him and his wife as Rs. 100.63 crore. He is the second richest candidate in the fray in the district after AIADMK candidate for Ambasamudram constituency Esakki Subaya, who is worth about Rs. 246.76 crore as per the affidavit he filed along with his nomination. Mr. Manoharan, an ex-serviceman, has movable assets worth Rs. 38 crore while his wife has movable properties worth about Rs. 23.82 crore. The candidate owns immovable assets worth Rs. 16.11 crore and his wife has assets worth Rs. 22.69 crore. The couple’s liability stands at Rs. 12.29 crore. When Mr. Manoharan organised a public meeting near Nanguneri on February 27, in which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi addressed a mammoth gathering, the young leader was just carried away on seeing the massive arrangements put in place for the meeting. Besides praising Mr. Manoharan during his address for having made the unprecedented arrangements, Mr. Rahul also asked for a shawl with which he honoured his party treasurer on the dais.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-richest-candidate-in-the-district/article34114764.ece
20 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||DMK to lock horns with AIADMK in Madathukulam||The Madathukulam Assembly constituency will witness a contest between the incumbent DMK MLA R. Jayaramakrishnan and former Lok Sabha MP C. Mahendran fielded by the AIADMK. Formed in 2008 after a delimitation exercise, the constituency AIADMK candidate C. Shanmugavelu winning in the 2011 Assembly election. However, the voters favoured Mr. Jayaramakrishnan in the 2016 election. With the DMK having fielded him again, he will face Mr. Mahendran, who served as the MP from Pollachi Lok Sabha constituency from 2014 to 2019. V. Soundararajan, CPI’s district committee member and a resident of Kanakkampalayam, alleged that farmers of Madathukulam constituency complained of irregular supply of water for irrigating agricultural lands. Despite its proximity to two dams namely Amaravathi dam and Thirumoorthy dam, the authorities have not ensured last-mile water supply for the farmers in remote villages such as Thanthoni, he claimed. The constituency is predominantly agrarian where crops such as corn, sugarcane, paddy and tomato are cultivated. Apart from farmers, the constituency’s residents also face issues with supply of drinking water in areas such as Komaralingam and Kaniyur, he said.  “The drinking water projects were not expanded in proportion to the population,” Mr. Soundararajan alleged. Other issues faced by the constituency’s residents include lack of re-laying of roads and poor sanitation, he said. Another resident of Madathukulam said that construction of a dedicated fire station for Madathukalam was a long-pending demand. Fire fighters have to be rushed from Udumalpet fire station, which is over 15 km away. Construction of a government arts college and government polytechnic college is also long overdue, he said. Following the COVID-19 lockdown, bus and train services that were previously available for Madathukulam are yet to resume completely, the resident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-lock-horns-with-aiadmk-in-madathukulam/article34114296.ece
20 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||This election is about self-respect of Tamil race, says Stalin||The upcoming Assembly election is about the self-respect of the Tamil race and not just about coming to power, said DMK president M.K. Stalin during his election campaign in Tiruppur on Friday. He sought votes for four candidates from the DMK and its allies contesting in Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Avinashi (Reserved) and Palladam Assembly constituencies – M. Ravi aka Subramanian (CPI), K. Selvaraj (DMK), R. Athiyamaan (Aathi Tamizhar Peravai) and K. Muthurathinam (MDMK) respectively. Accusing the incumbent AIADMK government of allowing the GST and NEET in the State without expressing any protest, Mr. Stalin claimed that the AIADMK did not have any qualification to criticise the DMK. Mr. Stalin listed the assurances given by the DMK in its manifesto for Tiruppur district, such as special attention to micro, small and medium industries, free electricity for handloom weavers up to 300 units and up to 1,000 units for powerloom weavers and the construction of a knitwear research institute and government law college at Tiruppur city. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani presided over an empire of corruption. On returning to power, the DMK would investigate him, Mr. Stalin said in Coimbatore, while campaigning for Secular Progressive Alliance nominees in Sulur, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi and Thondamuthur constituencies. AIADMK MLA Raja Varman had revealed the extent of corruption in the Municipal Administration Department, alleging that the amount looted could be around Rs. 2 lakh crore, Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Velumani would be the sole reason for the AIADMK losing power. That there was corruption in the department under Mr. Velumani's watch was admitted by the State Government when it informed the Madras High Court that it had referred to the Lok Ayukta the complaint against the minister. On the Pollachi sexual assault incident, Mr. Stalin said nowhere in the country had women felt so insecure as they had during the AIADMK regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-election-is-about-self-respect-of-tamil-race-says-stalin/article34114397.ece
20 March 2021||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers walk naked to file papers, detained||A total of 15 members of the National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturists’ Association, including its president P. Ayyakanu , were detained by the police when two of their members walked towards the Tiruvannamalai district office naked to file nominations. On Friday morning, the members of the association, including its president Mr. Ayyakanu, started walking on Periyar Salai. They were accompanying Dinesh, a member of the association from Vandavasi, who was supposed to file nomination to contest in the upcoming Assembly elections. Meanwhile, Dinesh and another member of the association removed their dhoti and started walking naked. Police immediately nabbed them and covered them with dhoti. As they were not able to file nomination, Mr. Ayyakanu and other members staged a road roko. They were detained by the police and further investigation is on. "It is not right to not allow us to file the nomination. We will file a case in the Court. The BJP-led government has not fulfilled the farmer's demands," said Mr. Ayyakanu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-walk-naked-to-file-papers-detained/article34114769.ece
20 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||At 73, she keeps traffic in order||For over 50 years, E. Molly Elliott, a Coonoor resident, has assisted the Nilgiris police in regulating traffic and other minor duties. Now 73, Ms. Elliott has been made a honorary traffic warden. Ms. Elliott grew up in Coonoor and began assisting the police in the 1970s. “When I first started helping the police, it was just with minor police work, when there were very few women in the force. So I used to help in keeping the roads safe and assist people who visited Coonoor,” she recalls. Ms. Elliott does not have a house of her own or a job, but she reports for duty on time every day. “She doesn’t complain about the work assigned to her, nor does she expect anything in return. She likes doing the job of a traffic warden,” said Coonoor DSP D. Suresh. Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Ottupattarai, has known Ms. Elliott since he was a child. “I have seen her around the town for as long as I can remember, and she has become one of the most recognisable people, with her signature camouflage cap,” he said. As she does not have a full-time job, Ms. Elliott depends on the kindness of strangers for food. “I don’t need much food, but I love biscuits,” she says. She is well-known throughout the town and people offer her free meals. “Even then, I mostly turn them down and accept meals only from people whom I consider my very close friends.” Two badges She points proudly to her two badges — one reads E. Molly Elliott, social worker, and the other reads ‘honorary traffic warden’. Working for the police gives Ms. Elliott a sense of fulfilment and meaning. “Especially during the peak tourist season, I really enjoy helping the police in their duties. I always take part in awareness campaigns that the police and the municipality conduct,” she says. Among Ms. Elliott’s most prized possessions are photos she has taken with top IPS officers who have visited the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-73-she-keeps-traffic-in-order/article34114257.ece
20 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard cubs found dead at tea estate in Pandalur||Two more leopard cubs were found dead in a tea estate in Pandalur on Friday morning. A cub was found dead in the same estate on Thursday. District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Kommu Omkaram, said the three cubs were found with injuries to their neck and with bite marks, indicating that they could have been killed by another leopard establishing itself in the area. All the three cubs were less than 20-months-old. “Leopards sometimes kill the cubs of a female, to induce mating behaviour. We suspect that this could be the reason it has killed all the three cubs,” he said. As an adult male leopard was killed inside the same estate in November using an unregistered weapon, the forest department conducted thorough investigations to ensure that the deaths of the leopard cubs, was not due to humans. The forest department used metal detectors to check for any projectiles lodged inside the animals, and also X-rayed the carcasses. The stomach contents were also analysed to rule out poisoning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-cubs-found-dead-at-tea-estate-in-pandalur/article34114402.ece
20 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nominations filed in the Nilgiris||The Returning Officers for the Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Gudalur Assembly constituencies released the list of nominees who have filed their nominations.  Udhagamandalam: B. Arokkiyanathan (Makkal Thannurimai katchi), N. Siva (Independent), B. Kumaran (BJP), M.A.Vinothkumar (Independent), Manjai V. Mohan (Baduga Desa Party), R. Ganesh (Congress), A. Jayakumar (Naam Thamizhar Katchi), M. Bojarajan, (BJP), Krishnamoorthi (Independent), B. Viswanathan (Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam), A. Sardar Babu (Anaithu Makkal Puratchi Katchi), and D. Suresh Babu (Makkal Needhi Maiam).  Coonoor: K. Prabhu Inbadas (Trinamool Congress), R. Madhusoodhanan (DMK), K. Ramachandran (DMK), D. Vinod (AIADMK), R. Jayakumar (AIADMK), R. Arumugam (Anaithu Makkal Puratchi Katchi), S. Kalaichelvan (AMMK), S. Syed Mubarak (AMMK), B. Raja Kumar (MNM), M. Lavanya (Naam Thamizhar Katchi), R. Hemamalini (Naam Thamizhar Katchi), S. Amalraj (Independent), K. Chandran (Independent), A. Basha (Independent), D. Jayaprakash (Independent).  Gudalur: R. Ketheeswaran (Naam Thamizhar Katchi), P. Jayaprakash (Tamilaga Makkal Thannurimai Katchi), Pon Jeyaseelan (AIADMK), G. Thangavel (AIADMK), J. Babu (Makkal Needhi Maiam), S. Kasilingam (DMK), M. Saravanan (Independent), G. Balasubramaniam (Naam Thamizhar Katchi), A. Yogeshwaran (DMDK), S. Kasilingam (DMK), A. Mageswaran (DMK) and A Kumar (DMDK).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-filed-in-the-nilgiris/article34114297.ece
20 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||General observers for the Nilgiris district||The contact details of the three general observers for the Assembly constituencies in the Nilgiris district have been released. A press release from the district administration stated that “the general public, representatives of political parties and media persons can bring any election related complaints to the notice of the general observers at their camp office in person or through the mentioned phone numbers.” Benudhar Behera (Udhagamandalam constituency) can be approached personally between 9.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. at the Tamizhagam Guest House in Udhagamandalam or at 9498748323. Rahul Tewari (Gudalur constituency) can be approached in person between 8.30 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. at the Tamizhagam Guest House or at 9498748322. Saurav Pahari (Coonoor constituency) will be free to meet people at the Tamizhagam Guest House between 9 a.m and 10 a.m. or at 9498748324.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general-observers-for-the-nilgiris-district/article34114291.ece
20 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopardess dies after getting caught in snare||A special team of the Forest Department has been formed to look into the death of a four-year-old leopardess, which is believed to have died after getting trapped in a snare inside a private property in Adhigaratty village in Kundah Range on Thursday. Forest officials said the animal was found dead with ligatures that seemed to indicate that it had got trapped in a snare. The carcass was found around 1.5 km from the Devarshola North reserve forest, officials said, adding that an autopsy was conducted in the presence of District Forest Officer, Nilgiris Division, Guru Swamy Dabbala. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, said the team had been formed by the Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle).  Leopard cubs found dead Two more leopard cubs were found dead in a tea estate in Pandalur on Friday. A cub was found dead in the same estate on Thursday. District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Kommu Omkaram, said the three cubs were found with injuries to their neck and with bite marks, indicating that they could have been killed by another leopard establishing itself in the area. All the three cubs were less than 20-months-old. “Leopards sometimes kill the cubs of a female, to induce mating behaviour. We suspect that this could be the reason it has killed all the three cubs,” he said. As an adult male leopard was killed inside the same estate in November using an unregistered weapon, the forest department conducted investigations to ensure that the deaths of the leopard cubs, was not due to humans. Thedepartment used metal detectors to check for any projectiles lodged inside the animals, and also X-rayed the carcasses. The stomach contents were analysed to rule out poisoning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopardess-dies-after-getting-caught-in-snare/article34114300.ece
20 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore sees 12 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,204 with 12 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,736 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 116. The district's death toll is 352. In Ranipet district, seven cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,290. In Tirupattur district, three new cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,681. In Tiruvannamalai district, four new cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-sees-12-new-cases/article34114768.ece
20 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||259 nominations received in Virudhunagar||After 107 nominations were received in all the seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district on the last day of filing nominations on Friday, the total number of nominations filed in the district stood at 259. Among all the six days of receiving nominations, that began on March 12, the highest number of nominations were received on the last day. This includes multiple nominations filed by candidates, and their dummy candidates. With most of the candidates of political parties having filed their nominations, filing of papers in all the seven constituencies went on smoothly on the final day. As of now, Sivakasi Assembly constituency has got most number of nominations – 47 – followed by Aruppukottai (41), SAttur (40), Srivilliputtur (38), Rajapalayam, Virudhunagar and Tiruchuli (31 each). Scrutiny of nominations will be taken up on Saturday and last day of withdrawal of candidature is on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/259-nominations-received-in-virudhunagar/article34114370.ece
20 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Complaints can be lodged with observers’||General Observers and Expenditure Observers for all seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district arrived. Public, candidates, representatives of political parties can lodge election related complaints, if any, to the Observers concerned at their camp offices in person between 9.30 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. They can be reached through mobile phones. People can also lodge complaints about malpractices, irregularities pertaining to the election. Devendra Kumar Singh Kushwaha is the General Observer for Rajapalayam and Sattur Assembly constituencies. He can be reached over 94899-34617. Prabhanshu Kumar Srivastav is the General Observer for Sattur and Sivakasi ACs. People can contact him over 94899-34618. The General Observer for Virudhunagar and Aruppukottai ACs is Binita Pecu who can be contacted over 94899-34619. Surendra Prasad Singh, General Observer for Tiruchuli AC can be reached over 94899-34620, a statement said. All the General Observers were staying a the Travellers Bungalow in Virudhunagar District Collectorate premises. Vinay Kumar Arya is the Expenditure Observer for Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur and he could be contacted over 94899-34621. N. Mohammed Ali, Expenditure Observer for Sattur, can be reached over 94899-34622 and Lovish Shelly, Expenditure Observer for Sivakasi and Virudhunagar can be contacted over 94899-34623. Narasingh Kumar Khalkho, Expenditure Observer for Aruppukottai and Tiruchuli ACs will be available on 94899-34624 The Expenditure Observers were staying in PWD Inspection Bungalow on Madurai Road in Virudhunagar. Police Observer: Bhajani Ram Meena, who has been appointed as Police Observer for all the seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district, could be reached over 94899-34625.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaints-can-be-lodged-with-observers/article34114377.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 102 fresh cases||Coimbatore district saw the number of new COVID-19 cases exceed the 100 mark again on Friday, with 102 persons testing positive for the disease. The daily caseload exceeded the 100 mark for the first time in nearly three months on Wednesday with 107 cases, following which there was a slight dip on Thursday as the Health Department only reported 77 cases. Sources in the Health Department said that a majority of the fresh cases in the district were concentrated within the Coimbatore Corporation limits, followed by Sulur, Annur and Thudiyalur Blocks. The district has a total of 590 active cases, and 54 persons were discharged on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 29 fresh cases on Friday, which took the overall tally to 18,792. The district has 243 active cases and 19 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Friday. Ten persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Friday. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,482. A total of 72 persons are treatment. Four areas quarantined The district administration and Coimbatore Corporation have quarantined Thirunavukkarasar Street and Aishwarya Avenue in North Zone, Vishwanathapuram in Central Zone and Arunachalam Street, Saibaba Colony, in West Zone after a few COVID-19 positive cases were reported. District Collector K. Rajamani said in a release that a few people turned positive after attending weddings and social gatherings. The administration was also monitoring Ganapathy, K.K. Pudur, Kuniamuthur, Peelamedu, Ramanathapuram, R.S. Puram, Saravanampatti, Selvapuram, Uppilipalayam, Vadavalli, Sowripalayam, Kalapatti, Singanallur and Ondipudur as these areas had positive cases. Private laboratories should report positive cases to the authorities concerned, and these people cannot be in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-102-fresh-cases/article34114289.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 6,660 nominations received||DMK president M.K. Stalin has filed four sets in Kolathur, which has received a total of 55 nominations. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan filed his nomination in Katpadi, where 22 sets have been received. Mettur in Salem district received the highest number of nominations from women candidates at 19. It was followed by Srivilliputhur with 14. Three sets have been received from transpersons in Mylapore and Madurai South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-6660-nominations-received/article34114258.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Six booked for cheating||Six persons, including a couple, were booked by the Karumathampati police on charges of cheating and rioting on Thursday. Police said that the couple, Thirumoorthy and Maragadham, allegedly owed Rs. 68.1 lakh to R. Sivaraj (36). On March 13, the couple, along with its sons and an alleged AIADMK member Theppeswaran, entered Mr. Sivaraj’s godown at Mopperipalayam and damaged the goods. Based on Mr. Sivaraj’s complaint, the six were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts to nab the accused are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-booked-for-cheating/article34114283.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Private job fair||Over 30 private companies will participate in a job fair organised by the Rathinam Group of Institutions in association with Freshvoice at Rathinam Techzone Campus, Eachanari, on March 20. The job fair is open to undergraduates and postgraduates (Arts and Science/Engineering), Diploma & ITI candidates from the 2020 and 2021 batches, a release said. Job seekers may register for free using the linkhttp://bit.ly/RathinamJobFair2021. Call 99940 32300 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-job-fair/article34114287.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2 transpersons||—one each from Mylapore and Madurai South — are among the nearly 5,000 persons who have filed nominations for the Assembly election, which is scheduled to be conducted on April 6 in Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-transpersons/article34114241.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements - March 20, 2021||TIRUVARUR  Sri Thyagarajaswamy Temple: Panguni Uthiram festival, Indira Vimana uthsavam, 7.50 p.m.  MANNARGUDI  Sri Rajagopalaswamy Temple: Panguni festival, Ratharohanam Kalyana Thirukolam, 6 a.m.; Thiruther uthsavam, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-march-20-2021/article34114356.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Srimad Andavan Sri Poundarikapuram Swamy Ashram: Centenary celebration of Paramahamsethyathi Paravakottai Srimad Andavan Sri Gopaladesika Mahadesikan, honouring of veda, agama vidwans; discourse by Anantha Padmanabachar, Periya sattrumurai, Srirangam, 8.30 a.m. CULTURE  Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan, Tiruchi Kendra and Infosys Foundation: Music festival, nagaswaram by Srirangam Harikrishnan and party, Sri Raghavendra Mutt, Srirangam, 6 p.m. GENERAL  Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: International Day of Happiness, G. Sivagurnathan, secretary, Tiruchi Humour Club, speaks, 10.30 a.m.  Holy Cross College: Department of Biochemistry, silver jubilee celebration, G. Gopinath, Registrar, Bharathidasan University, chief guest, 10 a.m.  Saranathan College of Engineering: Valediction of Talenzia - inter school competitions, 3.30 p.m.  Santhanam Vidyalaya Senior Secondary School: Webinar on ‘Swimming against the tide,’ talk by V. Kutraleeswaran, former international swimmer, 7 a.m.  Sundarraj Nagar, Highways Colony and Kavery Nagar Readers’ Forum: Inauguration of activities of Readers’ Forum by K. Jayabalan, president, Nagar Nala Sangam, K. Vijayakumar, Principal in charge, reviews ‘My Journey’ authored by A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, Corporation Park, 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article34114756.ece
20 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Team visits Mahadayi site||A team of engineers, including representatives of the three riparian States of Mahadayi river — Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Goa — visited the Kalasa-Banduri Nala worksite near Khanapur in Belagavi district on Friday, as per Supreme Court directions for a joint inspection. The team is mandated to inspect and see if the allegations made by Goa that Karnataka had diverted the river water, in defiance of the top court’s orders, are true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/team-visits-mahadayi-site/article34114429.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. rules out 50% occupancy in cinemas||Hours after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad announced on Friday that the civic body would recommend to the State government to reduce the occupancy in cinemas by 50%, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa dismissed reports of such a move on social media. The announcement was made after Mr. Prasad’s statement triggered a negative reaction from the Kannada film industry, including a response from actor Puneeth Rajkumar whose film Yuvarathnaa is slated to be released on April 1. Over the last fortnight, Bengaluru has been reporting a gradual rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, but witnessed a steep increase over the last two days, prompting the civic body to recommend a host of measures including closure of gyms, swimming pools and other such amenities, apart from restricting occupancy in film theatres. Speaking to the media on Friday, Mr. Prasad conceded that there was no data on the number of cases that could be attributed to theatres running at full occupancy. But nonetheless, the civic body will recommend that occupancy be restricted to 50% again with alternate seats left vacant, he said. Incidentally, Maharashtra reintroduced the 50% occupancy rule on Friday. His announcement did not go well with the film industry as it was only on February 1 that the government lifted occupancy restrictions for theatres in the city, following which two big budget films – Pogaru and Roberrt –hit the screens drawing full houses. This has caused much consternation among health officials who are worried about the virus spreading if forthcoming blockbusters like Yuvarathna also draw huge crowds. On the other hand, stakeholders in the Kannada industry argued that targeting theatres was an unfair move. “The industry is recovering from the onslaught of the pandemic now, and going back to 50% occupancy will hit us badly. The government needs to regulate rallies and mega weddings that are still happening in the State. Vehicles coming from Maharashtra and Kerala need to be thoroughly checked,” Puneeth Rajkumar told mediapersons on Friday. D.R. Jairaj, chairman,Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC), had a similar opinion. “All theatres are taking precautionary measures like sanitising the premises after every show and ensuring that the audience wears masks. Restrictions on occupancy will be unfair,” he said. Incidentally, the KFCC had planned to meet with Mr. Yediyurappa on Saturday to discuss the BBMP’s recommendations. However, it decided against it after the CM took to social media to allay fears. He tweeted that no such proposal was before the government and appealed to citizens and theatre owners to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and cooperate with the government to curb the spread of the virus. Sources said that a section of bureaucrats tasked with fighting the spread of COVID-19 and what could well be the beginning of a second wave is unhappy with the chief minister over his unwillingness to reimpose restrictions on social gatherings. The Technical Advisory Committee recently recommended a slew of measures, including closure of all classes apart from class 10 and 12 and restricting occupancy at theatres to 50% in six districts where the positivity rate was more than 1%. “The Chief Minister is not keen on disrupting normal life again, but what cost this will have on health of citizens is a concern,” said a senior bureaucrat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-rules-out-50-occupancy-in-cinemas/article34114174.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Colleges urge hostel residents to return home||Worried about COVID-19 spreading to resident students, colleges and universities are encouraging their faculty to conduct classes online if it is feasible. Many are also urging students to return to their homes. This comes in the wake of a students and staff member at Maharani Cluster University testing positive. Vice-chancellor Gomathi Devi L. said that they have asked first and third semester students, who reside in hostels, to return home. “Their term ended on Thursday. We asked students to go back home. We have instructed lecturers to conduct classes online if portions have not been completed,” she said. She added that a few students who have examinations and some students who have come from North Eastern States have been allowed to stay back. Examinations for first and third semester students will commence on April 5. K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor, Bangalore University said that they have asked students who live 40 kilometres from their campus to return home if possible. “We have told students that if it is convenient for them, they should go back to their residences. Only outstation students should stay on campus,” he said. Colleges and hostels have also tightened protocols. K.N. Subramanya, principal of R.V. College of Engineering, said that they plan to increase the frequency of testing. “We would earlier conduct random RT-PCR tests on our faculty and students every 20 days. Now we have decided to conduct tests every two weeks,” he said. Students and student organisations say that while cases in Bengaluru are on the rise, conducting classes and examinations in other districts is probably safe at the moment. Sithara H.M., Bengaluru district president, All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO), said that colleges and universities should adopt a wait and watch policy so that both students’ health as well as their academics are not affected adversely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-colleges-urge-hostel-residents-to-return-home/article34114184.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Day’s proceedings in Council a washout||Proceedings in the Legislative Council got washed out on Friday over alleged corruption in approving new nursing and allied health sciences colleges in the State, with Janata Dal (Secular) members remaining adamant over their demand for a House committee probe, which was again rejected by the government that offered a probe by officials or technical experts. Thursday’s afternoon session too was disrupted over the issue. Soon after the House met in the morning, JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda, who spearheaded the attack on the government with his party colleague K.T. Srikante Gowda on Thursday, said, “Money has changed hands at the RGUHS for approval and money changed hands at the government level too. I will resign from the House membership even if 50% of the approved colleges have good infrastructure,” plunging the Council into a din The JD(S) members, with tacit support of the Congress, have been cornering the ruling BJP since Thursday evening over the approval to nursing and allied health science colleges in the State, and demanding a House committee probe. Interestingly, the issue was raised in the House by BJP member N. Ravi Kumar, who is also a RGUHS senate member. According to the data given by Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, a total of 101 applications had been received for opening new nursing colleges and 70 applications for allied health sciences colleges. While the RGUHS gave approval to 60 nursing and 52 allied health sciences colleges, a high-powered committee further reduced it to 47 and 45, respectively. Mr. Srikante Gowda suggested that the government could have its choice of nominees on the House committee. ‘Show loopholes’ Responding to the allegations, the Minister said, “You should show loopholes. Where is the corruption? Where has the government failed? Nobody asked for a House committee when approval to start more than 300 nursing colleges was given at one go in 2002. “Further, he said, “the high-powered committee has reduced the number of approvals from what was sent to the government by the RGUHS. A series of guidelines have been put in place. In fact, institutions run by half a dozen members of the legislature are in the approved list.” Stating that the government had not taken it as a matter of prestige, Dr. Sudhakar reiterated, “We are willing for an inquiry by subject experts and doctors of eminence. We will set up a three-member committee and let them it within three to six months. We can close those institutions that do not adhere to standards.” In response, Mr. Marithibbe Gowda retorted, “Guidelines were brought in to make money. The high-powered committee went only by records not by physical verification. It rejected 15 applications.” The government, he alleged, did not have faith in the House committee. “If you believe in transparency, you should respect the House committee.” Backdoor negotiations between the sparring members, mediated by Chairman Basavaraj Horatti thrice over the last two days, also failed to break the ice. Congress leaders, who have refused to engage with six Ministers, including Dr. Sudhakar, who have approached the court in the CD issue, urged the chair to consider the JD(S) demand as the party members remained in the well of the House disrupting the proceedings. Meanwhile, a suggestion by Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil to put the matter to vote was not agreed upon by Mr. Horatti, who said the division of vote was not possible under rules. While he adjourned the House once to bring the sparring members together, his decision to move to question hour resulted in ruckus with members exchanging barbs. Finally, he adjourned the business till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/days-proceedings-in-council-a-washout/article34114190.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Policy on providing jobs to land-losers to be revised||Minister for Major and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that the policy on providing jobs to family members or their nominees in industries, to establish which their land had been acquired for, will be revised. In his reply to a question by Yathindra Siddaramaiah in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, Mr. Shettar said a clause on providing jobs to land-losers had been included in the lease-cum-sale deed executed by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB). The management of Asian Paints was summoned recently and asked to provide jobs to land-losers in a plant in Mysuru. After talks, the company gave jobs to 54 people, he said. When Congress members Mr. Yathindra Siddaramaiah, Priyank Kharge, and P.T. Parameshwara Naik said industries had been denying jobs citing lack of skills and owing age limit for children of farmers and demanded that industries provide them skill training under corporate social responsibility,Mr. Shettar said such issues would be included in the policy and stringent action taken against those violating the rules. In his reply to Roopakala M. of the Congress on taking back of 973 acres of unutilised land by BEML in KGF, Mr. Shettar said the Deputy Commissioner of Kolar district had taken back the land and handed it over to the KIADB for development of an industrial layout. On Bharat Gold Mines Ltd. land, the Minister said Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd., an entity of the Centre, had commenced exploration of natural minerals on the land belonging to the defunct BGML and to identify non-mineral areas and handover the same land to be developed as an industrial park by the State government. Exploration would be completed in two or three months. If no gold mineral was found, the State would get 3,212 acres of BGML land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policy-on-providing-jobs-to-land-losers-to-be-revised/article34114192.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Kumar asks CM to keep away from ‘band set’||Senior Congress member K.R. Ramesh Kumar on Friday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to keep himself away from the “band set” of loyalists and family politics to provide clean and effective administration to people of the State. Speaking on the State Budget proposals, Mr. Kumar said “these ‘band set’ of people were there when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister and now they are there around you [Mr. Yediyurappa] and these people make the leader to lose eyesight and also become deaf”.  Cautions BSY He said, “People get intoxicated not just by alcohol but also by power which makes their senses ineffective” and the Chief Minister cannot deliver quality administration when panchendriyas (five sense organs) were not properly functioning. Many leaders had lost their jobs because of “band set” around them, the former Speaker said and cautioned the Chief Minister to be careful about the people around him. Mr. Kumar said he had nothing personal against Mr. Yediyurappa, who was known for straight talk and short-temper, but the Chief Minister’s work culture had been adversely affected by people round him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-kumar-asks-cm-to-keep-away-from-band-set/article34114195.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to police on Kangana’s petition against criminal case||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notice to the police on a petition filed by Mumbai-based actor Kangana Ranaut challenging a First Information Report (FIR) registered against her in Tumakuru for posting a tweet criticising protests against farm laws. Justice H.P. Sandesh, before whom the petition came up, adjourned further hearing till March 25. The FIR was registered by Kyathsandra police on a direction issued by a trial court based on a private complaint filed by one Ramesh Naik L., a Tumakuru-based advocate.The HC also asked Ms. Ranaut ’s counsel to provide a copy of the petition to the complainant, who wanted to be party to the proceedings. On the counsel’s plea for interim protection as a warrant was issued, the High Court said that it would consider the plea at the next date of the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-police-on-kanganas-petition-against-criminal-case/article34114188.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SIT records Jarkiholi’s statement||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) questioned and recorded the statement of the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi in connection with the alleged CD scandal, on Friday. This is the first time he has been questioned after an FIR had been registered based on his complaint. Mr. Jarkiholi was administered a questionnaire seeking details of the claims he made of being blackmailed for the past three months, who had called him, whether he met any of them and such specific details. He was also probed on the details of the woman in the video. SIT sleuths were tight-lipped about the details revealed by Mr. Jarkiholi during the questioning. The police have formally recorded his statement in the case as well. Meanwhile, the SIT has served notices to three persons — the woman in the CD who recently released a video seeking security but is yet to turn up before the police, the former journalist Naresh Gowda, and alleged hacker Shravan who is suspected to have played a role in the scandal and is absconding — to join the probe at the earliest. Team leaves for Delhi Naresh Gowda released a video message on Thursday claiming innocence. The location from where the video was uploaded has provided some leads to the police personnel on his trail, sources said. A team of sleuths have left for Delhi, sources added. The police on the trail of the woman in the CD, whom her father has alleged has been abducted, are also said to have gone out of the State as they have leads of her whereabouts, sources said. The SIT has issued at least three notices to the woman, but she has failed to join the probe, sources said. Meanwhile, Dinesh Kallahalli who brought the case into the open with his complaint to the Cubbon Park police and was issued a notice by the SIT, submitted a three-page written reply on Friday, in which he claimed a journalist he knew for many years approached him with the video allegedly of the Minister and he then lodged a complaint. He also reportedly claimed that the woman in the CD was a friend of the journalist who had approached him. “I am not aware of any conspiracy behind the video. So I have withdrawn my complaint,” he reportedly claimed in his statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sit-records-jarkiholis-statement/article34114196.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Darshan Pal, Rakesh Tikait to lead Vidhana Soudha Chalo on Monday||Farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Rakesh Tikait, leading the farm agitation on the Delhi borders for the past four months, will lead a ‘Vidhana Soudha Chalo’ rally in Bengaluru city on Monday. The rally, that is expected to see over 10,000 farmers and labour activists participate, will begin at City Railway Station and culminate at Freedom Park. Karnataka has been one of the States where there has been considerable mobilisation of farmers and labour unions against farm bills and labour codes, brought in by the Union and State governments. “Over and above the regressive farm laws the Centre has brought in, the State government has also amended the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, giving a red carpet welcome to corporates into the farm sector,” said G.C. Bayyareddy, convenor, Samyukta Horata - Karnataka, a coalition of farmers, labour and Dalit organisations. Dr. Pal and Mr. Tikait will be on a three-day tour of the State starting from Saturday, when they will address a farmer’s mahapanchayat in Shivamogga, as part of their ongoing campaign across the country to mobilise support. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, spearheading the agitation in Delhi has called for Bharat Bandh on March 26, when the agitation at Delhi borders will complete four months. Samyukta Horata – Karnataka, said they plan to call for a Karnataka Bandh in support of the national call and a final decision will be announced on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/darshan-pal-rakesh-tikait-to-lead-vidhana-soudha-chalo-on-monday/article34114199.ece
20 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Protest against price rise||Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) Karnataka State Committee, had organised a rally on Friday from City Railway Station, and a public meeting at Freedom Park. SUCI (C) Karnataka, in a release, said, addressing the protesters, K. Uma, State Secretary of SUCI (C) Karnataka State Committee, said even before people of the country recovered from the painful effects of lockdown and the COVID-19 pandemic, they have been further jolted by unprecedented price rise of essential commodities and loss of income. She called upon the people to develop a strong movement against price rise and pro-corporate policies of the Central government. Further, Ms. Uma said the BJP-led Central government has failed to control price rise in the country. Fuel prices Fuel prices are increasing every passing day, yet the government has no intention of reducing excise duty on petrol and diesel. LPG price has increased from Rs. 600 to Rs. 825 in just three months. Foodgrains, cooking oil, prices of all essential commodities have reached unprecedented levels, and poor people of the country are bearing the brunt. Post-lockdown, workers, peasants, the middle class have lost income. Government says it does not have funds to aid them. But the same government has written off close to Rs. 2 lakh crore of rupees worth corporate loans, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-price-rise/article34114177.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Not in anyone’s interest for any stir to be prolonged, RSS says on farm protests||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), on the ongoing farmer’s agitation, said ‘anti-national forces are trying to create an environment of disturbance and instability in the country to achieve their political ends’, in an official booklet distributed to media at the ongoing Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha in the city on Friday. Calling for a resolution on the issue, the RSS said: “It is not in anyone’s interest for any kind of agitation to be prolonged for a long time. It is also a matter of concern that day-to-day life is affected due to the agitations.” “Discussions are a must, but with a view to finding a solution... The problem becomes more serious when anti-national and anti-social forces try to thwart the ongoing efforts towards a solution. The leadership of the protest agitation should not allow such a situation to arise... We believe that there are no unsolvable problems. What is needed is sincere effort. In a democracy, all have the freedom of expressing their views, but none can be given the right to create disturbance and instability in the country,” it further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-in-anyones-interest-for-any-stir-to-be-prolonged-rss-says-on-farm-protests/article34114198.ece
20 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on March 20 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. in areas serviced from 66/11 KV Jigani MUSS in view of shifting of electrical utilities by Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited for carrying out road widening works in Jigani limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article34114175.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||47 speed bumps in 50-km stretch||Senior Congress member K.R. Ramesh Kumar on Friday said there were 47 speed bumps in a 50-km stretch between Hoskote and Chintamani, a road developed under Karnataka State Highway Improvement Project (KSHIP). He questioned the logic behind erecting 47 speed bumps on the road and appealed to the Public Works Department to seriously look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/47-speed-bumps-in-50-km-stretch/article34114194.ece
20 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug ring busted, 2 arrested||The Commercial Street police busted a drug ring and arrested two peddlers who were allegedly trying to sell narcotics to people on Cubbon Road. The police recovered narcotics worth Rs. 35.20 lakh, including 350 grams of MDMA crystals, from the arrested men. One of the accused, identified as Ocoro Christine Ifini, 36, hails from Nigeria. “He came to the city in 2018 on a three-month tourist visa and has been overstaying,” said the police. The second accused, Rohith Christopher, 28, is a resident of T.C. Palya. Ifini reportedly befriended Christopher at a football club where they both played. According to the police, Ifini procured narcotics from another Nigerian national, presently known only as Chibucki, and sold it to foreign nationals and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-ring-busted-2-held/article34114172.ece
20 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||AAP to launch 24-hour fast seeking jobs, funding for ideas||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party will observe 24-hour fast on March 23 seeking employment opportunities for youth of twin cities, funding for budding entrepreneurs with innovative ideas, and making the Infosys campus in Hubballi operational. Addressing presspersons along with AAP leaders Naveen Singh Rajput, Shashikumar Sullad and others on Friday, president of AAP Dharwad district unit Santosh P. Nargund said the fast was aimed at highlighting the need for proactive steps to handhold youngsters who were graduating in large numbers from the twin cities. Mr. Nargund said that North Karnataka and Hubballi-Dharwad had been neglected for years and successive governments had failed to take any significant steps that would benefit the region, especially the youth. “Consequently, the twin cities neither have any major industry nor any meaningful IT activities nor any major IT company to count. And due to wrong policies, hundreds of small and medium enterprises have closed down, turning 20,000 workers jobless. Every few thousands of youth, who complete various courses, come to the twin cities in search of jobs, which are not available in adequate numbers,” he said. Terming that the IT Park in Hubballi had become a namesake entity, he said Infosys campus in Hubballi, which was ready three years ago, was yet to be made functional. Mr. Nargund said that while thousands graduate from Dharwad known as ‘vidyakashi’, there was neither an IT Park nor any major tech company. Infosys campus He said that through the 24-hour fast, AAP was urging the government make the Infosys campus in Hubballi operational, establish an IT Park in Dharwad, create a Rs. 100 crore startup fund to provide seed fund to innovative ideas of entrepreneurs of the twin cities. The fast was also aimed urging the government to make efforts to get a manufacturing unit of Tesla electric car company in Hubballi-Dharwad, he said. He said the fast would be held on the 90th anniversary of the martyrdom of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru and would be led by himself and entrepreneur and senior leader of AAP Naveen Singh Rathod. AAP senior national leader and Karnataka State Observer Romi Bhati would launch the satyagraha, he said. Mr. Nargund said if the four demands were met, then nearly 1 lakh youth would stand to benefit. Before the satyagraha, a padayatra would be taken out from Bhagat Singh Circle at New Cotton Market in Hubballi at 9.30 a.m. on March 23 and the fast would be held at Mini-Vidhana Soudha, he said. People can call 95133 19638 to join the satyagraha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-to-launch-24-hour-fast-seeking-jobs-funding-for-ideas/article34114415.ece
20 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lions Dharma, Arjun arrive at Binkadakatti zoo||Visitors will soon have the opportunity to watch lions at the Binkadakatti zoo as 11-year-olds Dharma and Arjun have arrived here. The two lions, from Bannerghatta Biological Park, reached Binkadakatti zoo on Thursday and all arrangements have been made for their acclimatisation. A proposal to get the lions was sent through the Central Zoo Authority last year. With the authority permitting the transfer, a team led by Deputy Conservator of Forest Suryasen made transport arrangements immediately to bring them. New facilities In order to help the lions adapt to their natural habitat, a rocky hillock and artificial pond have been constructed at the zoo, along with a special glass cage to enable viewers to have a better view. According to zoo authorities, the acclimatisation process is likely to take around three weeks and till then the lions will be kept separately. Subsequently, based on how much they have adapted to the local environment and their behaviour, the lions will be allowed for public viewing. Binkadakatti zoo is located on the outskirts of Gadag city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lions-dharma-arjun-arrive-at-binkadakatti-zoo/article34114425.ece
20 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Building collapse: Families want inquiry report to be made public||Urging the State government to make public the inquiry report pertaining to building collapse in Dharwad and questioning the delay, scores of family members of those killed and injured in the mishap took out a protest march in Dharwad on Friday. It was on March 19, 2019, that an under-construction multi-storey commercial complex located at Kumareshwar Nagar near the new bus-stand in Dharwad collapsed killing 19 persons, and injuring 57. The rescue operation had extended to three days. The government had ordered an inquiry by then Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa Cholan, who submitted the report on March 14, 2020. However, the report has not been made public till date. Families, activists and others staged the protest under aegis of Jana Jagruti Sangha and paid tribute to those who lost their lives. The march was taken out from Kumareshwara Nagar to the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad. Raising slogans, the protesters sought to know why the report had not been made public even after two years. They demanded that the government immediately make the report public and provide additional compensation to families of the deceased and persons affected. Sangha president Basavaraj Koravar alleged that MLAs from Dharwad, Amrut Desai and Aravind Bellad, had failed to mitigate the sufferings of the families and refrained from raising the issue during the legislature session. Interestingly, instead of seeking reply from the government on the floor of the House, Mr. Desai had sought information under RTI, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/building-collapse-families-want-inquiry-report-to-be-made-public/article34114418.ece
20 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Demolition drive will continue: DC||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, who has taken personal interest in getting encroachments on public spaces cleared, has clarified that the demolition drive will continue till all encroachments are cleared. He told presspersons that strict direction had been issued to municipal authorities to continue the demolition drive. They have also been directed to conduct regular drives to check encroachments, he said. Mr. Patil said 321 buildings in the twin cities had been constructed without providing adequate parking spaces and notices had been served to all building owners. Subsequent action would be taken after receipt of reply and verification of documents, he said. Considering the problem of parking, 94 spaces had been identified to provide parking and shortly, the Police Commissioner would issue a notification, he said, adding that Rs. 7 crore had been earmarked in the municipal corporation’s budget for painting the parking spaces, erecting signboards, and other traffic-related works.. To a query, he clarified that strict action would be taken against all those encroaching public spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demolition-drive-will-continue-dc/article34114416.ece
20 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Centre’s decision to drop railway division at Kalaburagi draws flak||B.R. Patil, former MLA, on Friday expressed his disappointment at the Centre’s decision to drop plans to set up a railway divisional headquarters in Kalaburagi. He termed the decision “unfortunate” and “unjust” to Kalyana Karnataka region. Addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi, Mr. Patil condemned the BJP-led Union government’s assertion that it would not implement the recommendation of the Sareen Committee (1984) for the creation of a new railway division in the most backward region. “The Centre has dropped nearly six or seven projects proposed by the former UPA government for Kalaburagi and Kalyana Karnataka region. Umesh Jadhav, the MP from Kalaburagi, should either raise his voice in Parliament or tender resignation and support our agitation against the BJP government,” Mr. Patil said. He recalled that in 2013, during the Supplementary Railway Budget, Rs. 5 crore was sanctioned by the then Railway Minister M. Mallikarjun Kharge for augmentation of administrative office infrastructure, the State government handed over the land required for the project and it was transferred to the Railways, and a DPR with estimates and jurisdiction of new Kalaburagi Railway Division under South Western Railway (SWR) was sent to the Railway Board. In 2016, the Ministry of Railways confirmed receipt of the DPR. Mr. Patil listed out various prestigious projects denied to the region, including an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, Centre for Skill Excellence, textile park, National Investment and Manufacturing Zone, and now a railway division. The Centre’s decision to drop all projects from Kalaburagi district, shifting them to Hubballi-Dharwad, shows the “neglect” and “injustice” meted out to Kalyana Karnataka region, he said. A round-table conference is planned in Kalaburagi on March 26 to chalk out the modalities for an agitation condemning the “stepmotherly attitude” of the Union government towards Kalyana Karnataka region. An all-party meeting is to be held in April, where leaders of different parties, heads of mutts, members of Dalit organisations, farmers, Kannada outfits, and various associations will be invited to discuss the course of the protest, Mr. Patil added.  Plan of action  A round-table conference is planned in Kalaburagi on March 26 to chalk out the modalities for an agitation condemning the “stepmotherly attitude” of the Union government towards Kalyana Karnataka region||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centres-decision-to-drop-railway-division-at-kalaburagi-draws-flak/article34114427.ece
20 March 2021||Kalaburagi/yadgir,KARNATAKA||Valmiki Naik, former BJP MLA, passes away||Valmiki Naik, one-time BJP MLA from Chittapur reserve Assembly constituency, died of cardiac arrest in Kalaburagi on Friday morning. He was 75. He is survived by wife, two sons, and four daughters. Mr. Naik developed sudden chest pain during morning walk. He was rushed to Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, where he was declared brought dead. His body has been shifted to his native Wadi where it will be kept for public viewing. The last rites will be performed on Saturday noon. In 1999, he contested from Shahabad reserve constituency against Baburao Chavan and was defeated. In 2008, he contested senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge but lost. He won against Congress leader Priyank Kharge from Chittapur Assembly constituency in the 2009 byelections. Mr. Naik was an employee of ACC cement factory at Wadi. He began his political career by contesting in the Mandal panchayat elections at Wadi in 1986-87. Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan condoled the passing of Mr. Naik. In a release, Mr. Chavan said Mr. Naik’s death was a big loss to the Banjara community. His concern towards labourers and working sector people was remarkable. His contribution to the society will always remain in the heart of the thousands, Mr. Chavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/valmiki-naik-former-bjp-mla-passes-away/article34114420.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines for tourism policy by month-end: Kumar Pushkar||The Karnataka Tourism Department will release the guidelines for effective implementation of Tourism Policy 2020-2025 by the end of this month, said department director Kumar Pushkar on Friday. Speaking at an interactive session during Connect-2021, the Karnataka Stakeholder Networking Initiative organised by the department and Karnataka Tourism Society here, Mr. Pushkar said mere policy was not enough. Responding to Udupi-based tour operator Nagaraj Hebbar’s query, he said proper guidelines were needed for the working of the policy. Many tourism policies were announced earlier, but without any guidelines. However, the government was committed to implement the 2020-25 policy, he added. Mr. Hebbar was wondering how to avail facilities announced in the policy without there being any guideline. Vision document Speaking earlier, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said the administration has prepared the draft vision document for the next 10 years to boost tourism in the district. Postgraduate students of tourism have visited 104 identified places of tourist importance and listed out facilities available and needed in those places. The government has released Rs. 20 crore to develop Maravanthe and Someshwara (Byndoor) beaches, he said, adding efforts were on to make Malpe tourism facility a self-sustaining one. However, the government needs to support Padubidri Blue Flag initiative for a year with the Centre support ending this month before the project becomes self-sustainable. He urged the government to enhance subsidy for boat house projects from 20% to 50%; to facilitate way-side amenities creation through private partnership; developing more a-la Blue Flag beaches with private participation, and impetus to the cable-car project between Kollur and Kodachadri. Beach-side facilities His Dakshina Kannada counterpart K.V. Rajendra said the administration was surveying Someshwara Beach stretch to identify government lands and promote CRZ compliant tourist facilities under PPP. Trekking circuits have to be developed in association with the forest department. Agri-tourism has a great potential to attract tourists, Dr. Rajendra said. Adequate facilities were created for international cruise tourists and plans were afoot to offer heli-tourism. The administration will hold a detailed meeting of stakeholders to identify and finalise projects, he added. Tourism secretary Pankaj Kumar Pandey made a detailed presentation on Tourism Policy 2020-25. On the occasion, the DK tourism logo was released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-for-tourism-policy-by-month-end-kumar-pushkar/article34114631.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Railways extends periodicity of special trains till June-end||The Railways has extended the periodicity of some special trains till June end. Releases from Konkan and Southern Railway said train no. 02620 Mangaluru Central–Lokmanya Tilak Terminal Daily Festival Special (Matsyagandha) would be extended to run till June 30 for 91 trips. Train No. 02619 Lokmanya Tilak Terminal–Mangaluru Central Daily Festival Special would be extended till July 1 for 91 trips. Train No. 06338 Ernakulam–Okha Bi-weekly Festival Special on Fridays and Wednesdays would be extended till June 30 and its pairing service, Train No. 06337 Okha - Ernakulam Bi-weekly Festival Special on Mondays and Saturdays would be extended till July 3 for 26 trips each. This train would have a revised coach composition of one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 14 second class sleeper, two general sitting and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Train No. 06072 Tirunelveli – Dadar Weekly Festival Special on Wednesdays would be extended till June 30 and Train No.06071 Dadar - Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Specialon Thursdays would be extended till July 1 for 13 trips each. Festival special Train no. 04034 H. Nizamuddin - Thiruvananthapuram Central Festival Superfast Express Special (fully reserved) leaves H. Nizamuddin at 5 am on March 26 to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 4.55 am the third day. Train No. 04033 Thiruvananthapuram Central - H. Nizamuddin Festival Superfast Express Special (fully reserved) would leave Thiruvananthapuram at 12.30 am on March 31 to reach H. Nizamuddin at 10.40 pm the next day. Train would halt at Karmali, Madgaon Jn., Karwar, Udupi, Mangaluru Jn., Kannur, stations. It would have 20 LHB coaches, two 2-tier AC, six 3-Tier AC, six second class sleeper, four second sitting and two generator car coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-extends-periodicity-of-special-trains-till-june-end/article34114632.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man sentenced to 10 years for sexual assault||Additional District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Sessions Court-1, Mangaluru, Savithri V. Bhat, sentenced Dinesh Shetty, 38, of Kemral Village to 10 years imprisonment and imposed fine of Rs. 50,000 on finding him guilty for aggravated penetrative sexual assault of a minor girl. The judge also sentenced Shetty to seven years and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 for the offence punishable under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code. Both sentences will run concurrently. Out of the total fine amount, Rs. 45,000 will be paid to the victim after completion of the appeal period, the judge said. According to the chargesheet, Shetty, a labourer, sexually assaulted a minor girl from the same village on December 23, 2018. He again raped her on January 6, 2019. The parents came to know about the sexual assault when the girl was diagnosed at a hospital that she was two months pregnant. Following a complaint, the then Mulky Inspector Anantha Padmanabha arrested the accused. A chargesheet was filed by the then Inspector P. Siddaraju. Special Public Prosecutor Venkataramana Swamy examined 15 witnesses, including the expert who did the DNA test of the child, which revealed that Shetty was the biological father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-sentenced-to-10-years-for-sexual-assault/article34114628.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pilikula Development Authority to come into effect from April||The Pilikula Development Authority with the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada as its chairperson will come into effect from April 1, 2021. The authority has been constituted under the Pilikula Development Authority Act, 2018. It is a total 23-member body. There will be a commissioner to manage the day-to-day affairs of the authority who will be the ex-officio member secretary of the authority. There will be 17 ex-officio members. The MLAs of Mangaluru City South, Mangaluru City North and Moodbidri, the president of Moodushedde Gram Panchayat, and the captain of Pilikula Golf Course are its members. In addition, the government will have to nominate three members who are experts in the field of culture, wildlife, plant life, science, technology, heritage, fisheries and tourism. Executive director (in-charge) of Dr. Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama Gokuldas Nayak told a team of visiting journalists on Friday that presently two societies managed the nisargadhama and the Pilikula Regional Science Centre. The authority will manage the both from next month. Mr. Nayak said that the annual expenditure of the nisargadhama stood at Rs. 5 crore and the fee from gate collection a year ago (pre-COVID-19 period) stood at Rs. 3.5 crore per annum. The gate collection during post-COVID-19 period has decreased. “The tourist footfall to the nisargadhama has recovered by only 50%,” he said. Mr. Nayak said that the innovation hub project and the urban eco park projects are underway in the nisargadhama now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pilikula-development-authority-to-come-into-effect-from-april/article34114636.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold seized at Mangaluru airport||The customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport seized 284.900 grams of smuggled gold valued at Rs. 13,16,238 from a passenger who arrived from Dubai on Friday. A customs release gave the name of the passenger against whom a case was registered as Vinesh Raju Advani hailing from Ulhasnagar Thane District, Maharashtra. He arrived by SpiceJet flight No. SG146. The passenger was smuggling the gold in powder form mixed with solid gum concealed in rectum and gold in form of ring, kada, button and label, the release said.  The passenger had arrived from Dubai on a SpiceJet flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-at-mangaluru-airport/article34114640.ece
20 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hop-on, Hop-Off package||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said the district administration was in discussion with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) for providing a one-day packaged city tour. “Those visiting Mangaluru using public transport have very limited options of visiting places of tourist interest; at the most they visit can one place in the absence of proper facility,” Dr. Rajendra told Connect 2021, a stakeholder networking initiative here. While he had heard of an earlier unsuccessful attempt, Dr. Rajendra said another attempt would be made to introduce hop-on, hop-off package using Ambari-like bus coaches. This would help tourists to visit more than one place around Mangaluru, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hop-on-hop-off-package/article34114643.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt to harness solar energy||The Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt will harness solar energy to illuminate the mutt within a month. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Friday, manager of the Paryaya Admar Mutt Govindaraj said the mutt will set up a 135 kW capacity solar power unit at an estimated cost of Rs. 60 lakh. It will be as per the eco-friendly measures taken up by paryaya seer Eshapriya Tirtha. He said that when the project is commissioned the mutt would save about Rs. 18 lakh annually towards electricity bill, for using grid power. Now, the mutt spends Rs. 24 lakh annually. “The average daily solar power generation would be 600 to 750 units,” he said. The solar panel will be installed on 12,000 sq ft area atop the Rajangana Hall adjacent to Sri Krishna Mutt. The installation of panels will begin from Monday and work is expected to be completed by April 10. “Karnataka Bank has assured to provide 1/3 of the total estimated cost. Devotees can also participate through donations,” he said. Orb Energy will install the solar panel and maintain it through its battery of experts. Orb Energy assistant general manager Balakrishna Acharya said the return on investment is expected in four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-sri-krishna-mutt-to-harness-solar-energy/article34114633.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||60 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 47 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. With this the active cases in the district rose to 464. Udupi district recorded 13 new cases with the active cases touching 139.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/60-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34114637.ece
20 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Keith Lennor is winner of TCS TechBytes regional round||Keith Lennor, a student of A.J. Institute of Engineering and Technology, Mangaluru, has won the Mangaluru regional finals of the 12th edition of TCS TechBytes quiz competition. Harsha C.S. from Vivekananda College of Engineering and Technology, Puttur, was the runner-up. TCS gave winner gift vouchers worth Rs. 12,000 to the winner and Rs. 10,000 to the runner-up. The winner will go on to represent Mangaluru at the State finals to be held on March 26. Over 400 students underwent a preliminary online written test, from which the top six teams qualified for an interactive animation-based quiz. It had five segments – Byte Abundance, Tech Vision, Byte Clouds, Connected Ecosystem and Tech Agile – and prompted students to think laterally, said Sunil Deshpande, head, Bengaluru Delivery Centre, TCS, and K.N. Balasubramanya, chairman, BITES, in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keith-lennor-is-winner-of-tcs-techbytes-regional-round/article34114629.ece
20 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||In combat mode, a year after first case||The first COVID-19 case in Kodagu was reported on March 19 last year, triggering panic in the hill district, which, despite certain limitations in infrastructure and resources, has been successfully combating the pandemic since then. On that day, a Dubai returnee tested positive, putting the district administration and the health authorities on their toes. The highest safety precautions, unheard of at the time, were taken for containing its spread. “We have been in combat mode since the day the first case was detected. What surprised us most was that none of the primary and secondary contacts of the infected person were infected. Fortunately, the first case did not trigger a series of infections. Thereafter, cases started surfacing as people started returning to their homes and the district took all the major steps to fight the pandemic. And the fight is still on,” said District Health Officer Mohan. The first case, a 35-year-old person, had returned from Dubai on March 15, 2020. He arrived in Bengaluru by a private airline and later travelled to Madikeri via Mysuru in a KSRTC bus. Soon, his native place, Kondangeri in Ammatti hobli of Virajpet taluk, became a containment zone. The district administration issued an advisory to all the passengers on board Indigo flight 6E96 (Dubai to Bengaluru), which had landed in Bengaluru on March 15, and also to those who travelled in the KSRTC Rajahamsa bus (KA-19 F 3170) to report to the nearest government hospital for mandatory screening. Strict measures Kodagu’s efforts for containing the pandemic after the first case were admired nationally as it was one among two districts in the entire country (in April last year) where no new COVID-19 cases were reported for 28 straight days when cases were spiking elsewhere, including in many parts of Karnataka. Kodagu had zero cases for over four weeks after its first case. For the district administration, the biggest challenge was surveillance on the border with Kerala, which had seen a spike in cases, particularly in Kasaragod and Kannur areas. The health authorities stepped up screening of people entering Kodagu from Kerala and later sealed some key border checkposts after the number of cases soared. Significantly, the casecount has remained between two and eight since the beginning of this year. Despite sharing a border with Kerala and seeing frequent inter-State movement, Kodagu has remained stable, with no spike in spite of a surge in cases in the neighbouring State. Dr. Mohan said the borders had been sealed and entry was permitted only for those with COVID-19 negative certificate. “This strict surveillance has helped us to keep the number of cases under control. Even if anyone from Kodagu visits Kerala, he or she has to get a negative certificate for the return journey,” he said. Like other districts, testing has been scaled up with about 1,000 swab tests done at the Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences in Madikeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-combat-mode-a-year-after-first-case/article34114646.ece
20 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||New body for water supply to Mysuru?||The State government will decide on creating an exclusive organisation for water supply to Mysuru and surrounding areas or entrusting the responsibility to a centralised body in due course. This was stated by Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar at a review meeting here on Friday. The issue assumed importance consequent to the announcement in the State Budget that water supply for villages coming under the jurisdiction of the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will be entrusted to the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board. In the discussion that followed, Chamaraja MLA L. Nagendra and MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev welcomed the decision to entrust the responsibility of water supply to villages in the MUDA limits to KUWSDB but wanted the existing set-up to continue as far as the city was concerned. At present the water supply to Mysuru city is vested with the Vani Vilas Water Works, which is a wing under the Mysuru City Corporation. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said though hundreds of crores of rupees have been pumped in to shore up the city’s water supply there has been no improvement in the sector all these years. The present arrangement of VVWW supplying water to Mysuru has come under flak for lacking professionalism and resources to take up new projects that could meet the long-term demands of the city. Meanwhile, activists in Mysuru have once again aired their apprehension over continuing with the existing system in Mysuru. Bhamy V. Shenoy of the Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP) and others have complained that the VVWW was being controlled by the councillors of the MCC and there was interference in its functioning which made it impossible to ensure equitable water supply to all the 65 wards of the city. Mr. Shenoy said a technically competent KUWSDB will look after 52 villages coming under MUDA but there are concerns that a politically-oriented body with no technical competence will be responsible for ensuring water supply to Mysuru. He said the VVWW and the MCC failed to use the hardware and the software brought by a private organisation (JUSCO) to improve water supply to Mysuru. Chandraprakash, a professor of Commerce and Management, University of Mysore, said when it comes to planning pertaining to water supply, it was done ad hoc based on immediate requirements and the cash-strapped VVWW could not be expected to take up mega projects to meet the long-term requirements of the city. He supported the establishment of a professional body or shifting the responsibility to KUWSDB.  Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar gives assurance at a review meeting here on Friday  At present the water supply to Mysuru city is vested with Vani Vilas Water Works, which is a wing under the Mysuru City Corporation  Activist says VVWW is unable to ensure equitable water supply to all the 65 wards of the city||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-body-for-water-supply-to-mysuru/article34114657.ece
20 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||3.5 lakh senior citizens to be vaccinated by March 31||Amidst the fears of a second peak of COVID-19 pandemic, the State government has laid emphasis on completing the vaccination of senior citizens at the earliest and officials had been entrusted with the task of covering the population of 3.5 lakh above 60 years in the district by March 31. In this regard, staff such as PDOs, bill collectors, waterman, ASHAs and anganwadi workers had been tasked to vaccinate at least 10 elderly citizens daily. Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Friday told the health authorities to be on alert and take all precautions to prevent any possible second peak. “Let us all come together and be watchful to stop the infection from spreading,” he told a meeting of health officials at the ZP. The Minister said the team led by the Deputy Commissioner had been taking effective measures, and added that all senior officials, including the Commissioner of Police, the Superintendent of Police, the ZP CEO and the Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation, should take strict precautionary steps at their level for at least few days in the wake of the fears. “Mysuru currently has 269 active cases which should not go out of control. In this connection, appropriate steps should be taken for stopping the peak.” Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri told the meeting that the current situation is similar to that existed in the month of July last year. This has led to the apprehensions of a second wave. For this, testing, vaccination and contact tracing are the best remedies. Out of 3.5 lakh senior citizens identified for the vaccination, nearly 10 per cent had got the jab. Ms. Sindhuri said the Chief Secretary had directed covering 100 per cent of senior citizens’ population by March 31. This target needs to be achieved and the support of the staff is vital. Mysuru is not in the list of three districts which have reported a spike. However, Mysuru is among five districts that need to be on alert for stopping the second wave, said Ms. Sindhuri. In Mysuru, 36,774 senior citizens had taken the first dose of vaccine as on Thursday. On an average, 1,500 people above 60 years of age are getting vaccinated daily against COVID-19. Mysuru is among the few districts in the State with good vaccination coverage among senior citizens. Yet, the health authorities had been told that it was not enough and the target has to be achieved vaccinating more in the age group. With the opening of more sites for vaccination here, including urban PHCs and CHCs besides private hospitals, a number of people of the age group are reaching out to these sites for taking the jab. In case of those aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities, the vaccination coverage stands at 6,020 as on Thursday here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/35-lakh-senior-citizens-to-be-vaccinated-by-march-31/article34114658.ece
20 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Yoga against trafficking||The 11th edition of ‘Yoga Stops Traffick’, a synchronised global event organised by Mysuru-based Odanadi Seva Samsthe, is scheduled to be held on March 21 across more than 170 cities in 40 countries. It is an annual campaign uniting yoga practitioners across the world to take a stand against human trafficking, said the Samsthe founder Parashuram M.L. The organisation, which has been engaged in rescue, rehabilitation and reintegration of trafficked women and children for more than 25 years now, will be using yoga as a medium to convey its message to the world to stand against trafficking, gender inequities and sexual exploitation. In Mysuru, the event will be held in front of the palace (opposite Kote Anjaneya Swamy Temple) at 7 a.m. Mayor Rukmini Made Gowda, and president of Mysuru Yoga Okkoota B.P. Murthy will participate in the event along with others including Odanadi Seva Samsthe representatives. In a statement, the Samsthe said the event will be held simultaneously in England, Australia, U.S., Holland, Mexico, Sweden, France, Argentina, Canada, Israel, Ireland, and Finland, among other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yoga-against-trafficking/article34114660.ece
20 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Four get Balashri awards||Four children from Mysuru received the Balashri awards here on Friday from Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar. Nineteen-year-old Sindhu N. Shastri; 17-year-old Akanksh C.J.; 15-year-old Tushar N. Bharadwaj; and 12-year-old Varsha N.K. were conferred the awards at the Zilla Panchayat auditorium here. Out of seven children who were selected for the award from Karnataka after participating in various events organised at New Delhi, four are from Mysuru. In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the award presentation for the others was held in Bengaluru. Usually, the Balashri awards are presented by the President or the Prime Minister. But, because of the pandemic, the presentations were confined to the respective States at the hands of local authorities. Sindhu N. Shastri bagged the award for creative writing while Akanksh got the recognition in the area of scientific problem solving. Tushar got the award in recognition of his acting skills (solo acting), and Varsha for science model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-get-balashri-awards/article34114655.ece
20 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Rs. 100 crore sought for film city in Mysuru’||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar on Friday said a detailed report has been submitted to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on setting up a film city in Mysuru and an allocation of Rs. 100 crore has been sought. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, the Minister, who is also in charge of Mysuru district, said an announcement on setting up the film city in Mysuru was made in the Legislative Council after obtaining approval from the Chief Minister. Minister for Information C.C. Patil had recently announced that the film city would be set up at Himmavu, near Mysuru. The film city had originally been proposed for Mysuru, but was shifted to Bengaluru later. However, Mr. Patil said it was decided to shift the project back to Mysuru as a parcel of land to the extent of 50 to 70 acres was not available in Bengaluru. Mr. Somashekar also said the government had given permission to various cooperative institutions to recruit staff wherever necessary. Permission has been given to appoint 4-5 employees as per the necessity in cooperative banks, cooperative milk unions, urban cooperative banks, and credit cooperative societies, among other cooperative institutions in the State.  Referring to the Congress’ attack on the ruling BJP over the CD episode involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Mr. Somashekar said the saffron party did not need to learn morality from the Congress. He was referring to a sleaze video allegedly featuring a former Minister in the Siddaramaiah government. Though an inquiry conducted subsequently ruled that video to be fake, the former Minister had lost his respect. Mr. Somashekar criticised the “political campaigns” for character assassination and defamation being carried in the State. He also said he was confident that Mr. Jarkiholi would come clean in the probe into the matter being carried out by the Special Investigation Team appointed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-100-crore-sought-for-film-city-in-mysuru/article34114648.ece
20 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||KPCC suspends three Sait supporters||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has suspended three supporters of former Minister Tanveer Sait from the party for their role in the anti-party protest held after the mayoral polls in Mysuru last month. The suspended are Abdul Khader Shahid, president of the Azeez Sait Block Congress Committee; Anwar Pasha alias Annu Bhai, vice-president of Mysuru City District Congress Committee; and KPCC member P. Raju. According the suspension order issued by KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, a recommendation to suspend the three had been made by Mysuru City Congress Committee president R. Murthy. They have been suspended for their role in the protest organised against the party in Mysuru after the State leadership acted against Mr. Sait for unilaterally deciding to cede the post of Mayor to the JD(S) during the mayoral polls of Mysuru City Corporation, held on February 24. During the protest, held in front of Mr. Sait’s residence, his supporters shouted slogans against former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and former Assembly Speaker Ramesh Kumar for taking action against Mr. Sait. Mysuru City Congress Committee served notice to eight supporters of Mr. Sait last week. Mr. Shahid had led a group of supporters to the Congress party’s office in Mysuru on Wednesday to submit his explanation to the show-cause notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-suspends-three-sait-supporters/article34114661.ece
20 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Drinking water scarcity in 103 villages in Mysuru||Drinking water scarcity is plaguing 103 villages in Mysuru district and the officials have been instructed to take steps to tide over the problem. The district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar, who apprised himself of the ground situation, called for expediting measures to ensure there was no water scarcity in rural areas during summer. At a review meeting held here on Friday the Minister was informed that 10 villages in H.D. Kote, 14 in Hunsur, 16 in Mysuru, 35 in Nanjangud, 10 in Periyapatna, and 18 villages in T.Narsipur taluks have problems pertaining to drinking water and steps were being taken to tide over the scarcity. Only villages in K.R. Nagar taluk did not have any scarcity. Permanent measures The Minister was told that tankers were being used to replenish water supply in only two or three villages while permanent measures were being conceived for other villages and this included drilling borewells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drinking-water-scarcity-in-103-villages-in-mysuru/article34114659.ece
20 March 2021||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga gears up for Raitha Mahapanchayat||Shivamogga, which gave birth to farmers’ movements and the Dalit struggle, is hosting the first Raitha Mahapanchayat of southern India on Saturday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh, and Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab president Darshan Pal, who are leading the protests against anti-farmers’ laws in Delhi, will address the rally at Science Field in the city. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, United Struggle Committee, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and anti-BJP political parties have joined hands for the rally. Hundreds of farmers from Shivamogga and neighbouring districts are expected to take part in the rally. Shivamogga has a long history of people’s movements. The raitha sangha took birth in the district and attracted nationwide attention with the Kagodu Satyagraha in 1951. That movement prompted many senior socialist leaders, including Ram Manohar Lohia, to visit the place. With that, the socialist movement also received significant support in the district. In later years, the struggles of seeking grant of land for the landless tenants put pressure on the governments to bring in pro-farmer laws. Dalit Sangharsha Samiti took birth in Shivamogga under the leadership of M. Krishnappa, who was teaching in a college at Bhadravati. Besides this, Shivamogga has always been at the forefront in pro-environment struggles. Writers, activists and intellectuals actively participated in the Kudremukh Ulisi (Save Kudremukh) movement. Rakesh Tikait’s father Mahendra Singh Tikait had participated in a meeting of Kudremukh Ulisi in Shivamogga in January 2000. “As many as 21 years after Mahendra Singh Tikait’s visit to Shivamogga, his son is coming here. All factions of farmers’ organization have joined hands to organise this historic event,” said K.L. Ashok, one of the organizers. The leaders from Delhi will travel Shivamogga by road on Saturday morning. Along the route, hundreds of people will travel along with him. “People in Bengaluru, Tumakuru and other places will follow them in cars. They will all assemble at Bhadravati for lunch and then move to Shivamogga to attend the rally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-gears-up-for-raitha-mahapanchayat/article34114201.ece
20 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Follow guidelines strictly to overcome second wave: DC||Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya strictly advised the public to follow guidelines issued to overcome the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a officials’ meeting to review the precautionary measures taken in the district on Friday, Dr. Ragapriya said officials have to take all suggested initiatives to prevent the spread of virus. Those arriving from Maharashtra should have a negative report on RT-PCR tests done 72 hours prior to entering the district border. “Officials should compulsorily check such passengers and quarantine those without reports until they receive the negative reports,” she directed. There have been 20 positive cases between March 1 and 15 in the district, but numbers were increasing from the last four days. Check-posts had been set up at Mudbul, Gurmitkal, and Yargol villages to inspect vehicles, she said. Rishikesh Sonawane, Superintendent of Police, Shilpa Sharma, Chief Executive Officer of zilla panchayat, Prakash Rajput, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Indumathi Patil, District Health officer, Bhagawanth Anawar, Laxmikanth and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/follow-guidelines-strictly-to-overcome-second-wave-dc/article34114422.ece
20 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘People in Maski are receiving Turvihal with enthusiasm’||Soon after the byelection to Maski Assembly segment in Raichur district was scheduled for April 17, the Congress party’s possible candidate, Basanagouda Turvihal, commenced e campaign in rural areas. The residents of rural areas welcomed Mr. Turvihal with enthusiasm when he went for campaigning on Wednesday, sources said. “The people of Gudugaladinni and Hampanal villages have donated Rs. 21,000 to Mr. Turvihal for election expenditure,” a follower said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will address a rally in Maski on Saturday and seek people’s blessings for Mr. Patil. The earlier plan to hold a government programme launching development works was changed immediately after the date of the byelection was announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-in-maski-are-receiving-turvihal-with-enthusiasm/article34114423.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||70% of new COVID-19 cases have travel history||A majority of the people who tested positive for COVID-19 (approximately 70%) had a travel history. Others contracted the virus when they attended weddings and social gatherings, visited places of worship or in common areas in apartment complexes. This was one of the key findings of a detailed analysis by the civic body on the recent surge in positive cases. Many cases are being reported from apartments and multi-dwelling units, said N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). With Bengaluru recording 1,037 cases on Friday, the civic body has stepped up surveillance and contact tracing. As many as 141 PHC medical officers have been directed to keep tabs on patients coming to private clinics and hospitals with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) symptoms. “We are tracking these patients and testing them,” he said. Focus on contact tracing Teachers and officials in health, engineering and revenue departments, involved in contact tracing, have been tasked with identifying at least 15 people the infected person came in contact with as well as track the movement of the patient 15 days prior to the day of testing. “We have found that at least 3% primary contacts identified are testing positive for COVID-19,” he said, and pointed out that this meant that those who have tested positive were not isolating themselves after developing symptoms,” he stated. Isolation facilities While the number of new COVID-19 cases are rising, according to BBMP, 90% of those who have tested positive are asymptomatic. To help people isolate themselves, the COVID-19 Care Centres at Haj Bhavan, Koramangala Indoor Stadium and HAL will be operational by Monday. Testing goes up in March The BBMP conducted 44,000 tests on Thursday, the highest in March so far, and plans to increase the number to 50,000 a day. The positivity rate touched 1.36%, the case fatality rate was 0.63%, he said. Over 3 lakh people have been vaccinated so far in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/70-of-new-covid-19-cases-have-travel-history/article34114176.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nodal officers for COVID-19 surveillance, monitoring||With Karnataka reporting over 1,500 cases on Friday, the State government has appointed nodal officers to oversee COVID-19 surveillance and monitoring. Urban Development Secretary Tushar Girinath has been appointed as the nodal officer for monitoring the functioning of Apthamitra helpline. IAS officials Meenakshi Negi and Biswajeet Mishra have been appointed as members of his team. While Bescom MD M.B. Rajesh Gowda has been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring hassle-free transport of ILI/SARI cases through 108 ambulances to hospitals, BMTC MD C. Shikha has been appointed as the nodal officer to monitor COVID-19 screening and other related activities at the Bengaluru International Airport. K. Harish Kumar, Commissioner, Employment and Training, has been appointed as nodal officer for COVID-19 surveillance. Separate circulars in this regard have been issued by Anjum Parvez, Principal Secretary, State Disaster Management Authority. 1,587 new cases, 10 dead Karnataka on Friday reported 1,587 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,66,689. Of these, 1,037 cases are from Bengaluru Urban district. The number of fatalities are on the rise since the last two days. With 10 deaths reported on Friday, the toll rose to 12,425. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 869 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 9,42,178. Of the remaining 12,067 active patients, 131 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.72%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.63%. As many as 91,884 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 85,675 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to  2,01,93,326. As many as 8,70,800 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1 when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 2,11,888 persons above 45 years with co-morbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Friday, as many as 88,780 senior citizens and 22,978 above 45 years with co-morbidities took the jab. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers (2,15,425 and 37,568, respectively) in the two categories. So far, a total of 5,08,275 healthcare workers and 1,89,366 frontline workers have taken the first dose of the vaccine. As many as 3,08,935 healthcare workers have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nodal-officers-for-covid-19-surveillance-monitoring/article34114180.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru firm to make Russian vaccine||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the country’s sovereign wealth fund, and Stelis Biopharma, the biopharmaceutical division of Bengaluru-based Strides Pharma, have entered into a partnership to produce and supply a minimum of 200 million doses (enough to vaccinate 100 million people) of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus. The agreement between RDIF and Stelis Biopharma was reached under the aegis of Enso Healthcare LLP (part of Enso Group), RDIF’s coordination partner for sourcing Sputnik V vaccine in India, as per a joint statement. According to the statement, the parties intend to commence supplies of the vaccine from the third quarter of calendar 2021. Stelis will continue to work with the RDIF to provide additional supply volumes beyond the initial agreement. Arun Kumar, founder of Strides Group, said, “We are delighted to partner with RDIF to make a substantial contribution towards providing global supply of the Sputnik V vaccine, which is one of the most efficacious approved vaccines commercially available.” “The Russian vaccine with the efficacy of 91.6% is one of the best vaccines against coronavirus in the world. The significant vaccine volumes, which will be produced jointly with Stelis, will help to widen access to the vaccine on a global scale,” said Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund. Sputnik V, the world’s first registered vaccine against the novel coronavirus, is now approved for use in over 50 countries. It is a two-dose vaccine that uses two different human adenoviral vectors in the course of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-firm-to-make-russian-vaccine/article34114178.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Increasing temperature starts pushing up demand for power||As summer makes its presence felt, the peak demand for power has started seeing a steady rise in the State, even as there is a temporary shortage of around 4,000 MW in generation. N. Manjula, Managing Director, KPTCL, told The Hindu that the peak demand has shot up considerably, with the figure touching 13,837 MW at 10 a.m. on March 11. “The average consumption is about 265 million units (MU) per day in March, which is about 5 to 6 MU higher than the same time last year,” she said, adding that the total load includes open access. Though Escoms maintain that the State has enough power, sources said there is a temporary shortage on account of technical reasons. “We are otherwise safe, except that for now, some thermal plants of KPCL, few central generation stations and UPCL have been shut down because of unforeseen repair. They will most likely come back in 10 to 15 days. On the whole, generation loss is: KPCL - 2,654 MW, UPCL -1,000 MW and a few CHS - 340 totalling about 4,000 MW,” sources said, acknowledging that the shortage is hard to cover in the morning peak time (8 a.m. to 10 a.m.). Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) officials said the peak demand has been more or less in line with the normal figures for this time of the year. “Peak morning demand has also touched up to 6,000 MW. But it is more or less what we usually witness with the onset of summer,” an official said. But complaints of intermittent power supply continue. Bhagya S., a resident of south Bengaluru, asked how there are power cuts even when there is enough power available. “Power cuts, when scheduled, can at least be dealt with, though I don't understand why we have so many that last close to 12 hours. But far worse are unscheduled ones because it throws your work out of gear, particularly now when so many if us are working from home,” she added. Bescom officials maintained that any load shedding that occurs now is not due to power shortage, but because of system constraints. “Sometimes lines are overloaded, especially when we have to supply additional power during peak hours. This does cause disruptions,” an official admitted. When asked what the solution is, he said there are KPTCL projects targeted at improving infrastructure, such as additional lines and transformers, the implementation of which would go a long way in tackling present problems. “Bescom is also implementing the underground cabling project, which will definitely help in uninterrupted power supply once completed,” he said.  The average consumption is about 265 MU per day in March, which is about 5 to 6 MU higher than the same time last year N. Manjula, Managing Director, KPTCL   Power cuts, when scheduled, can at least be dealt with, though I don't understand why we have so many that last close to 12 hours Bhagya S., a resident of south Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increasing-temperature-starts-pushing-up-demand-for-power/article34114168.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA to give sludge from Varthur lake to farmers||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) is planning to provide sludge excavated from Varthur lake to farmers so that they can use it as manure on their agricultural lands. The BDA claims that, as per the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) report, the sludge is fit for agricultural purposes. “After taking up de-silting work at Varthur lake in November last year, we started receiving enquiries from farmers living in nearby villages. We will transport sludge as per the requirement of farmers who have agricultural land in a radius of five to six kilometres,” said a BDA official. In a press release, BDA stated that interested farmers can submit their applications for sludge at its site office. The development authority, on the directions of the National Green Tribunal, is currently de-silting Varthur and Bellandur lakes. According to official estimates, Varthur lake, which is spread over 434 acres, was filled with 13 lakh cubic metres of silt. Officials claim that they have removed half of the sludge with the help of heavy machinery. “After de-silting of the lake, we dumped the sludge on the lake bed to dry up,” said the official. He added that the State government has identified two quarries at Mylasandra and Vittasandra to dump excess sludge. Together, both quarries are spread over 18 acres. According to sources, BDA is waiting for a report from KSPCB on whether silt removed from Bellandur lake can be used as manure in agricultural land. “The lake, which is spread to 916 acres, has 26 lakh cubic metres of silt. Of this, 10 lakh cubic metres of silt have been removed. We will provide sludge from Bellandur lake to farmers based on the KSPCB report,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-to-give-sludge-from-varthur-lake-to-farmers/article34114170.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP wants gyms, pools, party halls to be shut||If there is any violation, cases will be booked under Disaster Management Act on those who had sought permission for the event and the owners of marriage halls. Mr. Prasad also reiterated that it is the responsibility of mall management and owners of shops in malls to ensure that citizens follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance, and sanitising and washing of hands. “Marshals cannot go everywhere to enforce this. Random checks will be conducted and if there are any violations, action will be taken against mall management and shop owners,” he said. The civic chief also noted that exhibitions being held in the city, especially those where the organisers are from other cities, are not following protocols. “We will initiate action against the organisers and hold them responsible,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-wants-gyms-pools-party-halls-to-be-shut/article34114171.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Elusive tiger found dead with gunshot wounds||The Forest Department had established a camp in the region and it encompassed 150 personnel drawn from different circles, including trackers from Bandipur, Nagarahole and staff from Madikeri circle not deployed as fire watchers apart from Soliga tribals and tracking dog Rana. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said that the camp would now be disbanded.  But this led to a fracas between the authorities and farmers who said that the carcass was at least four days old, but fresh cattle kills were also reported even on Friday and wanted the combing operation to continue. The combing operation for the big cat should continue till the forensic analysis was completed and the report confirmed that it was the same tiger, the farmers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elusive-tiger-found-dead-with-gunshot-wounds/article34114428.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Save Hesaraghatta grassland||Members of All India Students Association (AISA) stage a protest at Mysore Bank Circle demanding the conservation of Hesaraghatta grasslands, which they said is home to more than 235 species of birds, over 400 species of insects and 100 butterflies. Protesters said a change in landscape will destroy the biodiversity and in turn affect villagers who are rely on the grasslands||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/save-hesaraghatta-grassland/article34114186.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stroll time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stroll-time/article34114642.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists: Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C.P. Yogeshwar launches welfare fund for journalists, Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mayor Premananda Shetty, guests, Hotel Ocean Pearl, 9.30 a.m.  Sri Anjaneya Temple and Vyayama Shale, Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports: Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C. P. Yogeshwar inaugurates two-day Nandini river festival, Sasihitlu, 6 p.m. Manipal  Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy: Inauguration of two-day Konkani Sahitya Sammelana, K. Jagadeesh Pai, president of the academy presides, RSB Sabha Bhavan, Manipal, 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34114638.ece
20 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||P.J. Francis, the giant-killer who stole the show in 1996||The biggest surprise of the 1996 Assembly elections was perhaps the shock defeat of Communist Party of India (Marxist) veteran V.S. Achuthanandan in the Mararikulam Assembly constituency. While Mr. Achuthanandan bit the dust in one of the party's citadels at a time when he was tipped to be the CPI(M)'s Chief Minister candidate, P.J. Francis of the Congress, his opponent, received the status of a giant-killer. Now 84 and spending much of the time in his residence at Convent Junction here, far from the hustle and bustle of politics, Mr. Francis terms his victory over the communist stalwart a “miracle.” Before defeating Mr. Achuthanandan by a margin of 1,965 votes, Mr. Francis had tried his luck twice from the Aroor Assembly constituency in the 1987 and 1991 elections without success. He lost both the battles to K.R. Gouri of the CPI(M). Strong contest “The then Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president A.K. Antony and District Congress Committee president Vasudeva Sharma came to my house and asked me to stand from Mararikulam, where Mr. Achuthanandan was seeking re-election. They told me that my candidacy would make it a strong contest in the constituency. Although I agreed to contest, the first thing that came to my mind was that I was about to complete a hat-trick of losses, after the 1987 and 1991 setbacks, in Assembly polls. Mararikulam was a fortress of the CPI(M) and a victory in the constituency was never in my wildest dreams,” Mr. Francis says. Mr. Achuthanandan's defeat in Mararikulam was attributed to infighting in the CPI(M). Mr. Francis says that Mr. Achuthanandan’s “arrogance” had cost the communist leader the election. “He is a leader who started climbing the ladder from the grass-roots. However, he was a hardliner too. The people, including his own party members, didn’t like his arrogance. In the 1996 elections, disenchanted CPI(M) activists voted for me, thus ensuring his defeat,” he says. Mr. Francis says he has never met Mr. Achuthanandan face to face since his victory in Mararikulam. “There were a few occasions when I could have met him. But I deliberately avoided all such meetings. After all, I prevented him from becoming Chief Minister in 1996.” After the defeat, Mr. Achuthanandan challenged the election of Mr. Francis in courts. However, the Supreme Court dismissed his plea in January 2001. Although Mr. Francis sought re-election from Mararikulam in the 2001 Assembly polls, no miracle happened this time and he lost to T.M. Thomas Isaac of the CPI(M).  Francis terms his victory over the communist stalwart a “miracle”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pj-francis-the-giant-killer-who-stole-the-show-in-1996/article34114494.ece
20 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A three-cornered fight among smaller allies in Kuttanad||Kuttanad has faced many difficulties in recent times with recurring floods and bird flu outbreaks wreaking havoc in the region. Further, the constituency has been without a representative in the Assembly since December 2019 after the demise of Thomas Chandy. COVID-19 had prevented a by-election there and after a wait of more than a year, the time has come for the electorate of Kuttanad to elect a representative in a three-cornered fight among the candidates of three smaller allies in the Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). In the 2016 polls, LDF candidate Thomas Chandy of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) had defeated his nearest rival and UDF candidate Jacob Abraham of the Kerala Congress (M) by a margin of 4,891 votes. Then the biggest surprise was the 33,044 votes secured by Subash Vasu of the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), a constituent of the NDA. Candidates This time, the NCP has fielded Thomas K. Thomas, brother of Thomas Chandy from the constituency, while Jacob Abraham of the Kerala Congress is trying his luck again as the UDF candidate. The NDA, which considers Kuttanad as an ‘A’ class constituency, has announced the candidature of former Alappuzha district panchayat vice president and Communist Party of India (CPI) Alappuzha district executive member Thambi Mettuthara. He will contest on the BDJS ticket. The entry of Mr. Mettuthara is expected to make the battle for Kuttanad an interesting one, where Ezhavas and Christians form a majority of voters. 8 times with the Left Since it came into being in 1965, the Kuttanad constituency, where agrarian issues always dominate the poll scene, has sided with the Left front eight times in the 13 elections. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the UDF had an upper hand in the Assembly segment polling 2,623 votes more than the LDF. However, the LDF made strides in the 2020 local body polls by winning 10 of the 13 grama panchayats in the Assembly segment. The LDF gained power in the Kainakary, Champakulam, Thakazhi, Veeyapuram, Thalavadi, Muttar, Ramankary, Veliyanad, Kavalam and Neelamperoor grama panchayats. The UDF won in Pulinkunnu, Nedumudi and Edathua. While the LDF hopes to retain the seat carrying on the momentum gained in the local body polls and the split in the KC(M), the UDF is trying to wrest the seat at all costs. The NDA is expecting to repeat the performance of 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-three-cornered-fight-among-smaller-allies-in-kuttanad/article34114496.ece
20 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Row over BJP candidate’s visit to Punnapra-Vayalar memorial||A major row kicked up after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Alappuzha constituency candidate Sandeep Vachaspati paid floral tributes at the Punnapra-Vayalar martyrs’ memorial before filing his nomination papers on Friday. After visiting the memorial at Valiyachudukadu, Mr. Vachaspati said he went there to pay tributes to the poor people who lost their lives after being deceived by communist leaders. He said it should be considered a memorial of betrayal. Both Communist Party of India (CPI) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) leaders hit out at the BJP candidate, terming his act as an attempt to insult the martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising and the memorial. CPI district secretary T.J. Anjelose said he had filed a complaint with State Police Chief Loknath Behera and District Police Chief G. Jaidev demanding action against the BJP leader. Mr. Anjelose said Mr. Vachaspati’s candidacy had already been rejected by the people and he visited the memorial to get attention. The BJP leadership should make their stance clear on the issue, the CPI leader said. CPI(M) leaders said it was a deliberate attempt to disrupt the law and order situation. Jointly maintained The memorial is maintained jointly by the CPI and the CPI(M). Leaders of communist parties said the BJP candidate entered the memorial after breaking open the gate.  CPI district secretary T.J. Anjelose says he has filed a complaint with State Police Chief Loknath Behera||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-bjp-candidates-visit-to-punnapra-vayalar-memorial/article34114553.ece
20 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||33 submit nominations on last day||A total of 77 people have filed nomination papers for Assembly elections in nine constituencies in the district. On Friday, the last day of filing nominations, as many as 33 people submitted nominations. They include Shanimol Usman (Congress, Aroor); Rajeevan (Bahujan Dravida Party, Aroor); Rukma Pradeep (BSP, Aroor); Chandran (Independent, Aroor); Manilal (Independent, Aroor); S. Sarath (Congress, Cherthala); Jayakumar (BSP, Cherthala); Karthikeyan (Bahujan Dravida Party, Cherthala); Shahjahan P.A. (Independent, Cherthala); K.S. Manoj (Congress, Alappuzha); Sandeep R. (BJP, Alappuzha); Shailendran (Bahujan Dravida Party, Alappuzha); Subeendran K.C. (Independent, Alappuzha); Subhdramani (Welfare Party of India, Ambalappuzha); Niyas Sayeem (Independent, Haripad); Suresh D. (Ambedkarate Party of India, Mavelikara); Jacob Abraham (Kerala Congress, Kuttanad); Jaya Pradeep M.N. (BDJS, Kuttanad); Poulose (Independent, Chengannur); P. Viswambarapanicker (LDF, Chengannur); Shaji T. George (BSP, Chengannur); Pradeep Lal (BDJS, Kayamkulam); Rajasekharan (CPIML Liberation Kerala, Kayamkulam}; Sathyanarayanan (Independent, Kayamkulam); Maniyappan Achari (Independent, Kayamkulam). Niyas Sayeem (Niyas Bharathi), a former Youth Congress leader, has filed his papers as a rebel candidate against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in the Haripad constituency. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/33-submit-nominations-on-last-day/article34114595.ece
20 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Joseph starts campaign in Thodupuzha||P.J. Joseph, Kerala Congress chairman, started campaigning in the Thodupuzha constituency on Friday, after recovering from COVID-19. Mr. Joseph is the UDF candidate here while K.I. Antony of the Kerala Congress (M)is the main opponent. The NDA candidate in Thodupuzha is Shyamaraj. Symbol issues In the past one week, Mr. Joseph’s son Apu Joseph and Kerala Congress district president M.J. Jacob were managing the poll campaign since he was recovering from COVID-19. On Friday, Mr. Joseph interacted with the public. He said that poll symbol-related issues would not affect the prospects of the party candidates. Till recently, Mr. Joseph had led a faction of the Kerala Congress (M). The High Court had allotted the poll symbol and name to the faction of KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani. Mr. Joseph’s faction then merged with the Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas. Poll symbol has been missing from the campaign materials of the Kerala Congress.  Kerala Congress leader recovers from COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joseph-starts-campaign-in-thodupuzha/article34114596.ece
20 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki collective flags agriculture crisis||The agrarian crisis in the district should get due attention from political parties, said Fr. Sebastian Kochupurackal, general convenor of the Idukki-based people’s movement High Range Samrakshana Samithi (HRSS), here recently. Fr. Kochupurackal told The Hindu that the agricultural sector had been undergoing a crisis in the district, which was aggravated by the two floods. This has been worsened by a drop in cash crop price and farmers moving out of the sector. Sectors such as dairy farming and industrial units making value-added products were also facing impediments, he said. “There are only small and marginal farmers in the district, in addition to some plantations. When the land does not provide a farmer a livelihood, he moves out,” he said, adding that though the special package for the district announced recently has some remedial measures, they are not realised in reality. Plummeting price The prices of pepper and coffee have dipped and it has been nearly a decade since they have been below the remunerative level. Cardamom has fared better but the unstable prices hit it too. “When the average price falls from Rs. 4,000 a kg to Rs. 1,200, the security of the farmer is at stake. There should be a minimum price to protect farmers who are on the verge of abandoning the sector,” he said. However, perhaps the most pressing issue that demanded immediate attention was constant invasions by wild animals into farm lands, he said. On the electoral front, the HRSS put up a candidate in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, who won with a good margin with the support of the Left Democratic Front. In the 2015 local body elections, it had a number of representatives in the municipality of Kattappana and several grama panchayats in the high ranges. Ever since it moved out of the election scene, the HRSS has been active in consolidating the voice of settler farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-collective-flags-agriculture-crisis/article34114495.ece
20 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Impasse continues in Irikkur||No amicable solution could be arrived at a meeting held by Congress leader Oommen Chandy with leaders of the ‘A’ faction of the Congress in Irikkur who have raised a banner of revolt against the decision to field Sajeev Joseph as the party candidate in the constituency. The faction had proposed Sony Sebastian as the candidate. However, the decision to field Mr. Joseph, reportedly a close confidant of All India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal, drew strong protests. Though incumbent MLA K.C. Joseph and United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan held talks with the leaders of the factions, they could not reach an agreement. Mr. Chandy, who arrived in the district on Friday, held discussions with the leaders of the ‘A’ group and those backing Mr. Sajeev Joseph for over two hours. It is learnt that the ‘A’ group had asked Mr. Chandy to field their candidate or give the faction the post of District Congress Committee (DCC) president. They said by giving the seat to Mr. Joseph, the ‘A’ faction was left without a seat in the district. Decision today Indications from the ‘A’ group leaders are that Mr. Chandy had agreed to give the post of DCC president to the group. Mr. Chandy told the media that he understood the sentiments of the leaders and activists in Kannur and Irikkur, and a decision would be announced on Saturday. Mr. Chandy said a final decision would be taken after discussions with the Kannur DCC leadership and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee working president K. Sudhakaran. K.C. Joseph, UDF district chairman P.T. Mathew and Mr. Sebastian are among the ‘A’ group leaders in the district. Mr. Chandy had instructed the activists to be active in campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/impasse-continues-in-irikkur/article34114556.ece
20 March 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CM evading questions on Sabarimala: Surendran||BJP State president K. Surendran has said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is deceiving people, and that he should be prepared to clarify whether his party has the same approach to the Sabarimala issue as before. Speaking to reporters after filing his nomination in Manjeswaram on Friday, he said that Mr. Vijayan was not willing to clarify his stand on the issue and was evading questions on it. The BJP leader said that a State Crime Branch filing a case against a Central agency was unheard of in the country. He also accused the Congress of fielding an insignificant candidate against Mr. Vijayan in Dharmadam. Earlier in the day, Mr. Surendran filed his nomination at the Manjeswaram block panchayat office. He was accompanied by BJP State committee members Balakrishna Shetty and Suresh Kumar Shetty, north zone vice president K. Satish Chandra Bhattari, Yuva Morcha State president Praful Krishna, and BJP constituency president Manikanda Rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-evading-questions-on-sabarimala-surendran/article34114492.ece
20 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Congress’ hat-trick bid in Aluva||The battle for Aluva has shifted to top gear as the Congress remains hopeful of retaining its traditional citadel amidst aspirations of the Left Front to wrest it back and expectations by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to improve its vote share. Anwar Sadath of the Congress, who had romped home twice since 2011, is seeking a third term while requesting the electorate a vote for continuing the developmental works carried out over the past one decade. “The segment has witnessed developmental initiatives worth over Rs. 600 crore in the past five years. The focus in the next five years will be on completing the pending works and exploring new avenues,” he said. Water scarcity Some of the proposed works to be undertaken in the next five years include finding a solution to the drinking water scarcity in a few areas; more roads as per BMBC standards; and a super specialty block in Government Hospital, Aluva, he said. The Congress candidate, who won in 2016 with a margin of 18,835 votes against V. Saleem of the CPI(M), exuded confidence of increasing it this time. Development projects Thirty-four-year-old Shelna Nishad brushed aside allegations of her lack of experience in politics by stating that people would vote for the developmental works of the Left Front government since 2016. An architect by profession, she had hit the headlines after the CPI(M) picked the daughter-in-law of former Congress MLA, K. Mohammed Ali, as its candidate. “I have taken up various active roles in my career,” she said. Focus on panchayats Asked about her ideas on Aluva’s development, Ms. Nishad said that the development focus had been on Aluva municipality alone for long. “This should change as the nearby panchayats must also receive the benefits of development. We require an integrated approach,” she said. M.N. Gopi, the BJP candidate, claimed that the battle was between the UDF and his party while alleging that the Left Front candidate lacked local connect and support. “We have been increasing our vote share since the Assembly elections held in 2011. This time would be no different as there is resentment against the key fronts among the electorate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-hopes-for-third-consecutive-win-in-aluva/article34114501.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||When professionals don politician’s garb||Leaving behind their cosy offices, a few candidates are sweating it out on the street canvassing votes and patiently listening to the needs and demands of their voters. Putting on hold their career as doctor, engineer and businessman, a few professionals have taken the political plunge in the State. They wave at the voters, seek votes with folded hands and make short speeches at corner meetings. Life has been never been this hectic for these professionals. S.S. Lal, a public health expert, and J. Jacob, an orthopaedic surgeon, took the Hippocratic Oath to treat the sick to the best of their abilities decades ago. These days, the two are slogging it out to win votes. Dr. Lal, who is the United Democratic Front candidate in Kazhakuttam, will take on Kadakampally Surendran of the Left Democratic Front and Shobha Surendran of the National Democratic Alliance. Dr. Jacob is seeking the popular mandate from the Thrikkakara constituency of Ernakulam district as an LDF-backed Independent candidate. Congress strongman P.T. Thomas and S. Saji of the BJP are his rivals. Taking the plunge After his career with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, E. Sreedharan took the plunge and the BJP was quick to field him from Palakkad. It is to be seen whether Mr. Sreedharan who lead teams of engineers and technical experts in building bridges and rail networks would be able to make inroads in politics. Shafi Parambil of the UDF and C.P. Pramod of the LDF are his political rivals. All through his professional life as a police officer, Jacob Thomas had courted controversy. His service story ‘Sravukalkkoppam Neenthumpol ’ had ruffled many feathers. He was suspended from service for his open criticism of the State government. Though it was expected that he would contest the 2019 Parliament election, his political debut came two years later. Mr. Thomas, who had made his appreciation for the Rastriya Swayamsevak Sangh as a “nation builder” known, is the NDA candidate in Irinjalakuda. R. Bindu of the LDF and Thomas Unniyadan of the UDF are the other key contestants. New role These days, S. Rajasekharan Nair speaks to the voters of Neyyattinkara not on his favourite topic, the hospitality sector, but about the need to work together for the State. In his new found role as NDA candidate from the constituency, Mr. Nair is keen to let others know about his plans for the constituency. S. Selvaraj of the UDF and K. Ansalan of the LDF are other key contestants. Designing houses, offices and other structures has been her passion. When the LDF approached her with the offer to be the architect of its political campaign in Aluva, Shelna Nishad happily accepted the new assignment. An architecture graduate, Ms. Nishad has set up her office in Ernakulam and was part of the designing team of the Kochi metro. Anwar Sadath of the UDF and M.N. Gopi of the BJP are her political rivals in the constituency. Twenty20, a non-political outfit, has also fielded quite a few professionals. It is to be seen whether the voters would give these professionals a chance to redefine the political narrative of their respective constituencies. One needs to wait till May 2 for the answer.  (With inputs from Mini Muringatheri in Thrissur and R.K. Roshni and Tiki Rajwi Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-professionals-don-politicians-garb/article34114529.ece
20 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC asks CBI to take over probe in Walayar case||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to forthwith take over further investigation into the death of two minor girls at Walayar in Palakkad. Justice V.G. Arun also directed the State Police Chief to take immediate measures for entrusting all files, records, and other material relating to the cases with the CBI. The court directed the State government to provide all logistical support to the CBI for conducting further investigation in an unhindered manner. The court passed the directives while disposing of a petition filed by the mother of the two girls, who died by suicide, seeking a court-monitored investigation by the CBI into the deaths. When the petition came up for hearing, senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that all documents relating to the cases had been handed over to the Centre as undertaken during the last hearing. Feasibility report Additional Solicitor General P. Vijayakumar submitted that the Centre had sought a feasibility report from the CBI and a decision on the CBI probe would be taken on receiving the report. The mother of the girls had complained in her petition that the government had given its consent for a CBI probe only into the death of her elder daughter. However, during the hearing on the petition, the government had submitted that the investigation into both the deaths would be entrusted with the CBI. While the petitioner’s 13-year-old daughter was found dead hanging on January 13, 2017, her nine-year-old daughter died by suicide on March 4 at her house. The special court for POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) cases had acquitted all the accused on the ground that the prosecution failed miserably to prove the charge against them. Fresh trial However, the High Court set aside the acquittal and sent back the case for a fresh trial. The government later decided to entrust the investigation to the CBI following a public outcry over the lapses in police investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-asks-cbi-to-take-over-probe-in-walayar-case/article34114564.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||All above 60 to get jab by April 6||Ernakulam recorded 185 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. Twelve people tested positive in Thripunithura, and six each in Elamakkara, Thrikkakara, Varapuzha, and Vyttila. One health worker was infected. As many as 190 people tested negative on Friday, and 2,854 people are recovering from the infection. While 2,301 people are recovering at home, 31 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 24 at PVS Hospital, 11 at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, and 145 at private hospitals. At FLTCs, 22 people are recuperating, and 72 patients are admitted at SLTCs. A total of 10,550 people remain in quarantine. For testing, 5,882 samples were collected. Fall in TPR District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing that the test positivity rate (TPR) for the district had fallen to 2.6%. A total of 47 patients were admitted to the ICU. The district administration was attempting to vaccinate all people over 60 years by April 6, before the election, the Collector said. The total population above 60 years in Ernakulam is 4,72,213. Of them, 1,09,076 people had already taken the shot. On Thursday, 12,143 doses were administered to the elderly. Private hospitals administered 4,995 doses on Thursday. The district would henceforth try to achieve a target of around 20,000 doses per day. A total of 120 hospital-based vaccination centres were currently functioning in both the government and private sector. As many as 75 government institutions were administering the vaccine and this would be increased to 90 institutions next week. In larger institutions such as the Government Medical College Hospital, the General Hospital, and District Hospital, more sessions would be planned to administer around 300 doses per day at such centres. At the taluk hospitals and Women and Child Hospital, around 200 doses would be administered daily. At community health centres, family health centres, and urban primary health centres, a minimum of 100 doses would be available daily. Mass camps Mass vaccination camps are running at seven locations – Amrita Arts and Science College, YMCA Hall on Chittoor Road, Holy Family School in Angamaly, Chathiath Girls School, Fathima Central School in Piravom, Muvattupuzha Town Hall and the Pallath Raman Cultural Centre at Fort Kochi. Five new mass centres will begin soon and one mass vaccination centre will be readied in every municipality. A total of 3,300 residents of old-age homes will be prioritised to receive the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-above-60-to-get-jab-by-april-6/article34114522.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Perumbavoor proves no easy pickings for three fronts||A keen tussle is on the cards in Perumbavoor that has shown no particular loyalty to any front. The United Democratic Front (UDF) is banking on Eldhose Kunnappilly, sitting MLA, for retaining its hold over the constituency. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] agreed to hand over the mantle to the Kerala Congress (M). Babu Joseph, president of the district unit of the party, who is hopeful of recapturing the segment that the LDF had in its hands for three successive terms since 2001. Mr. Kunnappilly claimed to have undertaken multi-crore projects in the past five years. “Work on the Perumbavoor Bypass project is expected to commence in two months. Steps are almost complete for land acquisition,” he said. Among the projects that he plans to implement in the next five years, if elected, are the completion of a ring road and mini bypass projects and solution to drinking water scarcity in various panchayats in the constituency. “A proposal to start a multi-specialty hospital on the 60 acres available on the Travancore Rayons campus is under consideration for Central assistance,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Joseph alleged that the sitting MLA had failed to fulfil the promises he had made in 2016. “The bypass project, which is supposed to reduce traffic congestion, is still hanging fire. The relief package for Travancore Rayons and eco-friendly industries are also pending,” he said. Maintaining that the region had immense potential for tourism development, Mr. Joseph said such opportunities needed to be explored, while claiming that the LDF would meet the aspirations of the public. Forty-four-year-old T.P. Sindhumol is putting up a keen fight as the BJP candidate. A lawyer by profession, she had held various leadership roles in the party and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad. “The constituency, which was held by the UDF and LDF for long, has not realised its full development potential. Some of our ideas include a pilgrim tourism link project connecting Malayattoor and a sports complex for women,” she said.  Work on the Perumbavoor Bypass project is expected to commence in two months Eldhose Kunnappilly    The bypass project, which is supposed to reduce traffic congestion, is still hanging fire Babu Joseph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/perumbavoor-no-easy-pickings-for-fronts/article34114547.ece
20 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘We don’t need to seek any communal alliance to secure seats’||Pinarayi Vijayan, Chief Minister and Polit Bureau member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), is the lead campaigner for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the Assembly polls. Seeking the mandate for a return to power, he started off the front’s campaign in Wayanad early this week and was in Malappuram when The Hindu caught up with him. Excerpts from the interview: How is it going? It’s just the start, but the response has been overwhelming and the crowds have been huge all along — something that would be generally seen closer to the polling day. A change is visible even in constituencies deemed to be the stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League. There are some real good candidates with wider acceptance and that will show in the outcome. You have said that KIIFB’s role in aiding development made it a target There’s a tacit understanding between the Congress, the United Democratic Front by extension, and the BJP. You can see this from the way they raise the same set of issues the same day. The people have seen through this, as their arguments run contrary to facts. That’s why they sought the Centre’s help in letting loose its agencies on us. The agencies are used for political gain. The move against the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is part of this. It’s actually against the people of Kerala and development, as KIIFB aided so many projects: schools, hospitals, transgrid project, K-FON, coastal and hill highways and so on. Projects worth Rs. 63,000 crore have been taken up. So the collusive forces are trying to subvert development. Come to think of it, even the great calamities couldn’t do that! The State government is taking legal recourse against these agencies. They may do everything up their sleeve but will still fall short. It’s our Leftist culture that helped us transform Kerala into a least corrupt State. What’s the reality behind RSS ideologue R. Balashankar’s allegation of a CPI(M)-BJP nexus and BJP leader O. Rajagopal’s revelation of a Congress-BJP collusion? Balashankar’s allegation is childish. The CPI(M) defeated the BJP State president in the Chengannur byelection. The feat was repeated in Konni. We don’t need to seek any communal alliance to secure seats. But Rajagopal has cleared the air and admitted to himself being a beneficiary of the Congress-BJP alliance. We did well in Nemom last time and hope to recapture it now. You unsuccessfully tried to mediate the dispute in the Malankara Church. Will it affect the Left’s poll prospects? I don’t see it affecting the Left in the polls. We wanted them to resolve the issues through discussions and spoke to them together and separately. We had no ill intentions. That’s why when the burial issue came up, without anyone asking, we took a decision which was welcomed by all. But an Ordinance is not the route to be taken on all occasions. Sabarimala has been a talking point since 2018 and a frenzy has been drummed up around it Sabarimala issue doesn’t exist now. The Supreme Court took a stance which it relaxed later and we are also approaching the issue accordingly. People are now going to Sabarimala every month and on special occasions. The festival was also held. There hasn’t been an issue. It is a non-issue for the believers. The government has maintained that when the final verdict of the Supreme Court comes, if the believers have an issue with that, a stance will be taken then in consultation with all stakeholders. What’s the national import of this election? The forces that are trying to safeguard secularism and the Constitution, which are under threat, are keenly watching the LDF government as Kerala has protected both. The labourers, the farmers and all others protesting globalisation and liberalised policies are also watching us as Kerala is the only State that’s not pursuing these policies. The election outcome will have an impact on them as well. It is also a fight against communalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/we-dont-need-to-seek-any-communal-alliance-to-secure-seats/article34114555.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Protocol must even after vaccination’||Strictly observing the COVID-19 protocol, including distancing and mask-wearing, is essential even after receiving one or both doses of the vaccine. “People, who have taken the vaccine, should be as careful as they were before. The manufacturers say the vaccines have an efficacy of between 60% and 80% in the lab. In practice, it might be a little less than what is proven in a lab study,” said Dr. Amar Fettle, State nodal officer for COVID-19 and H1N1. Avoiding visits to people who are vulnerable or maintaining distance while visiting, existing protocols at offices and while shopping, are all still crucial, he said. “Even those who are vaccinated could get a mild version or asymptomatic version of the infection and it is possible to transmit the virus to vulnerable people while coughing or sneezing. The vaccine only confers better survival chances. A fully vaccinated person might not develop a severe form of the disease, and the need for hospitalisation is likely to be less, contributing to saving lives,” Dr. Fettle said. Dr. R. Aravind, head of the Department of Infectious Diseases at the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, said, “The AstraZeneca and Covaxin trials have not checked the end point of whether the vaccine prevents mild or asymptomatic infections, which means we cannot let our guard down.” “Vaccination has covered only around 4% of the State’s population, and it will take a long time to cover the rest. ICMR’s recent sero prevalence survey says around 11% of the population was infected. Only a small percentage of the population has immunity either by being infected or vaccinated,” he said. “The achievement of keeping the sero prevalence down at 11% will pay off only if it is supplemented by aggressive vaccination. An aggressive vaccination campaign over the next few months is very important,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protocol-must-even-after-vaccination/article34114498.ece
20 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Young voters concerned about ‘corporate politics’||In the run-up to the Assembly elections, young voters in Ernakulam are thinking about the low representation of women in politics, the rise of a corporate-backed outfit and constituency-specific issues. Saina Rinu, a 21-year-old student at the Government Law College, is apprehensive about the rise of “corporate politics” that Twenty20 has brought to the Kunnathunad constituency, from where she will vote for the first time in the Assembly election this year. “They won in four panchayats in the local body elections last year backed by their ability to satisfy basic needs like repairing roads and providing cheap provisions. A corporate outfit has turned into a threat to democratic politics and political parties have a lot to learn from them,” she said. “A political party that is clear about its ideology can be trusted since they have a clear manifesto. But the future and intentions of a corporate-backed body can be uncertain. Democratic politics seems to be giving way to a corporate one,” Saina said. The low number of women contesting the elections is utterly disappointing, says Niranjana R., a 20-year-old student at St. Teresa’s College and chairperson of the apolitical students’ union at the college. “Women are hardly given any validity or space, and women empowerment is only parroted without any meaning. To address issues that women face, women will have to be better represented in politics. Why more women are not fielded, though they are capable, is perplexing,” she says. ‘Party doesn’t matter’ Some first-time voters are undecided. Anaina Thomas, a 19-year-old B.Com. student, says that she will cast her vote depending on the merit of the candidate, and has not been watching keenly enough to know specifically what issues might be factored into her decision. The Njarakkal resident says that she is hoping suburban areas will also eventually see the development that the city is headed towards. Vinayak S. Kumar, a 24-year-old resident of Aluva, says the political party matters little to him and he will vote based on the issues raised and promises made by the candidate. Recurrent flooding is an issue in Aluva, but he is unsure if the matter will factor in the campaign or the promises made for the area. Abhishek Johnson, a 22-year-old student at the Government Law College, who will vote in Thrikaripur, Kasaragod, says that the policies of the outgoing government and the reactions to it will determine the vote this time. When he votes, he is thinking about a range of issues including the fuel price hike, demonetisation, the Citizenship Amendment Act and the development of roads in the constituency. He also raises the issue of the “scams” he says were part of the previous government, including the row over the PSC appointments, and the failure of the Opposition in effectively taking up such matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/young-voters-concerned-about-corporate-politics/article34114544.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Women candidates a negligible presence||The mainstream political parties have collectively fielded just seven women candidates out of a total of 52 in 14 Assembly constituencies across the district in the forthcoming election. The meagre representation of 13.46% comes at a time when former Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash has tonsured her head in protest against the alleged patriarchal order in political parties and the party denying her a seat. The Congress and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have zero women candidates in Ernakulam. “We did expect the party to field at least one woman candidate from Ernakulam. Though we are disappointed, as committed and disciplined party workers we accept that decision and not for a minute can we accept the mode of protest adopted by Ms. Subhash,” said Lali Jophin, district Congress committee general secretary. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] did not fare much better with Shelna Nishad fielded from the Aluva Assembly constituency being the sole woman candidate out of eight candidates, while the Communist Party of India (CPI) fared even worse with both its candidates from the district being men. Among the Left Democratic Front (LDF) alliance partners, the Kerala Congress (Mani) alone fielded a woman candidate, Sindhumol Jacob from Piravom. Even the two LDF-backed Independents are men. “Things are improving as manifested in the fielding of 14 women candidates by the party across the State this time. Women empowerment does not mean financial empowerment alone, and it does call for political empowerment as well,” said a senior women’s organisation leader on condition of anonymity. 3 BJP canddiates The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which included three women among its 11 candidates from the district, fared comparatively good with women participation of 27.27%. The party fielded T.P. Sindhu Mol from Perumbavoor, Padmaja S. Menon from Ernakulam, and Renu Suresh from Kunnathunad Assembly constituencies. However, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partner Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) gave all three tickets to men. Twenty20 has two women among its eight candidates, with Chithra Sukumaran and Shiny Antony contesting from Perumbavoor and Kochi Assembly constituencies respectively. Party sources said the initial plan was to ensure women’s participation of 50%, but the party could not find fitting candidates for Thrikkakara and Ernakulam constituencies. V4 People, the State-wide version of the apolitical outfit V4 Kochi formed just ahead of the last local body polls, however, could not include a single woman among its three candidates in the district. “We had plans to field a woman candidate from Thripunithura but that did not materialise. However, going forward, we will make women’s participation an integral policy of our electoral contests,” said Nipun Cherian, campaign controller of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-candidates-a-negligible-presence/article34114549.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Poll has candidates smitten by WhatsApp||Since the declaration of the Assembly election, every time the mobile phone vibrates alerting a new message, there is this general ‘fear’ whether it is an invitation to join yet another WhatsApp group of one more candidate. Mainstream political parties seem so smitten by the instant messaging facility that there seems to be as many WhatsApp groups as there are candidates obsessed with maximising the reach of their campaign. “Separate WhatsApp groups for each candidate seems a latent phenomenon that has gone viral like never before in an election and they serve as a bridge among other things between the candidates and the media. It is near impossible for media houses to assign people to follow all candidates in all constituencies and that is where WhatsApp becomes handy, both to disseminate information and to even arrange for special stories,” says Sethu Raj K., campaign coordinator of United Democratic Front Vypeen candidate Deepak Joy.  The groups turn active as early as 7.30 a.m. starting with posts on the schedules of candidates for the day followed by the incessant flow of pictures and short videos and reports going late into the night. A full-fledged report compiling the highlights of the campaign trail for the day is filed in the evening ahead of the newspaper deadlines. Coordinators “We liaison with local campaign coordinators of the candidates and their inputs to internal groups are then curated for the public groups,” says A.S. Satheesh, a freelance photographer associated with handling the WhatsApp content of multiple candidates. Sherin Varghese, Ernakulam District Congress Committee general secretary and media in-charge, compars the Facebook campaign to public meetings and WhatsApp posts to door-to-door visits. He, however, warns WhatsApp campaign of working in silos to the advantage of parties and candidates, helping them sell different opinions to various interest groups, which would not be possible in an offline campaign. “WhatsApp also helps to maintain an easily accessible virtual library for shaping social media campaigns. WhatsApp status is also used as an effective messaging tool by our activists as it helps them to overcome the ban on politics in numerous groups they are part of. After all, choosing WhatsApp status is one’s personal matter and none can stop it,” he says. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has rechristened its social media campaign as hitech media campaign for this Assembly election, views WhatsApp as a fitting medium to reach out to circles beyond the party’s committed base. “We already have separate groups at various party levels and groups of candidates have been started since it helps reach out to diverse audience depending on the profile of the candidates concerned. We also conduct digital conclaves, which are broadcast across our social media platforms,” says Jeevanlal Ravi, BJP IT in-charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-has-candidates-smitten-by-whatsapp/article34114563.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor’s posting puts PCB in a fix||The appointment of Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar as a member of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has placed the agency in an awkward position as the civic body is facing legal and penal proceedings initiated by the Board for violation of various environmental laws. The seventeen-member Board is the highest decision-making body and consists of members representing local bodies, government, industry, government companies or corporations, and commercial, agricultural and fisheries sectors. Mr. Anilkumar was among the five members representing local bodies nominated by the government following the local body elections held in December. The other members include Kanathil Jameela, president of Kozhikode district panchayat; M. Krishnadas, chairman of Guruvayoor municipality; B.P. Murali, president of Kilimanoor block panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram; and B. Shamsudheen, president of Padiyoor-Kalyad grama panchayat in Kannur. The Department of Environment had issued an order ratifying the inclusion of the representatives of the local bodies on February 18. Compensation The Board had asked the Kochi Corporation to pay Rs. 14.92 crore as environment compensation in January for its failure to comply with the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016. The notice was served based on a directive by the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) after it had pulled up the government and the Board for their failure to take coercive action under the SWM Rules, 2016 against those responsible for the unscientific dumping of waste at the Brahmapuram yard of the Corporation. The civic body had received a stay from the Kerala High Court against the payment of environment compensation slapped as per the ‘polluter-pays’ principle. Even though the Chairman of the Board has the powers to slap environment compensation on erring local bodies, the decisions have to get the Board’s ratification. Ajit Haridas, former chairman, had resigned in February last after the board members unanimously passed a no-confidence motion against him. Mr. Haridas had invited the wrath of the members after he issued a show-cause notice to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, charging an environmental compensation of Rs. 14 crore for its failure to comply with the solid waste management rules. Mr. Anilkumar has said that he will play a positive role in ensuring the implementation of waste management rules as a member of the Board. “This will make me more responsible and strengthen the ongoing efforts of the council to ensure scientific waste management,” he said.  This will ...strengthen the ongoing efforts of the council to ensure scientific waste management M. Anilkumar Kochi Mayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayors-appointment-puts-pcb-in-a-fix/article34114524.ece
20 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Match splinter makers seek govt. support||The Kerala State Match Splinters and Veneer Manufacturers’ Association has threatened to close down operations, which employs about one lakh people directly and indirectly, if the government did not step in to prevent the “siphoning away” of softwood tree “pongalyam” (matti) from Kerala to neighbouring States. K. M. A. Latheef, treasurer of the association, said on Wednesday that the softwood tree was available across the State. The price of the tree had gone up recently because of high demand and its suitability for the match splinter making. However, the trees were being cut and “smuggled” to neighbouring States as firewood. This had resulted in the manufacturers in Kerala shutting down operations as a sign of protest against the government inaction. There used to be about 1,000 match splinter making units in the State in the past. The numbers had come down to about 400 because of the lack of availability of raw materials. The industry was providing jobs to about one lakh people directly and indirectly. However, the government was not stepping in to help the industry, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/match-splinter-makers-seek-govt-support/article34114525.ece
20 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Don’t lower guard against COVID, public told||The Health Department has urged the public not to lower guard despite the fall in new COVID-19 cases. As per a study conducted prior to the vaccine rollout, only 11.7% persons in the State have gained immunity and it takes 15 to 20 days after vaccination for immunity to develop. “Though the cases have come down in Kollam, the threat remains. Crowding should be avoided in public places,” said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha. Old-age homes The Department will administer the vaccine to residents of old-age homes and destitute homes. “The administration of the first dose to all persons above the age of 60 and those above 45 with morbidities like cardiovascular ailments, hypertension, renal dysfunction, liver disease and diabetes will be completed within April 15,” she said. Public can visit cowin.gov.in to register for vaccination and select a centre near their place of residence. Registration can be done at all primary/family/community health centres on all weekdays except Wednesday. Those who visit lifestyle disease clinics on Thursdays too can avail themselves of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-lower-guard-against-covid-public-told/article34114605.ece
20 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Short film contest on green protocol||The District Suchitwa Mission is organising a short film competition to spread awareness about the importance of following green protocol during the Assembly polls. The duration of the films should not exceed five minutes and the last date for accepting entries is March 23. The films coming first and second will receive a cash prize of Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 2,500 respectively. For details, contact 0474-2791910.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-film-contest-on-green-protocol/article34114597.ece
20 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||English Trainer course by ASAP||The Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) Community Skill Park, Kulakkada, has invited applications for its English Trainer course. Degree and proficiency in English are the qualifications required. The classes will be held at the Skill Park. Contact 9495999636 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/english-trainer-course-by-asap/article34114598.ece
20 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts turn to laity for an upper hand||By fielding Linto Joseph, a young candidate from a settler farmer’s family, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has offered the toughest challenge to rival fronts in Thiruvambady. The prime objective of the LDF is to improve on its thin victory margin in the last election and retain the constituency as an unshakable red fortress. The United Democratic Front (UDF) hopes to evoke a favourable response from the Thamarassery Diocese, which enjoys an indisputable hold over the settler laity. Though the UDF leaders are in touch with the diocese, the entry of a youth from the settler farmers’ belt with local administration experience and cordial relationship with the Church has emerged as a matter of concern for them. Moreover, the UDF’s reluctance to consider a candidate who meets the preferences of the diocese also remains a hurdle. At the same time, the stance of the Jamaat-e-Islami will be crucial for both the fronts. UDF campaigners believe that their candidate C.P. Cheriya Mohammed will be able to take advantage of the ‘pro-UDF stance’ of the Jammat-e-Islami faction. Also, Mr. Mohammed’s image as a seasoned teacher will win him many personal votes irrespective of political differences, they believe. For Linto Joseph of the LDF, his image as an active youth volunteer contributes to his confidence factor. His role as the president of Koodaranhi panchayat has also helped him prove his efficiency in a short span of time. LDF campaigners believe that he can truly be a successor to George M. Thomas with his cordial relations with the Church. Besides, the entry of the Kerala Congress (M) doubles their confidence. The increasing voting percentage is a huge relief for the BJP in Thiruvambady. By fielding Baby Ambat, the party hopes to get more share of settler farmers’ votes. It also pins hopes on the backing of pro-BJP laity organisations. Last time, the BJP had increased its vote share from 3% to 6%, surprising their opponents. As the victory margin is thin, candidates are giving priority to personally meeting voters and settle inner party disputes over candidate selection in an amicable way. The victory margin of the LDF’s George M. Thomas against UDF rival V.M. Ummer last time was just 3,008 votes. In 2011, it was the UDF’s C. Moyinkutty who trounced Mr. Thomas by just 3,883 votes. The constituency, earlier believed to be a UDF fortress, witnessed a change with the entry of the CPI(M)’s Mathai Chacko in 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-turn-to-laity-for-an-upper-hand/article34114488.ece
20 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF grapples with 3-member problem||Creating more confusion in the United Democratic Front (UDF), its own constituent, the Bharatiya National Janata Dal (BNJD), fielded its nominee in Elathur on the last day of filing nominations for the Assembly polls on Friday. Sennin Rashi, a student leader attached to the affiliated organisation of the BNJD, which is a splinter group of the Janata Dal, has now entered the fray. Contestants With this, the UDF has three candidates in Elathur — the official candidate, Sulfikkar Mayuri, State vice president of the Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK); Congress rebel U.V. Dinesh Mani, and Mr. Rashi. Initially, the seat was offered to the BNJD, which has some political presence in the constituency. The party has committees in five grama panchayats and has five elected representatives in Chelannur grama panchayat. In the local body polls, the United Democratic Front was able to seize power in Chelannur because of its members, Basheer Thaivalappil and C.K. Sahajan, the party functionaries said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-grapples-with-3-member-problem/article34114486.ece
20 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Banks to report suspicious transactions||On the District Collector’s directive, the Lead Bank has issued special instructions to nearly 600 branches of various banks in Kozhikode district to report details of all ‘suspicious financial transactions’. The strict daily monitoring in compliance with the State Election Commission’s advisory will continue till the declaration of election results. Though there are restrictions on exchanging confidential banking details with a third party, the election authorities have made it clear that bank officials will be held accountable for failure to report “suspicious transactions” above Rs. 1 lakh. The objective of the close monitoring is to ensure that no voter is influenced by money or gifts. The Lead bank authorities have said that the reporting process will in no way affect routine transactions, online fund transfers, or deposits by account holders. Usually, unaccounted money never lands in any bank account, but efforts will be made to monitor strange transactions as specified by the election authorities, they added. “We have informed all banks to strictly comply with the guidelines and keep an eye on all doubtful fund transfers or deposits. The Lead Bank will report details to the District Election Officer for further proceedings,” said Lead Bank Manager T.M. Muraleedharan. He added that no suspicious indents had been reported in the district till Friday. In the case of cooperative banks, the monitoring process will be done by a district-level team. The Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies will be responsible for coordinating district-level teams. The Goods and Services Tax authorities are also part of banking surveillance activities, apart from constituency-level static surveillance squads and special flying squads deployed for field duty.  We have informed all banks to keep an eye on all doubtful fund transfers or deposits. The Lead Bank will report details to the District Election Officer T.M. Muraleedharan Lead Bank Manager||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/banks-to-report-suspicious-transactions/article34114489.ece
20 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Guitarist dead||Archie Hutton, who died here on Thursday night aged 87, was a talented guitarist and helped make Western music more popular in and around Kozhikode. He was exceptionally good at Hawaiian and Spanish guitars. He was very much part of the active rock scene of the city back in the 1980s and 90s. He had a band too — Hutton’s Orchestra. AIR staffer Hutton, who worked as a staff musician at the Kozhikode station of the All India Radio (AIR), also used to perform for legendary composers M.S. Baburaj and K. Raghavan. He sang a song too, for the 1968 film, Love in Kerala, the music of which was composed by Baburaj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guitarist-hutton-passes-away/article34114491.ece
20 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Victims’ house comes under attack||An attack took place on the house of the deceased Walayar sisters at Attappam when their mother went to file her nomination against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Assembly election at Dharmadom on Wednesday. The water tank of the house was found destroyed. There was no one at the house when the attack took place. Meanwhile, pressure has begun to mount on the Walayar mother since she decided to contest the election against the Chief Minister. Sources close to her said she was being threatened by some groups. The Walayar Action Forum on Friday lashed out at its former joint convener B. Balamurali for acting like a spy for the CPI(M). Mr. Balamurali, in a surprise move, had threatened to make critical revelations about the Walayar sisters if their mother did not withdraw from contesting against the Chief Minister in Dharmadom. Role of forum members Alleging that some members of the forum had maintained an “unholy tie-up” with the Congress, Mr. Balamurali said the Congress had “purchased” the people’s agitation seeking justice for the Walayar sisters. Forum chairman Vilayodi Venugopal, convener V.M. Marsen, and patron C.R. Neelakandan rejected Mr. Balamurali’s allegation saying that he had never been involved in the agitation. They described Mr. Balamurali as a CPI(M) spy. Sources close to the Walayar mother revealed that it was Mr. Balamurali who took her to the Chief Minister when the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) visited Palakkad on October 31, 2019 in the wake of a nationwide uproar over the acquittal of all the accused in the death of the minor sisters of Walayar. NCPCR member Yashwant Jain had waited a full day in Palakkad with the hope of meeting the mother. But sources said that Mr. Balamurali had detained her at Parali without letting her meet the NCPCR. “The court has exposed the government’s fake face in the matter,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victims-house-comes-under-attack/article34114569.ece
20 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||114 file nominations in Palakkad||As many as 114 candidates filed their nominations for election to 12 Assembly constituencies in the district when the deadline for filing the papers closed on Friday afternoon. As many as 55 of them filed their nominations on Friday. Those who filed on Friday included the CPI’s Mohammed Muhsin in Pattambi, Congress’ Sarin in Ottapalam, UDF’s C.N. Vijayakrishnan in Nenmara, Congress candidate S.K. Anandakrishnan in Malampuzha, BJP candidate G. Sandeep in Shoranur, and IUML candidates N. Shamsuddin and U.C. Raman in Mannarkkad and Kongad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/114-file-nominations-in-palakkad/article34114714.ece
20 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Pinarayi lashes out at Sreedharan||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lashed out at technocrat E. Sreedharan for his remarks about the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and the Chief Minister. “Mr. Sreedharan is an engineering expert in the country. But any expert or technocrat reaching the Bharatiya Janata Party will show the character of that party. So he has transformed himself to the level of blabbering gibberish,” Mr. Vijayan said. He was referring to the criticism raised by Mr. Sreedharan against him and the Left Democratic Front government. The Chief Minister was campaigning in the district for LDF candidates on Friday. The Chief Minister rejected the allegations against the LDF about adjustment politics. “There’s no adjustment politics in the LDF. There can be a Congress-League-BJP nexus this time too. Therefore, the people have to remain vigilant,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-lashes-out-at-sreedharan/article34114561.ece
20 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A rural segment in the eye of the Sabarimala storm||A rural Assembly segment abutting the Western Ghats, Konni never witnessed a high-octane contest till a couple of years ago. A seat that alternated between the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF), it has always stood as a safe bet for Adoor Prakash, a Congress stalwart, since 1996. The electoral dynamics of Konni, however, went for a major shake-up in the aftermath of the Sabarimala protests in 2018. In the Parliament elections of 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made significant gains from the segment though it was the Congress that held a lead of 2,721 votes. In the byelection that followed, Konni witnessed a close three-cornered fight with BJP workers putting their heart and soul into the campaign for BJP State president K. Surendran, who had led a series of protests in connection with the Sabarimala women’s entry issue. But it was the LDF which finally emerged the winner, completing a clean sweep of the Pathanamthitta district in the process. Charged atmosphere Now, as the Assembly segment is witnessing another election after a gap of 17 months, it goes without saying that the electioneering will take place in a charged atmosphere that looks set to sustain till the last minute. Sitting legislator K.U. Janeesh Kumar, who has overseen the implementation of several development projects across the region, seeks a re-election from the seat, while the UDF has carefully chosen Robin Peter, a close aide of Mr. Prakash. However, it is the presence of Mr. Surendran, who is contesting from the seat for the second consecutive time, that has helped the battle here assume a State significance. The LDF counts on extending its winning margin by cashing in on the favourable momentum created with the launch of several development initiatives, including the Government Medical College and the Punalur-Muvattupuzha State Highway. The sitting MLA, however, will have to overcome the issues within the CPI(M) at the local level, which stem from the recent local body elections, to ensure this. The UDF, on the other hand, looks to wrest the seat by riding on the anti-incumbency factor against the LDF government. The selection of its candidate too has not been without challenges from within though the coalition appears to have addressed these issues lately. The National Development Alliance, meanwhile, looks to step up the political heat towards the fag end by bringing in many heavyweights from New Delhi, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sabarimala Sabarimala remains the key focus of its campaign while the coalition is also hoping the welfare schemes rolled out by the Union government to turn the tide in its favour. But at the same time, the impact of a political storm unleashed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue R. Balashankar over an alleged tacit deal between the BJP and the CPI(M) over the prospects of the NDA in Central Travancore is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-rural-segment-in-the-eye-of-the-sabarimala-storm/article34114532.ece
20 March 2021||R.K. RoshniThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A young segment that has favoured LDF since formation||A young constituency that came into being in 2011 following delimitation, Chirayinkeezhu’s heart has beaten for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the past decade. Chirayinkeezhu was carved out by including panchayats from the Attingal, Kazhakuttam, and the erstwhile Kilimanoor constituencies. In the two Assembly elections since then, in 2011 and 2016, there was little doubt about where Chirayinkeezhu’s loyalties lay. Both times, V. Sasi of the Communist Party of India (CPI) secured comfortable wins to represent the constituency in the Assembly. Local bodies Chirayinkeezhu today comprises Anchuthengu, Azhoor, Chirayinkeezhu, Kadakkavoor, Kizhuvilam, and Mudakkal panchayats in Chirayinkeezhu taluk and Kadhinamkulam and Mangalapuram panchayats in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. In the 2011 Assembly elections, Mr. Sasi who was the first to represent the reserved constituency after its birth, defeated Congress candidate K. Vidhyadharan by a margin of 12,225 votes. A former member of the Travancore Devaswom Board and former chairman of the Farm Workers Welfare Fund Board, Mr. Sasi secured 59,601 votes against Mr. Vidyadharan’s 47,376. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supported Aithiyoor Surendran, an Independent, in the polls. Mr. Surendran, however, could manage only 2,078 votes. In 2016, Mr. Sasi was pitted against K.S. Ajith Kumar of the Congress. This time, Mr. Sasi cemented his position by increasing his victory margin to 14,322; he secured 64,692 votes against Mr. Ajith Kumar’s 50,370 votes. However, Mr. Sasi’s victory percentage reduced from 52.93% in 2011 to 47.12% in 2016. The BJP fielded the then party State vice-president P.P. Vava, following gains made by it in certain panchayats in the previous local body elections. Mr. Vava secured 19,478 votes, increasing the party’s vote percentage substantially. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Left Democratic Front candidate (LDF) A. Sampath established a majority of 11,482 votes over United Democratic Front candidate Bindu Krishna in Chirayinkeezhu. The party continued the momentum in the local body polls by winning five grama panchayats and one block panchayat. BJP candidate Girijakumari S. polled 8,377 votes from the segment in the Lok Sabha elections. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Chirayinkeezhu stood with the UDF, giving Adoor Prakash a lead of 8,564 votes against A. Sampath of the LDF. In the recent local body elections, though, the LDF was back in the lead, winning 79 wards of the total 150. The UDF bagged 37 wards. Major issues The coir industry of Chirayinkeezhu has been hit hard in recent times. With a sizeable number of coir workers in the constituency, it will be interesting to see which way their vote goes. The constituency also has coastal panchayats, and the problems of the fishing community too will hold sway here. There are 1,96,142 voters in the constituency of whom 89,494 are male, 1,06,645 female, and three are from the transgender community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-young-segment-that-has-favoured-ldf-since-formation/article34114741.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shendurney reveals more gems||The annual faunal survey of the Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary has resulted in sightings of five new birds and three new butterflies for the first time in the biodiversity hotspot. The four-day endeavour undertaken by the Forest Department in association with the Travancore Natural History Society a few days ago witnessed 10 teams of experts recording the presence of 187 butterfly, 167 bird, 49 odonate, and 43 spider species in the 171 sq. km. sanctuary. Kattalapara, Kallar, Rockwood, Umayar Pandimotta, Alwarkuruchi, Idimuzghangan, Rosemala and Darbhakulam were the base camps selected for the survey. While the sanctuary is considered a haven for birds, as many as 127 species were sighted at Umayar, while the survey in Darbhakulam led to the recording of 65 species. New finds The additions to the bird fauna were Jerdon’s bush lark Mirafra affinis, White browed fantailed flycatcher Rhipidura aureola, Wire tailed swallow Hirundo smithii, Greater spotted eagle Clanga clanga, and Grey-breasted prinia Prinia hodgsonii.  Besides, three other bird species — Chestnut-winged cuckoo Clamator coromandus, Banded bay cuckoo Cacomantis sonneratii, and Grey bellied cuckoo Cacomantis passseriu s — suspected to be present in the region have also been sighted. The State bird, Great Indian hornbill Buceros bicornis, was sighted at most of the camps. The additions to the butterfly checklist in Shendurney were Small cupid Chilades parrhasius , Hampson’s hedgeblue Acytolepis lilacea, and Broad tailed royal Creon cleobis . The sanctuary is the abode of several endemic butterflies, including Red-disc bush brown, Malabar raven, Malabar banded swallowtail, and Travancore evening brown, while rare ones such as Madras ace, Sahyadri rosy oakblue, Golden tree-flitter, and Tamil dartlet were also spotted. While Kallar recorded 126 species, as many as 103 butterfly species were found at Rosemala. Twenty-one mammal species, including Brown palm civet, Indian civet, Smooth coated otter, Brown mongoose, dhole, tigers, elephants, leopards, gaurs and sambar deer, were also found. B. Sajeev Kumar, Wildlife Warden, Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary, who inaugurated the survey, said the findings would be compiled for revising the management plan for the sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shendurney-reveals-more-gems/article34114604.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Non-biodegradable waste collection from today||The city Corporation will on Saturday restart its periodic collection drive of non-biodegradable waste, which had come to a halt after the COVID-19 outbreak. The drive for collecting plastic waste will be held on Saturday, that for glass waste on March 25 and that for old footwear and bags on March 31. Collection points will be set up at seven locations. Locations These will be at Vanchiyoor junction, near the Kazhakuttam ward committee office, Mudavanmugal junction, Pippinmood junction, Putharikkandam maithanam, near the petrol pump at Sreekaryam and near the health inspector’s office at Kadakampally. The collection of non-biodegradable waste at the Corporation’s material recovery facilities will continue as per the existing calendar from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. Peole may download the smarttrivandrum mobile application to locate the nearest such facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/non-biodegradable-waste-collection-from-today/article34114742.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stormy debate in council over tender for LED lamps||A council meeting of the city Corporation on Friday witnessed stormy debates over the awarding of tender for the purchase of 10,000 LED lights to United Electricals. The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) initially raised the issue, accusing the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) of not following proper tender proceedings in choosing the company. The councillors of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also soon raised similar allegations. On e-tender The Opposition, in addition to questioning the tender proceedings also questioned the ruling party for not following e-tender for orders above Rs. 5 lakh, as per rules. They also said that the company did not produce LED bulbs, but was outsourcing the same. UDF councillor Padmakumar accused the ruling party of awarding the tender to the company since it was run by a relative of CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. This led to an uproar, with LDF councillor Palayam Rajan saying that the councillors have “stooped to the level of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala by raising baseless allegations.” As the Opposition councillors protested, Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the names of those who were not in the council need not be taken during discussions. However, the UDF councillors staged a walk out in protest against not allowing Mr. Padmakumar to respond to the LDF councillor’s comment. Later, Works standing committee chairperson D.R. Anil said that all the required proceedings were followed in the tendering process. He said that the previous councils and committees too had chosen the same company for the purpose. The decision was taken considering the urgent need to replace the streetlights. Regarding e-tender, he said that a government order allowed the civic body to go ahead with normal tender for this purpose. The agenda was later passed after the clarifications. Society shifting The council also witnessed a debate over the temporary shifting of a workers’ co-operative society functioning within the Corporation premises to within the Corporation office, as civil works are going on. The BJP accused the Mayor of providing favours to Left organisations. However, the agenda was later passed with Mr. Anil saying that it was a society for the Corporation’s own workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stormy-debate-in-council-over-tender-for-led-lamps/article34114744.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF government trying to intimidate ED: BJP leader||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is attempting to intimidate and threaten the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan C.N. has alleged. Mr. Narayan, who is co-in-charge of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s election campaign in Kerala, was reacting to the police case filed against the central agency, at a press conference here on Friday. The State government had compelled the police to file charges merely to defend itself in the gold-smuggling case, he alleged. In doing so, the State government had abused and misused its powers, he said. On Organiser former editor R. Balashankar’s allegations regarding a tacit deal between the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the BJP, Mr. Narayan said such pacts existed only between the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF). The BJP did not have any understanding with the CPI(M), he said. “They are our political opponents. There is no question of any understanding,” he said. ‘Appeasement politics’ Criticising what he termed “appeasement politics” practised by the LDF and the UDF, Mr. Narayan accused the two fronts of encouraging ‘love jihad,’ something which had upset the Christian community also in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-government-trying-to-intimidate-ed-bjp-leader/article34114752.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains to be regulated for doubling of railway track||Railways have fully or partially cancelled and diverted special trains in order to facilitate pre-commissioning works as part of track doubling in the Madurai-Tirunelveli section of the Madurai division. Train 02627/02628 Tiruchirappalli Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Tiruchirappalli daily specials via Nagercoil Town-Tiruneveli Junction-Madurai Junction will not operate from March 21 to 30. Train 06128 Guruvayur-Chennai Egmore daily special leaving Guruvayur from March 20 to 29 will be partially cancelled between Tirunelveli Junction and Chennai Egmore. It will be short-terminated at Tiruneveli Junction. Train 06127 Chennai Egmore-Guruvayur daily special scheduled to leave Chennai Egmore from March 21 to 30 will be partially cancelled between Chennai Egmore and Tirunelveli. The train will commence service from Tirunelveli Junction as per schedule. Train 06730 Punalur-Madurai Junction daily special via Kollam Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Nagercoil Junction-Tirunelveli Junction leaving Punalur from March 26 to 29 will be partially cancelled between Tirunelveli and Madurai Junctions. The train will be short-terminated at Tirunelveli Junction. Train 06729 Madurai Junction-Punalur daily special via Tirunelveli Junction-Nagercoil Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kollam Junction scheduled to leave Madurai Junction from March 27 to 30 will be partially cancelled between Madurai and Tirunelveli Junctions. The train will commence service from Tirunelveli Junction as per schedule. Train 06340 Nagercoil Junction-Mumbai CSMT special train on March 30 will be diverted via Thiruvananthapuram Central-Shornur Junction and Thokur in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-regulated-for-doubling-of-rail-track/article34114602.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trade unions file complaint against EICL||The trade unions of English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) have accused the company management of failing to fulfil its obligations regarding payment of interim relief to the employees of the company. A joint action council of trade unions said in a complaint to the Labour Commissioner that the management had met only part of the payment. As per an agreement reached earlier this year, the management was to pay Rs. 25,000 each to the permanent employees as interim relief. Only the first instalment has been paid so far, according to the complaint submitted on Thursday. To step up stir The trade unions have demanded the urgent intervention of the Labour Commissioner to resolve the matter. They have also threatened to step up agitations unless steps are taken in this regard. The EICL, which has units at Veli and Thonnackal, had halted operations in August last year citing losses. The decision had triggered strong protests from the trade unions. Subsequently, operations were partially restarted at its Thonnackal unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unions-file-complaint/article34114607.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll symbols too undergo a tech upgrade||Images reflecting contemporary life, including pen drive, computer, computer mouse, laptop, dish antenna, mobile charger and extension cord, figure in the 198 ‘free symbols’ made available by the Election Commission of India for candidates contesting the April 6 Assembly elections. Fruits and vegetables too find place on the list, the prominent ones being jackfruit, capsicum, ladies’ finger, apple, peas, grapes, and green chilli. Household items and kitchen utensils that can resonate easily with voters, along with bangles, safety pin, room cooler, bat, door handle, helmet, typewriter and whistle are included. Their purpose The symbols help parties create a unique identity, while making it easier for voters to make their choice. A lot of thought goes into the selection of the election symbols as the demand is for everyday objects that can be easily identified by voters. Besides using them in the electronic voting machines (EVMs) and ballots, the symbols are an integral part of electioneering materials too. The 198 ‘free symbols’ are in addition to the symbols reserved to the seven national political parties and State parties, including four from Kerala. Many of the symbols are created by M.S. Sethi, who for decades served as a draftsman for the Election Commission. Being national political parties, the BSP, BJP, TMC, CPI, CPI(M), INC and NCP have symbols reserved for them. The Janata Dal (Secular), Kerala Congress (M), IUML and RSP have also symbols reserved for them by the ECI as they enjoy the status of State political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-symbols-too-undergo-a-tech-upgrade/article34114559.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State opposes proposal to de-license power distribution||Kerala has opposed the move to de-license power distribution, stating that it scarcely is the way to achieve the objective of ensuring efficient and cost-effective electricity supply to citizens. In a March 15 letter to the Union Power Ministry setting down its policy opinion on the amendments planned in the Electricity Act, 2003, the State government argued that the proposal to open up the distribution business — purportedly with the aim of giving the consumers a wider choice of power suppliers — will imperil the ordinary electricity consumer if adequate safeguards are not in place. Citing the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) as a robust State-run model for efficient and cost-effective power distribution, the government pointed out that even in developed economies, multiple distribution companies (Discoms) have created ''complexities'' for smaller power consumers who constitute the bulk of the consumer population. Liberty for roadmaps If the Centre indeed opts to pursue with the proposal in the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the States should be given the liberty to draw up roadmaps for the introduction of multiple power distribution licensees and prescribe areas where they can operate, ''taking into account proper consumer mix, network adequacy and technology maturity,'' the letter said. In a February 5 note seeking comments on the draft from the States, the Union Power Ministry noted: ''It is proposed to de-license distribution. The present distribution companies will continue operating as they are now, but other distribution companies also can come in and compete. Consumers shall have the opportunity to select their service provider.'' In its letter, the State government has demanded safeguards against the possibility of predatory pricing and ''cherry-picking'' of consumers by private players in the de-licensed environment. To avoid such consequences, measures should be in place to ensure that the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) is adequately financed. Penal provisions ''To ensure this, mandatory contributions of entire cross-subsidy to the USOF is to be statutorily provided. The Act should have explicit penal provisions, including de-registration, for checking default in payment of USOF, which is necessary to avoid predatory pricing,'' the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-opposes-proposal-to-de-license-power-distribution/article34114565.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||In need of a dose of local workforce||The State government has been receptive to the tourism industry’s demands for creating requisite infrastructure in destinations and in rolling out a ‘futuristic and progressive’ tourism policy in the past five years. The industry is hopeful that the next government will address core issues such as granting of industry status, opportunities to do travel trade business, steps to attract the best talents, and initiatives for the welfare of the workforce in the hospitality sector. Despite challenges such as Cyclone Ockhi, two devastating floods, and outbreaks such as Nipah, the government was accommodative of the tourism industry’s various demands on the excise policy, pressuring the Centre to bringing down the GST slab from 28% to 18%, domestic power tariff to homestays, support to Kerala Travel Mart, Kochi Muziris Biennale and rolling out of the Champions Boat League, says Dileep Kumar P. I., CEO, Intimice Hospitalities. ‘Negative impact’ “The COVID-19-induced lockdown has crippled the tourism industry leaving hundreds jobless and plunging entrepreneurs into crisis. We are yet to bounce back. The government came up with soft loans for the industry, but that did not take off due to the hurdles put up by the financial institutions,” says E.M. Najeeb, chairperson, Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry. Echoing the view, Abraham George, Kochi-based tour operator and member, State Tourism Advisory Council, says that assurances by those in power are confined to speech and due priority has not been accorded to the tourism sector. “All sectors have opened up and even second shows have commenced in cinema halls. But, certain restrictions such as quarantine on domestic tourists still continue here. This gives the State a negative image. Ten States now want their residents to furnish RT-PCR negative certificates upon their return from Kerala. How will domestic tourism take off ?” Mr. George asks.  Employment generator “The Health Department which is creating roadblocks for domestic tourist arrivals should remember that 23% of GDP comes from tourism and that the sector is the largest employment generator,” Mr. Najeeb says. With no clarity yet on foreign tourist inflow, the industry is banking on domestic tourists. Mr. Dileep says that though Kerala has one of the highest unemployment rates among educated youth, the tourism industry, even during its good days, was struggling to get quality manpower, especially in jobs that require direct interaction with the public. A large number of other-State workers have been rendered jobless by the pandemic and the industry has not been able to replace them with good talent within the State. Job conditions Attractive job conditions on a par with global standards, as is the case with new generation industries like BPO, IT and ITES, are missing in the industry. “We are not demanding concessions on repayment of loans taken by us. But, we want opportunities to do business and this is possible only if restrictions are lifted,” says Mr. George. “Good governance, benevolence, and non-partisan treatment of all citizens is what we look forward to from the new government,” adds Mr. Najeeb.  All sectors have opened up and even second shows have commenced in cinema halls. But, certain restrictions on domestic tourists still continue here Abraham George Member, State Tourism Advisory Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-need-of-a-dose-of-local-workforce/article34114526.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P.J. Joseph, Mons Joseph quit as MLAs||In a swift political move, Kerala Congress faction leaders P.J. Joseph and Mons Joseph, both sitting MLAs, resigned from the post ahead of the April 6 elections to the Assembly. The resignation letters were received in the office of the Speaker by Friday afternoon, official sources told The Hindu . Mr. P.J. Joseph represents the Thodupuzha Assembly constituency in Idukki district and Mr. Mons Joseph, the Kaduthuruthy constituency in Kottayam district. Hours before deadline The resignations, hours before the deadline for filing of nominations for the Assembly elections, are to avoid a possible rejection of the nomination during scrutiny and disqualification as the faction led by Mr. Joseph had merged with the Kerala Congress (KC) led by P.C. Thomas on Wednesday. Both the leaders had won the 2016 elections as Kerala Congress (M) candidates on the ‘two leaves’ symbol. Apex court directive The Joseph faction faced the prospect of contesting the elections as Independents after the Supreme Court had dismissed their claim over 'two leaves' symbol after it parted ways with the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani. The Election Commission had recognised the Jose K. Mani faction as the official Kerala Congress (M) and allotted the party symbol to it. Mr. Joseph overcame the crisis by merging with the Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas. Ten candidates of the Joseph faction, contesting as United Democratic Front candidates, filed their nominations before the Returning Officers 30 minutes before the deadline for submitting nominations. All candidates have applied for a common symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pj-joseph-mons-joseph-quit-as-mlas/article34114557.ece
20 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘The fight is between CPI(M) and Congress’||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran appears a driven man. He stewards arguably the most powerful outpost of the Congress in the South. With barely 19 days left for the Assembly polls, Mr. Ramachandran sounded weighed down by the consuming task of steering the party to victory against what political opponents portray as very long odds. He faces a well-entrenched Left Democratic Front and an emergent BJP. Identity politics has influenced the electoral landscape colossally. It has often manifested as indecisiveness and delay in Congress's candidate selection. Mr. Ramachandran also had to contend with factional bickering and disputes with the Congress-led United Democratic Front over seat-sharing among the constituents and choice of candidates. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ramachandran said the real fight was between Congress and CPI(M). The BJP was merely an interloper. Mr. Ramachandran denied the Congress had given the kid-glove treatment to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Congress State working president K. Sudhakaran had floated the idea of a face-off with Mr. Vijayan. However, he hesitated at the last minute. The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee has asked Mr. Sudhakaran to name a candidate for Dharmadam. Seat-sharing issues Mr. Ramachandran said disagreements in the Congress were muted affairs than the raucous mutiny over seat-sharing in the CPI(M) and the BJP. CPI(M) cadres rebelled against the party leadership for two consecutive days in Kozhikode. The revolt in the BJP broke out into the open in Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh theoretician R. Balashankar accused the BJP State leadership of striking a tacit electoral understanding with the CPI(M) against the Congress. BJP State president K. Surendran and national executive member Sobha Surendran sparred openly over the Kazhakuttom seat, he said. The CPI(M) had scripted former Mahila Congress president Lathika Subash’s “tonsure act” in front of the KPCC headquarters. The All India Congress Committe had surmounted factional pressures to infuse the candidate list with fresh blood, Mr. Ramachandran said. Candidate selection The party had factored in caste and communal equations and the generational shift in candidate selection. It has posited an alternative path to achieve development. The Congress had promised to defend the faith of believers irrespective of their religion, he said. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka would spearhead the penultimate round of the Congress’s campaign in Kerala. Their presence would tip the balance in favour of the UDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-is-between-cpim-and-cong/article34114534.ece
20 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Disease transmission slows down, 1,984 new cases||The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of Kerala crossed the 11 lakh mark (11,00,275 cases) on Friday with 1,984 new cases when 53,184 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The case load crossed the 10 lakh mark on February 14 and it took 34 days to add another lakh new cases. This indicates that the disease transmission has indeed slowed down in the past one month. The test positivity rate (TPR) has come down to 3.73%. With 1,965 recoveries, the active case pool remained steady at 25,158 cases for the past three days. The cumulative recoveries reported till date rose to 10,70,343 cases. The death toll has risen to 4,467 when 17 new deaths that took place in the past several days were added to the official list on Friday. Among districts, Kozhikode reported a maximum number of new cases at 261, followed by Thrissur 203, Ernakulam 185, Kannur 180, Kollam 176, Malappuram 155, Pathanamthitta 137, Alappuzha 131, Thiruvananthapuram 131, Kottayam 125, Kasaragod 105, Palakkad 98, Wayanad 52 and Idukki 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disease-transmission-slows-down-1984-new-cases/article34114566.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Job fraud: Kollam native arrested||The Cantonment police on Friday arrested a 45-year-old man on charges of defrauding money from a schoolteacher after promising her a job in the Kendriya Vidyalaya. The accused has been identified as Kollam native Sudheer, currently staying in Mayannur in Thrissur. According to the police, the accused had come in contact with the teacher of a private school in 2016, when she and three other teachers were involved in a High Court case regarding their dismissal from the school. He had allegedly told them that he is a practising lawyer in the Supreme Court and had personal contacts with several top personalities, including the Prime Minister. Rs. 15 lakh collected He had collected an amount of Rs. 15 lakh from them promising them help to sort out their issues. He had also promised one of the teachers a job in the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Pattom, for which he said an amount of Rs. 25 lakh had to be paid. He again collected Rs. 8 lakh from her husband, who had come back home from abroad after losing his job, by promising him a visa to the United Kingdom. According to the police, he again defrauded the teachers of Rs. 12 lakh, claiming that this is the amount to be given as part of a bond to the Supreme Court (SC), to collect a compensation of Rs. 75 lakh which they will get in a favourable verdict from the SC. Forged letter In 2018, he took the complainant to a ‘job interview’ in Thrissur for the teacher post. Once at the interview centre, he made her believe that he had talked to the authorities and that she will get the job without an interview. A few days later, she was shown a selection list of 245 people, in which her name was shown in the 19th position. Later, he gave her an appointment letter for pre-primary teacher at the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pattom, using forged seals and signatures. The police said that he had defrauded a total of Rs. 59.64 lakh from her and the teachers. On social media The victims realised that they have been defrauded after seeing posts regarding him in social media. The complainant approached the police after the accused threatened her to fabricate cases against her and refused to return the money. The Cantonment police had formed a special team and camped in Thrissur to nab the accused. He is an accused in similar cases registered in Nooranad, Sooranad, Shoranur, Vadakkancherry and Kalamassery police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-fraud-kollam-native-arrested/article34114606.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||131 cases, 166 recoveries||The district reported 131 COVID-19 cases and 166 recoveries on Friday. At present, 1,933 persons are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. Of the new cases, local transmission accounted for 88 cases. The death toll in the district is 859.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/131-cases-166-recoveries/article34114746.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply disruption today||Water supply to several areas in the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) Pongumoodu sub-division limits will be disrupted from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Saturday due to repairs on the 900-mm pre-stressed concrete pipe carrying water from Aruvikkara to the reservoir at Manvila, the KWA said. Supply to the following areas will be hit; CRPF, Poundkadavu, Koralamkuzhi, Arasumoodu, Tripadapuram, Tripadagiri, Kallingal, Manvila, Attipra, Kulathoor, Cheruvaickal, Sreekaryam, Katela, Akkulam, Powdikonam, Njandoorkonam, Chempazhanthy, Aniyoor, Chenkottukonam, Kattayikonam, Pullanivila, Anandeswaram, Pulayanarkota, Edavacode, Chellamangalam, Ulloor, Prasanth Nagar, Kesavadasapuram, Keraladityapuram, Kariyam, Areekarakonam, Pongumoodu, Vattakarikkakam, Bappuji Nagar, Kallamballi, Parottukonam and Nalanchira. Supply to the low-lying areas will be restored by Saturday night. Full restoration of supply is expected by Sunday noon, the KWA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-disruption-today/article34114749.ece
20 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ECI given list of ‘irregularities’ in 51 seats||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has handed over details of alleged irregularities in the electoral rolls in 51 more Assembly constituencies to the Election Commission of India (ECI). Details of 1,63,071 bogus voters were passed on to the commission on Friday, Mr. Chennithala said. Over the past two days, he had lodged complaints pertaining to alleged voter identity fraud in 14 constituencies with the commission. Altogether, information regarding 2,16,510 bogus voters were handed over, he said in a statement. The 51 constituencies include Ponnani, Nilambur, Vattiyurkavu, Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Malampuzha, Alappuzha, Thripunithura, Kuttiyadi, Muvattupuzha, Kattakada, Kuttanad, and Ottappalam. Conspiracy alleged Mr. Chennithala alleged a State-level conspiracy and organised activity behind the alleged fraud. Fake voters were created by using the names, addresses and photographs of genuine voters. He alleged that the number of fake voters in these constituencies was in fact high enough to sabotage the election results. Based on his previous complaints, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena had directed District Election Officers to conduct an inquiry and submit their reports by Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eci-given-list-of-irregularities-in-51-seats/article34114560.ece
20 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CEO releases election backgrounder||CEO Teeka Ram Meena on Friday released the Assembly election backgrounder 2021 published by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), Thiruvananthapuram. He handed over the first copy of the book to V. Palanichamy, Additional Director General, PIB. The book includes the results of elections from 1957 to 2006 and statistical analysis of 2016 Assembly election data, besides a brief history of the evolution of legislative Assemblies in Kerala. The soft copy of the book is also available on the PIB website atpib.gov.in/indexd.aspx.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ceo-releases-election-backgrounder/article34114535.ece
20 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Three in a family found hanging||Three members of a family were found dead at Mambully, near Kandassankadavu, in the district on Friday. The deceased were identified as Korath Gopalakrishnan (70), his wife Mallika (60) and their son Rijoy (35). They were found hanging inside their house. According to the police, the deceased were first seen by a relative who had reached their house to collect the key of their family temple nearby. The person immediately alerted the neighbours. The bodies of Gopalakrishnan and Rijoy were found in the main hall and Mallika’s in a room. Police said a preliminary investigation revealed that the key, which was usually kept in the house, was found by the relative outside along with a suicide note. Family issues Police suspect that family issues are believed to be behind the incident. It is said that Rijoy and his wife Ramya had marital discord. Ramya had earlier lodged a complaint against Rijoy and his mother with the Anthikad police. However, no case was registered against them, the police added. Married 7 years ago According to sources, Rijoy and Ramya got married seven years ago. Rijoy, who was working abroad, returned home a few months ago. The couple have a son. Gopalakrishnan was a retired employee of the Coir Board and Mallika had worked with a coir workers society. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA - 1056, 0471-2552056)  According to the police, the deceased were first seen by a relative who had reached their house to collect the key of their family temple nearby||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-in-a-family-found-hanging/article34114753.ece
20 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Prathapan to move EC against Suresh Gopi||T.N. Prathapan, MP, is planning to file a complaint against Suresh Gopi, the NDA candidate in Thrissur, with the Election Commission seeking to restrict Mr. Gopi from contesting the polls on the BJP symbol. According to Mr. Prathapan, Rajya Sabha members who have been nominated by the President could not contest in any party symbol. He said he would take further steps after discussing with legal experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prathapan-to-move-ec-against-suresh-gopi/article34114499.ece
20 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||“Why didn't CM say ‘get out’ to Ministers”||Jacob Thomas, former Director General of Police and the NDA candidate in the Irinjalakuda constituency, on Friday alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who showed the door to journalists, failed to say “get out” to erring ministers in his Cabinet. He was addressing an NDA election convention at Kunnamkulam here. When ministers K.T. Jaleel and E.P. Jayarajan faced nepotism charges and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran was caught in the phone call controversy, the Chief Minister did not ask them to get out, Mr. Thomas alleged. He said Mr. Vijayan behaved like a party secretary even when he was the Chief Minister of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/why-didnt-cm-say-get-out-to-ministers/article34114712.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In high spirits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-high-spirits/article34114503.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Playing the part||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/playing-the-part/article34114601.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Warm welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/warm-welcome/article34114715.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kingly status||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kingly-status/article34114537.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Uphill task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uphill-task/article34114755.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-support/article34114751.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Annual festival at Sabarimala||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/annual-festival-at-sabarimala/article34114568.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||POCKET SAtheesh Vellinezhi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocket-satheesh-vellinezhi/article34114539.ece
20 March 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents in a quandary over sending children to school||An incident in which four children tested positive for COVID-19 at a government school in the city has put the parents in a quandary on sending their children to school. Doctors, however, say there is no cause for worry as the percentage of children being affected is negligible when compared to adults. Almost all the children affected by the pandemic are recovering. Many of the schools and colleges are not operating school transport and the load has increased on RTC buses and auto rickshaws, adding to the woes of parents. “We have increased the trips in high frequency routes during the school and college timings. A watch will be kept on the situation to further increase the number of services based on the need,” Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Urban) M. Sudhabindu told The Hindu on Friday. “The complications among children due to COVID-19 is minimal and even those affected by it are recovering well. Death among children is a rarity, but cannot be ruled out. It is yet to be established whether the virus is being transmitted from children to children at school or from their parents at home,” P. Venugopal, HOD, Paediatrics, Department of Andhra Medical College (AMC), says. “It is better to avoid sending children to school up to the age of 6 years in the present situation. Alternate day classes are advisable for those in the age group of 6-10 years. Masks, social distancing and other protocols can be ensured for older children,” he says. “About 80% of our students have returned after the lockdown, and are regularly coming to the school. We are conducting regular classes from 1st to 10th class and only online classes for UKG. There were no admissions into LKG last year due to the pandemic situation,” says D. Uday Kumar, correspondent of Keystone School, Seethammadhara. “Budget schools (small private schools), which operate in the neighbourhood, get children from poor families and they cannot afford online classes. Strict shift system should be implemented to ensure social distancing as the accommodation is limited in these schools,” says AP Private Schools Association (APPSA) president K.S.N. Murthy. “It is not known whether the four children of the government school at Gopalapatnam were infected at the school or from their parents at home. The school was disinfected with sodium hypochlorite after the children tested positive,” says Lakshmi Tulasi, Assistant Medical Officer of Zone-8, GVMC. 37 new cases Meanwhile, the district reported 37 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 60,904 as on Friday morning. According to the bulletin released by the officials, the number of active cases has increased to 183 on Friday and the discharges to 60,181.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-in-a-quandary-over-sending-children-to-school/article34114784.ece
20 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dropouts get another chance to pursue studies||As many as 81 students of schools, and engineering and B.Ed colleges of Chittoor district were given scholarships to continue their studies at a function held at Madanapalle on Wednesday. The district-based NGOs, Social Integrated Rural Development Society (SIRDS) and Spoorthi Foundation had sponsored the scholarships to the tune of Rs. 16 lakh while Dhaathree Foundation chipped in by identifying the beneficiaries from the BPL category and organizing the event. Deputy Superintendent of Police(DSP) (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari, who had given away the scholarships to the students, said that it was a welcome sign that the NGOs were coming forward to help the dropouts not just from schools but also from colleges. He added that such a humanitarian gesture would help reduce dropout rate and encourage students from poor families to continue higher education. Dhaathree Foundation chairperson S. Swathi said it was unfortunate that some students of impoverished families, who were pursuing professional courses such as B.Tech, M.Ed, were forced to quit their studies. “Students from such backgrounds should reach out to the various platforms/NGOs working to help them. Apart from this, the underprivileged students pursuing primary education should be at the forefront to avail all the government schemes,” Ms. Swathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dropouts-get-another-chance-to-pursue-studies/article34114119.ece
20 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP eyeing record win in Tirupati bypoll||The YSRCP is leaving no stone unturned to ensure a record majority in the Tirupati Lok Sabha (SC) by-election on April 17. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has selected his personal physiotherapist M. Gurumoorthy as the party candidate for the by-election. The Chief Minister, who reviewed the poll preparedness with senior party leaders and Ministers, directed the party leaders to ensure that they take to the notice of the people the plethora of welfare schemes and development in the State. “I want the results to be seen by the entire country. Prepare an action plan to ensure our candidate gets record majority. I want you to tell the people our policy and ideology of working for people, irrespective of their identity, caste, religion. Our governance is marked by transparency and accountability. The message of good governance should reach every doorstep in Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The review meeting with senior leaders assumed significance in the backdrop of stunning results in local body elections and municipal elections, with the party winning more than 90% of the seats. Triangular contest “A Minister should be in-charge of every constituency and he will be assisted by an MLA. The campaign should reach every voter, and I want the leaders to work sincerely,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The by-election will be witnessing a triangular contest with both the TDP and the BJP in the fray. Former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi is contesting on behalf of the TDP, while BJP has not announced its candidate. Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy, B. Srinivasa Reddy, P. Venkatramaiah (Nani), K. Venkateswara Rao, P. Anil Kumar, and A. Suresh, regional coordinators S. Ramakrishna Reddy, Y.V. Subba Reddy, V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, and V. Prabhakara Reddy, Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy, Whip P. Ramakrishna Reddy, MLAs B. Karunakara Reddy, Chevireddy Bhaskara Reddy, Ravindranath Reddy, Anam Ramanarayana Reddy, K. Parthasaradhi, Vara Prasad, K. Govardhana Reddy, B. Madhusudana Reddy, and P. Dwarakanatha Reddy, and MLC Balli Kalyan Chakravathy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-eyeing-record-win-in-tirupati-bypoll/article34114693.ece
20 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan launches book||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday launched a book The Frontier, written by senior journalist Rehana Begum. The book is an English translation of the Telugu book ‘Sarihaddulu’, a travelogue by Ms Rehana, documenting the life on one of the most dangerous conflict zones in the world while working for NTV, India-Pakistan Border in Jammu and Kashmir and the Eastern and Western frontiers. The book captures the arduous life of the military personnel and also snippets of civilians caught up in the strife and contains rare footage of the perilous borders. Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, and Commissioner I and PR, T. Vijaya Kumar Reddy, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-launches-book/article34114776.ece
20 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur police crack mystery behind missing boys’ case||In a sensational twist to the missing boy case in Tadepalli, the Guntur police have revealed that the accused, Mellempudi Gopi from Tadepalli, allegedly sexually assaulted a six-year-old boy before killing him. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, R.N. Ammireddy said that on March 14, Gopi, who consumed liquor at Mellempudi Ramp, saw the victim and forcibly took him to nearby fields. He later allegedly sexually assaulted the boy, and fearing that he would spill the beans, strangulated him to death. He later left the body in the fields.. A month back, Gopi was reportedly involved in a similar offence at Revendrapadu and allegedly killed another boy. The SP congratulated DSP, North, D. Durga Prasad, Tadepalli CI B. Ankamma Rao, M. Subramaniyam, Tadepalli SI Bala Krishna who cracked the mystery behind the missing of the two boys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-police-crack-mystery-behind-missing-boys-case/article34114772.ece
20 March 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family of albinos rescued in Rayachoti||The Rayachoti police have rescued and rehabilitated a family suffering from albinism, a genetic disorder that causes skin, hair and eyes to have a pale shade. During regular patrolling, a police team led by Rayachoti Urban Circle Inspector G. Raju found the family of seven, hailing from Sholapur in Maharashtra, eking out a livelihood by seeking alms. “Owing to their genetic disorder, they were allegedly ‘shunned’ and were left with no option but begging. They moved into Karnataka and finally reached Rayachoti,” Mr. Raju said. The department pooled in money not only for the food and return journey of the family dwelling on the roadside, but also to ensure their rehabilitation once they reached Sholapur, their native place. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan appreciated his men for reaching out to the albinism victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/family-of-albinos-rescued-in-rayachoti/article34114127.ece
20 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly woman charred to death||An elderly woman was charred to death after three gas cylinders burst in a row of houses, near Gandhinagar Park, in Kakinada, in the early hours of Friday. At least two houses were gutted completely. Kakinada Assistant Fire Officer B. Yesubabu said Thummalapalli Lakshmi was killed when the cylinders burst in two thatched houses. The exact reason for the accident is not known as the families were asleep when the cylinders caught fire. Neighbours ran away due to the blast of the cylinders one after another. Fire tenders brought the fire under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-woman-charred-to-death/article34114123.ece
20 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor: govt. should strive to promote indigenous languages||Preserving mother tongues is possible only when the State government actively promotes institutions that imparts education in indigenous languages, said Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan. Addressing students at the first convocation of Dr. Abdul Haq Urdu University virtually, the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of the varsity, expressed happiness to see a large number of girl students taking their degrees. He congratulated the university authorities on imparting courses in Urdu and Telugu languages for the past five years, adding that while propagation of mother tongues was essential, students must also be open to learning other languages to expand their knowledge. ‘New building soon’ Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, who also took part in the function through virtual mode, iterated that the government would provide a new building within six-eight months for the university, which is at present using a rented accommodation. He said the university should take advantage of the provisions of the New Education Policy and ensure that the quality of pedagogy improves along with research activity. The varisty Vice-Chancellor K. Muzaffer Ali, Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan and Rayalaseema University V-C A. Ananda Rao attended the programme. Mohammad Aslam Parvaiz, former V-C of Maulana Azad National Urdu University(Hyderabad) attended as the guest of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-govt-should-strive-to-promote-indigenous-languages/article34114122.ece
20 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shut pharma units, demand aqua farmers||Aquaculturists from different parts of Prakasam district staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here urging the district authorities to shut down pharma units in the Gullapalli Special Economic Zone(SEZ). The aquaculturists, led by Prakasam District Rythu Sangam secretary D. Gopinath, complained that the effluents from a few units promoted by the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation were polluting the water bodies, rendering it harmful for the aqua species. They said shrimps in over 1,000 acres, close to Potharaju canal in Koppolu, Alluru and Chintala, were hit by the release of untreated waste. They demanded a compensation of at least Rs. 2 lakh to each aquaculturist who had suffered losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shut-pharma-units-demand-aqua-farmers/article34114126.ece
20 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health worker succumbs to COVID in Prakasam||A 38-year-old health worker, reportedly suffering from comorbidity condition, died of COVID-19 in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours, health officials here said on Friday. With this, the toll rose to 581 in the district, which has been witnessing an increase in fresh cases of late. The woman working as Auxiliary Nurse Midwife tested positive for COVID-19 here and succumbed to it while undergoing treatment. The ANM was also suffering from liver and kidney ailments, said Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli. With this, the toll in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh increased to 1,090. SPSR Nellore district accounted for 509 COVID-19 deaths. Active cases The number of active cases in Prakasam district rose to 83 with three persons testing positive in a span of 24 hours. Perturbed over the number of active cases increasing in the district, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar reviewed the health situation and underscored the need for people adhering to COVID-19 protocol in their own interest and vulnerable sections of people taking the vaccination. ‘No vaccine shortage’ More people above 60 years and those between 45 years and 60 years with comorbidity condition should volunteer to take the jab. So far, about 86,000 persons had been vaccinated in the district. “'We have enough number vaccine doses to cover 4 lakh persons”, Dr.Ratnavalli said. The number of active cases rose to 59 in neighbouring SPSR Nellore district with seven persons testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. A positive aspect was that the recovery rate in the region was high at 99.01%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-worker-succumbs-to-covid-in-prakasam/article34114124.ece
20 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole Dairy employees demand justice||Employees of the Ongole Dairy staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan on Friday demanding justice for them. They have been left in the lurch after the government entered into an agreement with the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation(GCMMF) which markets milk and products under the brand name Amul, said Ongole Dairy Employees Association president G. Narayana Rao said. Though the GCMMF officials used the facility in Ongole Dairy for processing, they did not procure milk from the farmers in the network. The products produced by Amul were taken to Hyderabad for marketing. Those who opted for voluntary retirement were not given benefits, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-dairy-employees-demand-justice/article34114125.ece
20 March 2021||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Odisha workers freed from ‘clutches’ of labour contractor||With Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan quickly responding to their plea for help, 23 migrant workers from Odisha, most of whom are women, have at last been freed from the “clutches of a labour contractor” and sent to their native places. About 400 workers had come to the State through some intermediaries and joined Sandhya Marines, an aqua unit at Palakol. A labour contractor, Srinivas, who provides workforce to the company, has allegedly been harassing the workers and collecting money forcibly from them. The workers, with the help of a leader from Odisha, had approached the Governor at Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada on Thursday, and poured our their woes to him and sought his immediate help. Responding to their plea, Mr. Harichandan directed West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik to look into the issue. The workers later met Mr. Narayan Naik in Eluru, who arranged a vehicle for them to reach Palakol. Mr. Narayan Naik too visited Palakol and interacted with all the workers and inquired into the allegations. “The workers, all native of Kendrapara district in Odisha, had came to Palakol a few months ago and joined the aqua unit. The company is paying them Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 per head for processing shrimp. Mr. Srinivas is allegedly collecting the money given to them by force,” Mr. Narayan Naik has said. “Based on the complaint, we have registered a case against the contractor in the Palakol Town police station. Twenty-three workers, mostly women, have said that they want to return to their native villages. We have arranged transportation and sent them on Friday,” Palakol CI Ch. Anjaneyulu said. “The company has been directed to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) and arrange a complaint box on the unit premises. About Rs. 1 lakh cash collected from the workers has been recovered and handed over to workwers. Stern action will be taken against those who harass the migrant labourers,” the DSP warned. “The company management has treated us well and paid wages promptly as per the agreement. But the contractor has harassed us. We thank the Andhra Pradesh government and the officers for responding to our problem and sending us back,” the migrant women said. The migrant women thanked the Governor, the Superintendent of Police, the DSP and other officers for helping them return to their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/odisha-workers-freed-from-clutches-of-labour-contractor/article34114779.ece
20 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drive with a light foot’||Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) R.P. Thakur on Friday directed the corporation’s drivers to drive in an economical manner in order to extract maximum mileage, keeping in view the rising diesel prices in recent months. APSRTC buses consume eight lakh litres of diesel per day, and judicious usage of fuel and proper maintenance of vehicles would lead to huge savings for the corporation, Mr. Thakur said. The MD inspected the Srikakulam APSRTC complex and depots. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Thakur said that the corporation was doing its best to mitigate the financial burden caused by the hike in diesel prices. He assured that arrears would be cleared for the employees and said new plans will be drawn up for their welfare as well as for passengers. APSRTC Executive Director K. Ravikumar, Regional Manager A. Appala Raju and Division Manager G. Varalakshmi were present during Mr. Thakur’s visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drive-with-a-light-foot-apsrtc-drivers-told/article34114707.ece
20 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple likely to undergo decongestion||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is mulling to dismantle the Vagapadi building situated at the north-east corner inside the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara, as well as a few partition walls at the south-east corner. The Vagapadi was being used to store laddu, vada and other prasadams meant for distribution among devotees. The structure was no longer being used with the TTD deciding to shift the distribution of prasadams to a building outside the temple complex. Currently, it is used for housing office documents. Dismantling the structure will free up some space which the TTD thinks can be utilised to make room for devotees. Similarly, the mandapam located at the south-east corner inside the hill temple is also partitioned with brick walls which at present houses CCTV rooms and storerooms for electrical and forest departments. The management is of the opinion that dismantling the brick walls in between the granite pillars will highlight the aesthetic look of the ancient temple architecture besides contributing to the easy movement of pilgrims. The corridor in between the storerooms and Ranganayakula mandapam currently serves as a passage for Kalyanotsava grihastas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-temple-likely-to-undergo-decongestion/article34114708.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Are sparrows really dwindling in numbers?||Is the house sparrow really vanishing from our skies? Researchers say that though its sightings may have come down in our cities, their real numbers have not. According to the State of India’s Birds 2020, the house sparrow (Passer domesticus) is considered a species as one with a very large distribution range. Though it is marked as ‘Least concern’ as per the Global Red List, its presence has a direct bearing on our fragile ecology, say researchers. The ‘World Sparrow Day’ is observed on March 20 every year to raise awareness on the house sparrow, which is majorly considered as a domestic bird. With rapid urbanisation resulting in a shrunken habitat, the number of sparrows is falling in towns and cities. Fields and crops are nowhere to be seen near towns today, which is a factor. “Sparrows are insectivores, but they also thrive majorly on grains. As the food chain comprising paddy fields, godowns and rice mills vanished from urban spaces, so have the birds,” observes Rajasekhar Bandi, Citizen Science Coordinator at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Tirupati. Though mobile tower radiation is also widely cited as a reason for their reduced sighting, there is no proven evidence linking the same. There is reason to believe that the birds have vanished from urban areas, but their numbers have largely remained unchanged pan-India, as cities form a minuscule percentage of the nation’s land area, points out Dr. Rajasekhar. The Forest Department is conducting painting, poster making, essay writing and elocution competitions for schoolchildren at the Sri Venkateswara Zoological Park on Saturday, marking the occasion. “We have to inculcate in the young minds that every organism has a right to live on the planet and a role to play in the ecosystem,” says zoo curator Hima Sailaja. A ‘Bird watch’ will be conducted for the interested children on Saturday evening, where she expects that at least 30 of the 150 birds dwelling in the Seshachalam biosphere reserve can be sighted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/are-sparrows-really-dwindling-in-numbers/article34114129.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘We can withstand YSRCP’s onslaught’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said that his party can withstand the ‘spate of election-related irregularities resorted to by the ruling YSRCP as has been seen in the the recent panchayat and municipal elections’. ‘Intimidatory tactics’ Addressing the party workers at the preparatory meeting ahead of the by-election to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha seat here on Friday, Mr. Veerraju lambasted the ruling party for “resorting to large- scale violence, misusing official machinery, arm-twisting opponents and using intimidatory tactics against the beneficiaries in the recent elections.” “The YSRCP is nurturing illusions. Dubbing it a victory is no victory at all,” he said. Mr. Somu Veerraju said the BJP and the Jana Sena combine would fight the parliamentary elections with a development agenda. “We will showcase the smart city, international airport, national highways and national institutes of repute such as IIT, IISER, IIIT and Culinary Institute set up here, apart from the scores of facilities sanctioned under Swachh Bharat, water schemes under Jal Shakti and housing for all,” he explained. The party reiterated its commitment to continue Amaravati as the State capital, and recalled the recent sanction of Central funds for its development. In spite of holding the meeting with the cadre and giving a clarion call for the party’s victory, the State leadership continued to drag its feet on finalising the candidate for the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-can-withstand-ysrcps-onslaught/article34114695.ece
20 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IoT services start in Sri City||Tata Communications Limited (TCL) formally launched the Internet of Things (IoT) Network and Services using the widely-accepted LoRaWAN technology protocol for industries at Sri City in Chittoor district on Friday. After giving a presentation on the salient features of IoT services, various partnership models and details of offerings, TCL marketing chief Rakesh Dwidevi said the Sri City team worked with TCL, which carried out a detailed study and implemented the technology in chosen areas across the campus and monitored their performances for adoption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iot-services-start-in-sri-city/article34114709.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister urges NITI Aayog to expedite approvals for projects||Industries Minister M. Goutham Reddy on Friday urged the NITI Aayog to expedite approvals for proposed projects in Andhra Pradesh, which was committed to ensure seamless governance with growing investor confidence for sustainable industrial development. In a letter addressed to the CEO, NITI Aayog, Amitabh Kant, the Minister drew his attention to the proposed International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT) facility and immediate approval for it. The ICAT had issued a letter of intent for establishment of testing facilities and intelligent testing tracks and site visits had also been taken up. He said the project would act as a catalyst for development of automobile industry and thus the ICAT may be advised to establish labs at the earliest.  Subsidy on EVs Mr. Reddy said the New and Renewable Energy Corporation of Andhra Pradesh wanted to provide 60,000 electric two-wheelers to Gram and Ward Secretariat employees on EMI basis for five years. He requested for additional subsidy to bring down the cost of the EVs as a special case on pilot basis as the Secretariat employees were low paid and extended service to the rural poor. The Minister appealed to the NITI Aayog official to consider the Rayalaseema region to set up a Giga watt advanced chemical cell battery unit, as industrial land was available in this region which had proximity to Bengaluru and Hyderabad. He said funding support to convert all vehicles into electric vehicles at Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, subsidy for battery swapping stations and for electric retrofit kits, especially for three-wheelers and funding to conduct e-Mobility awareness programme would help the State give the much-needed push to the EV sector. Mr. Reddy said collaboration between NITI Aayog and Andhra Pradesh to improve value addition through inviting mineral-based industries into the State to improve the export competency of the country and to manufacture mining equipment in the State to supply to domestic mining markets would yield great results. Support to promote the 801 acres of YSR Kadapa district for white goods industry, help in establishment of IT Concept Cities, currently three are proposed at Tirupati, Visakhapatnam and Anantapur, and establishment of a 5G testing lab and skilling centre were his other pleas. He said the AP State Skill Development Corporation would be the nodal agency to provide necessary support in setting up this centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-urges-niti-aayog-to-expedite-approvals-for-projects/article34114710.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coromandel launches ‘Groshakti’||Even during the pandemic, the agricultural sector has stayed relatively unharmed, according to Arun Alagappan, Executive Vice-Chairman of the Murugappa Group. He was speaking at the launch of a new brand, ‘Groshakti’, by the group’s Coromandel International Limited here on Friday. Mr. Alagappan said unemployment soared and the GDP projections plummeted through the lockdown, but the agriculture sector apparently emerged relatively unscathed. “The idea is to enhance the productivity of the crops and help farmers get quality yield,” he said. Earlier called Coromandel Fertilizers, the company is in the business of fertilisers, pesticides and speciality nutrients. Policy impetus Mr. Alagappan said both the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments were focussed on welfare of the farmers. He said the Centre too was keen on ushering in reforms in the agriculture sector through new laws that could provide impetus to the agriculture economy. Company Managing Director Sameer Goel explained that ‘Groshakti’ was a well balanced grade having NPK in 14-35-14 ratio, considered as the best for any fertiliser for any crop. “This grade has high nutrient percentage and has less filler material, because of which it does not hurt the soil mechanism,” he said. He said farmers should immediately adopt the new product to improve their crop yield. CSR initiatives As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Coromandel encourages rural girls with scholarship and also provides RO plants in rural areas with fluoride problem. The firm has also set up 18 Gromor Nutri clinics across A.P. to help farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coromandel-launches-groshakti/article34114165.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Majority of COVID cases being reported in city and Jaggaiahpeta’||Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz has said that there was a slight increase in the number of COVID-19 infections reported and positivity rate in the district in March so far. The Collector said most of the new cases were from Vijayawada and Jaggaiahpeta. Mr. Imtiaz, in a release, said that the district reported 2,280 cases in December 2020, 830 cases in January, 251 in February, and so far in March 340 cases were reported. Rise in positivity rate He said there was a slight increase in the positivity rate from 0.4% in February to 0.65% in March. He said that contact tracing of the infected persons revealed that most of them had been to functions and places of large gatherings. Mr. Imtiaz said that only COVID appropriate behaviour, including wearing a mask, sanitising hands among others and vaccination could help contain virus transmission. Vaccine Mr. Imtiaz said so far 1.25 lakh persons took the first dose of the vaccine and over 22,000 took the second dose. There are 230 active COVID infection cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/majority-of-covid-cases-being-reported-in-vijayawada-jaggaiahpeta/article34114120.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Towards ensuring quality education in YSR Pre-Schools||The Department of Women Development and Child Welfare, the Pratham Education Foundation, and the ITC have entered into a tripartite agreement to strengthen the pre-school educational activities across the 55,607 YSR Pre-Primary Schools (anganwadis) through an integrated approach with focus on physical, socio-emotional, language and cognitive development of the children. The idea is to ensure quality education in these pre-schools. The department and the partner organisations will be the facilitators in introducing effective process and methodology. Having successfully implemented pre-school learning project in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Haryana and a few other States, Pratham Education Foundation is now partnering with the A.P. government for replicating its success in YSR Pre-Primary Schools. As part of the collaboration, daily one pre-school activity will be sent through WhatsApp and SMS to the anganwadi teachers, who will conduct the activities for the children in the schools and also demonstrate them to their mothers. Digital content Pratham foundation will also prepare digital content for training and capacity-building of the anganwadi workers, and to ensure that English is used as the language of teaching. Its master trainers will be posted in each revenue division for hand-holding the pre-school activities by the anganwadi workers. The project activities include ‘100 Days School Readiness Programme’, Communicative English Pack and pre-school activities. Pratham foundation is an innovative learning organisation created to improve the quality of education in schools across the country. Established in 1995 to provide education to children in the slums of Mumbai, Pratham Education Foundation has grown in both scope and scale, with its programmes now reaching children and youth across the country. As one of the largest non-governmental organisations in the country, it focusses on high-quality, low-cost and replicable interventions to address gaps in the education system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/towards-ensuring-quality-education-in-ysr-pre-schools/article34114701.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People warned against digital lending, online loan apps||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das has cautioned people against digital lending and online loan apps and advised them to be wary of bogus chit fund companies. Addressing a meeting of the State-level coordination committee of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the Secretariat on Friday, Mr. Das said those duped by fraudulent companies should promptly lodge complaints with the police and the police need to investigate the cases without delay. He called upon the Home and Law Departments, the Crime Investigation Department, etc., to make a concerted effort to curb the menace of dubious firms fleecing people in the name of high-interest deposits and using strong-arm tactics in recovering the exorbitantly charged loans. RBI Regional Director (AP and Telangana) K. Nikhila said the central bank had a mechanism for dealing with companies cheating customers through various schemes. To enable the RBI to achieve the desired results, the Union and the State governments had to work together, she exhorted. RBI General Manager Y. Jaya Kumar gave a presentation on the means to tackling unregistered and bogus chit fund companies and digital lending and online loan platforms. The participants discussed the status of cases booked against firms like AgriGold, Akshaya Gold, Kapil Group, Heera Group, Adarsh Multi-State Cooperative Society, etc,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-warned-against-digital-lending-online-loan-apps/article34114702.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM committed to social justice, women empowerment’||In tune with his commitment to women empowerment and social justice, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has given six out of 11 Mayor posts in urban local bodies to women, and 10 out of 11 to those belonging to the Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and minorities, according to an official release. Seventy-eight percent of the elected mayors and chairpersons hail from Dalit and backward communities, according to the release. Of the 86 posts of Mayor and Chairperson, 52 are women, against the normal quota of 42. Similarly, of the 728 posts of Chairperson and Director of 56 BC corporations, 368 are women and, additionally, one of the Deputy Chief Ministers and the Home Minister are women. Disha police stations The government has provided 50% quota for women and weaker sections in the nominated posts and works as well, the release says. Besides, in a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country, the State government has set up Disha police stations and special courts to deal with offences against women. To check malnutrition and anaemia among pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children aged between 6 and 72 months, the government has brought in YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus and YSR Sampoorna Poshana schemes to provide supplementary nutrition through anganwadi centres. The government has also brought in many schemes focussing on financial empowerment of women such as YSR Cheyutha, Kapu Nestham and Aasara, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-committed-to-social-justice-women-empowerment/article34114703.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘32 railway projects in different stages of planning in State’||Thirty-two railway projects costing Rs. 64,429 crore and covering a length of 5,704 km, falling fully/partly in A.P., are in several stages of planning, approval and execution as on April 1, 2020. “Of them, railway lines measuring 336 km have been commissioned at a cost of Rs. 10,455 crore up to March 2020,” Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal said in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, in reply to a question asked by YSRCP member Parimal Nathwani. The average annual budget allocation for infrastructure projects and safety works in A.P., during 2014-19 had increased to Rs. 2,830 crore from Rs. 886 crore during 2009-14, he said. “It is a 219% increase over the average annual budget allocation of 2009-14,” he said. In 2019-20, the allocation was further increased to Rs. 3,885 crore and to Rs. 4,910 crore in 2020-21. “In 2021-22, the highest-ever outlay of Rs. 5,812 crore has been proposed for these projects,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/32-railway-projects-in-different-stages-of-planning-in-state/article34114781.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies of COVID, toll touches 7,187||The State reported one more COVID death and 246 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The toll reached 7,187 and the cumulative tally increased to 8,92,986. The number of active cases increased to 1,909 and 131 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 8,83,890  and the recovery rate was at 98.98%. So far, 1.467 crore samples were tested, including 31,546 tested in the past day, with a positivity rate of 0.78%. The lone death occurred in Prakasam district and the highest single-day tally of infections was reported by the Guntur district with 58 new cases. It was followed by Chittoor (45), Krishna (37), Visakhapatnam (23), East Godavari (20), Kurnool (15), Kadapa (12), Srikakulam (12), Nellore (7), Vizianagaram (7), Anantapur (5), Prakasam (3) and West Godavari (2). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,777), West Godavari (94,395), Chittoor (88,289), Guntur (76,124), Anantapur (67,924), Nellore (62,573), Prakasam (62,272), Kurnool (61,044), Visakhapatnam (60,359), Kadapa (55,526), Krishna (49,264), Srikakulam (46,344) and Vizianagaram (41,200).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-covid-death-in-state-toll-touches-7187/article34114705.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on implementation of Atrocities Act held||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has stressed the need for proper implementation of Scheduled CastesandScheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, in the State. He participated in the State-level workshop on ‘Implementation of the Act’ (Amended in 2015), at Acharya Nagarjuna University, in Guntur, on Friday. The DGP explained to the officers of various departments on how to implement the Act perfectly, file cases with all evidences and render justice to the victims. Officers of Police, Revenue, Prosecutions, Social Welfare Departments personnel participated in the one-day workshop. Social Welfare Department Principal Secretary K. Sunitha, Crime Investigation Department (CID) Additional DG P.V. Sunil Kumar gave a power point presentation on implementation of SC and ST (POA) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-on-implementation-of-atrocities-act-held/article34114775.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Placement drive held at Siddhartha||Sixteen students of the P.B. Siddhartha College of Arts and Science, pursuing final year B.Sc. Computer Science and BCA have been selected by IT major Cognizant Technology Solutions. In a statement on Friday, training and placement officer Sridhar Kavuri said the selection was made based on the students’ performance in three rounds — online aptitude test, technical interview and HR interview. The students would be absorbed as trainee programmers with a salary package of Rs. 2.52 lakh per annum. Director of the college V. Babu Rao, Dean Rajesh Jampala, staff and students congratulated the selected students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/placement-drive-held-at-siddhartha/article34114774.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 skill development centres to come up in Parliamentary constituencies||Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) Chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy on Friday inaugurated ‘Samyak-2021’, at Koneru Lakshmaiah Deemed to be University (KLU) at Vaddeswaram in Guntur district. More than 20,000 students of different universities across the country will participate in the two-day event through online and offline mode, said KLU Vice-Chancellor L.S.S. Reddy. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy said APSSDC was planning to set up 30 skill development centres in each Parliamentary constituency. Students were being trained in latest technologies to compete in competitive examinations and get good jobs, through the centres, he said. Young professionals were being trained in artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, python and other courses, the official said. 3 centres in KLU Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy said the APSSDC would set up applied robotics control lab, red fine signals lab and artificial intelligence lab at KLU soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-skill-development-centres-to-come-up-in-parliamentary-constituencies/article34114134.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MPs failed to do justice to State: Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Friday accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of failing to question the Union government on unfulfilled promises. In a statement, Mr. Lokesh said that people had elected 22 YSRCP MPs with the hope that they would strive for justice. “But all of them have remained silent and kowtowed to the leaders in New Delhi. The Chief Minister and his 22 MPs have achieved nothing in the last 21 months,” he alleged. Calling upon the voters of Tirupati not to elect a YSRCP candidate again, Mr. Lokesh said the “evidence so far proves that the YSRCP MPs serve their own selfish interests and never work for the common good of the people.” If the TDP candidate, Panabaka Lakshmi, was elected, she would voice the concerns of the people of the State in Parliament, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mps-failed-to-do-justice-to-state-lokesh/article34114699.ece
20 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||259 private schools’ recognition cancelled||The School Education Department has cracked the whip on schools which are running violating the rules. School Education Department Joint Director (Examinations) Subba Reddy on Friday issued orders for closure of 259 private schools across the State. “Recognition of the private schools has been completed by 2019-20, but the managements have not applied for renewal. Some schools were running additional classes without obtaining permission from the government,” said a School Education Department official. Mr. Reddy said the online nominal rolls of the closed schools would not be accepted and the managements of the schools should not make admissions. “Despite several reminders, the school managements did not respond and applied for renewal of recognition. Some institutions do not have proper facilities. Parents can log on towww.bse.ap.gov.in, to know the details of the closed schools,” the School Education Joint Director said. The Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) has inspected many schools across the State and enquired about the facilities in the State. The Commission has recommended for cancellation of recognition of schools which do not have proper facilities. “During inspections, we found that many private schools were lacking facilities. The schools do not have proper buildings, teaching staff, classrooms, drinking water, toilets and other facilities,” said a Commission member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/259-private-schools-recognition-cancelled/article34114780.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps will be taken to provide basic amenities to people: Mayor||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari said that she would focus on development of the city and providing basic amenities to all citizens. Addressing the first press conference after swearing in as the Mayor here on Friday, she said that to understand the issues in the city, she would conduct ‘Dial your Mayor’ programme and visit all wards soon. The Mayor promised to develop wards with the cooperation of the GVMC Commissioner and officials from various departments. Responding to a question, Ms. Kumari said that she did not expect that she would become a Mayor. She said that all the corporators should work together irrespective of the party affiliations to develop their wards. She said that she would ensure all the government welfare schemes reach people without any problems. Ms. Kumari said that an action plan would be prepared to provide drinking water to all people in the city. She said that focus would be laid on providing amenities like roads, street lights, improving sanitation and maintaining greenery. She said that steps will be taken to prevent pollution in the city. “I will strive to increase the pace of works related to various development projects,” she added. She thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving her the opportunity to serve people in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-will-be-taken-to-provide-basic-amenities-to-people-mayor/article34114794.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 persons murdered in separate incidents||Two persons were murdered in separate incidents reportedly by their family members in the city on Friday. Family disputes are suspected to be the reason for the murders. In one case, a 40-year-old man was allegedly killed by his father-in-law and brother-in-law at his residence at Chinnamushidiwada area under the Pendurthi Police Station limits in the early hours. The deceased was identified as K. Chinna, a painter from Kancharapalem. According to the police, Chinna went to his in-law’s house on Thursday night to celebrate his wife’s birthday. After the birthday party, Chinna’s father-in-law Shankar and brother-in-law Ashok reportedly consumed alcohol. Chinna reportedly had an argument with them, who then allegedly hit him on his head with an iron rod. Chinna died on the spot. The police took both the accused into custody. In another case, a 41-year-old man was allegedly murdered by his wife at Dwaram Vari Veedhi near AVN College under One Town police station limits, in the city on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as P. Pundareekaksha (41), a caterer. According to police, Pundareekaksha and his wife Punyavathi were having some disputes. While Punyavathi reportedly suspected her husband’s character, Pundareekaksha was also reportedly used to harass his wife after coming home in an inebriated condition. On Thursday night, they reportedly had a quarrel and Punyavathi allegedly killed him by hitting him on his head with a sharp object. Punyavathi was arrested and sent in remand. Cases were registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-persons-murdered-in-separate-incidents/article34114791.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hallmarked gold jewellery will be available in three grades: official||A workshop on ‘Hallmarking’ conducted jointly by The Visakhapatnam Gold and Silver Merchants Association and Bureau of Indian Standards(BIS), Visakhapatnam branch, to enlighten the importance of the Hallmarking scheme, which comes under mandatory registration as per IS 1417 which is to be implemented with effect from June 1. Scientist & Head of BIS, Visakhapatnam, B. Sandhya, explained to the gold merchants about the Hallmark scheme, terms and conditions and procedure to obtain the licence. She explained that Hallmark gold jewellery would now be available in three grades of 14 carat, 18 carat and 22 carats. The caratage would also be marked on jewellery in addition to fineness for convenience of consumers. For 22 carat jewellery, 22K will be marked in addition to 916 (22K916), for 18 carat jewellery, 18K will be marked in addition to 750 (18K750) and for 14 carat jewellery, 14K will be marked in addition to 585 (14K585). Scientist-C Sakuram G. briefed the enforcement activity and provisions relevant to violations under the Section 15 of the BIS Act, 2016, and penalty for those who contravene the provisions. They could be punished with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to one year or with fine which shall not be less than Rs. 1 lakh and may extend up to five times the value of goods or articles. Around 200 jewellers from various places of the city, Gajuwaka, Bheemili, Tagarapuvalasa and Gopalapatnam. jewellers and representatives of Assaying Hallmark centres attended and agreed to comply with the Hallmarking Regulations, 2018. Visakhapatnam Gold and Silver Merchants Association president M. Srinivas, vice presidents A. Srinivas and Y. Sudhakar, and other members participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hallmarked-gold-jewellery-will-be-available-in-three-grades-official/article34114788.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,435 fined for not wearing helmet||The city traffic police have conducted special drives from March 16 and slapped fines against 3,435 motorists for driving vehicles without helmets. The police also imposed fines against 141 persons on the charges of triple riding, as per the Motor Vehicle Act.  High beam lights In a release on Friday, the traffic police also said that a drive was conducted against those drivers using high beam lights for their four-wheelers, which could possibly harm other drivers. The police have imposed fine of Rs. 1,000 against each driver, apart from removing the high beam lights and installing lights provided by the company. It may be noted that after conducting various awareness campaigns, the traffic police have started to conduct various drives from March 16 to keep a check on traffic violations in the city. Teams of police have been deployed to various areas to take part in the drives. “As of now, the fine imposed for not wearing helmet is Rs. 135. But very soon, most likely from the next month, the fine will be Rs. 1,035. People must not forget wearing helmet, as it for their safety,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, (ADCP- Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3435-fined-for-not-wearing-helmet/article34114792.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC launches air package tours from city||IRCTC has launched special air tour packages from Visakhapatnam to Ayodhya and Meghalaya. The holy ‘Ayodhya Kashi Yatra’ covers Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ayodhya and Lucknow. The cost per head for single occupancy is Rs. 35,070, for double occupancy is Rs. 28,399 and for triple occupancy is Rs. 26.780. This tour will be from April 11 to 16. ‘Magical Meghalaya’ will cover Guwahati, Shillong, Cherrapunji, Mawlynnog and Kaziranga. This tour will be from April 24 to 29. The cost per head for single occupancy is Rs. 36,199, for double occupancy is Rs. 30,099 and for triple occupancy is Rs. 28,059. The packages include air tickets in economy class in IndiGo Airlines, night accommodation in 3 Star hotels, meals (breakfast and dinner). Interested persons can contact the IRCTC Area Office near the Main Entrance (Gate no.1) of Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Platform no. 1 or on the mobile nos. 8287932318 or 8287932281 or on the landline no. 0891-2500695) for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-launches-air-package-tours-from-city/article34114790.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srijana posted as GVMC Commissioner again||IAS Officer G. Srijana has been posted as Commissioner of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) again. The GO, released by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, said that the services of Srijana Gummalla, who is waiting for posting, are placed at the disposal of the Municipal Administration & Urban Development Department for posting her as the Municipal Commissioner of the GVMC. Discom MD The order also stated that IAS officer Nagalakhmi S, who is serving as GVMC Commissioner is transferred and placed at the disposal of the Energy Department to post her as Managing Director, APEPDCL,Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srijana-posted-as-gvmc-commissioner-again/article34114795.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP serves show cause notice on party corporators||TDP Parliamentary District general secretary Pasarla Prasad has issued show cause notices to party corporators Palla Srinivasa Rao (67th ward), Puli Lakshmibai (75th), Gandham Srinivasa Rao(76th) Routhu Srinivasa Rao(79th) Lella Koteswara Rao(86th), Bonda Jagannadham(87th) and Molli Muthyalu (88th).  Explanation sought The TDP corporators were told that allegations have surfaced on their meeting YSR Congress Party MLA Tippala Nagireddy at his home and presenting him with a bouquet. They were asked to give an explanation within two days failing which disciplinary action would be initiated against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-serves-show-cause-notice-on-party-corporators/article34114789.ece
20 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry to organise golf tourney from today||The commemorate its nine decades of establishment, Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI), is organising a golf tournament under the banner ‘Vizagapatam Chamber Commerce Cup’, from Saturday. The finals will be held on Sunday and the prizes will be given away by Lt. Gen. Anbu Devraj, president of the Indian Golf Union. The tourney will be held at East Point Golf Club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizagapatam-chamber-of-commerce-and-industry-to-organise-golf-tourney-from-today/article34114796.ece
20 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prioritise dairy sector, Collector tells bankers||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Friday asked bankers to give more loans for dairy development in the district as it would help farmers generate additional and assured income regularly. Dr. Jawaharlal formally released NABARD’s potential credit-linked plan for the year 2021-22 in the Collectorate. He said that land was acquired for the establishment of 634 bulk milk cooling centres in the district for the growth of the dairy sector. The Collector said that bank transactions would go up in rural areas with the growth of the dairy sector. NABARD Assistant General Manager P. Harish assured the Collector that his suggestion would be taken positively. He said that Rs. 6,730 crore would be disbursed to various schemes and welfare programmes under the new credit plan. “The credit potential for agriculture has been estimated at Rs. 4,297.84 crore and medium- and small-scale industries would get Rs. 1,544.71 crore. Other sectors will also get support under this credit plan,” said Mr. Harish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prioritise-dairy-sector-collector-tells-bankers/article34114723.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cooling formula||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cooling-formula/article34114132.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chirp away||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chirp-away/article34114799.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New parcel office opened at DBS Complex||A new parcel office was inaugurated by APS RTC Vice Chairman and Managing Director R.P. Thakur at the Dwaraka Bus Station (DBS) Complex here on Friday. Mr. Thakur said that cargo parcel service was getting very good response across the State. Executive Director (Vizianagaram Zone) C. Ravi Kumar, ED (Operations) Brahmananda Reddy, Visakhapatnam Regional Manager M.Y. Danam and Deputy Chief Commercial Manager (commercial) A. Vijay Kumar participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-parcel-office-opened-at-dbs-complex/article34114786.ece
20 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Three drown in Godavari||Three persons, including a woman, a boy and a girl, met a watery grave after getting trapped in the undercurrents of the Godavari while taking bath in the river in Bhadrachalam on Friday. Two others were rescued by locals, who pulled the duo out from the deeper point of the river, sources said. The deceased were identified as 40-year-old Varalakshmi, 15-year-old Surekha and 12-year-old Charan. A woman identified as 35-year-old Bhavani, of Ayyappa Colony in the temple town, survived the tragedy but lost her son Charan in the incident. Though the water level in the river is low, the incident took place at the intake well point, where it is deeper. Intake well The tragic incident occurred when Charan drowned while taking bath close to the intake well point in the river in the afternoon. His mother Bhavani and three others, who were washing clothes nearby, tried to save him, but in vain. They too got trapped in the undercurrents and two of them identified as Varalakshmi and Surekha drowned even before the locals rushed to their rescue. Bhavani and another person identified as Veerababu were brought to the shore safely by local youth. They were admitted to the Government Area Hospital in the temple town. Surekha hailed from Mandapeta in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. She along with her family members had come to attend a function at her relative’s house in Bhadrachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-drown-in-godavari/article34114167.ece
20 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||COVID-19 pandemic hits SCCL coal production||Coal production in the Kothagudem Area of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has taken a severe beating in the current financial year 2020-2021 due to COVID-19 pandemic. The Area comprising three opencast projects (OCPs) and two underground coal mines recorded a lower coal output of 88 lakh tonnes so far in the present fiscal as against the annual production target of 145.50 lakh tonnes, sources said. With less than two weeks left in the current fiscal, the goal of reaching the stipulated annual output target appears to be out of reach. The State-owned SCCL suffered major production disruptions owing to the cascading effects of the pandemic mainly during the coronavirus induced layoff period, during which the operations in as many as 22 underground mines/departments were suspended for 50 days in the company’s 11 Areas including the Kothagudem Area. Other factors like the 72-hour strike by a host of central trade unions against the Union Government's move to auction coal blocks for commercial mining and heavy rains that lashed the coal belt region in the last rainy season impacted production in the present fiscal, sources added. The drastic fall in the demand for coal owing to the prolonged shutdown of some of the major coal consuming units during the coronavirus lockdown period hit the coal dispatches in all the 11 Areas of the company. Meanwhile, the SCCL officials of the Kothagudem Area scaled up coal production to the tune of 37,000 coal output daily with just 13 days remaining in the current financial year. The coal production is likely to be up by another five lakh tonnes and the Kothagudem Area is expected to end the present fiscal with an estimated output of 93 lakh tonnes, far lower than the set annual production target of 145.50 lakh tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-pandemic-hits-sccl-coal-production/article34114478.ece
20 March 2021||ETIGADDAKISHTAPUR (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Mallannasagar bund to be ready soon||One can hear sounds of heavy machinery moving here and there from anywhere in the village. The earth movers are pushing the huge rocks and boulders to form the bund wall while few hundred metres away labour are working to fill up the gaps with small rocks as part of building the bund. Hundreds of lorries come one after the another and dump their heavy load of red and black soil and small and medium size rock chips to build the bund for Mallannasagar. The work on Mallannasagar is going on at a fast pace and officials have fixed a target of completing work on the the by May-end and to complete the revetment work by July maximum to ensure that the reservoir is more or less ready by the beginning of rainy season. Out of the eight villages that are going to be submerged under the Mallannasagar, oustees from four villages — Singaram and Erravalli in Kondapaka mandal and Rampur and Lakshmapur in Toguta mandal — had already vacated their homes and the bund works is going on at a fast pace in these village. In the four other villages — Vemulaghat, Etigaddakishtapur, Pallepahad and Brahmana Banjerpally — many of the displaced persons are yet to vacate the village. Those who had already left their homes in the villager are yet to be handed over permanent accommodation at Mutrajpally, though few families have already shifted. The officials involved with the construction say they have fixed a target of completing bund work by May-end. “People from Vemulaghat, Etigaddakishtapur and Pallepahad are yet to leave their village. We cannot take up the bund work there as the construction of the bund would close the approach roads to these villages. Further, there are some structure patch works like sluice at package 17, 18 and 19, Mission Bhagiratha works and Kondapochamma canal works,” explained an official, on condition of anonymity. As construction of revetment work involves large amount manpower, the work may be complete by the end of July before commencement of rainy season. “We are being told that the water would be released into Mallannsagar in the next three months or so. We will be forced to leave our homes before that, in one way or the other,” said a villager, requesting anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallannasagar-bund-to-be-ready-soon/article34114729.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily cases breach 300-mark after two months||The State witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases on March 18 with as many as 313 positive cases being detected. This is the first time in at least two months that the number of positive cases has breached the 300-mark. With the surge in cases, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases now stands over 3.02 lakh. The total number of active cases is 2,434, even as the number of patients in home isolation is 943. According to a bulletin released by the office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, the total number of fatalities recorded on March 18 was two, thus pushing up the total number of COVID-19 deaths to 1,664. As many as 142 persons recovered on the day. With this, the total recoveries stand over 2.98 lakh. The State continued the trend of high testing with as many 62,972 persons being tested. Of this, 27,707 were primary contacts and 7,556 were secondary contacts. As many as 57,488 tests were conducted in government facilities and 5,484 in private facilities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region recorded as many as 47 cases. Rangareddy district recorded a spike on March 18 with 29 cases. This is a marked increase of 10 cases since March 12. Nirmal district, too, recorded a spike with 25 cases, up from just three cases recorded on March 12. Meanwhile, around 32 girls studying in government-run schools, and five parents tested positive in Jagtial and Rajanna-Sircilla districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-cases-breach-300-mark-after-two-months/article34114451.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s economy on V-shaped recovery path||The government’s expectations in the budget on Thursday that there would be significant improvement in the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in the coming financial year owed to several high frequency indicators about State’s economy, which was on the path of a rapid V-shaped recovery. A V-shaped recovery is characterised by a quick and sustained recovery in economic performance after a sharp decline. The socio economic outlook presented to the Assembly during the budget presentation said, on an overall level, high frequency indicators suggested that economic activity had been on the rebound in recent months. As the vaccine implementation programme for COVID rolled out, the State’s rebound was likely to strengthen. This will allow it to build on its strong fundamentals and propel its economy forward. The COVID-19 shock had adversely impacted economic growth all over the world but Telangana’s economy had shown impressive resilience and recovery was already under way. The resilience was led by agriculture and allied sectors, which grew by 20.9%, dwarfing the three per cent growth at the national level. Although industry and services sector contracted by 5.6% and 4.9% respectively, they still fared better than the much steeper contractions nationally. Due to its high growth rate, the agriculture and allied sector contributed a higher share to overall GSDP than in any year since formation. However, at an aggregate level, the services sector continued to contribute the highest share. The service sector contributed 60.3% share in GSDP, higher than the 54.3% contribution of the sector at the all-India level in 2020-21. Sub-sectors within services included trade and repair, private software and IT, real estate, financial, transportation and incidental. The annual growth rate of services had outpaced the growth rate of the sector nationally. Further, financial, real estate and professional services contributed more to the growth of services in the State than the country. IT was the largest sector in this group and a key driver of growth in the State with Hyderabad emerging as one of the world’s leading IT hubs. The government had attracted several large service sector firms through focussed investment promotion efforts. Google, Microsoft and Amazon had their India headquarters in Hyderabad and other companies such as Facebook and IBM had set up offices in city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-economy-on-v-shaped-recovery-path/article34114471.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UK sees Telangana as a key partner for bilateral relations: Minister||United Kingdom considers bilateral relationships with States in India equally important, and Telangana, a hub of pharma industry and which has a huge potential for tourism given its history and culture, makes it a strong partner, said Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon, Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth. Lord Ahmad, who is in Hyderabad as part of a six-day tour to India, said he tried to explore scope for further cooperation between Telangana and the UK in the areas of health, agriculture, agri-tech and education. He earlier visited ICRISAT and also WE Hub that promotes startups. Meeting with KTR The UK Minister was all praise for Telangana IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, and said they both shared their strong belief in technology driving the future and enjoyed the interaction. He also oversaw the signing of a memorandum of understanding between WE Hub, which is the State-led incubator to foster women entrepreneurship, and the University of Bolton, one of UK’s top educational institutes. The partnership for two years will enable cross-channel expansion of WE Hub’s women entrepreneurs into the UK markets. It will also open communication with relevant eco-system players for both parties for future collaborations. Lord Ahmad, who interacted with the selected startups, said WE Hub reflected the wealth of innovation here and in this direction, there is a need to leverage the opportunities. Recalling the role of India during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said the contribution to the pharma sector was phenomenal. The Minister, whose father hailed from Gurdaspur in Punjab, felt it reflected how cooperation between India and UK had benefitted not just for both the countries but also other countries across the globe while ensuring COVID-19 vaccine supply. ‘UK PM to visit soon’ The huge Indian diaspora in the UK ensures strong ties with India, he said reminding that UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be visiting the country soon, in what will be his first foreign tour. That itself reflects the importance of India for UK, said Lord Ahmad, whose mother was born in Jodhpur. The UK Minister, who is quite fluent in Urdu as well, said a growing number of Indian students in the UK also showcases the strong bond between the two countries. There is a 45% growth of Indian students in the last decade and with relaxation of visa norms for their work, he expects the number to further increase. The UK relaxed work visa norms under which international students are eligible to get a two-year work visa after completion of their course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uk-sees-telangana-as-key-partner-for-bilateral-relations-minister/article34114443.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vani Devi leading as counting goes on||Vani Devi, the TRS candidate and daughter of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, has maintained consistent lead in a neck-and-neck fight with BJP candidate N. Ramchander Rao for the Mahabubnagar-RangaReddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ constituency seat for the Telangana Legislative Council, even as the counting reached the elimination rounds on Friday. After seven rounds of counting, that consumed the whole of Thursday, and part of Friday, the total number of valid votes stood at 3,37,039, while 21,309 ballot papers were found to be invalid. The first preference votes for Ms. Vani Devi stood at 1,12,689, while Mr. Ramchander Rao trailed with 1,04,668 votes. K. Nageshwar, who contested as an Independent candidate, secured 53,610 votes. G. Chinna Reddy from Congress got 31,554 votes. The lead by Ms. Vani Devi was consistent through all rounds though the margin was not much to speak of. After seventh and final round, the elimination process had begun. As per the procedure, candidates securing lowest number of first preference votes were eliminated, and the second preference votes polled on their ballot papers were added to the respective candidates’ kitties. In order to win, any candidate must secure at least one vote over and above the 50% mark of the total valid ballots polled. Considering the number of valid ballots at 3,37,039, the winner’s mark is fixed at 1,68,520 votes. Post 9 p.m., after elimination of 49 candidates from a list of 93 in ascending order of the number of first preference votes polled, Ms. Vani Devi secured 1,12,921 votes, and Mr. Ramchander Rao, 1,04,885 votes. Prof. Nageshwar polled 53,747 votes while Mr. Chinna Reddy secured 31,669 votes. More than 3.58 lakh ballots were polled through postal and from 799 polling stations of nine districts as part of the elections, for which the process of counting began on March 17. Bundling of votes took the whole of first day, with actual counting beginning at around 11 p.m. on Wednesday. In Nalgonda, the final batch counting of first preference votes declared at 6 a.m. on Friday made it clear that the second preference vote counting and elimination method was inevitable to arrive at a candidate’s majority for results. As none of the candidates secured the 50% mark votes, Returning Officer Prashant J. Patil convened a meeting with the candidates and informed of the decision to count the second preference votes. The valid summary figure at the end of first preference counting 3,66,333 was divided by two and added by one to arrive at the quota which is 1,83,167 votes. Hence, it is clear that Palla Rajeshwar Reddy needs 1,83,167 minus (–) 1, 10,840 = 72,327 votes to be re-elected as the MLC. Similarly, Independent candidate Teenmar Mallana needs 99,877 and TJS’ M. Kondandaram needs 1,13,095 votes to win the poll. The second preference vote counting started at 7.30 a.m. on Friday. At around 7 p.m., RO Mr. Patil addressed the media at the counting centre and said that a total of 55 candidates were eliminated, and their votes were added to the continuing candidates. The process would take another 24 hours for completion, he added.  (With inputs from Nalgonda reporter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vani-devi-leading-as-counting-goes-on/article34114475.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad Property Show from April 16-18 at Hitex||Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI)-Hyderabad has announced the 10th edition of the ‘Hyderabad Property Show 2021’ from April 16 to 18 at Hitex, Madhapur, adhering to all COVID-19 safety protocols in the design of stalls and also the exhibition layout. President P. Rama Krishna Rao and general secretary V. Rajashekar Reddy told a press conference that the three-day show will showcase properties suiting every requirement and budget by the developers, providing consumers a chance to get the best options for buying a home in the twin cities. They invited fellow members to book their space and for citizens to visit the show as their prospective dream home is available from the “best and most trusted developers”. “This year, the property show will have bigger stall sizes, more open spaces, bigger corridors, a big lounge for meetings because of the COVID-19 protocol. The event will present integrated townships, apartment complexes, gated communities, villas and green buildings with a special impetus on retail and commercial complexes,” they informed. While the previous year was challenging, Hyderabad has emerged as a vibrant city that continues to grow, attract investments and processes streamlined for ease of doing business, Mr Rao said. “All industries are showing signs of remarkable recovery. The discovery of the COVID-19 vaccine is a ray of hope, embodying trust that we can successfully overcome the challenges and conduct normal business,” he added. Mr Reddy pointed out that the city’s real estate industry witnessed investments of about US$1 billion in 2019-2020 and is expected to see a further surge in investments in the coming quarters. The demand for flexible office spaces has risen after pandemic-induced lockdowns with companies going for a hybrid working model work from home and office to maintain social distancing to reduce the risk of contracting the coronavirus,” he asserted. Stating that the safety of visitors and participants would be ensured, they said guidelines have been rolled out to maintain sanitisation of stalls, provision of sanitisers is available at every stall and wearing a mask at all times at the venue will be mandated, they added. Vice-presidents C. Murali Mohan, K. Rajeshwar and V. Venu Vinod were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-property-show-from-apr-16-18/article34114440.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bringing golf lovers together for tee time||The sight of young talent Adish Rajamani and woman golfer K. Pooja putting their skills to test on the National Industrial Security Academy (NISA) golf course can well be inspirational for many budding talent and amateurs to make this venue a preferred destination. “I am enjoying the ambience and hope to be a regular here,” exclaims Pooja, for whom the ongoing NISA Open Golf Tournament, sponsored by Car KIA Automobile Dealers (Jubilee Hills), was her first such experience. Thanks to the efforts of NISA Director C.V. Anand, who played for Hyderabad (under-19 and 22) in cricket and winner of the 40-plus category All India Nationals tennis tournament recently, the nine-hole golf course on the NISA campus presents a perfect platform to move away from the hustle and bustle of the city. The sight of about 100 golfers competing in the first-ever championship at NISA can well be the beginning of a new chapter in promoting golf in a big way for civilians on the NISA campus. “The tournament has the twin objective of creating awareness among civilians about the lush green golf course here and help us in improving the facility,” says Anand in a chat with The Hindu after a round of golf. Membership drive “In future, we are going to throw open the NISA Environmental Park and Training Area but will do the necessary screening and allow the golf enthusiasts by charging what we call ‘green fee’ and will also take up a limited membership drive soon,” he explains, adding that all-out efforts are being made to popularise the course. “We are keen to spend our Rs. 1 lakh monthly grant on sporting activity,” he adds. Senior IPS officer Rajendra Kumar, who is an avid golfer, feels the course is “challenging with lot of trees and bunkers around and near the fairways”. “That should make golfers come back frequently,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bringing-golf-lovers-together-for-tee-time/article34114446.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||GO forms Social Security Board for unorganised workers||The Telangana government has issued a GO constituting the Telangana State Social Security Board (TSSSB) for unorganised workers. It required a PIL and a long legal battle to compel the State into creating a mechanism to create a welfare net for workers as part of the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act 2008. “It is a welcome step, albeit delayed. But, we are not happy with the constitution of the board. There is no representation of women as specified in the sub-section 4 of Section 6 of the Act. Domestic workers are not represented and female agricultural workers, who constitute 57% of the workforce, have also been ignored,” says Usha Seetha Lakshmi, an independent researcher and activist. Among the 28 members of the newly-constituted board, there is zero representation of women. The board has representatives who are government officials, representatives of employers, unions of workers, two MLAs and members from civil society. Among the board members, the employers’ representatives include three builders, two rice millers, gas dealers, and a beedi manufacturer. “Gig workers and platform workers have been left out. Workers with companies like Ola, Uber, Swiggy, Zomato, Dunzo have been ignored though they number about 1.8 lakh. What’s the point of the board if such a large section of workforce is ignored?” asks Shaikh Saluddin of the Indian Federation of App-based Transport Workers (IFAT). The workers’ union has dashed off a mail to Minister of Labour and Employment Malla Reddy demanding inclusion of a representative from gig workers’ union. The 2008 Act makes it mandatory to register workers and create a safety mechanism that can kick in times of crisis like COVID, where millions of workers were rendered jobless. “If the board was constituted earlier and had registered the workers in the unorganised sector, the migrant crisis triggered by the lockdown would have been better handled. The workers could have claimed benefits on the basis of their registration,” says Anant Maringanti of Hyderabad Urban Labs, who was involved in mapping the migrant crisis as it unfolded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/go-constitutes-social-security-board-for-unorganised-workers/article34114466.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Tantrik’ caught with stolen goods||A self-proclaimed ‘tantrik’, 35-year-old Yarkala Balaraju of Bibinagar who was cheating gullible people with a promise to solve their problem with black magic, has been arrested by the Hyderabad city police here on Friday. A team of the sleuths of Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone), led by inspector K. Nageswar Rao, apprehended Balaraju and seized 570 grams of old ornaments worth Rs. 25.65 lakh and a mobile phone from his possession. So far, he cheated six people under the guise of solving their problems through black magic, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P. Radha Kishan Rao said. “He would go to the victims’ houses and makes them believe that he can solve their problems by performing certain rituals like consecration of deity at place of daily worship and then under the guise of performing pooja to solve their problem collect large amounts of cash and gold ornaments from the victims and flees,” he said. The accused pledged some gold ornaments with KLM, Muthoott, IIFL gold finance companies. With the help of goldsmiths, Mr. Balaraju would get the yellow metal melted and and add other metals to increase the quantity and then pledge it with gold finance companies to make a quick buck. Mr. Balaraju along with the seized material was handed over to Market police for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tantrik-caught-with-goods-stolen-from-victims/article34114457.ece
20 March 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||ST Boys’ Hostel emerges as new COVID cluster||Twenty-two students of the ST Boys’ Hostel, Rajendranagar, have tested positive for COVID-19, informed a statement issued by the Office of Commissioner of Tribal Welfare on Friday. A hostel welfare officer and a watchman have also tested positive. “It came to light when the health team conducted random coronavirus tests as scheduled on 18-03-2021 at the hostel premises,” an excerpt from the statement read. As many as seven students each from class X, class IX, and class VIII, and one from class VII have tested positive. According to the statement, as on March 18, all those who tested positive are symptomatic. Acting on the orders of the district administration, the 22 students and two staff members have been kept in isolation at the hostel. They are being looked after by a duty doctor, and medication is also being provided to them. Those who tested negative have been sent home, after transport was arranged for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/st-boys-hostel-emerges-as-new-covid-cluster/article34114448.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Film artiste Kakarala’s wife donates eyes, body||In a heart warming gesture, eyes and body of the octogenarian wife of film artiste Kakarala Satyanarayana were donated for medical use post her demise on Thursday. Kakarala Suryakantham, also known as Kanthi, wished to donate her eyes to the L.V.Prasad Eye Institute, and body to the Osmania Medical College post her death. After her demise at 82 years of age, her family has fulfilled her desire by making the donation, a press statement from the Amarula Bandhu Mitrula Sangham (Martyrs’ Family & Friends’ Association) said, of which the couple held membership. The statement hailed Ms. Suryakantham as committed to alternative political values and culture throughout her life. She willingly sent her two girl children into the revolutionary movement, and remained dedicated to the values, it said. A condolence meeting was organised by the Sangham on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/film-artiste-kakaralas-wife-donates-eyes-body/article34114459.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gurugram move on meat shops flayed||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday criticised the Haryana government after a civic body in that State ordered the closure of meat shops every Tuesday. The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram had reportedly cleared the decks for a closure of meat shops every Tuesday. Reacting to a media report on Twitter, Mr. Owaisi asserted that meat is food for millions of Indians and that it should not be treated as impure. “How can beliefs get hurt by what other people are doing in their private lives? ” Mr. Owaisi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gurugram-move-on-meat-shops-closure-criticised/article34114462.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRAC’ing plant growth||A plant growth monitoring system developed by the Telangana Remote Sensing Application Centre (TRAC) was presented to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials during a meeting on plantation at BRKR Bhavan on Friday. The system facilitates in identifying potential avenue, block and individual sites for plantation through high resolution satellite data. The TRAC also created a portal through which potential plantation site information could be accessed through mobile phone. A dashboard containing complete information about the plantation is also developed by TRAC. The Chief Secretary congratulated the TRAC team headed by Additional Director General G. Srinivas Reddy and observed that this could usher in real change in the field. The system would be a game changer, very timely and was in sync with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s vision of making the State green, he said. It would help the officials to focus on multi-layer avenue plantation, inch by inch plantation along the lakes, roads and scattered land so as to ensure that no area is left vacant, Mr. Somesh Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tracing-plant-growth/article34114468.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP for protection of State president||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday requested Director General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy to provide ‘protection’ to their president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar President in view of “recent attacks on him” and also book cases against those responsible for the incident at Kodad near Suryapet. A delegation of party leaders led by K. Vijayarama Rao met the DGP at his office on Friday and gave a written request stating that Mr. Sanjay Kumar keeps visiting his parliamentary constituency of Karimnagar and also different parts of the State on various party-related activities. ‘Vested interests’ He has also been very aggressively campaigning on behalf of the party for strengthening it and some “vested interests” have developed “negativity” on him and are trying to protest and in some cases trying to “attack him physically or the car he was travelling or his convoy”. Even during the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, a mob had tried to attack his car at Necklace Road here and also during his visit to Karimnagar during the RTC employee’s strike and later, during the Assembly by-elections for Dubbak, there were attempts to block his convoy and attack him physically, they said. At Kodad, the mob had come armed with sticks and rods, stopped the convoy and tried to attack, so a case should be filed, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-for-bandis-protection/article34114469.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Afghan national held||An Afghan national, who was in possession of an Aadhaar card, was recently arrested by the Cyberabad police at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Shamshabad. The accused, Mohd Shafi Ibrahikhil, who arrived from Sharjah and was to travel to Faridabad in Haryana, was detained by the police on suspicion and an inquiry revealed that Shafi was an Afghanistan passport holder, who had an Aadhaar card in the name Shafiullah. It was issued on an address at Lajpat Nagar in Delhi. A case was registered and he was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/afghan-national-held/article34114472.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minister: Budget boost for animal husbandry sector||Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said that the Telangana budget had placed great emphasis on animal husbandry ministry with the allocations and this was bound to reflect in the growth of milk and milk related products with dairies gaining in the State. Speaking to reporters along with Government Whip Gongidi Sunita here on Friday, he said that Vijaya Dairy that was in losses with Rs. 30 crore is now earning profits to the tune of Rs. 60 crore due to the efforts of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his guidance. The turnover of all the dairies in Telangana has now reached Rs. 600 crore benefiting lakhs of people dependent on the sector. He said that the government will release an incentive of Rs. 39 crore for the farmers depending on the dairy and appreciated the dairies coming forward to absorb Re.1 per litre out of the Rs. 4 per litre incentive announced by the government. He said Vijaya Dairy outlets would be increased to 1,000 and new products are being launched to compete with private dairies. The dairy societies have 2.15 lakh members as of now. Praising the Chief Minister, he said that Telangana is on top in sheep rearing in the country due to Mr. KCR’s efforts in providing sheep on subsidy to the Yadava families dependent on sheep rearing. Another three lakh units of sheep would be distributed soon. Ms. Sunita said that the Yadadri temple renovation reflects what Telangana can achieve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-budget-boost-for-animal-husbandry-sector/article34114474.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Digital lab opened for HYSEA programme||Digital transformation solutions company UST in collaboration with Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) and Nirmaan Organization has set up a digital lab at a Women and Child Welfare Department (WCWD) service home in Ameerpet here. The initiative was in support of the Disruptive Digital Intervention (DDI) programme of HYSEA with Nirmaan as the knowledge and implementation partner. The DDI programme serves as a source of learning, supporting students and young women from underprivileged backgrounds to promote their welfare and digital literacy. A release said the lab is well equipped with desktop computers, furniture, power back-ups, computer accessories, high-speed broadband internet connection, a projector room including digital resources, and a salaried IT teacher. It will help around 300 service home students who are studying polytechnic to learn computer basics.  WCWD Commissioner Divya Devarajan, HYSEA president Bharani Kumar Aroll along with Nirmaan’s and UST’s leadership and corporate social responsibility team participated in the inauguration of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/digital-lab-for-hysea-programme/article34114438.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two test positive in OU girls’ hostel||COVID-19 scare visited the Osmania University girls’ hostel after two students tested positive in the tests conducted by the varsity. They were sent to the King Koti hospital for isolation and the hostel was sanitised. The university administration also decided to test all other inmates of the girls’ hostel. The hostels were opened in the third week of February after the government decided to resume academic activity from February. Return to campus Osmania University registrar Ch. Gopal Reddy said third and fourth semester students returned to campus to appear for the semester examinations, as did those pursuing Ph.D courses in the university. After the two girl students tested positive, the varsity decided to test all the 950-odd inmates presently staying in the hostels. Colleges and hostels are closed for first year students as online classes are being conducted for them to ensure that class resumption is done in phases.  The boys’ hostels were also opened recently and tests were conducted there too, but no cases were detected, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-test-positive-in-ou-girls-hostel/article34114444.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Clarity on English needed at policy level: OU prof.||English is increasingly becoming a tool for those who face oppression in society, said Y.L Srinivas, chairman, Board of Studies in English, Osmania University. Delivering a talk as part of Osmania University and University of Western Australia (UWA)’s joint e-lecture series here on Friday, he traced the history of ambivalence towards English language in India and argued for greater clarity at policy level with respect to the status of English. That is necessary given the insistence of New Education Policy on mother-tongue education and the initiatives of the regulatory agencies in introducing regional medium at professional courses. This was the fourth lecture in the series. Kieran Dolin and Tony Hughes of UWA and OU’s English HoD Muralikrishna HoD gave first three lectures on Aboriginal Rights, Landscape, and Mysticism, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clarity-on-english-needed-at-policy-level-ou-prof/article34114477.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable booked for drunk driving||A police constable was booked by Vanasthalipuram police for allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol. Rajujoni Arun (27), a resident of Malakpet, who is currently posted at Bahadurpura police station in Hyderabad Commissionerate, consumed alcohol and went on a long drive till Mahavir Harina Vanasthali National Park, Vanasthalipuram ACP K. Purushotham Reddy said. Around 11 p.m. Mr. Arun picked an argument with transgenders standing there and soon a local police rushed to the spot after getting a Dial 100 call. “He argued with the patrol mobile staff in an inebriated condition and was later taken to traffic police for a breath analyser test, where it was reported that his blood alcohol concentration (BAC) was 145mg per 100 ml of blood,” Mr. Purushotham Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-booked-for-drunk-driving/article34114455.ece
20 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TS has not closed down procurement centres’||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the Telangana government has not announced the closure of procurement centres. He was responding to a question in the Lok Sabha from Nalgonda MP and TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy seeking information on whether the government was aware of Telangana government’s decision to shut down the procurement centres. The Minister said that there are 6,044 procurement centres in Telangana of which 1,953 are IKP Self Help Groups while 4,091 are PACS. During Kharif 2021, he said that 8,84,532 farmers sold 4,75,14,450 quintals of paddy. Among these, 8,51,786 were farmers with less than five acre holdings and 32,756 farmers had more than five acre holdings. The contribution of less than five-acre farmers was 4,04,79,816 quintals while farmers with more than five acres contributed 70,34,633 quintals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-has-not-closed-down-procurement-centres/article34114473.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Air cooler firm mulls plant in the State||Air cooler firm Burly Home Appliances is considering setting up a manufacturing plant in Telangana with an estimated investment of Rs. 50 crore. “We are serious about setting up an air cooler manufacturing plant in Telangana,” Chirag Sharma, director, said at the launch of Khaitan and Burly brands of air coolers here on Thursday. The location and other details were being finalised. It may take a year or more for the facility to be set up. The company plans to sell 2 lakh air coolers in India this season. The market for air cooler is 8-10 crore units, of which share of branded products is 30 lakh units. The market for air coolers in Telangana is 1 crore units and for branded coolers, it is 3 lakh units, a release said. Mr.Sharma said a facility in Hyderabad will take the company closer to the high growth potential market in the southern region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-cooler-firm-mulls-plant-in-ts/article34114439.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AOC induction rally in weightlifting next month||Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) Centre, Secunderabad, will be conducting an open induction rally for sports cadets in ‘Boys Sports Company’ from April 20-24 in weightlifting discipline. In the selection trials, physical and technical skills test in the weightlifting discipline will be held under Sports Authority of India coaches and board of officers. Educational qualification for the candidates is minimum class 5 pass with adequate knowledge in Hindi. For the candidates aged 11 years, minimum height and weight is not applicable. For candidates aged 12 years, minimum height should be 153 cm and minimum weight 35 kg, for 13 years, it is 155 cm and 42 kg and for 14 years, it is 160 cm and 47 kg. Medical test will be ascertained by medical officer of AOC Centre and specialist of Army Sports Medicine Centre. Applicants should not have any type of permanent tattoo on the body. Eligible candidates should report at Ordnance hall, Wellington road, AOC Centre, Secunderabad by 7 a.m. on April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aoc-induction-rally-in-weightlifting/article34114441.ece
20 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TSGCC Super Bazaar at Tekulapalli soon||As part of its ambitious growth strategy, the Telangana State Girijan Cooperative Corporation (TSGCC) is all set to open a Super Bazaar at the upcoming 2-BHK Colony at Tekulapalli in Khammam urban mandal soon. The plan is intended to sell a wide range of TSGCC products under the brand name ‘Giri’ in Khammam, the potential business hub, to boost the retail sales of ‘Giri’ brand products and increase revenue. The Super Bazaar is coming up on the sprawling residential zone housing around 1,000 2-BHK units, almost ready for inauguration at Tekulapalli on the outskirts of the town. The new facility is likely to be opened in a couple of days, TSGCC sources said. It will offer an array of consumer goods, beauty products and groceries, including natural honey, aloe vera based shampoos, herbal soaps, chilli, turmeric and moringa powders, besides ready to cook foods made at the units being run by the Joint Liability Groups of tribal women in Bhadrachalam, Yellandu and elsewhere in the tribal heartland of the State. The TSGCC already has a Super Bazaar in Bhadrachalam in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. It has expedited work on the new super bazaar at Tekulapalli in Khammam to open the facility for consumers soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsgcc-super-bazaar-soon/article34114476.ece
20 March 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Second preference vote counting||After a painstaking two-day counting of about 3.88 lakh ballot papers for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ MLC polls, the final batch counting of first preference votes declared at 6 a.m. on Friday made it clear that the second preference vote counting and elimination method was inevitable to arrive at a candidate’s majority for results. In the sixth batch results at 1 a.m., the three frontrunners TRS’ Palla Rajeshwar Reddy (16,204), Independent Teenmar Mallana (11,910) and TJS’ M. Kondandaram maintained their streak. At about 6 a.m., after the final batch count, they stood with 1,10,840 votes, 83,290 votes and 70,072 votes respectively. BJP candidate Premendar Reddy stood fourth with 39,100 votes. In all 21,636 votes were declared invalid. As none of the candidates secured the 50% mark votes, Returning Officer Prashant J. Patil convened a meeting with the candidates and informed of the decision to count the second preference votes.  The Graduates’ MLC polls here witnessed 71 contestants in the fray. And for the single seat constituency, as per the quota formula, the minimum votes a candidate has to secure for getting elected, the total valid votes are divided by two. If any fraction is ignored, it is added by one. Therefore, the valid summary figure at the end of first preference counting 3,66,333 was divided by two and added by one to arrive at the quota which is 1,83,167 votes. Hence, it is clear that Palla Rajeshwar Reddy needs 1,83,167 minus (–) 1, 10,840 = 72,327 votes to be re-elected as the MLC. Similarly, Independent candidate Teenmar Mallana needs 99,877 and TJS’ M. Kondandaram needs 1,13,095 votes to win the poll. The second preference vote counting started at 7.30 a.m. At around 7 p.m., RO Mr. Patil addressed the media at the counting centre and said that a total of 55 candidates were eliminated, and their votes were added to the continuing candidates. The process would take another 24 hours for completion, he added. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath, pointing to a minor disturbance outside counting hall no. 8 in the evening, said that one of the ballot papers that was forgotten in the hall was handed over to the RO. He reassured that the entire poll exercise was being conducted in a transparent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-preference-vote-counting/article34114732.ece
20 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Edupayala temple closes for a week||The Edupayala Vana Durga Bhavani temple has been closed for one week from Friday as members of the temple staff tested positive for COVID-19. This information was displayed on a banner at the temple gate. Sources said temple executive officer Sara Srinivas is among those to have tested positive for the virus. “The temple is being closed for a week from March 19 to 25. Devotees are requested to cooperate,” read the banner displayed at the temple gate. Medical staff is conducting tests for other temple staff too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/edupayala-temple-closes-for-a-week/article34114447.ece
20 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Demanding the State government to extend Metro Rail service to the district headquarters, the CPI (M) led by senior leader Chukka Ramulu, Beeram Mallesham and others held a padayatra from Patancheru for about 25 kilometres on Friday. “The development at Sangareddy came to grinding halt despite being close to Hyderabad. The gross negligence by the State government was clearly visible. Patancheru is the biggest industrial cluster in Asia. We demand that Patancheru MLA G. Mahipal Reddy and Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy bring pressure on the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34114735.ece
20 March 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘More jobs for Siddipet residents’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that with the establishment of IT Corridor and industrial park will provide more employment for the youth of Siddipet. Participating in several programmes at the district headquarters on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said that as many as 12 buildings for different castes were constructed at Rangadhampally and this has not happened anywhere else in the State. “On directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao we have allocated Rs. 500 crore to MPTCs and ZPTCs in the State budget. Every month we are releasing Rs. 308 crore to the gram panchayats,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-jobs-for-siddipet-residents/article34114731.ece
20 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Govt. wants to diminish self-reliance in grains’||“Like the British forced farmers to grow indigo in 1857, this government wants farmers to do corporate farming,” said Ashish Mittal, general secretary of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha while addressing a press conference called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Friday. “They want us to grow broccoli. They want us to grow crops that are in the corporate interest and diminish our self-reliance in grains,” said Dr. Mittal. On Section 144 being imposed in Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar due to rise in COVID-19 cases, Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said farmers would not leave the protest site. “We are taking precautions but if the government feels we could spread the disease, they could get us vaccinated by organising camps at the border,” he said. Mr. Malik said farmers would not return tired from the Delhi borders. He appealed to the employees of the public sector banks and companies that were being privatised to join the movement. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of Ghazipur protest committee said farmers’ protest should be included in the achievement list brought out by the State govt. on completion of four years in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-wants-to-diminish-self-reliance-in-grains/article34114315.ece
20 March 2021||Noida,||Couple among 4 killed in crash on Yamuna Expressway||A man, his wife and a 12-year-old boy were among four people killed in a collision between their SUV and a pick-up truck on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida on Friday, police said. One person was injured in the crash and has been hospitalised, the police said. According to a police spokesperson, the pick-up truck lost its control after one of its tyres burst and crossed over to the other side of the expressway. “Car occupants Nitin Sharma, his wife Urvashi, a 12-year-old boy, another woman Usha Sharma and Satish Chaudhary were injured and taken to a hospital. Chaudhary is undergoing treatment while rest four were declared dead,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/couple-among-4-killed-in-crash-on-yamuna-expressway/article34114325.ece
20 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||CAG report shows multi-crore scholarship scam in Haryana||A Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report said suspected fraudulent payments of multi-crores of rupees were released by manipulating Aadhaar numbers of students under the post-matric scholarship scheme between 2014 and 2019 in Haryana. “Suspected fraudulent payment of Rs. 18.98 crore was made by manipulating Aadhaar numbers of students. Payment of scholarship of Rs. 9.65 crore was suspected to be fraudulent as their details could not be verified with supporting records,” said the CAG report on ‘Social, General and Economic Sectors’ that was tabled during the recently concluded Budget session in the State Assembly. The report said insufficient scrutiny of income-caste certificates, etc. of students resulted in irregular payment of scholarship totalling to Rs. 1.91 crore. It added suspected fraudulent scholarship payments totalling to Rs. 4.74 crore was made to students studying outside the state. Also, only 52.24% of applications were paid scholarships during 2015-19, while 37% of approved cases were not paid scholarships. The report said that the Technical Education department did not pay a scholarship totalling Rs. 17.98 crore to 7,757 students though the amount was sanctioned and drawn from the treasury. Coverage of SC, OBC Also, Annual Action Plan and database of eligible students to ascertain coverage of Scheduled Caste (SC)/Other Backwards Class (OBC) students under the schemes was not prepared, said the report. The report also added that funds drawn in anticipation of expenditure were kept in bank accounts and unspent funds were not deposited in government accounts resulting in loss of interest of Rs. 6.43 crore to the State exchequer. The post-matric scholarship scheme is Central government sponsored scheme implemented through States and Union Territories to give financial aid to the SC and OBC students who are pursuing post-matric courses through recognised institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/multi-crore-scholarship-scam-in-haryana-cag/article34114346.ece
20 March 2021||FARIDABAD,||Sub-Inspector, his brother arrested for honour killing||A government railway police Sub-Inspector in connivance with his constable brother allegedly murdered his daughter, an engineer, in Ballabgarh for marrying outside their caste in a family of lower financial status. Both the accused have been arrested. Accused Sohan Pal and his brother Shiv Kumar tried to pass off the murder as suicide and cremated the body in a hushed manner at their ancestral village Sahrola without informing the police. However, the deceased Komal’s husband Sagar, suspecting foul play, made a complaint to the police accusing the woman’s father and uncle of murder. The police registered a case against the duo at City Ballabgarh Police Station and arrested them on Friday. Komal and Sagar had fallen for each other while pursuing engineering from a private institute in Faridabad five years ago. After the bachelors degree, Sagar, a resident of Mukesh Colony in Ballabgarh, took up a job in a private company as an electrical engineer, but Komal decided to study further. Sought protection The two got married at an Arya Samaj temple on February 8, and sought protection from the court after they realised that Komal’s parents were unhappy with their relationship. After the court’s intervention, Sohan Pal agreed to their relationship. The two then got engaged on February 19 with the consent of the two families and the wedding was fixed for March 15. But the wedding was postponed. On March 18, Sagar got a call from Komal’s friend saying she had died by suicide. Sagar’s parents went to Komal’s house to find that it was locked and her family had gone to their ancestral village. When they reached the village, the woman’s family told them that Komal had killed herself. Caste, financial status Inspector Sudeep Singh, SHO, Ballabgarh, said that Komal’s family was opposed to the marriage since they belonged to different castes. Also, the woman’s family was financially better off than her in-laws. The accused purportedly told the police during interrogation that Shiv Kumar strangled Komal to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sub-inspector-his-constable-brother-held-for-honour-killing/article34114316.ece
20 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||SP and RLD back ‘social alliance’ to eject BJP in Assembly elections||In what could be seen as the beginning of the campaign for the Assembly elections in 2022, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal vice president Jayant Chaudhary on Friday rooted for a social alliance to oust the Bhartiya Janta Party from power in Uttar Pradesh. Addressing a massive kisan mahapanchayat in Bajna town of Mathura, Mr. Yadav said BJP got into power by dividing people. “Once farmers become united and aware, BJP would be ousted,” said Mr. Yadav. Bajna is considered to be a stronghold of RLD and this was the first meeting against the contentious farm laws where leaders of both the alliance partners shared the stage. Through the farm laws, Mr. Yadav charged, the BJP and its corporate friends were trying to snatch “our farming”. “It won’t be done in a day but over a period of time,” he said. ‘Rise above caste’ Mr. Chaudhary appealed to the farmers to rise above caste and religious barriers, create a social alliance and vote as a unit. “Today, apart from Kisan Ekta Zindabad, I would like to give you the slogan of bhaichara [brotherhood] zindabad . Chaudhary Charan Singh became the leader of farmers not because he was a Jat but because he commanded the respect of different sections of society,” he said. “We want to reach a stage where Akhilesh Yadav could contest from Mathura and I could stand from Ghazipur,” said Mr. Chaudhary. He said a farmer should realise that he wouldn’t survive if his fields didn’t prosper. “I appeal to you to believe in each other. I warn you that the leaders of the ruling party will try to divide you. Their speeches start with a description of riots and end with riots.”  Questioning the employment figures provided by the State government, Mr. Chaudhary said while the BJP leaders talk of the Muzaffarnagar riots and the alleged exodus of Hindus from Kairana, they want to talk about employment and development. He lashed out at U.P. government for spending crores on the fourth-anniversary programmes and advertisements when the youth in the State were facing unemployment and the farmers were not getting the right price of their produce. “The youth and the farmers will annihilate the arrogance of this government in the forthcoming elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sp-and-rld-back-social-alliance-to-eject-bjp-in-assembly-elections/article34114343.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||CCTV footage shows Vaze meeting Hiren on day Scorpio was ‘stolen’||An official of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) claimed on Friday that CCTV footage secured by it showed suspended Assistant Police Inspector (API) Sachin Vaze meeting auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiren the day a Scorpio, which was found with gelatin sticks near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25, was allegedly stolen. The official said the footage near Chhhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus showed Hiren and Mr. Vaze sitting in a Mercedes for 10 minutes on February 17. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later seized the car after arresting Mr. Vaze, he said. Hiren had claimed that on February 17, while he was heading for south Mumbai from his house in Thane, the steering of the Scorpio jammed and he left it on Mulund-Airoli road and proceeded in a cab. The next day he found the SUV missing, he said. The ATS suspects that Hiren handed over the keys of the Scorpio to Mr. Vaze. The NIA arrested the API on March 13 for his alleged role in parking the SUV near Mr. Ambani’s residence. On Friday, Inspector General Anil Shukla and Superintendent of Police Vikram Khalate of the NIA met new Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale. A team from Pune’s forensic science laboratory also arrived in Mumbai in connection with the probe. The NIA officials spent around 30 minutes at Mr. Nagrale’s office. This was the first visit by senior officials of the Central agency after Mr. Nagrale replaced Param Bir Singh. NIA court rejects plea The NIA has also questioned several officials of the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Police to which Mr. Vaze was attached and seized five high-end vehicles, including two Mercedes cars. A special NIA court in the city on Friday rejected Mr. Vaze’s lawyer’s plea to meet him privately while he remains in the NIA’s custody till March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cctv-footage-shows-vaze-meeting-hiren-on-day-scorpio-was-stolen/article34114345.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Kanjurmarg plot better suited for Metro car shed, MMRDA tells HC||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) told the Bombay High Court on Friday that the Kanjurmarg plot was better suited for the Metro car shed than the former site in Aarey colony. The MMRDA, in its reply, filed before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said the plot — admeasuring 102 acres from survey number 275 of the village of Kanjur — is required for constructing the car shed for Metro lines 3, 4 and 6 and an interchange station for the proposed line 14 with line 6. Senior advocate Darius Khambata, who represented the MMRDA, told the court that studies conducted by experts showed that the Kanjurmarg plot was better suited for the Metro shed than the plot in Aarey. Mr. Khambata said, “An expert committee conducted a detailed study and due deliberations were done to finalise the new plot.” The advocate said the Aarey plot was much smaller and could be used for only one Metro line, while the one in Kanjurmarg can accommodate four car sheds. The MMRDA was responding to the plea filed by the Union government, challenging the order by the Mumbai Suburban District Collector allocating the plot in Kanjurmarg for the Metro car shed. The Centre had said the Kanjurmarg plot belonged to its Salt Department. Mr. Khambata said the Union government has no reason to object to where the State government chooses to construct the car shed. The agency, in its reply, said, “For developing the composite Metro car shed, MMRDA has commenced work on the project land of survey, soil investigation, landfilling, drainage, barricading, peripheral roads, etc. pursuant to the handover of advance possession of the project land and has in fact provisioned an amount of Rs. 27 crore till date, in carrying out such operations on the land.” The hearing on the matter will continue on April 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kanjurmarg-plot-better-suited-for-metro-car-shed-mmrda-tells-hc/article34114586.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||HC allows woman’s plea on father’s second marriage||The Bombay High Court recently held that a daughter can question the legality of her father’s second marriage in court. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht was hearing an appeal filed by a 66-year-old woman challenging a family court order that held only parties to a marriage could challenge the validity of the marriage. The woman said after her mother’s death in 2003, her father, a Jain, married a woman from the Dawoodi Bohra community in 2015. In the appeal, the woman said after her father’s death, she realised that his second wife had not finalised her divorce from her previous marriage. She said after her father’s demise, the woman executed his will and gift deeds of various valuable immovable properties, depriving the petitioner and her siblings of their rights. The daughter then moved the family court, seeking that her father’s second marriage to be declared null and void. The court, however, rejected the petition on July 15, 2019. On March 17, the high court ruled, “We cannot concur with the reasoning and conclusion arrived at by the Family Court, which wrongly dismissed the appellant’s petition as being barred. We are satisfied that the order of the Family Court cannot be sustained and allowed the appeal.” The court also directed the family court to expedite the hearing on the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-allows-womans-plea-on-fathers-second-marriage/article34114584.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Aurangabad Bench to hold virtual hearings from Monday||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court said on Friday that it would hold virtual hearings as a temporary measure from March 22. The move came after Surekha Mahajan, president of Aurangabad Bar, submitted a letter to Justice S.V. Gangapurwala, seniormost judge of the Bench, urging the court to hold virtual hearings along with physical ones owing to a spike in COVID-19 cases. Ms. Mahajan told The Hindu , “Rapid tests are being conducted outside the court premises for those who enter and every day 19 to 20 people are found to be positive. So many lawyers have already been affected by the virus, so we feel that there is a need to also have virtual hearings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aurangabad-bench-to-hold-virtual-hearings-from-monday/article34114583.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Deshmukh meets Pawar in Delhi||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday held a meeting with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Delhi. Mr. Deshmukh said he met Mr. Pawar to sort out issues with the multi-modal international cargo hub and airport project in Nagpur. “I gave him all the details. Vidarbha will benefit if the project comes to Nagpur as jobs will be created,” he said. He accepted that developments in the Antilia bomb scare case were also discussed. “Investigation by the NIA and the ATS is going on and the guilty will not be spared,” he said. Though sources claimed that Mr. Deshmukh’s sacking was imminent, the NCP denied it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/deshmukh-meets-pawar-in-delhi/article34114340.ece
20 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Man arrested for availing ITC of Rs. 5.88 cr.||A resident of Kurla, Mansur Beg Ahmad Beg Mogal, has been arrested by CGST officials for availing himself of input tax credit of Rs. 5.88 crore on the basis of fake invoices without actual transaction of goods. The accused had opened a fake office in Kalamboli by showing transactions of Rs. 30.97 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-arrested-for-availing-itc-of-rs-588-cr/article34114341.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Food Ministry vetoes Delhi’s ration delivery scheme||The Centre has vetoed the Delhi government’s scheme for doorstep delivery of rations, titled Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana, which was set to include packaged rice, wheat flour and sugar. Centrally-funded rations given under the National Food Security Act cannot be clubbed with additional State rations under a scheme with a new name, the Food Ministry told the Delhi government on Friday. The NFSA provides 5kg of subsidised rice and wheat per month to 81 crore people across the country through a network of fair price shops. The scheme approved by the Delhi Cabinet in July 2020 at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic proposed to process and package these grains into wheat flour and packaged rice, add a ration of sugar and deliver it directly to citizens, so they would not have to queue up at the shops. The Centre has now put a stop to the Delhi government’s plans to roll out the scheme by the end of the month. Subsidised foodgrains being allotted by the Food Ministry under the NFSA cannot be used to operationalise any State-specific scheme using a different name, said Food Ministry joint secretary S. Jagannathan in a letter to Delhi Food Secretary Padmini Singla on Friday. “While States may like to enhance the distribution of subsidised foodgrains, including additional entitlements, more subsidy, etc, the nomenclature [change] from NFSA to any State scheme name may be misinterpreted by the beneficiaries as State benefit and may give rise to confusion regarding their rights under the Act,” said the letter. It added that while the use of a new scheme name to distribute NFSA foodgrains was not permissible, “this department will have no objection if a separate scheme is made by the State government without mixing the elements of the NFSA foodgrains”. “If all the States and Union Territories start changing the basic rules of PDS [or Public Distribution System] implementation, it will become almost impossible to implement it nationwide. Measurable tools of PDS monitoring will also break down. States are free to have their own schemes over and above this,” added a Food Ministry spokesperson.  If all the States and Union Territories start changing the basic rules of PDS implementation, it will become almost impossible to implement it nationwide. Food Ministry spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/food-ministry-vetoes-delhis-ration-delivery-scheme/article34114338.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tihar plans vaccine centre within premises||The presence of ‘high-risk’ prisoners like — Chota Rajan and Mohammad Shahabuddin — forced the Tihar jail administration to explore setting up a COVID-19 vaccination camp within the jail premises, said authorities on Friday. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said they are also exploring ways to set up vaccination camps inside the jail premises to avoid taking out high-risk inmates to hospitals. They are taking out to only those prisoners who are willing to get the vaccination. On Thursday, the Tihar jail administration started the COVID-19 vaccination of inmates. On day one, 13 inmates took the jab. On Friday, seven inmates were administered the vaccine. According to a senior jail official, the inmates were taken out of the premises for the vaccination at the nearest centre. A total of 20 inmates of Delhi prisons, who are aged 60 and above, and those in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities, have received their first jab. “The inmates of Tihar jail were taken nearest vaccination center like Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital. The Rohini Jail inmates were taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital and Mandoli Jail inmates to GTB hospital,” the officer said. Delay in vaccination  The Hindu on March 12 had reported a delay in vaccination of inmates in the absence of the registration process. The jail staff was completely vaccinated but there was no procedure for the same for inmates. Jail authorities had written to Delhi government for the earliest solution. “We spoke to the families of the inmates who were eligible for the vaccination. We requested them to send the government ID proofs of the inmate on WhatsApp as it will be required for the registration. Then, the inmates were taken to the nearest government hospital under the police guard for the vaccination,” said a senior officer.   A total of 20 inmates of Delhi prisons, who are aged 60 and above, and those in 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities, have received their first jab||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/to-avoid-taking-out-high-risk-prisoners-tihar-plans-vaccine-centre-on-the-premises/article34114339.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||AAP urges Centre not to interfere in Kejriwal’s flagship programme||The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday accused the BJP-led Centre of asking the Delhi government to withdraw the Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana or doorstep delivery of ration scheme. The scheme was scheduled to be launched on March 25. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj appealed to the Centre “not to interfere in such matters” of the Delhi government as this was against the mandate of the people of Delhi and public good. “The doorstep delivery of ration is the flagship programme of AAP government under the leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Every State government provides ration to the poor. Each month, the State government distributes ration to families based on their size,” he said. “We are well aware of the several drawbacks of the ration distribution system across India. Generally, the ration shops should be opened every day but that never happens. They open on just two-three days and there are long queues outside the shops. The poor get their ration, which is their right, after going through a lot of trouble,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal had worked in the food welfare sector in Seemapuri for many years and knows that ration dealers get very little commission, which is why they indulge in corruption, he said. Earlier, the commission for the ration dealers was just 35 paise but the Kejriwal government increased it to Rs. 2, Mr. Bharadwaj, adding that this was the highest commission for ration dealers across India. The Centre still provides 35 paise as commission, he added. “Despite the increase in the commission of the ration dealers, there were several complaints from the poor that in Delhi the shops do not open regularly. To get just 5kg of ration, a poor person needs to stand in the queue from the morning, leaving his work. Taking cognisance of the situation, for the last 3-4 years, the Delhi government developed the scheme of home delivery of ration. Under this scheme, ration is packed by the Delhi government and delivered to the people.” He said, “This will ensure that every poor person gets ration at their doorstep. The scheme is now fully ready, and the Chief Minister was supposed to launch it on 25th March at Seemapuri’s JJ cluster. The Centre and the food and civil supply Ministry were fully aware of this scheme. It is the best scheme for the poor because they are able to receive ration without any hurdle. This scheme would have prevented rampant corruption,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-urges-centre-not-to-interfere-in-kejriwals-flagship-programme/article34114335.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records highest no. of COVID-19 cases this year||The Capital on Friday recorded 716 new COVID-19 cases — the highest number of cases this year, according to the Delhi government health bulletin. Four new deaths It also stated that 77,352 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.93%. There were four deaths reported in the same period. The total number of active cases in the city now stands at 3,165. On Thursday, 607 cases were reported — the highest in over two months. The total number of cases now stands at 6,46,348 and deaths at 10,953. A total of 29,499 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Friday and there were two minor AEFI. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday tweeted: “Taking cognisance of the sudden surge in the COVID cases, all Delhi Govt hospitals will hereby operate vaccination sites in their premises till at least 9pm. Adequate man power will be deployed to ensure the same. I request Delhiites to follow proper protocols and stay safe! [sic]”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-records-highest-no-of-fresh-covid-cases-this-year/article34114333.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Minister takes stock of land encroachment||Social Welfare Minister and Seemapuri MLA Rajendra Pal Gautam visited his constituency along with Delhi Development Authority (DDA) officials to address the growing concerns of encroachment and illegal occupation of DDA land here on Friday. The Minister said that he had written to authorities repeatedly to resolve the issue. While inspecting the DDA land of F One block and O block of Sunder Nagri, he gave strict instructions to remove all encroachments and illegal occupations soon. On March 17, at a meeting at the Delhi Secretariat where officials of DDA and other related agencies were also present, it was decided that on the spot inspection should be conducted for a permanent solution to the illegal occupation. Mr. Gautam said that if a community building were to be constructed there, it will be useful for the local residents, and could even become a source of income for the DDA. He also said that if the DDA does not want any construction to be done, they may give relevant NOC to the Delhi govt., who can then construct a public utility project from the MLA fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/minister-takes-stock-of-land-encroachment/article34114580.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jatin- mahapanchayat brief||The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday announced that its national convener Arvind Kejriwal will address a mahapanchayat against the three contentious agriculture laws at Jind in Haryana on April 4. Haryana AAP co-incharge Sushil Gupta said the party has been continuously raising the voice of the farmers from Parliament to the roads. “Every single worker of the party has been engaged in the service of the farmers sitting on the border with their righteous demands,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jatin-mahapanchayat-brief/article34114336.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight for future||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fight-for-future/article34114582.ece
20 March 2021||Washington,||U.S., China spar at Alaska meet||The Biden administration’s first bilateral engagement with Beijing got off to a rocky start as the two sides traded barbs with each other in front of the press, during the opening session of their dialogue in Anchorage, Alaska. The U.S. side, led by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, opened with remarks that included references to China’s actions in Tibet, Hong Kong, Xinjiang and accused Beijing of economic coercion. The Chinese side, led by Director of Foreign Affairs Yang Jiechi and State Councilor Wang Yi, questioned the U.S. narrative of China’s role in the world and expressed, often sarcastically, its own concerns about U.S. actions — domestic and international. Earlier this month, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price had said the U.S. would “certainly not pull any punches” while discussing its disagreements with China. Thursday’s opening remarks made evident that neither side was pulling any punches. In his opening remarks, Mr. Blinken spoke of the rules based-international order. “The alternative to a rules-based order is a world in which might makes right and winners take all, and that would be a far more violent and unstable world for all of us,” he said, apparently referring to a China-led world order. He also said the U.S. would like to discuss its “deep concerns” with China’s actions in Xinjiang, Taiwan, Hong Kong, cyber attacks on the U.S. and “economic coercion” with regard to U.S. allies. “Each of these actions threaten the rules-based order that maintains global stability. That’s why they’re not merely internal matters and why we feel an obligation to raise these issues here today,” he said. The main priorities of the U.S.’s approach to China and the world were the interests of the American people and protection of allies’ interests, Mr. Sullivan told the Chinese delegation. Mr. Yang said China and the international community were following a UN-led order not “the so called ‘rules-based’ international order”. In an apparent reference to U.S. actions, Mr. Yang said: “We do not believe in invading through the use of force, or to topple other regimes through various means, or to massacre the people of other countries, because all of those would only cause turmoil and instability in this world.” He also called the discussion a “strategic dialogue” as Chinese officials had been doing in the run-up to the Anchorage interaction, in contrast to Mr. Blinken and his colleagues, who had repeatedly emphasised that they did not consider this a strategic dialogue. U.S. officials have said future discussions would be contingent on China changing its behaviour. Mr. Yang, in an apparent tit-for-tat reference to human rights issues, said America faced “deep seated” challenges on the rights front and cited the Black Lives Matter movement. He also called the U.S. a “champion” with regard to cyberattack capabilities. Mr. Wang accused the U.S. of wanting to create an advantage for itself going into the talks by imposing sanctions on Chinese and Hong Kong officials. The State Department had announced sanctions on March 16 in response to Beijing’s move to decrease the proportion of democratically elected lawmakers in Hong Kong’s legislature. “This is not supposed to be the way one should welcome his guests,” Mr. Wang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-spar-at-alaska-meet/article34114019.ece
20 March 2021||COLOMBO,||‘We’ve high hopes on India at HRC’||The Tamil National Alliance’s (TNA) “hopes are high” that India will vote for the UN resolution on promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights in Sri Lanka next week, according to its spokesman and Jaffna legislator M.A. Sumanthiran. Whether India votes for the resolution or abstains is “entirely a matter that they will decide”, but the TNA’s expectations are “clearly” that India must support and vote for the resolution, he says, speaking to The Hindu on the coming vote. Despite its diminished presence in Parliament since the August 2020 general elections, the TNA remains the largest grouping representing the Tamils of the north and east in Sri Lanka, with 10 MPs in the 225-member House. “Our hopes are high this time, since India’s statement at the Interactive Dialogue segment placed the political aspirations of the Tamil people on par with recognising the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka,” Mr. Sumanthiran says, referring to the intervention made by India’s Permanent Representative in Geneva, on February 25. The Jaffna parliamentarian’s optimism about India’s likely vote is akin to that expressed by the Rajapaksa administration, which wants the exact opposite outcome on the resolution that the 47 members of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva will get to vote on next week. Colombo has sought India’s support at the highest levels to defeat the resolution, and Sri Lanka’s Foreign Secretary Jayanath Colombage has said India has “assured” Sri Lanka of its support , although New Delhi has made no official statement in this regard. However, citing India’s past voting patterns, vis-à-vis the seven UN resolutions on Sri Lanka since 2009, Mr. Sumanthiran points out that India has voted in favour of resolutions thrice — in 2009, 2012 and 2013 – while abstaining in 2014. “Given this track record, we do not expect India to vote against the resolution.” Low expectations Although the TNA is campaigning for the resolution to be adopted, most of Sri Lanka’s Tamil leadership, including the TNA, have already lowered their expectations of the Council, especially on accountability. In a joint letter to member states in January, TNA leader R. Sampanthan, Tamil National People’s Front leader G.G. Ponnambalam, and Tamil Makkal Tesiya Kootani leader and former Chief Minister of the Northern Province C.V. Wigneswaran, along with some civil society organisations, sought to shift the question of accountability from the Council in Geneva to New York, to the UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council, which can refer the matter to the International Criminal Court (ICC). All the same the draft resolution accommodating some of the key issues highlighted in their joint letter is significant, according to Mr. Sumanthiran. “The prosecutorial mechanism has been left out, that is something we asked for; it stresses the importance of a comprehensive accountability process, while noting the lack of accountability in domestic mechanisms. So, although the resolution does not name the ICC — which anyway it cannot do since it has no mandate — it very clearly points to the ICC when these are read together.” But some Tamil politicians and activists deem the resolution “watered down”, and criticise the TNA for supporting a “weak resolution” that does not factor in all the demands of Tamil people. “Weak or strong has to be evaluated in the context of what a world body such as the UN Human Rights Council can actually achieve. Given the powers of the Council, and the composition of the Council, I don’t think this is a weak resolution at all,” Mr. Sumanthiran says in response, asking critics if they are siding with the government that wants the resolution defeated. Regardless of their clashing views on the resolution itself, both the TNA and its detractors would know well that taking Sri Lanka’s case to the ICC, as they had collectively sought, is not easy. The Government of Sri Lanka has categorically rejected international mechanisms. Further, UN bodies are not immune to geopolitical realities that play out and influence them. Mr. Sumanthiran agrees. “Yes, one cannot go to the ICC without the cooperation of Sri Lanka. Or to a referral by the Security Council, where permanent members have veto powers. It seems almost impossible to go to the ICC, for instance, in the prevailing situation, but conditions do change, geopolitics also changes,” he notes, invoking India’s example. Going back to 1987 when the Indo-Lanka Accord was signed, he recalls India’s alignment “more with Russia than the USA”, in the prolonged Cold War. “India was a regional power then, but perhaps not considered the regional superpower. Compare that with the current geopolitical reality, it is very, very different. China has entered the picture, as one that challenges the sole world power, the U.S. India is a regional superpower, and also aligned with the U.S. at least in so far as opposition to China is concerned. So, the equations have changed quite a bit.” ‘Govt. is desperate’ While acknowledging the difficulty in predicting exactly how countries may align or act in future, Mr. Sumanthiran still sees value in collecting and preserving evidence — that the resolution includes — for use at a future date. Pinning hopes on possible changes in international law and geopolitical factors, he speaks of a time “when it may become possible to actually refer the matter to the ICC, or to any other mechanism that may be available at that time. And I say this because the ICC itself is less than 20 years old.” Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan government is “desperate to somehow avoid a debacle in Geneva”, he notes, referring to three recent moves — reversing the mandatory cremations policy for COVID-19 victims , the President wanting to meet families of the disappeared, and the President asking officials to prepare for Provincial Council elections. “But the lack of genuineness is there for all to see in the way they have approached all three matters,” he says, pointing to the government’s controversial choice of burial sites far away from capital Colombo, the lack of any follow-up since the announcement on meeting families of the disappeared, and the conflicting signals emerging from the government on provincial council elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/weve-high-hopes-on-india-at-hrc/article34114017.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||New phase of U.S.-China ties comes with tests for India||A sharp exchange between top U.S. and Chinese officials in Alaska on Friday, played out fully in the eyes of the gathered media, marked the start of a new phase in U.S.-China relations — one that comes with fresh challenges for India. If the acrimonious public exchange appeared to be a surprising departure from the diplomatic norms usually followed in such scripted meetings, it was, on one level, entirely expected. After all, both sides had made clear in the lead-up to the Biden administration’s first in-person engagement with China that the meeting in Anchorage was more about drawing red lines than any real attempt at a reset. Even describing what the meeting actually was had emerged as a point of discord, labelled by Beijing as a “strategic dialogue” even as Washington disputed that description. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, accompanied by National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan for the talks with Yang Jiechi, Politburo member and Director of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs, and Wang Yi, the Foreign Minister, set the tone by expressing “deep concerns with actions by China, including in Xinjiang, Hong Kong, Taiwan, cyberattacks on the U.S., and economic coercion toward our allies”.  What followed was a 16-minute speech from Mr. Yang, going far beyond the expected two-minute opening statement. To Washington’s contention that it was engaging China from a position of strength — the Alaska meeting pointedly followed the Quad leaders’ summit last week and Mr. Blinken’s recent visits to Japan and South Korea — Mr. Yang retorted, “the U.S. does not have the qualification to say that it wants to speak to China from a position of strength”. The remarks were widely circulated in the Chinese media, welcomed as reflecting a new dynamic in the relationship. The message from Beijing was that if Washington expected this meet to be about a one-way drawing of the red-lines, it was clearly mistaken. Meanwhile, the unequivocal message from Washington was that the Biden administration will certainly not be an Obama 2.0, a time when both sides emphasised cooperation. Key takeaways The main takeaway from Alaska is that any reset in ties from the turbulent Trump era is unlikely. At the same time, the acrimonious beginning, which to some degree was a result of public posturing by both sides who were concerned about sending the right messages to their audiences at home, may give way to some cautious engagement. If China made a concession by travelling to Alaska, a point made by its officials, a return visit to Beijing by Mr. Blinken in coming months, should it take place, will underline that both sides are still seeking spaces to work together amid the rancour. Both, for instance, could still agree to cooperate on issues like climate change, the global economic recovery, and Afghanistan. The other takeaway is the emergence of a drawing of battle lines between Washington and its allies on one side, and on the other, Beijing and its main ally when it comes to the Indo-Pacific and Eurasia, Russia. China was quick to announce, before the Alaska talks, that Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will visit Beijing, days after President Biden called Russia’s Vladimir Putin “a killer”. This will particularly pose a test for India’s diplomacy, starting with affecting India’s defence supplies from Russia, with the U.S. making it clear that importing Russian equipment like the S-400 missile defence system will attract sanctions as well as the U.S. withholding high-tech exports. While India confronts its own problems with China amid a slow-moving disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it has still made clear it does not want to be part of any alliances. This balancing act is reflected in India’s varying multilateral engagements, ranging from the Quad to groupings like RIC (Russia-India-China), the BRICS, and the China and Russia-led Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The U.S.-China divide will also mean a tightrope walk for India at the UN Security Council, where it is serving a two-year term as non-permanent member, as the split between the U.S., the U.K. and France on the one hand and Russia and China on the other grows ever wider, as seen in response to the Myanmar coup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-phase-of-us-china-ties-comes-with-tests-for-india/article34114013.ece
20 March 2021||Geneva,||WHO renews backing for AstraZeneca vaccine||The World Health Organization gave strong backing to the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine on Friday, urging countries to maintain the roll-out after reviewing reports of blood clots. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said there was “no question” over the benefits after the WHO’s vaccine safety experts found no increase in clotting conditions linked to an AstraZeneca shot. Several European countries resumed AstraZeneca vaccinations on Friday after the European Medicines Agency (EMA) gave their green light on Thursday. “There is no question: Covid-19 is a deadly disease and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine can prevent it. We urge countries to continue using this important vaccine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-renews-backing-for-astrazeneca-vaccine/article34114093.ece
20 March 2021||Kabul,||In a surprise move, Ghani replaces Security Ministers||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani dismissed two leading Ministers charged with the country’s faltering security on Friday, in a surprise announcement a day after a major conference in Russia called for a reduction in fighting. In a statement from the President’s national security council, the palace announced Army Chief of Staff General Mohammad Yasin Zia would double as Defence Minister, replacing Asadullah Khalid, who is believed to be suffering from serious health issues. Former Kandahar and Nangarhar Governor Hayatullah Hayat, meanwhile, will take over the Interior Ministry from Masoud Andarabi, with the palace citing the need to improve “the security situation” in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-a-surprise-move-ghani-replaces-security-ministers/article34114014.ece
20 March 2021||Dubai,||Houthis march on Yemen’s Marib||Yemen’s Iran-backed Houthi rebels have made major advances on Marib city after seizing a strategic mountain in clashes that caused dozens of casualties on both sides, government sources said on Friday. The Houthis and the internationally recognised government have been locked in a power struggle since 2014, when the rebels seized control of the Yemeni capital Sanaa. Since last month, the rebels have been pushing to seize Marib, the government’s last northern stronghold and the capital of an oil-rich region. The Houthi rebels “took control of Mount Hilan overlooking the city, after fighting which left dozens of dead and wounded on both sides,” a source said. The loss of Marib would be a huge blow for the Yemeni government, but would also affect civilians, including one million displaced people sheltering in desolate camps in the surrounding desert. The Houthis had “cut the supply lines of some fronts and are now within firing range of the Al-Mashjab line west of Marib city,” the source added. Meanwhile, a drone strike sparked a fire at a Riyadh oil refinery on Friday, in an attack claimed by Houthis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/houthis-march-on-yemens-marib/article34114015.ece
20 March 2021||Dar es Salaam,||Tanzania swears in first female president after Magufuli's sudden death||Samia Suluhu Hassan was on Friday sworn in as Tanzania's first female President after her predecessor, John Magufuli, died from illness on Thursday. Ms. Hassan, 61, will finish Magufuli's second five-year term, set to run until 2025.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tanzania-swears-in-first-female-president-after-magufulis-sudden-death/article34114021.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The message in Alaska, from Washington to Beijing||A week after the first Leaders’ Summit of the Quadrilateral Framework, held on March 12, the message of the virtual meeting between leaders of Australia-India-Japan-the United States was delivered directly to Beijing, as U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken and Yang Jiechi, Chinese Communist Party Politburo member and Director of the Central Foreign Affairs Commission Office, accompanied by U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, and Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councillor Wang Yi, met in Anchorage, Alaska. Quad in focus The message was broadly a three-pronged one: that under the new U.S. President, “America is back” in terms of its desire to play a leading role in other regions, that it views China as its primary challenger for that leadership, and that the Quad partnership is ready to mount a counter-challenge, albeit in “soft-power” terms at present, in order to do so. In the Quad’s joint statement (https://bit.ly/3cS1sjk) — its first — and in the joint editorial (https://wapo.st/3tBiOI1) by U.S. President Joe Biden and Prime Ministers Narendra Modi (India), Scott Morrison (Australia) and Yoshihide Suga (Japan), direct mentions of China may have been absent, but senior officials have made it clear that they were not overlooked in the conversation. Briefing the media about the Quad Summit, Mr. Sullivan said that Quad partners had raised their issues with China, including: “[China’s] coercion of Australia, their harassment around the Senkaku Islands, their aggression on the border with India”, which were then taken up during the talks with Mr. Wang and Mr. Yang. The fact that the talks in Alaska were prefaced by the Quad summit, as well as visits to Tokyo and Seoul (by Mr. Blinken and U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin; Mr. Austin will visit Delhi this weekend), and also a visit to Canberra by U.S. Indo-Pacific coordinator Kurt Campbell, is no coincidence, and part of the concerted messaging from Washington to Beijing. For both Japan and Australia, that are military allies of the U.S., and completely aligned on Indo-Pacific policy, the outcomes of the summit, both in terms of the “3C’s”working groups (established on COVID-19 vaccines, Climate Change and Critical Technology), and in terms of this messaging to the “4th C” (China) are very welcome. Vaccine diplomacy For India, however, the outcomes of the Quad Summit need more nuanced analysis. On the “3C’s Working groups”, it is clear that New Delhi is on board, but with some riders. The vaccine initiative, for example, is a major boost for India’s pharmaceutical prowess, which has already been proven during the current pandemic. India is not only the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines (by number of doses produced and sold globally), it has already exported 58 million doses to nearly 71 countries worldwide as commercial shipments, grants and those funded by the Gavi COVAX initiative. Manufacturing a billion doses for South East Asia (under the Quad), over and above its current international commitments, as well domestic goals to vaccinate 300 million people as originally planned by September (900 million adults in total, i.e. 1.8 billion doses) will require a major ramp up in capacity and funding, and will bear testimony to the power of Quad cooperation, if realised. However, the effort could have been made much easier had India’s Quad partners also announced dropping their opposition to India’s plea at the World Trade Organization, which it filed along with South Africa in October 2020 (https://bit.ly/3c1dtE5), seeking waiver from certain provisions of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights for the prevention, containment and treatment of COVID-19 . It is surprising that the summit did not seek to bridge differences over this issue (it has seen eight fractious rounds of talks in Geneva, with the next round expected in June 2021) when the leaders discussed how to increase India’s production capabilities. Climate change, technologies On climate change, India has welcomed the return of the U.S. to the Paris accord, after former U.S. President Donald Trump decided to walk out of American climate change commitments. However, while Mr. Biden has promised to restart the U.S.’s funding of the global Green Climate Fund, which Mr. Trump ended, India still awaits a large part of the $1.4 billion commitment by the U.S. to finance solar technology in 2016, which Mr. Trump subsequently slowed down on. Mr. Biden might also consider joining the International Solar Alliance, founded by India and France, which the other Quad members are a part of (https://bit.ly/3tyTthW), but the U.S., which promised to do so in 2016, has resisted. Meanwhile, on the Quad working group set up to cooperate on critical technologies, India will welcome any assistance in reducing its dependence on Chinese telecommunication equipment and in finding new sources of rare-earth minerals, but would oppose any move by the other Quad partners to weigh in on international rule-making on digital economy, or data localisation which had led New Delhi to walk out of the Japan-led “Osaka track declaration” at the G-20 in 2019. Handling China It is on the “4th C”, however, where it is still unclear how far the Narendra Modi government can go on the Quad’s intended outcomes, especially on “collaboration, including in maritime security, to meet challenges to the rules-based maritime order in the East and South China Seas,” as the joint statement reads. While India shares the deep concerns and the tough messaging set out by the Quad on China, especially after the year-long stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the killings at Galwan that India has faced, it has demurred from any non-bilateral statement on it. India is the only Quad member not a part of the military alliance that binds the others, the only Quad country with a land boundary with China, and the only Quad country which lives in a neighbourhood where China has made deep inroads. Indian officials are still engaged in LAC disengagement talks that have thus far yielded only a phase-1 disengagement at Pangong Lake; they have a long way to go to de-escalation or status quo ante . The violence at the LAC has also left three long-term impacts on Indian strategic planning: First, the government must now expend more resources, troops, infrastructure funds to the LAC than ever before, in order to leave no part of the once peaceful LAC unmanned and ensure no recurrence of the People's Liberation Army April 2020 incursions. Second, that India’s most potent territorial threat will not be from either China or Pakistan, but from both, or what the Indian Army Chief Manoj Mukund Naravane called a “two-front situation”. Third, that India’s continental threat perception will need to be prioritised against any maritime commitments the Quad may claim, especially further afield in the Pacific Ocean. Direction for India The Modi government has said that it sees the Quad formation as it does its other multilateral commitments including the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Central Asia, BRICS (or Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) in the emerging economies, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation/Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation in the neighbourhood, etc and seeks to broaden the space for its principle of Strategic Autonomy; not narrow its bilateral choices. In that sense, the Quad’s ideology of a “diamond of democracies” can only succeed if it does not insist on exclusivity in India’s strategic calculations. Those who speak of Robert Kaplan’s book, Monsoon , which proposed a greater role for the U.S. in the Indian Ocean as the inspiration for America’s current Quad strategy, would do well to also read Mr. Kaplan’s sequel, The Revenge of Geography , in which he makes the case that the world “continues to evolve according to the dictates of physical terrain, frustrating the proponents of human agency”. The truth is, despite last week’s Quad Summit, India’s choices for its Quad strategy will continue to be guided as much by its location on land as it is by its close friendships with fellow democracies, the U.S., Japan and Australia, across the seas. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-message-in-alaska-from-washington-to-beijing/article34113989.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||A booster shot for India’s vaccination plan||More than a third of all vaccinations done in the world each day are in India (https://bit.ly/3r6PJT3). With over 40,000 sites, it is heartening to see how India is shaping the COVID-19 vaccination programme. Yet, these are baby steps, and there is a long way ahead in covering the vulnerable. Here is why (https://bit.ly/3lxRN5m). So far, India has vaccinated only 3.2% of the adult population (https://bit.ly/3c6kFyV). Although the country covered 2.6 million doses per day on March 15, the seven-day rolling average hovers only around 0.11 per 100 people (https://bit.ly/3eWHQNN). This slow pace, which is also cause for concern, does not constitute an appropriate response when compared to India’s true potential in scaling up vaccination. Steps to scale up India has identified a target of 300 million vulnerable population (https://bit.ly/3eVtlK5), but there is neither a definitive time frame attached to it nor any specifics on the process. With COVID-19 cases on the rise again in different parts of the country, time is running out. If India can vaccinate 10 million people per day, the vulnerable can be protected over the next two to three months. However, this requires speeding up the pace by five times. Given that India has 300,000 trained vaccinators (217780 auxiliary nurse midwives and over one lakh nurses;https://bit.ly/3s77q6Cand https://bit.ly/30UR19k), nearly three million people can be covered each day by the public health workforce. They are trained in vaccinating millions of children routinely through outreach sessions. Thus, they can easily cover two million doses per day routinely. By expanding participation by private health facilities, it would be possible to cover more than seven to 10 million doses per day. India-Russia template To have a sustained campaign of 10 million doses per day, India will need to have a reasonable stockpile and production line of vaccines. Several other vaccines are available internationally with established efficacy and safety, and can be approved under emergency use authorisation (EUA). The bridging study can be done while vaccines are rolled out under the EUA before access to the market. The government may proactively seek supplies from other manufacturers while rapid studies can assess safety and immunogenicity in the Indian context. The ongoing arrangement with Russia for the local production of Sputnik while the vaccine is already undergoing clinical trials in India is an excellent template of using Indian companies to roll out other vaccines. India has to balance compassion to supply vaccines to other countries with the compulsion to save the lives of millions of Indians, who are at risk of death due to serial waves hitting different parts of the country. Regulated sales in the private market should be used as a careful option to accelerate the vaccination campaign. The government should act as the assurer of quality and regulate the prices of all the vaccines in the country. Any person who is 18 years should be permitted to get any vaccine approved by India, at any designated place, and at a fixed price regulated by the government. This will scale up vaccination in the workplace settings across the country and for all others who can afford them. While this happens, the inequities in the health system, which systematically neglect the poor and the marginalised, should be looked into on priority. This can be done with the government as the sole provider of free vaccines and care for all Indians below the poverty line or who cannot afford to buy vaccines. Vaccinating people in impoverished communities is a mandatory social responsibility. Make it simple Public health programmes should be as simple as possible to ensure scalability. Simple age-based criteria should be used to expand vaccination without restrictive criteria such as insisting on a medical certification of comorbidities. The preregistration and over-reliance on the CoWIN app through the entire process needs immediate remedy. Simple, offline, walk-in vaccination should be done with paper-based collection of details. This can be followed by uploading the details onto CoWIN. In addition to this, the authorities should use the opportunity to identify people with comorbidities. More than half the people in India with comorbidities are unaware of their condition. By opportunistic screening using simple digital measuring devices for blood pressure and blood glucose, the otherwise ‘missed persons’ from routine health-care provision can receive treatment for their non-communicable diseases, or NCDs. This is a non-negotiable service element that no government can afford to neglect. A ‘3M’ road map Microplanning is a process that is followed in India’s vaccination programmes, that captures the population details by identifying and mapping them. It has details for workforce and logistic arrangement, and tags for people to clearly identify vaccination sites. The micro plans are the blueprints of the vaccination programme, which connect houses, migrant population and institutions such as old age homes and dementia care centres with vaccination teams. This is not just the fixed sites; the micro plans also provide details of mobile teams and outreach sessions to cover a population. The central government can work with the States in strengthening micro plans so that the vaccination pace picks up and is sustained. Mobilising identified persons can be done by the accredited social health activists (ASHAs) in rural areas and other volunteers in urban areas. There is one ASHA for 1,000 population in rural areas (https://bit.ly/2ONOprk). Based on the micro planning done, people should be mobilised to designated vaccination sites on a designated day. The strategy for mobilisation in urban areas can include innovative technological solutions. Role models can influence many peers to get vaccinated as well. Monitoring and mentoring of each step of the process are essential. The activities that need structured support include preparing micro plans, ensuring that all the necessary inter-sectoral coordination is done, and that the necessary logistical and transport supplies are provided. Task forces can coordinate these at the district and sub-district levels. By coordinating with the World Health Organization, India has an irrefutable track record of designing and updating micro plans, which have been used as templates in the global polio eradication programme. India’s reputation as a world leader in vaccination programmes needs to be strengthened further by addressing these issues swiftly. We are making good progress in COVID-19 vaccination efforts, but it is not sufficient to achieve what is necessary. Doing the best that we are capable of is the only option. And, we can do it. Giridhara R. Babu is Professor and Head, Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-booster-shot-for-indias-vaccination-plan/article34113991.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi undermined||The Centre’s Bill seeking to amend the law relating to the running of the National Capital Territory of Delhi claims that it is aimed at giving effect to the interpretation given by the Supreme Court judgments on Delhi’s governance structure. The proposed changes are the very antithesis of what the Court has said. The Bill, if it becomes law, will wholly undermine the Court’s efforts to strengthen the elected government vis-à-vis the appointed Lieutenant Governor. The Constitution Bench verdict of July 4, 2018, said: “The Lieutenant Governor has not been entrusted with any independent decision-making power. He has to either act on the ‘aid and advice’ of the Council of Ministers, or he is bound to implement the decision taken by the President on a reference being made by him.” The ‘aid and advice’ clause pertains only to matters on which the elected Assembly has powers under the State and Concurrent Lists, but with the exception of public order, police and land, and, wherever there are differences between the L-G and the elected government, the former should refer the question to the President. The Court was at pains to clarify that the power to refer “any matter” to the President did not mean that “every matter” should be referred thus. The guiding principle was that the elected government should not be undermined by the unelected administrator. The Bill introduced in the Lok Sabha does violence to this interpretation. The Bill seeks to declare that in the context of legislation passed by the Delhi Assembly, all references to the ‘government’ would mean the “Lieutenant Governor”. Indeed, Delhi is a Union Territory; but it is somewhat incongruous for a territory with an elected House to be declared the sole domain of the L-G. The apex court had rightly concluded that the scheme set out in the Constitution and the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991, envisages a collaborative structure that can be worked only through constitutional trust. The proviso to Article 239AA, which empowers the L-G to refer a difference of opinion with the Council of Ministers to the President, does not mean that the administrator is given an opportunity to come up with a different opinion on every decision made by the Ministry. Yet, it is precisely what the Bill proposes to do. And it is quite incongruous that instead of Parliament identifying the matters on which the L-G’s opinion should be sought, the Bill proposes that the L-G himself would specify such matters. The clause that declares void any rule that empowers the Assembly or its Committees to discuss any matter of day-to-day administration or conduct enquiries amounts to a rollback of representative government. The ‘Union Territory’ concept is one of the many ways in which India regulates relations between the Centre and its units. It should not be used to subvert the basis of electoral democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/delhi-undermined/article34113983.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Chasing peace||The peace conference hosted by Russia in Moscow between the Afghan government and Taliban representatives is the latest example of growing international concern about the future of Afghanistan as the May 1 deadline for the proposed U.S. troops pullout nears. No breakthrough was expected from a single-day conference between the parties that have been fighting each other for nearly 20 years. The Russian plan was to bring together the Taliban and the government, whose Doha peace talks have stalled for months, to jump start the peace process. The U.S. has also called for a UN-led multilateral peace conference. The Afghanistan conflict is a multifaceted one, with its primary actors being the government, the Taliban and the U.S. Others such as Russia, China and India are worried about the conflict’s spillover effects. There is a consensus among all these countries that Afghanistan needs to be stabilised now. U.S. President Joe Biden, who is reviewing the administration’s Afghan strategy, said this week that it would be “tough” to withdraw all U.S. troops by the May 1 deadline as the Trump administration agreed in an accord with the Taliban. On the other side, the Taliban have threatened to launch a new offensive if the U.S. does not leave according to the schedule. It is a stalemate. Mr. Biden’s dilemma is that he cannot commit troops endlessly to a war that the U.S. is certainly not winning. But if he pulls back without a peace agreement, the civil war could intensify, and the Taliban, already in control of much of rural Afghanistan, could make rapid gains. And if he decides to keep the troops even for a short term, it could trigger a tough response from the Taliban. So, the U.S. administration is trying to put together a new peace process, with other regional actors, which would not just buy time for the Americans but also seek to find a lasting settlement. It seems Russia, China and India are on board. Pakistan, which hosts the Taliban leadership, will also participate in the peace process. The flip side of this diplomatic push is that all the main stakeholders agree that the Taliban would play a critical role in shaping Afghanistan’s future. The U.S. already wants the Afghan government to share power with the Taliban. Russia has asked the Afghan government and the Taliban to make “necessary compromises”. The jihadist group, whose reign of Afghanistan during 1996-2001 was notorious for extremism, violence and suppression of basic rights, is on the cusp of power again. The international actors pushing for peace with the Taliban should at least extract compromises from them. After the Moscow meet, Russia, China, the U.S. and Pakistan said that a peace agreement should “include protections for the rights of all Afghans”. They should make it their top priority in the coming talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chasing-peace/article34113984.ece
20 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Bond vigilantes could trigger outflows’||Barely a day after the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield rose to its highest level in more than a year after investors interpreted the Federal Reserve’s dovish policy stance as being not adequately mindful of inflation risks, an article in the latest monthly edition of the Reserve Bank of India’s Bulletin cautioned that bond vigilantes could undermine a global economic recovery, ‘unsettle financial markets and trigger capital outflows from emerging markets’. “The Reserve Bank is striving to ensure an orderly evolution of the yield curve, but it takes two to tango and forestall a tandav, ” RBI officials led by Deputy Governor Michael D. Patra wrote in the ‘State of the Economy’ in the March bulletin. Noting that with countries rushing to inoculate their populations, the global economy should regain lost momentum in the second quarter, the RBI’s researchers asserted that bond vigilantes were riding again, “ostensibly trying to enforce law and order on lawless governments and central banks”. “As growth forecasts for 2021 are ratcheted up, they see in them the spectre of long dormant inflation, the archenemy of bonds as it erodes the real value of the fixed income they provide,” the RBI officials wrote. “Fears over U.S. interest rates have already started spilling over on to emerging market economies (EMEs). Investors have started pulling out money from EME stocks and bonds in an abrupt ending of a streak of inflows that had remained uninterrupted since October 2020,” they added. India’s S&P BSE Sensex and Nifty both fell more than 1% on Thursday, extending their slide to five straight sessions amid concerns about fund outflows and the resurgence in COVID-19 infections in the country. The benchmarks, however, recouped some losses on Friday. ‘Tipping points’ Referring to the rising number of cases, the RBI officials cautioned: “India is poised on the cusp of two tipping points. First, there are ominous signs that infections are rising. A second wave? Time will tell. On the other hand, vaccinations have moved beyond health workers to senior citizens, but at 3.3 crore as on March 16, the entire process needs to be speeded up.” The article’s authors also flagged building price pressures, as the other tipping point. “Inflation has witnessed upside pressures. The ratcheting up of input prices to multi-year highs pose a dilemma — if they are passed on to consumers as pricing power returns to firms as aggregate demand picks up, there will be even higher inflation; if they are held back, profitability will be eroded as will gross valued added.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bond-vigilantes-could-trigger-outflows/article34113974.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Specify reasons for rejecting health claims: IRDAI to insurers||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has cautioned insurers against not being transparent to policyholders while rejecting health insurance claims. “Insurer shall ensure that the repudiation of the claim is not based on presumptions and conjectures,” the IRDAI said in a circular to Life, General and Standalone Health Insurance Companies as well as TPAs. IRDAI said when a claim is denied or repudiated, the insurer should communicate the same, specifically mentioning reasons and also referring to the corresponding policy conditions.  Separately, IRDAI asked insurers to make special arrangements to facilitate eligible policyholders to get vaccinated against COVID-19 as a group or individually either at government or private facilities as per the option of the policyholders. The insurer should assist them by making arrangements through pre-booking slots and send reminders when the second shot of vaccine is due, IRDAI said. The regulator did not specify whether the cost of the vaccination would be covered under the policies for those taking the shots at private hospitals. However, on Thursday the regulator had clarified that “in the unlikely event of hospitalisation following adverse reaction to COVID-19 vaccination, hospitalisation is covered under the health insurance policies subject to the specific terms and conditions of the policy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/specify-reasons-for-rejecting-health-claims-irdai-to-insurers/article34113959.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kia India targets production of up to 2.5 lakh vehicles in ’21||South Korean auto major Kia is aiming to increase production in India to about 2.5 lakh units per annum in 2021, anticipating an increase in sales driven by ‘overwhelming’ domestic as well as growing exports demand, a senior company executive said. “To meet the increasing demand for Kia cars in both domestic and global markets, we are looking at operating three shifts at our Anantapur plant, which is capable of producing 3 lakh units per year,” said Tae-Jin Park, executive director and chief sales and business strategy officer, Kia Motors India. “We are targeting to produce 2.3 lakh to 2.5 lakh vehicles, including the export target of 20%, in 2021,” Mr. Park said. He added that the company was seeing an upward trend in demand in the last few months given the increasing preference for personal mobility for safe travel, pent-up demand during the festive season, and more customers accessing digital methods as a purchase-and-enquiry mechanism. “Introduction of scrappage policy and the new PLI scheme have set a strong foundation for boosting the overall demand for newer vehicles with focus on manufacturing and exports,” Mr. Park said. “This gives us the confidence that 2021 will be a year of fast recovery for the industry,” he said. Mr. Park said that Kia aimed to establish a full EV line-up of 11 models and reach a 6.6% global EV market share by 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kia-india-targets-production-of-up-to-25-lakh-vehicles-in-21/article34113970.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Advanced nations failed world on climate change’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday admonished advanced countries for failing to keep their financing commitments to help emerging economies cope with climate change, invoking the recent Uttarakhand disaster as an example of the vulnerabilities that need to be addressed. The government, she said, was committed to building infrastructure that would not only revive the economy but also prove resilient to the risks of climate change. “We are looking at innovative systems that can certify [that] the resilience of the infrastructure is established. A global standard for certification for resilient infra is also something we are thinking of,” Ms. Sitharaman said at the International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. Arguing that advanced economies had failed to fulfil their ‘quantitative commitment’ to provide $100 billion a year to help smaller countries, she pointed out that this amount itself was ‘meagre’, to begin with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/advanced-nations-failed-world-on-climate-change/article34113968.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||NOCL lenders to get just Rs. 560 crore from Haldia||Haldia Petrochemicals would take over Nagarjuna Oil Corporation Ltd. (NOCL) as per the Rs. 600-crore scheme of arrangement approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) bench in Chennai. Secured lenders would get Rs. 560 crore, or about 6% of the total admitted claims of Rs. 9,864 crore. Lenders include SBI, IDBI Bank, Canara Bank and Syndicate Bank, among others. Plan under Sec. 230 NCLT had ordered the liquidation of NOC, after none of the resolutions got through. Later, Haldia submitted a resolution plan under section 230 of Companies Act. Section 230 ensures the company has a chance to save itself from insolvency or liquidation by entering into a deal with at least a majority of creditors. Meanwhile, other claimants are unlikely to get any amounts towards their claims, including statutory authorities, barring priority payments payable as per Section 53 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016. The shareholders’ equity of Rs. 1,800 crore also gets wiped out. According to a source, the banks get to recover Rs. 560 crore out of the principal amount of Rs. 2,200 crore, which is about 25%. The interest is high because the account turned NPA long before it was referred to the NCLT.  The shareholders’ equity of Rs. 1,800 crore also gets wiped out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nocl-lenders-to-get-just-rs-560-crore-from-haldia/article34113971.ece
20 March 2021||Chennai,||Auto firms see scrappage policy boosting sector||Auto majors have welcomed the new vehicle-scrappage policy saying it would encourage people to replace older vehicles, thus boosting demand in the sector. The new policy presents a huge business opportunity for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and can significantly cut pollution while bolstering road safety, said Venkatram Mamillapalle, country CEO and MD, Renault India Operations. Mr. Mamillapalle said it would offer the much needed reprieve for auto, steel and electronics industries that were in need of resuscitation after the ‘onslaught of the pandemic’. The move will boost the demand for environment-friendly vehicles, said Nagesh Basavanhalli, group CEO & MD, Greaves Cotton. “Only a joint effort by the government, industry and customers can result in a policy that offers true safety, economic and environmental benefits,” said Satyakam Arya, MD & CEO, DICV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-firms-see-scrappage-policy-boosting-sector/article34113976.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||LIC relaxes maturity claim norms||To mitigate hardships faced by its policyholders during the pandemic, the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has allowed them to deposit their maturity claim documents at their nearest LIC office anywhere in the country. The insurer has allowed its 113 divisional offices, 2,048 branches, 1,526 satellite offices and 74 customer zones to receive maturity claims documents from policyholders whose maturity payments are due, irrespective of the servicing branch of the policy. “However, the actual claim payment will be processed by the servicing branch only. The documents will be digitally transferred through LIC’s All India Network,” LIC said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-relaxes-maturity-claim-norms/article34113960.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Markets snap five-session losing streak||Indian equity markets on Friday snapped a five-session losing streak, following select buying in HUL, Reliance, ITC and PSU stocks even as high bond yields remained a concern. The S&P BSE Sensex surged 642 points, or 1.3%, to close at 49,858. The NSE Nifty 50 index gained 186 points, or 1.28%, to end at 14,744. Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management, however cautioned that U.S. bond yields would continue to be material for the markets in the coming weeks. “The Fed sees growth and the Fed sees inflation, and so, the yields will go higher.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/markets-snap-five-session-losing-streak/article34113961.ece
20 March 2021||MUMBAI,||G-sec yields rise to highest level in FY21||With the government set to borrow Rs. 50,000 crore more in the remaining weeks of the fiscal month, Friday's auction has seen the weighted average yields hitting the roof at 6.18%, the highest this fiscal. At 6.18%, the weighted average yield has spiked to its highest level this fiscal, and this is higher by 4 bps than the previous week when it was at 6.14%, Care Ratings wrote in a note. The government raised Rs. 33,000 crore in its scheduled weekly auction — Rs. 4,000 crore more than the notified amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/g-sec-yields-rise-to-highest-level-in-fy21/article34113977.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Tata Motors forays into compact ambulance segment||Tata Motors has forayed into the compact ambulance segment by unveiling Magic Express, a patient-transport ambulance in the economy category. “The compact dimensions of the vehicle enables easy manoeuvrability on Indian roads, resulting in speedy movement of patients requiring emergency care, thereby saving lives,” the company said, adding it was fully compliant with AIS 125 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-forays-into-compact-ambulance-segment/article34113962.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Our digital transactions have gone as high as 67 pc now: SBI Chairman||The country's largest lender State Bank of India (SBI) has seen a perceptible increase in the number of transactions with its customers taking place via multiple digital channels. The percentage has moved from 60% in the pre-pandemic period to 67% currently, Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said. The rise was largely driven by a pick up in e-commerce during the lockdown, he said.pTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/our-digital-transactions-have-gone-as-high-as-67-pc-now-sbi-chairman/article34113972.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||P-notes investment climbs to 33-month high at Rs 91,658 cr in Feb||Investments through participatory notes (P-notes) rose to Rs. 91,658 crore at February-end, making it the highest in 33 months, suggesting growing confidence of overseas investors. According to SEBI data, the value of P-note investments in Indian markets — equity, debt and hybrid securities — increased to Rs. 91,658 crore at February-end from Rs. 84,916 crore at the end of January.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/p-notes-investment-climbs-to-33-month-high-at-rs-91658-cr-in-feb/article34113978.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||TCS to roll out salary hike for FY22; move to benefit all employees||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will hand out across-the-board salary increments for 2021-22. The salary hike roll-out will benefit almost 4.7 lakh employees of the company. The average increment band for offshore employees is expected to be 6-7% as per norms, sources privy to the development told PTI. This would be the second salary hike within six months by TCS.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-to-roll-out-salary-hike-for-fy22-move-to-benefit-all-employees/article34113980.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Llistosella not joining as CEO & MD: Tata Motors||Tata Motors on Friday said Marc Llistosella will not be joining as its CEO and MD on July 1, as was communicated in a filing on February 12. Guenter Butschek will continue as the CEO and MD till June 30, it added. Mr. Llistosella, former president and CEO, Fuso Truck and Bus Corp. and head of Daimler Trucks in Asia, would have succeeded Mr. Butschek, who had wished to relocate to Germany after his tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/llistosella-not-joining-as-ceo-md-tata-motors/article34114092.ece
20 March 2021||BENGALURU,||I just want to express myself: Prasidh||Karnataka paceman M. Prasidh Krishna, who made it to the Indian squad for the ODI series against England, is elated with his call-up. The 25-year-old has been rewarded for his consistent performances in white-ball cricket in the recent past. In two of Karnataka’s victorious Vijay Hazare Trophy campaigns (2017-18 and 2019-20), Prasidh picked up 17 wickets each. Earlier this month, he finished with 14 wickets in Karnataka’s run to the semifinals. “I am very excited to be part of the Indian squad,” Prasidh told The Hindu on Friday. “The team is made of greats and I am looking forward to rubbing shoulders with them.” Surprise package Back in January 2020, Virat Kohli had termed Prasidh a “surprise package” while looking ahead to the ICC World T20 in Australia, which eventually got postponed. “I think one guy will be a surprise package going to Australia,” Kohli had said. “Someone who can bowl with pace and has bounce. Prasidh Krishna has done well in the domestic arena. It is a great luxury to have this group of bowlers in all formats. Looking at the World Cup, we have enough options.” Prasidh first made news with a five-wicket haul, on debut, against Bangladesh-A in 2015. But such was Karnataka’s fast-bowling riches that he had to remain an understudy to the likes of R. Vinay Kumar, S. Arvind and Abhimanyu Mithun. Two years ago, things finally seemed to open up for Prasidh after Arvind’s retirement and Vinay Kumar’s move to Pondicherry, but injuries laid him low. Prasidh has played just eight First Class games in the last five full seasons. A stress fracture in his left leg in October 2019 hampered him while an elbow niggle limited him to just six games for Kolkata Knight Riders in IPL 2020 held in the UAE. But Prasidh chose to see the bright side of things. Invaluable experience “I am happy I went through the grind and faced all the difficulties I did,” he said. “The experience that it gives you is invaluable. The Hazare Trophy went well for me recently. And I should also thank Karnataka for helping me with this. “I am not building any expectations. I just want to express myself and not lose out on the enjoyment,” he added.  I am happy I went through the grind and faced all the difficulties I did||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-just-want-to-express-myself-prasidh/article34114153.ece
20 March 2021||PATIALA,||Kamalpreet books Tokyo spot||Two years ago, Kamalpreet Kaur sneaked in with a new meet record in discus throw to win the Federation Cup even as all eyes had been on Commonwealth Games medallist Navjeet Kaur Dhillon. On Friday, the towering Punjab girl did an encore, overshadowing veteran Seema Punia with a humongous throw that obliterated all records and gave her a ticket to Tokyo. Kamalpreet’s first throw of 65.06m went past the nine-year old National record of 64.76m by Krishna Punia and the Olympic qualifying mark of 63.50m. That her remaining throws were fouls mattered little. It is also the fourth best throw in the world this year. Could have done better “I wanted to do even better but for some reason got nervous. Maybe because I had made 65m already, I kept stepping over. But next time I will be ready,” she told The Hindu . “With nothing happening for a year, I trained with stuff like beds and flowerpots in the village. I had prepared well but was unable to sleep properly for the last three days with nervousness and excitement.” She knows it will only get tougher. To put in context, her attempt here would only have placed her fourth at Rio. While Gurmeet Singh set a new meet record in hammer throw, Hima Das won the battle between a star and the new kid on the track in 23.21 seconds in the 200m, bettering Dhanalakshmi’s 23.26 meet record set on Thursday.  The results: Men: 200m: 1. Elakkiyadasan Kannadasan (TN, 21.19s), 2. Akshay Nain (Del, 21.27), 3. Vignesh A (TN, 21.57); 5000m: 1. Amit Jangir (Raj, 14:05.30), 2. Abhishek Pal (UP, 14:08.59), 3. Puneet Yadav (Har, 14:08.80); 400m hurdles: 1. Dharun Ayyasamy (TN, 50.16s), 2. Santhosh Kumar T (TN, 51.49s), 3. Sathish K (TN, 52.11); Hammer throw: 1. Gurmeet Singh (Pun, 69.97m), 2. Jaswinder Singh (Pun, 63.22m), 3. Taranveer Bains (Pun, 62.75m); Triple jump: 1. Karthik U (Ker, 16.73m), 2. Abdulla (Ker, 16.59m), 3. Eldhose Paul (Ker, 16.53m).   Women: 200m: 1. Hima Das (Asm, 23.21s), 2. Dhanalakshmi (TN, 23.39), 3. Archana Suseendran (TN, 23.60); 5000m: 1. Parul Chaudhary (UP, 16:03.23), 2. Sanjivani Jadhav (Mah, 16:08.36), 3. Komal Jagadale (Mah, 16:18.48); 400m hurdles: 1. R. Vithya Ramraj (TN, 59.59s), 2. Nanhi (Har, 59.94), 3. Salini Krishna (Ker, 1:00.57); Discus throw: Kamalpreet Kaur (Pun, 65.06m), 2. Seema Punia (UP, 62.64m), 3. Sonal Goyal (Del, 52.11m) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kamalpreet-books-spot-for-tokyo-olympics/article34114136.ece
20 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||Only the best will do for Team India in winner-takes-all finale||In its exercise to get the team composition right ahead of the ICC T20 World Cup later this year, India has been in the mood to experiment in this series against England. New players such as Ishan Kishan, Suryakumar Yadav and Rahul Chahar have got their chances, while experienced men, including Rohit Sharma, have enjoyed some rest. Top-order concerns But come Saturday, with the fate of the series on the line in the fifth T20I, India will look to come out all guns blazing with its strongest eleven. It is only at the top of the order that the home side has some concerns. K.L. Rahul made 14 on Thursday, to go with scores of 1, 0 and 0 in the first three outings. His partner Rohit Sharma, with scores of 15 and 12, has only managed marginally better returns. New-find Suryakumar lends a confident feel to the middle-order. In his maiden international batting outing on Thursday, the Mumbai cricketer set the stage on fire with a fine 31-ball 57. Suryakumar's first-ball six off Jofra Archer, made easy by his early anticipation of a short ball, was the result of his fearless and cerebral approach. “My plan was clear. I’ve seen him (Archer) in the last two-three seasons in the IPL; I’ve watched all of his international games as well. I know the plans he has when a new batter comes in. I knew he would bowl short to me,” Suryakumar, the Man-of-the-Match, said after India’s victory. This international spotlight has been a long time coming for Suryakumar, who missed out on the Australia tour despite an outstanding run in IPL 2020. The extended wait to wear the India cap only made the big occasion sweeter. “The passion for this game has always kept me going. I kept working hard — that’s the only option I had. I kept working on my skills, fitness and ticked all the boxes. I knew that when the time is right, the opportunity will come, and I’ll grab it with both hands. “There were some butterflies in the stomach, but I was also happy to know that I would bat at number three. I bat in the same spot for Mumbai Indians, so I knew the situation very well,” the 30-year-old said. Suryakumar got his chance because another talented rookie, Ishan, was forced out due to a groin strain. If Ishan is deemed fit, it remains to be seen whether the team management can accommodate both players in the eleven.  England, on the back of Ben Stokes’ 23-ball 46, came close to wrapping up the series 3-1 on Thursday. At a media interaction, Stokes acknowledged the disappointment of losing a tight game, but added that there was a lot to look forward to. “We go into the fifth T20I with a huge amount of pressure on us. That’s great for us, especially with the T20 World Cup coming up. The more pressure situations we are put in, the better for us,” Stokes said.  The squads: India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul, Shikhar Dhawan, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Yuzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Rahul Tewatia, Rahul Chahar, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini, T. Natarajan and Shardul Thakur.   England: Eoin Morgan (Capt.), Moeen Ali, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Sam Billings, Jos Buttler, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Chris Jordan, Liam Livingstone, Dawid Malan, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley and Mark Wood.   Match starts at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/only-the-best-will-do-for-team-india-in-winner-takes-all-finale/article34114091.ece
20 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Smriti-led India looks to make amends||This ancient city may not have been the first choice to host South Africa on Indian women’s return to international cricket after a year claimed by the deadly coronavirus. Thiruvananthapuram was. But, perhaps it is only apt that India’s female cricketers landed in Lucknow, three weeks ago. For, this, in a sense, has been a homecoming for Indian women’s cricket. It was here that organised women’s cricket began in the country, nearly five decades ago. Soundly beaten The Women in Blue might not be too pleased with the way things have gone for them on the field, though. They were soundly beaten 4-1 in the ODI series that ended on Wednesday. They would indeed be keen to put the disappointing series behind them when the three-match T20I series gets underway, under lights, at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Stadium on Saturday. It will be a double-header at the weekend, with the second match scheduled for Sunday. The final game will be played on March 23. The setback in the 50-over series notwithstanding, nobody is likely to take India lightly — least of all South Africa. Sune Luus’ women know too well that this Indian side boasts some serious match-winners, including the explosive 17-year-old opener Shafali Verma, who wasn’t part of the ODI series. But, India is handicapped by the absence of skipper Harmanpreet Kaur, who has been ruled out of the opener owing to an injury. Smriti Mandhana will take over the captain’s armband. The left-handed stylist will want to give her side a flying start in the company of Shafali. India’s bowlers, especially the spinners, need to come up with a better display against a fired up South African batting line-up featuring Lizelle Lee, Mignon du Preez, Laura Wolvaardt, Lara Goodall, Luus and Marizanne Kapp.  The teams (from):   India: Smriti Mandhana (Capt.), Shafali Verma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, Richa Ghosh, Sushma Verma, Harleen Deol, Arundhati Reddy, Nuzhat Parveen, Ayushi Soni, Radha Yadav, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Poonam Yadav, Mansi Joshi, Monica Patel, C. Prathyusha, and Simran Dil Bahadur.   South Africa: Sune Luus (Capt.), Lizelle Lee, Laura Wolvaardt, Mignon du Preez, Lara Goodall, Marizanne Kapp, Ayabonga Khaka, Shabnim Ismail, Trisha Chetty, Sinalo Jafta, Tasmin Britz, Nondumiso Shangase, Anneke Bosch, Faye Tunnicliffe, Nonkululeko Mlaba, Nadine de Klerk, and Tumi Sekhukhune.   The schedule: March 20, 21 and 23. All matches begin at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smriti-led-india-looks-to-make-amends-in-t20i-series/article34114087.ece
20 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Vijender suffers first loss as a professional||Vijender Singh’s 12-match winning streak in pro boxing ended when he was beaten by Russia’s Artysh Lopsan in Goa on Friday. In the bout held on the rooftop of the Majestic Pride Casino ship and dubbed the ‘Battle on Ship’, the 26-year-old Lopsan defeated the 35-year-old Vijender by technical knock-out in the fifth of the eight-round contest. After the 6’4’’ tall Lopsan used his long range and initiated attacks in the opening round, the contest heated up in the second. Even as the Russian continued to raise the tempo, the 6 ft tall Vijender responded well through left jabs. A solid right to the face resulted in a standing count for the Russian. However, Lopsan used his combination punches to good effect in the third and gained the upper hand in the fourth, never looking back after that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijender-suffers-first-loss-as-a-professional/article34114104.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Prabhu delivers for Reserve Bank||Prabhu Balachandran’s five for 36 helped Reserve Bank register an eight-wicket win over Falcon CC in a III-A contest of the TNCA league recently.  The scores:   III-A: Falcon CC 131 in 41.3 overs (Raghavendra Ravi Kumar 33, Prabhu Balachandran 5/36) lost to Reserve Bank 132/2 in 29.4 overs (M. Shravan 62 n.o., T. Vignesh Pathy 38 n.o.).   Central United Club 172 in 46.4 overs (R. Chandrasekar 46, Avinash Upadhyay 41, P. Thamaraikannan 5/33, A.H. Abdul Hakkim 4/40) bt Bhimannapet Recreation Club 171 in 50 overs (A.M. Karthikeyan 34, S. Aravind 3/58, R. Chandrasekar 3/41).   Nungambakkam CC 227/7 in 50 overs (N. Gopinath 50 n.o., S.M. Siddharth 47 n.o., G. Sathish Kumar 3/74, S. Vivek Athinam 3/38) bt Krishnaraj Memorial Club 182/9 in 50 overs (S. Prabhu 73, B. Karthik 5/51).   IV-A: State Bank 144 in 49.4 overs (K. Siva Kumar 49, K. Harish Chaitanya 5/49, R. Bharath Rajan 3/28) lost to Prithvi CC 145/2 in 26.1 overs (V. Sai Abhishek 61 n.o., Ramnath Lakshminarayanan 42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prabhu-delivers-for-reserve-bank/article34114208.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anjum Moudgil qualifies for final||Anjum Moudgil qualified in second place in women’s air rifle with a score of 629.6 on the opening day of the shooting World Cup on Friday. Often identified as a 50m rifle 3-position specialist, who also shoots 10m air rifle, the 27-year-old Anjum could have finished with a score of above 630 but for a 10.1 last shot. She had a series of 105.6, 104.6, 104.3, 105.8, 103.8 and 105.5 which revealed the depth of her energy. Eszter Denes of Hungary topped with 629.8. While two Indian men, Arjun Babuta (631.8) and Divyansh Singh Panwar (629.1), qualified for the final, there was none to accompany Anjum in the women’s final scheduled for Saturday. Elavenil, Apurvi falter World No. 1 Elavenil Valarivan shot 626.7 for the 12th spot, while Apurvi Chandela, who had won the gold in two World Cups in 2019, mustered 622.8 for the 26th spot among 48 shooters. Competing in the MQS section, Nisha Kanwar had 629.4, while Shriyanka Sadangi had 626.4. Those scores will count in the ensuing team championship along with that of Apurvi, as the three form the Indian team. The 22-year-old Arjun did better than the two Olympic quota winners Divyansh and Deepak Kumar. While the 18-year-old World No. 1 Divyansh has the final to show his mastery of the rifle, Deepak missed the bus by 1.2 point with a total of 626.4. Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar shot 632.4 in the MQS section. Aishwary, along with Pankaj Kumar (627.1) and Deepak had helped India top the team race while reaching the second stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anjum-moudgil-qualifies/article34114149.ece
20 March 2021||Paris,||United, Arsenal scrape through||Paul Pogba scored the winner on his return from injury as Manchester United beat AC Milan 1-0 on Thursday, and 2-1 on aggregate, to join Arsenal in the Europa League quarterfinals, while Dinamo Zagreb knocked out Tottenham Hotspur after extra time in Croatia. The France midfielder struck the only goal four minutes after replacing Marcus Rashford.  Arsenal also qualified despite suffering a 1-0 loss to Olympiakos in the second leg, advancing 3-2 on aggregate. Jose Mourinho’s Spurs crashed out of the competition after surrendering a 2-0 lead from the first leg, with Dinamo forward Mislav Orsic scoring a brilliant hat-trick for the Croatian champion.  The results: Molde 2 (Vallejo 29-og, Hestad 90-pen) bt Granada 1 (Soldado 72). Granada wins 3-2 on aggregate; Dinamo Zagreb 3 (Orsic 62, 83, 106) bt Tottenham Hotspur 0. Dinamo Zagreb wins 3-2 on aggregate; Arsenal 0 lost to Olympiakos 1 (El-Arabi 51). Arsenal wins 3-2 on aggregate; Shakhtar Donetsk 1 (Junior Moraes 59) lost to Roma 2 (Mayoral 48, 72). Roma wins 5-1 on aggregate; Rangers 0 lost to Slavia Prague 2 (Olayinka 14, Stanciu 74). Slavia wins 3-1 on aggregate; AC Milan 0 lost to Manchester United 1 (Pogba 49). United wins 2-1 on aggregate; Villarreal 2 (Moreno 13, 36) bt Dynamo Kiev 0. Villarreal wins 4-0 on aggregate; Young Boys 0 lost to Ajax 2 (Neres 21, Tadic 49-pen). Ajax wins 5-0 on aggregate.   Quarterfinal draw: Granada vs. Manchester United; Arsenal vs. Slavia Prague; Ajax vs. Roma; Dinamo Zagreb vs. Villarreal ( first leg on April 8, return leg on April 15) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-arsenal-scrape-through/article34114158.ece
20 March 2021||Mumbai,||Suryakumar, Krunal and Prasidh get maiden ODI call-ups||Aggressive batsman Suryakumar Yadav, all-rounder Krunal Pandya and pacer M. Prasidh Krishna have received maiden call-ups for the ODI series against England. The trio was included in the 18-member squad for the three ODIs, starting March 23, announced on Friday. While Suryakumar walked away with the Man-of-the-Match award in his maiden hit in international cricket during Thursday’s fourth T20I, Krunal, Hardik’s elder brother, has been rewarded for his stellar show in the recently-concluded Vijay Hazare Trophy. Prasidh, who was billed a potential “surprise package” by India captain Virat Kohli last year, has been picked after proving his fitness on the domestic circuit. Besides the trio, the squad wears a different look from the one that took on Australia last year. Pacers Jasprit Bumrah (marriage break), Mohammed Shami (injured) and Navdeep Saini have been excluded along with batsmen Mayank Agarwal, Manish Pandey and Sanju Samson. Rohit Sharma, who was unfit for the ODI series in Australia, has been recalled along with pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Bhuvneshwar, having regained full fitness and impressed in the ongoing T20I series against England, will thus be the leader of the pace attack that also features T. Natarajan, Shardul Thakur and Mohammed Siraj.  The squad: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma (vice-capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Shubman Gill, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (wk), K.L. Rahul (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Krunal Pandya, Washington Sundar, T. Natarajan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Mohammed Siraj, Prasidh Krishna and Shardul Thakur.   The itinerary (all games in Pune):   First ODI: March 23; Second: March 26; Third: March 28.   All matches start at 1.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryakumar-krunal-and-prasidh-get-maiden-odi-call-ups/article34114083.ece
20 March 2021||BIRMINGHAM,||Spirited Sindhu moves into the semifinals||Young Indian shuttler Lakshya Sen crashed out of the All England Open championships quarterfinals after losing to Mark Caljouw of the Netherlands 17-21, 21-16, 17-21 here on Friday. Caljouw, who had defeated Lakshya once before, claimed the first game 21-17 in 17 minutes. The 19-year-old Lakshya bounced back in the second game, opening up a lead of 11-6 and later sealing it 21-16 to stay alive in the contest. The World No. 36 Caljouw, had the last laugh, winning the last game 21-17 to clinch the match in 55 minutes and end the Indian challenge in men’s singles. Momota ousted In a major upset, sixth-seeded Lee Zii Jia knocked out top seed Kento Momota of Japan 21-16, 21-19 to make the semifinals. The women’s doubles pairing of Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy also bowed out of the tournament following its defeat in straight games to Selena Piek and Cheryl Seinen, also of the Netherlands, in the last eight. The Indians, ranked World No. 30, went down 22-24, 12-21 to 24th-ranked duo of Selena and Cheryl in 39 minutes.   The results:   Men: Quarterfinals: Mark Caljouw (Ned) bt Lakshya Sen 21-17, 16-21, 21-17.   Second round: Anders Antonsen (Den) bt Sameer Verma 22-20, 21-10.   Doubles: Second round: Kim Astrup & Anders Rasmussen (Den) bt Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty 21-16, 11-21, 21-17.   Women: Doubles: Quarterfinals: Selena Piek & Cheryl Seinen (Ned) bt Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy 24-22, 21-12.   Mixed doubles: Second round: Niclas Nohr & Amalie Magelund (Den) bt Dhruv Kapila & J. Meghana 21-19, 21-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshyas-campaign-ends/article34114085.ece
20 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Prithvi makes the semifinals||Prithvi Sekhar got past defending champion and second seed Niki Poonacha in the men’s quarterfinals of the National hard court championship at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, on Friday. Prithvi led 6-4, 3-0 when Niki retired. The latter recovered in time to make the doubles final with Anirudh Chandrasekar. Prithvi will face former Asian junior champion Nitin Kumar Sinha, who beat fourth seed Paras Dahiya in straight sets. The other semifinal will be between top seed Arjun Kadhe and third seed Ishaque Eqbal. In the women’s section, Sai Samhitha beat four-time National champion Prerna Bhambri 7-5, 7-5. She will face second seed Shrivalli Bhamidipaty in the semifinals, and the other match will feature top seed Vaidehi Chaudhari against seventh seed Arthi Muniyan. Sai also made the doubles final in partnership with Rishika Sunkara, and will play top seeds Soha Sadiq and Saumya Vig.  The results: Men (quarterfinals): Arjun Kadhe bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 6-3, 6-1; Ishaque Eqbal bt Kaza Vinayak Sharma 6-2, 6-3; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Paras Dahiya 6-4, 6-3; Prithvi Sekhar bt Niki Poonacha 6-4, 3-0 (retired).   Doubles (semifinals): Niki Poonacha & Anirudh Chandrasekar bt Suraj Prabodh & Anurag Nenwani 4-6, 6-2, [10-7]; Ishaque Eqbal & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Lohith Bathrinath & Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 6-4.   Women (quarterfinals): Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Akanksha Nitture 7-5, 6-1; Arthi Muniyan bt Yubarani Banerjee 6-2, 6-1; Sai Samhitha bt Prerna Bhambri 7-5, 7-5; Shrivalli Bhamidipaty bt Soha Sadiq 6-3, 6-1.   Doubles (semifinals): Soha Sadiq & Saumya Vig bt Ayushi Singh & Medhavi Singh 6-0, 6-1; Sai Samhitha & Rishika Sunkara bt Reshma Maruri & Akanksha Nitture 6-2, 5-7, [10-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prithvi-makes-semifinals/article34114155.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Arun and Saffin slam centuries||S.J. Arun Kumar’s 109 (126b, 13x4) powered Team VI past Team III in the TNCA round-robin under-19 match on Friday. In another contest, C. Saffin’s 109 (113b, 14x4, 2x6) went in vain as Team V lost to Team I by one wicket.  The scores: Team III 196/8 in 50 overs (B. Sachin 49, A. Ranjan 32 n.o., C.V. Achyuth 3/43) lost to Team VI 198/1 in 40.3 overs (S.J. Arun Kumar 109, A.D. Siyam Vikas 66 n.o.).   Team V 268/4 in 50 overs (C. Saffin 109, A. Badrinath 63, J. Ajay Chethan 58) lost to Team I 269/9 in 45 overs (P.L. Harshavaradhan Sai 63, B. Sai Sudharsan 48, V.S. Karthick Manikandan 48, T. Vijay Abimanyu 32, Sathvik Athmaraman 4/74, Pratham Santhosh Salunkhe 3/47).   Team IV 245 in 50 overs (L. Ramnath 45, S. Arun 43, P. Nirmal Kumar 38, S. Jayanth 36, B. Aaditya 3/33, S.R. Sandeep 3/49) bt Team II 223 in 48.2 overs (K. Om Nitin 78, S. Rithik Easwaran 57, K. Ajaya Shankar 37, V.P. Diran 3/41, P. Nirmal Kumar 3/42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arun-and-saffin-slam-centuries/article34114211.ece
20 March 2021||RAIPUR,||Tendulkar credits IPL for developing India’s bench strength||Sachin Tendulkar on Friday credited the IPL for helping develop India’s bench strength, saying the current lot has benefitted by constantly playing against world-class performers in the league. Suryakumar Yadav and Ishan Kishan, who play for Mumbai Indians, produced stunning knocks against England in the ongoing T20I series and Tendulkar attributed their success to the league. “Both Surya and Ishan are ready to play as I have always felt IPL’s introduction has helped players,” Tendulkar, who is captaining India Legends in the ongoing Road Safety World Series, said. “When we played, I hadn’t faced Wasim (Akram), when we played in Australia, I hadn’t faced (Sharne) Warne or (Craig) McDermott or Merv Hughes. We went there and we had to figure out what was happening.” Tendulkar said IPL provided the players an opportunity to rub shoulders with top stars and compete against the best. “Yesterday I was watching the game, and Surya was batting and (Jofra) Archer bowled to him and Ben Stokes and the commentator said it was nothing new for Surya because he has already played against Rajasthan Royals. Both Archer and Stokes play for Royals, so it is nothing different and he (Surya) knows what they do as he has already played against them. “That’s the only reason I am saying both these guys are ready to play for India and that just shows the bench strength of our team. There are a number of them, who are ready to go out and play.”  When we played, I hadn’t faced Wasim (Akram), when we played in Australia, I hadn’t faced (Sharne) Warne or (Craig) McDermott||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tendulkar-credits-ipl-for-developing-indias-bench-strength/article34114504.ece
20 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Arshi, Lalita and Shubha shine||Arshi Choudhary’s all-round performance (3/6 & 51) helped Tamil Nadu beat Meghalaya by six wickets in the BCCI senior women’s one-dayer (Elite Group E) on Friday. Lalita Sharma (five for 22) bowled Delhi to a 70-run win over Vidarbha while S. Shubha (76 not out) guided Karnataka past Himachal Pradesh.  The scores:   Meghalaya 101 in 40.3 overs (Saee Purandare 53, S.B. Keerthana 3/17, Arshi Choudhary 3/6) lost to Tamil Nadu 104/4 in 16 overs (Arshi Choudhary 51, S. Anusha 28 n.o.).   Points: TN 4(8), Meghalaya 0(0).   Delhi 137/9 in 50 overs (Nupur Kohale 4/22) bt Vidarbha 67 in 34.4 overs (Lalita Sharma 5/22).   Delhi 4(8), Vidarbha 0(12).   Himachal Pradesh 163/8 in 50 overs (Chitra Singh Jamwal 53,Tanuja Kanwer 30) lost to Karnataka 165/6 in 40.2 overs (S. Shubha 76 n.o., V.R. Vanitha 41).   Karnataka 4 (16), HP 0 (4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arshi-lalita-shubha-shine/article34114141.ece
20 March 2021||BENGALURU:,||Galvarino primed to do the ’trick||Galvarino, who is in fine fettle, may complete a hat-trick in the Brigadier Gerard Plate (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Saturday (March 20). There will be no false rails  SALUTE HER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 1-30 p.m.: 1. Aherne (10) Ashhad Asbar 56, 2. Devils Magic (7) J.H. Arul 56, 3. Imperial Blue (9) Akshay K 56, 4. Sir Phoenix (8) Srinath 56, 5. Southern Dynasty (1) Neeraj 56, 6. The Matrix (3) Jagadeesh 56, 7. The Omega Man (2) D. Patel 56, 8. Ultimate General (6) Darshan 56, 9. Windstorm (4) Suraj 56, 10. Muirfield (11) Trevor 54.5, 11. Secret Of Life (5) Zervan 54.5 and 12. Sodashi (12) Khurshad Alam 54.5.  1. IMPERIAL BLUE, 2. DEVILS MAGIC, 3. SECRET OF LIFE   WORLD SPARROW DAY PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over, 2-00: 1. Ultimate Power (4) Darshan 60, 2. Revan Star (9) Sai Vamshi 58, 3. Awesome Girl (5) Rayan 57.5, 4. Reverence (1) J.H. Arul 57, 5. She’s Stylish (8) Vinod Shinde 56.5, 6. Fierce Fighter (12) H.M. Akshay 55.5, 7. Elite Agent (11) Angad 54.5, 8. Altair (3) Sai Kiran 54, 9. Jai Vikram (10) Ashhad Asbar 54, 10 Special Stone (2) Madhu Babu 54, 11. Barog (7) Sai Kumar 53.5 and 12. Phoenix Reached (6) T.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. AWESOME GIRL, 2. REVERENCE, 3. SHE’S STYLISH   DIVINE LIGHT PLATE (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over, 2-30: 1. Flaming Orange (4) Sai Kumar 60, 2. Blazing Gold (9) Arvind K 57, 3. Golden Memory (5) H.M. Akshay 56.5, 4. Galactical (12) J.H. Arul 56, 5. Longstride (2) Nazerul 56, 6. Rock And Dance (11) Raja Rao 56, 7. Four Wheel Drive (1) Akshay K 55, 8. Artemisia (3) Zervan 54.5, 9. Paradise Beckons (10) R. Shelar 54.5, 10. Princess Jasmine (7) Sai Vamshi 54.5, 11. Chisox (8) Trevor 54 and 12. Hitomi Sakuma (6) Sai Kiran 51.5.  1. GOLDEN MEMORY,   2. FOUR WHEEL DRIVE, 3. CHISOX   SET ALIGHT PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 3-00: 1. Ultimate Striker (9) H.M. Akshay 60, 2. Gold Gray (—) (—) 58, 3. Cameleons Image (11) Chethan G 56.5, 4. Commandpost (2) Angad 55.5, 5. Apollo Bay (4) Ashhad Asbar 54.5, 6. Ozark (5) R. Manish 54.5, 7. Estella (3) J.H. Arul 54, 8. Paradiso (7) Siddaraju 53.5, 9. Lady Nectar (10) Md. Aliyar 53, 10. Chul Bul Rani (8) Ankit Yadav 52.5, 11. Iron Fist (6) Rayan 52 and 12. Scintilla (1) Akshay K 51.5.  1. ULTIMATE STRIKER, 2. COMMANDPOST, 3. CAMELEONS IMAGE   STAR CONTENDER PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 3-30: 1. Lycurgus (4) M. Naveen 60, 2. Land Of Liberty (2) Sai Kiran 59.5, 3. Gerontocrat (6) R. Manish 59, 4. Ashwa Mudrika (7) H.M. Akshay 58, 5. Venus Bay (11) Ashhad Asbar 58, 6. Deboniar (10) Sai Vamshi 57.5, 7. Gin Daisy (5) Ankit Yadav 57.5, 8. Schafenberg (1) Zervan 57.5, 9. Casey (9) Darshan 56.5, 10. Watchmystars (12) Trevor 53.5, 11. Amazonite (3) T.S. Jodha 53 and 12. Stone House (8) Akshay K 53.  1. WATCHMYSTARS,   2. STONE HOUSE, 3. SCHAFENBERG   SERJEANT AT ARMS PLATE (1,800m), rated 45 to 65, 4-00: 1. Dr Logan (3) Anjar Alam 60, 2. Mongolian King (10) R. Manish 60, 3. Speedster (1) Darshan 59.5, 4. Green Channel (7) J.H. Arul 58, 5. Grey Channel (2) T.S. Jodha 57.5, 6. Karadeniz (4) Trevor 57.5, 7. Asgardia (8) Akshay K 57, 8. Mountain Lion (9) Srinath 55.5, 9. Three Wishes (5) H.M. Akshay 55.5 and 10. Rorito (6) Rayan 54.  1. MOUNTAIN LION, 2. SPEEDSTER, 3. ASGARDIA   BRIGADIER GERARD PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 & above, 4-30: 1. Ashwa Joshila (3) Salman Khan 63, 2. Psychic Warrior (6) H.M. Akshay 61, 3. Silver Ikon (12) L.A. Rozario 61, 4. Galvarino (5) J.H. Arul 57.5, 5. Manchester (11) Rayan 54.5, 6. Louisiana (2) Ikram Ahmed 54, 7. Alexandre Dumas (9) Sai Kiran 53.5, 8. Alpha (4) Nazerul 53, 9. Set To Win (8) Sai Kumar 53, 10. Cuban Pete (1) Zervan 52.5, 11. Depth Charge (10) Angad 52.5 and 12. Silver Dew (7) Neeraj 52.  1. GALVARINO, 2. CUBAN PETE,   3. ALPHA   SET ALIGHT PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Star And Garter (3) S. John 60, 2. Ultimate Speed (8) S. Saqlain 60, 3. Crimson Heart (1) Naveen K 59.5, 4. Celestial Highway (2) Nazerul 58.5, 5. Jersey Legend (12) Md. Aliyar 58.5, 6. Areca Angel (7) Angad 57.5, 7. Sun Splash (5) Sai Vamshi 57.5, 8. Definitive (4) Ashhad Asbar 56.5, 9. Shan E Azeem (10) T.S. Jodha 56, 10. Habanero (11) H.M. Akshay 55.5, 11. Raw Gold (6) Salman Khan 54.5 and 12. Iconic Princess (9) Akshay K 51.5.  1. STAR AND GARTER, 2   . RAW GOLD, 3. ARECA ANGEL   WORLD SPARROW DAY PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over, 5-30: 1. Andra King (10) R. Pradeep 60, 2. He’s The One (6) Jagadeesh 60, 3. Nostradamus (7) H.M. Akshay 59.5, 4. Star Citizen (9) Chethan G 59.5, 5. Bahurupah (4) S. Saqlain 59, 6. Lifeisamiracle (11) M. Naveen 59, 7. Glorious Days (1) T.S. Jodha 58.5, 8. Song And Dance (5) Rayan 58.5, 9. Fortuneer (3) Sai Kiran 58, 10. Gazebo Talk (2) S. Shareef 58 and 11. Legend Is Back (8) Sai Vamshi 58.  1. NOSTRADAMUS,   2. STAR CITIZEN, 3. GAZEBO TALK  Day’s best: MOUNTAIN LION  Double: GALVARINO — STAR AND GARTER  Jkt: 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/galvarino-primed-to-do-the-trick/article34114137.ece
20 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Mary Kom’s academy upgraded||For the benefit of its young boxers, the Mary Kom Boxing Academy upgraded itself by adding a kitchen and a dining hall to its existing infrastructure in Imphal. The new facility, supported by Goodyear India Limited, was inaugurated by Francis Marwein, the Regional Director of the Sports Authority of India, North Eastern Regional Centre in the presence of Mary Kom on Thursday. The company had earlier supported the academy by putting up a boxing ring and a training arena. “I was not fortunate enough when I started my boxing career. This kind of facility was not there. You need to make the best use of these entire infrastructure and be a champion by achieving more than what I have done,” Mary told the trainees in her address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-koms-academy-upgraded/article34114139.ece
20 March 2021||Paris,||Blockbuster clash between Bayern, PSG||Holder Bayern Munich will face last year’s beaten finalists Paris Saint-Germain in the quarterfinals of this season’s Champions League, while Friday’s draw for the last eight also threw up a clash between Liverpool and Real Madrid. The draw also pitted Manchester City against Borussia Dortmund, while Chelsea will play Porto in the other tie. The first leg is set to be played in Germany on April 6 or 7, with the return in Paris a week later.  Klopp’s side is due to be away from home in the first leg, but it remains to be seen where that match will be played. Atletico Madrid’s home leg against Chelsea in the last 16 ended up being moved to Bucharest due to restrictions imposed on travel to Spain by British authorities. The winner between Liverpool and Real will go onto a semifinal against either Chelsea or Porto.  Unbeaten in 13 games since the appointment of Thomas Tuchel as coach in late January, Chelsea will be expected to get the better of Portuguese champion Porto, which ousted Juventus in the last 16. However, that tie could also be relocated given travel restrictions between the United Kingdom and Portgual which prompted both legs of last month’s Europa League clash between Arsenal and Benfica to be played at neutral venues. Meanwhile, City will be strong favourites against Dortmund, with the winner of that tie going through to a semifinal showdown with either Bayern or PSG. Travel restrictions between the UK and Germany could also have an impact on City’s tie against Erling Braut Haaland’s Dortmund.  The semifinals are due to be played in late April and early May, with the final scheduled for May 29 in Istanbul.  The quarterfinals draw: Manchester City vs. Borussia Dortmund; Porto vs. Chelsea; Bayern Munich vs. Paris Saint-Germain; Real Madrid vs. Liverpool. First legs April 6 & 7; Second legs April 13 & 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blockbuster-clash-between-bayern-psg/article34114142.ece
20 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Women’s U-19 WC likely to be deferred||The pandemic is set to result in the deferment of the inaugural edition of the Under-19 women’s World Cup from 2021 to 2023. The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board is likely to take the call during its meetings on March 30-31. The ICC in October 2019 had announced a path-breaking initiative for women’s cricket with the first U-19 World Cup awarded to Bangladesh to be held in 2021. However, with the COVID-19 outbreak still unabated, the ICC Board is likely to reschedule the event to 2023. A majority of national governing bodies are understood to have been averse to go ahead with the tournament with very little or no time to prepare for their respective teams ahead of the global event. “We haven’t been able to host any junior cricket — men and women — this season owing to the pandemic and same is the case for most other countries. Since it’s a new event, it would be best in everyone’s interest if it is deferred by two years so that all the teams will get enough time to put up their best show and make the event a grand success,” said a BCCI insider, preferring anonymity. While the women’s U-19 event is set to be postponed, the ICC Board is likely to wait and watch before suspending or deferring the men’s Under-19 World Cup, scheduled to be played in the West Indies in 2022. Just like it did last year while waiting till the last moment before rescheduling the T20 World Cup, the ICC Board is likely to give all the stakeholders more time before arriving at a decision. At least half the major cricket nations have skipped domestic under-19 tournaments this season due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-u-19-wc-likely-to-be-deferred/article34114278.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Path of no return||The Bhagavad Gita describes the two paths that the souls travel through after death. One is the path of no return and the other the path of return to samsara. These are known as the paths of light and darkness, symbolising knowledge or jnana and ignorance or delusion respectively, pointed out Srimati Sunanda in a discourse. Realised souls, who know the Absolute, take the path of no return and reach the Absolute; the rest who are yet to know about Brahman get back into the cycle of birth. In fact, Brahman is the closest to each one of us; but owing to our ignorance, He remains distant and hidden. Adi Sankara uses the analogy of the presence of butter in milk to reinforce the all-pervasiveness of Brahman. We know that butter is in milk but cannot pinpoint it directly. The milk has to be processed, that is, made into solid curd, the curd then churned to obtain butter. The temperature of the milk has to be right for the curd to set, that is neither too hot nor too cold. So too, neither one in the heat of life’s experiences, nor the one who is too much insulated and cold to life can feel the presence of Brahman. For the awareness of Brahman to take root in one’s consciousness, one has to start to appreciate the opportunity given to lead the life of a human being. Keeping this thought alive and constantly ruminating on it is the churning effect to discern the truth that reality is beyond all what we think is real. To reach Brahman is the highest state and he who attains it never returns to samsara, is the word of the Lord. It is like each river, be it the Nile, the Amazon or the Ganga, which has a character of its own, losing it when it merges in the ocean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/path-of-no-return/article34114076.ece
20 March 2021||BHILAI,||Yuvan in line for a double||Yuvan Nandal put himself in line for a double as he reached the singles final with a 6-4, 6-0 victory over Ronin Lotlikar in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament at the SAIL tennis complex on Friday. In the final, Yuvan, who won the doubles title with Denim Yadav, will meet sixth seed Dhruv Hirpara who beat Sebastien Cauhape of Belgium in three sets. In the girls section, the top two seeds Sanjana Sirimalla and Shruti Ahlawat set up a title clash. Shruti, seeded No.1 in partnership with Rutuja Chaphalkar, was beaten 2-6, 6-4, 10-5 by the second seeds Ruma Gaikaiwari and Gargi Pawar in the doubles final.  The results: Boys, semifinals: Yuvan Nandal bt Ronin Lotlikar 6-4, 6-0; Dhruv Hirpara bt Sebastien Cauhape (Bel) 4-6, 6-4, 6-3.   Doubles, final: Yuvan & Denim Yadav bt Nikhil Niranjan (USA) & Anargha Ganguly 6-2, 6-0.   Girls, semifinals: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) 6-3, 6-2; Shruti Ahlawat bt Ruma Gaikaiwari 6-1, 6-4.   Doubles, final: Ruma Gaikaiwari & Gargi Pawar bt Rutuja (USA) & Shruti 2-6, 6-4, [10-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvan-in-line-for-a-double/article34114301.ece
20 March 2021||INDORE,||MP trounces Kerala||Madhya Pradesh trounced Kerala by 98 runs (via VJD method) in the senior women’s one-day tournament here on Friday.  The scores:Madhya Pradesh 203/9 in 50 overs (Tamanna Nigam 69, Pooja Vastrakar 40, S. Sajana 4/47) bt Kerala 97/9 in 44 overs (Minnu Mani 30, Varsha 5/25) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mp-trounces-kerala/article34114505.ece
20 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Varun does it for Tigers||Varun Nayanar’s unbeaten 69 off 60 balls helped Tigers beat Panthers by 10 runs in the Kodak KCA President's Cup T20 league here on Friday. Earlier, Lions defeated Royals by 16 runs.  The scores:Tigers 153/4 in 20 overs (Varun Nayanar 69 n.o., Sachin Baby 48, Akhil Scaria 26, Monu Krishna 2/28) bt Pathners 143/7 in 20 overs (Sanju Sajeev 45, Shaun Roger 34, S. Sachin 24, Athul Raveendran 2/21).   Lions 170/6 in 20 overs (Vinod Kumar 41, Vishnu Mohan 33, Salman Nizar 26, Abdul Basith 25, Manu Krishnan 2/42, Shahansha 2/19) bt Royals 154/7 in 20 overs (Manu Krishnan 38, Hari Krishnan 25, P.K. Midhun 3/30, Abhishek Mohan 2/28).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-does-it-for-tigers/article34114507.ece
20 March 2021||NYON,||United to take on Granada||Manchester United was paired with debutant Granada in the Europa League quarterfinals on Friday. Man United, which also won the Europa League in 2017, was drawn to travel to Spain for the first leg on April 8.   The quarterfinal draw: Granada vs. Manchester United; Arsenal vs. Slavia Prague; Ajax vs. Roma; Dinamo Zagreb vs. Villarreal ( first leg on April 8, return leg on April 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-to-take-on-granada/article34114159.ece
20 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||England fined||The England players were fined 20% of their match fee for a slow over-rate against India in the fourth T20I here on Thursday. Match referee Javagal Srinath imposed the sanction after Eoin Morgan's side was ruled to be one over short after time allowances were taken into consideration. In accordance with Article 2.22 of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel, which relates to minimum over-rate offences, the players were fined 20% for failing to finish the overs in the allotted time, the ICC said in a release on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-fined/article34114088.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||Zareen stuns another World champion||Nikhat Zareen on Friday stunned two-time World champion Nazym Kyzaibay of Kazakhstan 4-1 to enter the women’s 51kg semifinals of the Bosphorus boxing tournament in Istanbul. Zareen, who had defeated 2019 World champion Ekaterina Paltceva of Russia in the pre-quarterfinals, stamped her authority right from the beginning and prevailed over Kyzaibay, a gold medallist from the 2014 and 2016 Worlds. Zareen has ensured herself at least a bronze medal with a place in the last-four. Apart from Zareen, 2018 Commonwealth Games gold medallist Gaurav Solanki (57kg) also sailed into the semifinals after a tough contest against local pugilist Aykol Mizan. Solanki’s technical superiority secured him a 4-1 win and at least a bronze. However, Sonia Lather (57kg), Parveen (60kg), Jyoti (69kg) and Shiva Thapa (63kg) lost their respective quarterfinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zareen-stuns-another-world-champion/article34114140.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karman loses a marathon||Karman Kaur Thandi battled for three hours and 38 minutes before losing 6-7(3), 7-6(5), 6-4 to Salma Djoubri of France in the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament in Monastir, Tunisia. Karman Kaur served eight aces and converted six of 12 break points. However, she missed two set points in the 12th game of the first set, on Salma’s serve. In the decider, Karman led 4-3 before her opponent won the next three games, dropping just four points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-loses-a-marathon/article34114154.ece
20 March 2021||DOHA,||Sharath & Manika in final||India’s A. Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra are one win away from securing a mixed doubles berth for the Tokyo Olympics following a 12-10, 9-11, 11-5, 5-11, 11-8, 13-11 win over Singapore’s Koen Pang Yew En and Ye Lin in the semifinals of the Asian table tennis qualifiers on Friday. The Indian pair will take on the top-seeded Korean duo of Lee Sang-su and Jeon Ji-hee in the final on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-manika-in-final/article34114156.ece
20 March 2021||ABU DHABI,||Nabi blitz seals series for Afghanistan||Mohammad Nabi’s 15-ball 40 (2x4, 4x6) set up Afghanistan’s 45-run win against Zimbabwe in the second T20I on Friday. The victory helped Asghar Afghan’s men take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series. Opener Usman Ghani (49, 34b, 5x4, 2x6) and No. 3 batsman Karim Janat (53, 38b, 3x4, 4x6), too, chipped in for Afghanistan which amassed 193 for five. In reply, Rashid Khan’s three for 30 ensured that Zimbabwe was never in the hunt. The third and final match is on Saturday, again in Abu Dhabi.  The scores: Afghanistan 193/5 in 20 overs (Usman Ghani 49, Karim Janat 53, Mohammad Nabi 40) bt Zimbabwe 148 in 17.1 overs (Ryan Burl 40, Rashid Khan 3/30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nabi-blitz-seals-series-for-afghanistan/article34114079.ece
20 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||IPL: HCA put as stand-by venue||There is a glimmer of hope for the cricket lovers of the twin cities as HCA has been informally asked to be prepared as a stand-by venue for IPL. This was conveyed to HCA’s top brass by the BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal during his brief visit on Thursday to the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium. “The first priority of his visit was to get a feel about the facilities available and to get a first-hand account about the preparedness of Hyderabad hosting T20 World Cup matches next year,” a senior HCA official told The Hindu . “The issue of Hyderabad hosting IPL matches also did come up and the message conveyed to the HCA was to be prepared to host any of the games which might be rescheduled for any reasons at some of the centres already named to host the same,” the official said. “HCA stands as one of the first-choices as an alternative venue,” he said. “Mr. Dhumal is very keen that the house is set in order and the statement of accounts is passed at the AGM (scheduled on March 28),” he said. “The BCCI official informed the HCA that they will ensure that funds, which are due to HCA, will be released immediately if everything is fine with the Statement of Accounts after the AGM.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-hca-put-as-stand-by-venue/article34114433.ece
20 March 2021||TOKYO,||Decision today on foreign fans at Olympics||The Tokyo Olympics organisers and International Olympic Committee will meet with government officials on Saturday to decide on whether to allow foreign spectators for the Games in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/decision-today-on-foreign-fans-at-olympics/article34114147.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy win for Cosmopolitan ‘A’||Cosmopolitan ‘A’ defeated Presidency ‘A’ 3-0 in a B zone match of the 28th Sanmar-TNTA Chennai city club league tennis championships here.  Other results: Presidency ‘A’ bt Madras Gymkhana ‘A’ 2-1; Cosmopolitan ‘A’ bt MCC ‘B’ 3-0; C: Madras Club ‘A’ bt Anna Nagar K Block 'A’ 2-1; Besant Nagar ‘B’ bt Mylapore ‘A’ 2-1; Mylapore ‘A’ bt Ransa ‘B’ 3-0; Nungambakkam TC ‘Z’ bt Madras Club ‘A’ 2-1; D: Madras Cricket Club ‘M’ bt Presidency ‘C’ 2-1.   Gandhinagar ‘B’ bt MUC 3-0; MCC ‘M’ bt IIT Madras ‘A’ 2-1; Presidency Club ‘C’ bt Madras Race Club 2-1; E: Madras Gymkhana ‘C’ bt Indiranagar 'J’ 2-1; F: Anna Nagar K Block ‘C’ bt YMCA Nandanam Club ‘B’ 3-0; Mylapore Club ‘B’ bt MGC ‘B’ 3-0.   Alumni Club ‘A’ bt YMCA Nandanam Club ‘C’ 3-0; Alumni Club ‘A’ bt Anna Nagar K Block ‘C’ 3-0; Cosmopolitan Club ‘C’ bt Anna Nagar K Block ‘C’ 2-1; Alumni Club ‘A’ bt YMCA Nandanam Club ‘B’ 2-1; Cosmopolitan ‘C’ bt MCA Nandanam ‘C’ 3-0; Alumni ‘A’ bt Indiranagar SC ‘C’ 2-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-win-for-cosmopolitan-a/article34114203.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA under-19 round-robin tournament, Team I vs Team VI (Magna ‘A’); Team II vs Team III (Magna ‘B’); Team IV vs Team V (Stag ground), 9 a.m.   Ninth Thiruvallur DCA inter-collegiate T20 final, Mar Gregorious vs DRBCCC Hindu College (OCF Cricket Ground), 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34114202.ece
20 March 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Edwards stars in Timberwolves’ win||A sparkling 42-point performance by rookie Anthony Edwards took Minnesota Timberwolves to a 123-119 victory over Phoenix Suns in NBA action on Thursday. Bradley Beal scored 43 points and Russell Westbrook produced a 35-point triple-double as Washington Wizards knocked off the NBA-leading Utah Jazz 131-122.  Other results: Lakers 116 bt Hornets 105; Hawks 116 bt Thunder 93; Knicks 94 bt Magic 93; Trail Blazers 101 bt Pelicans 93.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/edwards-stars-in-timberwolves-win/article34114151.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 13:06 IST,||Sudoku — March 20, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-20-2021/article34114901.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Khichri for all seasons||Somebody at home had not been feeling well. We gave her a short lecture on the perils of leftovers, and then ordered in some khichri. A man can only write on a full stomach, after all. I have had quite an interesting association with this rice-and-dal dish. As a child growing up in west UP, khichri was served mostly when someone fell ill. It was cooked without spices, but usually with a dollop of ghee. And on those rare occasions when it was cooked for no reason at all, we followed the Hindi saying: khichri ke chaar yaar: ghee, papad, dahi, achaar (khichri’s four friends are ghee, curd, papad , pickle). Over the years I have eaten different kinds of khichri – the Bengali roasted moong dal one (sometimes runny, but always with potatoes), the spicy Andhra one with tomatoes, the sweet Gujarati one, the mixed dal khichri of Himachal Pradesh and so on. I am now a khichri aficionado, and can have it any day of the week – whether ailing or not. To make the patient at home feel better, we decided to order in different kinds of khichris. The first site I opened had an interesting array – Mumbai pav bhaji khichri, Bengali panch phoran khichri, masala quinoa khichri and so on. But it turned out to be a part of Olafoods, and we had just had some biryanis from there. So I thought I’d look elsewhere. I zeroed in on the Great Indian Khichdi, which has outlets across Delhi-NCR. You can order your food through Zomato and Swiggy. We asked for three kinds of khichris: garlic tarka khichri and aloo fry (Rs. 219), Marwari aloo khichri (Rs. 179) and classic Rajasthani dal papad khichri (Rs. 179), served with small pieces of papad and gur . I have one word for them all: tasty! There was not much to distinguish one khichri from another, barring the fact that one was chilli hot, and another had a lingering aroma of garlic. All three had been topped with ghee which added to the flavour. The potatoes on the side went well with the dishes. I also enjoyed biting into a piece of gur with the khichri. For dessert there was a gulab jamun , which was all right. It was fat and juicy, but not soft. I had another piece of gur at the end. After days of all kinds of sandwiches, curries and biryanis, we had a nice lunch of khichri and pickle. The khichris, despite the ghee, were light. They were not bland like most home cooked ones, but not overly spiced either. The patient at home — who had complained of a bitter taste in her mouth after taking antibiotics — revived almost at once. The next day, she was rummaging through the fridge for leftover khichri. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khichri-for-all-seasons/article34114682.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Pati, Patni aur Woke: The ongoing exhibition of Mumbai-based anonymous digital artist who goes by the alias Smish Designs raises questions on societal expectations and how they impact women. There are eight artworks exploring the many layers of marriage as an institution. Priced from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 25,000. At Method, Bandra, Mumbai till March 29. @smishdesigns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/instapick/article34114667.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Sleep Day: Dealing with Covid insomnia? This year, World Sleep Day (March 19) had the slogan ‘Regular sleep, healthy future.’ Some suggestions to get started: the latest version of Google’s Nest Hub smart display has a Sleep Sensing feature; the Calm app offers meditations andSleep Stories(with voices like Idris Elba); and the Headspace app teaches relaxation, meditation and mindfulness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/talking-point/article34114672.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Who killed the exclusive?||What an irony that an elegy of the media exclusive is being explored less than two weeks after one of the most talked about television exclusives of recent times. Of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s racy confessional to talk show matriarch Oprah Winfrey. That is the epitaph. Now the funeral. It starts in the backroom of a content platform. “We are offering you an exclusive,” says an email. Details waffle in of a brand campaign or a person whose name carries familiarity, even fame, a creative or business head. Sometimes you are promised photographs from a show or a clip from a fashion film. For most journalists, the reflex response to a potential “exclusive” is piqued interest. Your fuzzy head oscillates between self-importance and the value of the publication you work for. The adrenaline surge of a feisty (imaginary) headline riding on a tricky little tag — exclusive — is too much to resist. It is funnily unfunny though when you scrutinise such offers, if not the very notion, and realise that the exclusive media story from the age of journalism gone by, is dead. When information was not authored and controlled by a posse of image managers. When news was broken by us hacks as bread and not as free fine dine hosted by our subjects. The primacy of the written word in newspapers gave way to fast and easily consumable television. Television opened other visually mesmerising doors, the video for instance. Social media became the protagonist (villain?) of the news revolution. The phone camera chased away the photo journalist. The armchair blogger beat the field reporter. And as Alan Rusbridger, former editor ofThe Guardian argues in the introduction of his book Breaking News: The Remaking of Journalism and Why it Matters Now , “Some thought we were drowning in too much news, others feared the danger of becoming newsless. Some believed we had too much free news; others, that paid-for news was leaving behind a long caravan of ignorance.”  Stuck in a loop  Today, digging for information and verifying its veracity by questioning the prettily packaged, glossy versions of fashion brands and designers handed out to us is not something we can be proud of. Certainly not in lifestyle journalism, even as the exclusive in daily television news, business reports, politics and sports is equally threatened. Even a quick internet search throws up a dozen “exclusive” interviews with couturier Sabyasachi Mukherjee for instance. Perhaps as many with top league designers Manish Malhotra and Anita Dongre. Milind Soman, our middle-aged model, runner and stunner has been exclusively interviewed tens of times. As are actors Sonam Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Kareena Kapoor even Jacqueline Fernandes in similar “exclusives” on fashion, film roles, relationships, airport looks and troll stalking. Scores of exclusives on Deepika Padukone’s battle with depression wait to be discovered. Everyday “exclusives” dance on our attention spans — from cricketer Jaspreet Bumrah’s wardrobe for his Goa wedding just a few days back to how Queen’s Gambit star Anna Taylor-Joy almost did not wear the breathtaking green Dior gown recently at the Emmys. When you read these articles, it is hard to detect anything that is exclusively revelatory. Most stories wheeze under repetitive quotes. So overexposed are the views of beauty entrepreneur Huda Kattan for instance, or pop stars like Lady Gaga and Rihanna, the sustainability arguments of designer Rahul Mishra, the enervation and excitement of Manish Malhotra’s 30 years in Indian fashion, the manner in which Sabyasachi Mukherjee controls the narrative of all news that leaves his headquarters, that you know the story before you have written it. Sometimes, you fall for the exclusive tag with your eyes wide open. Case in point, the stories around the death of French couturier Pierre Cardin, 98, in December. Well-known design guru Rajeev Sethi who had worked under Cardin in Paris and was familiar with the late designer’s insights on Indian fashion sent messages to a number of Indian journalists offering to speak on Cardin’s work with valuable insights. Sethi undoubtedly had an “exclusive” India angle to Cardin, yet every story that appeared in Indian publications over the next few days had similar quotes, all from Sethi. “Before we can rush to Sethi’s Asian Heritage Foundation for a “conversation”, elements of the “exclusive” have been broken down and shared among journalists of a certain flock. Now, we must return to our writing desks and spin the same story in different ways,” I wrote for The Voice of Fashion .  Breaking down content  This is an age of intense public exfoliation, over-documented Instagram lives, journalists managed by social media agencies, the confusion and conflict between bloggers projecting themselves as brands and brands positing as institutions. Content is deliberately trivialised in the name of democratisation and “reach” through influencers. PR teams of fashion designers send journalists ready-to-uplink posts for Instagram complete with captions, images, tags and hashtags, even a specific release time, all programmed to create strategic persistence. So why plead the cause of the exclusive? For media stories, we are offered a tiny piece of a pie cut into thin slices by a smart publicity manager. Then, each collection, campaign, celebrity face of the brand and announcement is portioned out. One is exclusive to a digital platform. Another to a print magazine. One interview with a business head is restricted to retail expansion, another with the same brand head must be only around marketing. Exclusive use of photography is granted a few days after a film or show has been sighted digitally across the world but is peddled as an “India Exclusive”. Indian brands politely remind that you are among the select few offered the story “before others”. All through, bloggers, vloggers and Instagram influencers are invited to post, tag and hashtag. That’s the nature of the beast, we have willingly signed up for. Happier to be a part of a tribe, than the lone hunter in the woods.  Power of the untold story  This lament doesn’t have any moral play or job leverage. But if we do want an exclusive, we can chase one. Far from pre-packaged formulas handed out by PR representatives, the trail of the untold story has not vanished. It can be sniffed out. Though with photographers and reporters fired from many news outlets, the question of who will walk these deserted trails is difficult to answer. However, if Oprah’s interview with the Sussexes had an exclusive air, the recently televised CNN Freedom Project documentary Silk Slaves of India that investigates bonded labour inside Karnataka’s silk weaving industry is without doubt an exclusive story. The real exclusive perhaps lives in the way we search for and choose our stories, ask questions, report, write, and reject cloning, promotional tones. It takes years of newsroom training to write a story that becomes an exclusive read for its narration and research. At least three people must be committed to such a pursuit—the proprietor, editor and the reporter. “Ultimately, the reader will pay to read your original and better reporting. You cannot reduce the resources required for original reporting,” the legendary journalist Marty Baron, till recently the executive editor of The Washington Post toldThe Indian Express’ Vivek Goenka in an interview this January. He was responding to Goenka’s question if the Post’s support of fair journalism by billionaires is a model that can be adopted worldwide. It may also be worthwhile to look beyond the PR-networked, often incestuous, English lifestyle media for a masterclass on exclusives. An instance is Anwesha Banerjee from EI Samay, a Bengali language digital news portal, who won the Ramnath Goenka award in 2020 for regional language reporting for her stories on human trafficking told through the lives of the women of a nomadic tribe. While you are at it, The State of Journalism 2021, a Muck Rack study, released earlier this week offers some clues. It focuses on “reporting, social media habits and preferences for working with PR in the year of Covid-19.” The exclusive is dead. Long live the story. Shefalee Vasudev is editor ofThe Voice of Fashion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/who-killed-the-exclusive/article34113934.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||How to domesticate||There are two kinds of people, those who keep pets and those who like to dress up as pets. For the latter, there are lavish clubs and a host of equipment that you can have delivered home. Trouble is being walked on a leash in the neighbourhood isn’t easy if others are still tackling basic binary-gender conundrums. But today isn’t about the furry folk, it is about the furries. Okay, that’s only more confusing; I mean pets. Still not clear? How about the kind that walk on four legs, beg for food, and drool. Definitely not helping. Guess I will just park the leather collar differentiator for now then. Fine, I am talking about dogs and cats, and maybe birds, but not in the misogynistic sense. Here are the five things you need to observe as a pet owner. If you don’t listen now, you stand to lose all friends, allies and even people who were potentially on your will.  Second names: It is bad enough that we play out our degenerate fantasies on these unsuspecting animals, naming them after things that were our emotional triggers but that we are too shy to get tattooed on us. But then to qualify them with a familial second name, trust me, the animal was just as disgusted with the first name and if it weren’t for the treats and air conditioning, they would have migrated en masse decades ago. If Mr Fluffy Gupta knew any better, he’d cause physical bodily harm before departing.     Tricks: For pets, life is one long boring Halloween, but one without a choice. It is always a trick followed by a treat. Barring the odd clumsy guest who keeps dropping food and becomes an immediate favourite with them. Stop making pets work for your amusement. Imagine if your parents made you come out and perform every time there were guests over… oh my God, I just realised that I was merely a pet proxy for my parents and my childhood was a sham.     Chains: If you need to tie up a pet — either for the pet’s or the guests’ security — then one of them wasn’t properly trained. And since pets can’t talk, I suggest you have a long hard ponder about the kind of people you are letting into your house. Socially distance yourselves for life from people who are scared of animals.     Poop: If your pup poops, you gotta scoop. At home I do it resolutely because it is either that or else live in one ever-growing compost pit. Outside I try and mix it back in patches of dirt and soil in the park. But even I admit that I need to be better at this. One can’t go on living in India simply for that one glorious reason that no one else admonishes us for not cleaning up after our dogs in public. Remember that vets and shrinks are both qualified doctors so when either tells you to “clean up your dirt”, consider it sage advise.     Toys: Pets are like babies. You can buy them all the frills and all they want is a cardboard box to chew on. Well, dogs and cats are exactly the same. So in this one regard, treat your pups and progenies alike — let them find out what they like to play with. If you need too many props to make things creative then you lack imagination. Again, don’t let your mind wander anywhere dirty. Oops, too late.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-to-domesticate/article34113937.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Much ado about nothing||A 2017 study, published in The National Medical Journal of India , found that “drug use exists in children in all regions, cities and smaller towns across all states” of India. A 2019 paper in the International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health found that at least 30% of adolescents in India had abused substances, either tobacco, alcohol or drugs. Both studies covered adolescents aged between 10 and 19. Since the 2017 study was initiated by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), one imagined that drug use by a fictional 13-year-old wouldn’t make the NCPCR keel over in surprise. The august body has, however, served notice on Netflix demanding a ban on the series Bombay Begums because it depicts a minor girl using drugs and fighting body image issues. The notice claims that “this type of content will pollute the young minds of children”, an argument that is being repeated ad nauseam across social media by a certain section of self-righteous souls. Ironically, the show’s certificate clearly states that it is suitable only for viewers above 18, understandable given that it abounds with sex, alcohol and four-letter words. If children have indeed managed to watch the show, the blame lies squarely with parents. Filmmakers cannot be penalised for bad parenting and, sadly, we cannot ban bad parents. If you want to distil the demand for the banning of Bombay Begums for further silliness, allow me to help. Besides the show’s 18+ certificate, smart TV sets have parental controls to prevent children from accessing inappropriate content. Platforms like Netflix enable Viewing Restrictions to be set as per maturity ratings. Responsible parents are expected to use these. They’re also expected not to dish out smartphones to underage children or allow unsupervised browsing. The entire idea of your becoming an adult and being allowed to have children presupposes that you have the intelligence to screen content for your offspring. Now, if the show had glorified 13-year-olds taking drugs, it would have been valid ground for criticism, but it hardly does that. In fact, it does the opposite — makes the girl realise her mistake and rediscover her self-worth. Which is more than one can say about the dozens of films that glorify stalking and the objectification of women but get away as ‘directorial vision’ — to wit, the absolute poison that was Arjun Reddy aka Kabir Singh. Sadly, one can’t ban puerile filmmakers either. Meanwhile, videos of people being beaten up and humiliated by self-appointed community leaders are possibly among the most shared items on smartphones today. Nobody in authority seems concerned about how these will scar society or encourage the further brutalisation of young or ignorant minds in the name of religion, caste or morals. There is no push to punish the making or sharing of these. Instead, you have the power of the state being brought to bear upon the fictional pronouncements of gods and prime ministers or upon the portrayal of a kiss. In Madhya Pradesh, an entire theatre festival has been cancelled because Bajrang Dal objected to the word ‘sadhu’ in a Vijay Tendulkar play titled Jaat Hi Poochho Sadhu Ki, without even knowing that the word here refers not to a ‘holy man’ but a ‘good man’. Clearly, the “sentiments of the people of our country” can stay strong in the face of real people committing real casteist or communal crimes, but they buckle at the knees when anything happens in the fictional space. So tender indeed are our sentiments that even a title we misunderstand can shatter us. But why does a craven administration allow “sentiments” to dictate terms? Why is one sanctimonious posse allowed to shut down a festival or ban a series? Ultimately, this is the real issue. Not that over-zealous persons raise frivolous objections against this or that — this is impossible to avoid — but that the police and the courts don’t throw such cases out. Instead, by watering them with their attention, they ensure that the meanest minds from the lunatic fringe get to dictate a nation’s cultural choices. As for statutory bodies such as NCPCR, it would be more befitting if they agitated about a child being assaulted in real life for drinking water from a temple tap than about a child crossing the line. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/much-ado-about-nothing/article34113879.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The parent test||It’s the time of year when parents are less frenzied over the cut-offs on jeans (could your shorts be any shorter?!) and more about the cut-offs in marks. Will the offspring make the grade for that Jack-and-the-beanstalk STEM to transport them up to another world? What if Maths just doesn’t add up? Or Chem explodes? Will the kids deliver to us bragging rights or not? Honestly, it’s that time of year when a parent test is called for, as well. Q1: Biology: What does your teen need to change physically to present a more successful image? Stronger memory? More focus? Better eye-hand coordination? Surely, at least his hair needs cropping? A1: Chop off the umbilical cord. If he’s looking a bit pale lately, it’s for want of Vit D. Let him off the hook, off his books and into the sun. Not to play a list of organised sports, but to roam around, street-eat, bus it, or do anything with his day that you’re not remote-controlling for him. Q2: Maths: Calculate n as the number of hours your kid needs to be pumped with x tuitions and y nutritional supplements, to crack the exam.  A2: He’ll crack, all right, and not the exam. Could you perhaps allow your kid to do the maths problems without turning him into one? Q3: Foreign Language: How do you talk to a kid whose head is always stuck in some gadget?  A3: You talk to the back of the head, the headphones, the hand, the closed door. Your kid’s got the superpower to hear you through any of that, tough as it is to believe. Q4: History: Whose kid topped which class in which year by doing what?  A4: This is every kid’s nightmare question. So any answer is going to start a war. Bury the past. It won’t predict the future. Utilise the present in taking him out for pizza. Q5: Geography: Which direction will your child’s career take? Which college, country, corporate, climatic zone will he land up in?  A5: Answer to be found in the Computer Programming course, if he were a bit of bytes you could code. But he isn’t. And you can’t. Move to the Chemistry class then. Mix yourself something that sorts you out. If you stop hovering over him, he’s going to turn out just fine.  Your score: You’ve graduated with an A. All parents do. We’ve done our best, and more. The only thing, the toughest test to pass now, is to just let go. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-parent-test/article34113881.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Putting Alappuzha on the global art map||Shed D of KSCC (Kerala State Coir Corporation) in Alappuzha, one of the main venues of Lokame Tharavadu (The World is One Family in Malayalam), resembles a wedding house. The upcoming contemporary art show — organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation in association with the state government, and curated by renowned artist Bose Krishnamachari — may have pushed its opening date (pandemic protocols), but the preparatory work continues unabated. I step into a cacophony of drilling machines, stone cutters and an earthmover. Young men and women — artists and volunteers of the Foundation — unload wooden crates from vans and remove bubble wrap to reveal paintings and sculptures. I spot Nijeena Neelambaram’s installation titledAlmirah, with the names of women from history visible through the packaging. “Thealmirahis part of a girl’s trousseau when she gets married, a customary tradition in Kerala; it’s a keepsake and baggage as well,” shares Neelambaram. Fresh paint is being applied to the walls around me, framers adjust pictures, and the strong smell of polish, glue and linseed oil pervades. Next month, Lokame Tharavadu will turn the spotlight on 268 Malayali artists from India and abroad. Their works will be showcased across five venues in this seaside town with its Venice-like canals and quaint bridges, including the Port Museum, Easter Produce Company (EPC), the Goodacre Warehouse at the Revi Karunakaran Museum, and the New Model Society Building. “We are days away from the official launch and two of the venues are almost ready. But production will go on simultaneously till all the works are up,” Krishnamachari explains as we walk through the din. “These cubicles will hold video works,” he says, pointing to aluminium frames on which boards are going up as partitions. An installation by CF John made of coir and jute hangs perilously from the high roof. 268 artists united Works of many artists are up already. Krishnamachari rattles off names. “Here’s Babu Cherian, one of Kerala’s most important names in the 80s, a self-taught artist... there’s Prathapan, Jyothi Basu, Surendran and Sudevan, a filmmaker... I’ve collected works from those I find talented.” He explains that the Alappuzha show is an extension of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale (KMB). “Just as the Sydney Biennale moves out to Cockatoo Islands, a location that’s an hour away, similarly Alappuzha is close to Kochi and carries its charm.” In 2004, Krishnamachari had curated BombayX 17 , a show that had brought into focus visual art experiments by Mumbai artists, followed by Double Enders a year later (both hosted in Fort Kochi), which exhibited works of Malayali artists from around the world. These shows can be seen as a prelude to Lokame Tharavadu. Now, after a pandemic has disrupted the entire world and affected artists the hardest, he is producing this ‘survey show’ as a tribute to the fraternity. In Alappuzha since January, Krishnamachari has been ideating for the past seven months. The show (three times the size of KMB with reference to participants) will not only display the works on one platform, but will allow collectors, curators and viewers to evaluate pieces for later exhibitions or for their personal collections. “An online exhibition cannot replicate the strength of a physical display of art, just like life. There has been no tangible show for a long time. This [show] will build the confidence of the artists, who are all highly talented,” adds Krishnamachari. The show is being buoyed by the hopes of the people of Alappuzha. “They have formed a group and meet every other day at venues to oversee the progress of how the huge exhibition is coming about.” Breaking the white cube Next, Rohana Jeyaraj of the Foundation guides me to Port Museum on the beach, a longish row of barracks interspersed with spaces opposite the iconic kadal palam (pier). A landscape garden is being readied here and a café is to come up soon. Artist Arun KS is at work, putting up an installation using mud, lime and cow dung. He has created hundreds ofOnattapan-like (a clay figure symbolic of Lord Vamana) structures in different sizes and colours, which are neatly arranged on mud blocks. Tiny sea shells and manjadikuru (lucky red seeds) are scattered on its surface. “I made these working right through the pandemic last year. Ideas block creativity so I just let one thought lead to another,” says the Baroda-based artist of his untitled work. Jeyaraj points to the walls where a Jitesh Kalat will be displayed and a hall which awaits a Gigi Scaria. Out on the beach a mural by Sameer Kulavoor in bright exterior weather-proof paints grabs my attention. It forms a backdrop to the open air stage where playback singer Shahabaz Aman will perform during the opening. “A few thoughts were running through my mind: Noah’s Ark, the phrase ‘we are all in the same boat’, and the title of the show,Lokame Tharavadu,” Kulavoor later tells me, over phone from Mumbai. “I decided to put everyone on a boat — the man from Harappa to the 3,000 BC sculptures of Easter Island, to represent the whole of humanity.” We drive to the other venues, where I see Anpu Varkey’s striking murals on the walls of Goodacre and EPC. Varkey was the first artist to be invited to show at KMB’s first edition. “Surprisingly, here too she’s the first,” says Jeyaraj. Her sky blue de-boned fish is splayed across the wall of the venue. Meanwhile, at EPC, she has created a powerful mural of coir ropes and hands, a tribute to the factories here and the people powering them.  Lokame Tharavadu will open in April. Tickets at Rs. 20. Details: kochimuzirisbiennale.org/   lokame-tharavadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/putting-alappuzha-on-the-global-art-map/article34113887.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Game of straws||This won’t surprise anyone: plastic straws are one of the top 10 most commonly found items in coastal clean-ups the world over. But it is also the easiest pro-environment switch you can make in your personal life — either go without them or choose from the variety of eco-friendly, sustainable options out there. There’s bamboo, steel, paper, and even edible variants. While each has its own advantages, none has garnered wide-scale appeal yet. Perhaps because some can’t hold warm liquids, while others require frequent cleaning. Now with 170 nations, including India, pledging to significantly reduce using plastics by 2030, we are seeing a surge in eco straw alternatives. And homegrown brands aren’t far behind.  Coconut Palm Leaf straws at Evlogia Eco Care, Bengaluru  The Bengaluru-based start-up founded by Manigandan Kumarappan in 2019 - employing women self-help groups and farmers - makes close to 10,000 straws a day. Available in varieties for thick shakes, cocktails and tetrapaks, and soon to launch are wild grass straws, coffee cup lids, and takeaway containers made from fallen areca sheaths. Rs. 149 for a pack of 50, onamazon.inandevlogiaeco.com Pros: Sturdy, can function well for more than two hours in both hot and cold liquids Cons: A whiff of coconut remains on the straws, costlier than plastic and paper counterparts  Castor straws at Eco-Friendly Straws, Bengaluru  In order to give people a low-cost alternative to plastic straws, civil-engineer-turned-politico Shiva Manjesh and his two friends started an initiative to create straws from the castor plant. Launched in 2018, they have been distributed to several tender coconut vendors and juice shops in and around Bengaluru. Rs. 1 each. Details:facebook.com/ecofriendlystraws Pros: Reusable, sturdy, cost-effective Cons: A faint aroma of castor  Edible wheat/rice straws at Nom, Maharashtra  “Nom straws are to drinks, what waffle cones are to the ice creams,” says Shashank Gupta, who launched the brand in November 2019 with Simran Rajput. The customisable plant-based straws that remain crunchy for upto 20 minutes in your lukewarm beverage, come in six flavours: Strawberry Rose, Coffee Java, Crunchy Vanilla, Mint Blast, Lime Pinch and their latest launch, Choco Lust. Upcoming launches include new flavours for children and ice cream spoons. Rs. 200 onwards, onthenom.in Pros: No wastage, interesting flavours Cons: Expensive, not gluten-free  Rice straws at Smaart Eats, Bengaluru  Vishal Ladha, who kicked off Smaart Eats in September 2020 with rice straws, has tried several combinations with wheat flour, corn flour, etc. before zeroing-in on a rice and tapioca combination. Edible and durable — they last for up to an hour in any drink (cold or at room temperature) and come in a range of ‘plant-based’ extracts such as beetroot, carrot, pumpkin, etc. Rs. 2 onwards onsmaarteats.com Pros: Sturdy Cons: Not suitable for hot beverages  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/game-of-straws/article34113923.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s new mentors in the South | South Indian cinema’s new mentors||Last month, PS Vinoth Raj’s “seemingly simple” Tamil film, Koozhangal (Pebbles), won the much-coveted Tiger Award at the 2021 International Film Festival Rotterdam. The jury called it “creating a maximum impact with a minimum in means”, a feat the debut director says wouldn’t have been possible without the support he received from senior filmmakers. By now, mostly everyone knows how the 31-year-old met Ram (of Thanga Meen k al and Peranbu fame) at last year’s Film Bazaar in Goa, and how the National Award-winning director backed Vinoth’s film, and introduced him to actress Nayanthara and filmmaker Vignesh Shivan (who went on to present Koozhangal ). “I made a good film and it might have done well by itself,” says Vinoth, “but if Ram anne [brother] had not stepped in to chart a path for me, I would have been exhausted. It was such a relief to know there was someone who had my back”. Until just a few years ago, one of the few ways aspiring filmmakers could hope to get help with their projects was by assisting a renowned director before branching out. Mani Ratnam, for example, has mentored several of his associates, including Azhagam Perumal ( Dum Dum Dum ), Shaad Ali ( Saathiya ) and, more recently, Dhana Sekaran ( Vaanam Kottatum ). But, of late, this mindset is changing, especially with the emergence of a different kind of filmmaker — one not trained in an institute, and with hardly any on-set experience. These creators envision dramas that are deeply rooted in the hinterland, that defy genres. And commercially-established directors and producers are now open to mentoring these ‘strangers’ just on the merit of the stories they bring to the table. “There are so many talented people who are not getting visibility. I’m certain that if we organise this talent better, it will help the industry. As it grows, we will grow too,” says Kannada actor-writer-filmmaker Rakshit Shetty, who has been backing young talent — such as Senna Hegde ( Katheyondu Shuruvagide ), and Kiranraj K (the upcoming 777 Charlie ).  Putting stories over connections  Unlike most regional cinema, Tamil has mostly been commercially driven. But now a parallel voice is emerging in the state, feels Puducherry-based Samir Sarkar, co-producer of Arun Karthick’s Nasir , which won at Rotterdam in 2020. “Young directors like Arun and Vinoth Raj are pioneers of this new wave of cinema, exploring themes that are gritty and thought provoking. And directors such as Ram, Vetri Maaran and Pa Ranjith are supporting these strong voices. This will not only get these new talents the necessary media exposure, but also help them with theatrical releases and sales.” Thamizh, whose Seththumaan premièred at the recently-concluded International Film Festival of Kerala, comes from a non-film institute background. When he decided to make a movie based on writer Perumal Murugan’s short story, Varugari (fried meat), it was tough. “I’d managed to gather just Rs. 8 lakh [of the Rs. 15 lakh required to shoot] when I decided to meet [filmmaker] Ranjith.” Thamizh adds, “I knew none but him in the present crop of producers would touch a film like this, which speaks about food politics [and caste],” he says. Ranjith, known for films with strong sociopolitical narratives, backed Seththumaan , and helped Thamizh with suggestions. Today, it is doing the festival rounds. “I was walking with my film. Now with Ranjith on board, I feel a bigger responsibility. So even if I’m tired, I want to run with the film, to justify confidence he had in me,” says Thamizh. Over the past few years, Ranjith’s Neelam Productions has been backing stories told by voices not often heard before. The 38-year-old, who calls Babasaheb Ambedkar his mentor, says what he offers younger filmmakers is “his duty” and not a service. “When I began nine years ago, I had to moderate what I wanted to say because producers were hesitant. I could not make the films I wanted to,” he tells me. “Now that I have made a space for myself in Indian cinema, in Tamil cinema, I thought I should help others like me do what they want to do, with confidence.”   Banking on teamwork   For many mentors, fostering young new talent is a kind of course correction. “When I began my career, we did not have the liberty to listen in on discussions. We were supposed to just do what we were told,” says Kannada actor-director Rishab Shetty, who is mentoring young voices. “Cinema is teamwork, and we travel together while making a film. There should be no egos.” Ranjith looks at it as encouraging change — when new stories and new ways of looking at them are given a push, change will take place. “There’s no model. The success of Pariyerum Perumal [Mari Selvaraj’s 2018 debut which dealt with caste discrimination] gave me the confidence that these subjects will also work commercially. While Pariyerum had some commercial elements, Seththumaan is pure cinema,” says Ranjith, who also backed last month’s psychological thriller Kuthiraivaal , starring Kalaiyarasan, and co-directed by newcomers Manoj Leonel Jahson and Shyam Sunder. But in the end, it is about lending a hand. Award-winning Kannada writer-director Hemanth M Rao — who made 2019’s neo-noir thriller, Kavaludaari — believes filmmaking is a solitary journey. And that mentoring is a “combination of paying it forward and wanting to be that person who didn’t exist in my journey.” “When I come across young filmmakers facing problems similar to what I experienced, I give them my perspective in the hope that it helps them overcome any barriers. These could be self-built barriers — of what works or doesn’t work — that add layers of crippling pressure to those starting out. Half the battle is undoing that, and I help in that process,” concludes Hemanth, who has produced indie filmmaker Manu Anuram’s short film. With inputs from Sangeetha Devi Dundoo and Surya Praphulla Kumar   Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cinemas-new-mentors-in-the-south-south-indian-cinemas-new-mentors/article34113915.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Pati, Patni aur Woke: The ongoing exhibition of Mumbai-based anonymous digital artist who goes by the alias Smish Designs raises questions on societal expectations and how they impact women. There are eight artworks exploring the many layers of marriage as an institution. Priced from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 25,000. At Method, Bandra, Mumbai till March 29. @smishdesigns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34113889.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Some burgers, some Kori||Gurgaon-based Meatigo brings its burger patties (buff tenderloin and cheddar cheese, anyone?) and momos to Chennai, together with antibiotic-free meats. At meatigo.com. Meanwhile, Bengaluru Oota Company, which celebrates the Mangaluru and Gowda cuisines of owners Divya Prabhakar and Vishal Shetty, respectively, has been named in the new Essence of Asia 2021 list by The World’s 50 Best Restaurants. This is your excuse to try their Kori Ajadina and jackfruitidliswhen in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/some-burgers-some-kori/article34113891.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Front row at fashion week||The ongoing FDCI x Lakme Fashion Week has designers such as Payal Singhal (5 pm), Samant Chauhan (8 pm) and Manish Malhotra (9 pm) showing their collections today. On FDCI, LFW Instagram handles. Bargain hunters, find labels at up to 70% off at the third edition of FDCI’s Designer Stockroom. On March 22 and 23. fdci.org. Meanwhile, designers Monica Shah and Karishma Swali’s handcrafted luxury clothing brand, JADE, has two new locations: in Emporio Mall, New Delhi, and in LA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/front-row-at-fashion-week/article34113893.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Learning quick||Learn the secrets of the trade as Alcheringa, IIT Guwahati’s annual cultural fest, presents Creators’ Camp. There will be workshops and panel discussions. One of them on YouTube Content Creators has Ankit Patel, founder of Only Desi channel (over 600k subscribers). Rs. 250 on insider.in. Bombay Live, an initiative by AIESEC, has online workshops on digital marketing and a panel discussion on themes like body positivity. Featuring career consultants, LGBTQ activists and poets. On March 20, 21. Rs. 350. on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/learning-quick/article34113895.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||No FOMO, only JOMO||You’ve heard of FOMO but have you heard of JOMO (joy of missing out)? Designer Vivek Karunakaran and The English Tearoom owner Deepa Palaniappan will discuss JOMO and reconnecting with yourself. RSVP to 9840830165. At the Vivek Karunakaran store, Hyatt Regency. March 20, 5.30 pm to 7.30 pm. Do you have a mind palace full of facts and figures? Get ready for the The Great India Quiz by panel quiz show, India Wants to Know. Quizmaster Navin Jayakumar will be at the helm. Rs. 99. On insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/no-fomo-only-jomo/article34113897.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Bird calls and toast||Online meeting fatigue is a thing. Inject some fun with A Zoom Call Re: Birds , a performative audio-visual experience. Presented by Indian Ensemble, it includes interviews with A Karuppuraja of Pothakudi, which switched off streetlights for 35 days to help a robin. Rs. 300 onwards. March 21 and 26-28. At 4.30 pm and 7.30 pm. On insider.in. If you would rather attend an offline event, When Chai Met Toast, a neo-folk band from Kochi, is performing at Barracuda Brew on College Road. On March 26, 7 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bird-calls-and-toast/article34113899.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Sleep Day: Dealing with Covid insomnia? This year, World Sleep Day (March 19) had the slogan ‘Regular sleep, healthy future.’ Some suggestions to get started: the latest version of Google’s Nest Hub smart display has a Sleep Sensing feature; the Calm app offers meditations andSleep Stories(with voices like Idris Elba); and the Headspace app teaches relaxation, meditation and mindfulness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34113901.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunder Nursery concert||To support artists and others in the festival circuit, Jodhpur RIFF and the British Council, in association with Aga Khan Trust, has organised The Classic Bagh Festival . Set in New Delhi’s go-to heritage park, Sunder Nursery. Performers include theqawwalisinger, Dhruv Sangari, and Hindustani vocalist Smita Bellur. On March 21. 6 am to 10 pm. If hip-hop is more your sound, book your seat for rappers Divine and MC Altaf, live in Bengaluru. On April 3. Starts at Rs. 2,000. On inbookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sunder-nursery-concert/article34113903.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Make your eco list||Got that shopping itch? A flea market at Canopy, a performing arts space in Kodambakkam, has candles from a group of architecture students and pre-loved fashion from Madras Magpie. On March 20, 11 am to 6 pm. @canopy311. If you are particular about eco-friendly and vegan products, ExpressAvenue mall will host the third edition of Conscious Market. Find brands like Millie’s Kitchen for artisanal vegan goodies and Thonje for handloom menswear. On March 20, 21. At Centre Atrium, Express Avenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/make-your-eco-list/article34113905.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s new mentors in the South | South Indian cinema’s new mentors||Last month, PS Vinoth Raj’s “seemingly simple” Tamil film, Koozhangal (Pebbles), won the much-coveted Tiger Award at the 2021 International Film Festival Rotterdam. The jury called it “creating a maximum impact with a minimum in means”, a feat the debut director says wouldn’t have been possible without the support he received from senior filmmakers. By now, mostly everyone knows how the 31-year-old met Ram (of Thanga Meen k al and Peranbu fame) at last year’s Film Bazaar in Goa, and how the National Award-winning director backed Vinoth’s film, and introduced him to actress Nayanthara and filmmaker Vignesh Shivan (who went on to present Koozhangal ). “I made a good film and it might have done well by itself,” says Vinoth, “but if Ram anne [brother] had not stepped in to chart a path for me, I would have been exhausted. It was such a relief to know there was someone who had my back”. Until just a few years ago, one of the few ways aspiring filmmakers could hope to get help with their projects was by assisting a renowned director before branching out. Mani Ratnam, for example, has mentored several of his associates, including Azhagam Perumal ( Dum Dum Dum ), Shaad Ali ( Saathiya ) and, more recently, Dhana Sekaran ( Vaanam Kottatum ). But, of late, this mindset is changing, especially with the emergence of a different kind of filmmaker — one not trained in an institute, and with hardly any on-set experience. These creators envision dramas that are deeply rooted in the hinterland, that defy genres. And commercially-established directors and producers are now open to mentoring these ‘strangers’ just on the merit of the stories they bring to the table. “There are so many talented people who are not getting visibility. I’m certain that if we organise this talent better, it will help the industry. As it grows, we will grow too,” says Kannada actor-writer-filmmaker Rakshit Shetty, who has been backing young talent — such as Senna Hegde ( Katheyondu Shuruvagide ), and Kiranraj K (the upcoming 777 Charlie ).  Putting stories over connections  Unlike most regional cinema, Tamil has mostly been commercially driven. But now a parallel voice is emerging in the state, feels Puducherry-based Samir Sarkar, co-producer of Arun Karthick’s Nasir , which won at Rotterdam in 2020. “Young directors like Arun and Vinoth Raj are pioneers of this new wave of cinema, exploring themes that are gritty and thought provoking. And directors such as Ram, Vetri Maaran and Pa Ranjith are supporting these strong voices. This will not only get these new talents the necessary media exposure, but also help them with theatrical releases and sales.” Thamizh, whose Seththumaan premièred at the recently-concluded International Film Festival of Kerala, comes from a non-film institute background. When he decided to make a movie based on writer Perumal Murugan’s short story, Varugari (fried meat), it was tough. “I’d managed to gather just Rs. 8 lakh [of the Rs. 15 lakh required to shoot] when I decided to meet [filmmaker] Ranjith.” Thamizh adds, “I knew none but him in the present crop of producers would touch a film like this, which speaks about food politics [and caste],” he says. Ranjith, known for films with strong sociopolitical narratives, backed Seththumaan , and helped Thamizh with suggestions. Today, it is doing the festival rounds. “I was walking with my film. Now with Ranjith on board, I feel a bigger responsibility. So even if I’m tired, I want to run with the film, to justify confidence he had in me,” says Thamizh. Over the past few years, Ranjith’s Neelam Productions has been backing stories told by voices not often heard before. The 38-year-old, who calls Babasaheb Ambedkar his mentor, says what he offers younger filmmakers is “his duty” and not a service. “When I began nine years ago, I had to moderate what I wanted to say because producers were hesitant. I could not make the films I wanted to,” he tells me. “Now that I have made a space for myself in Indian cinema, in Tamil cinema, I thought I should help others like me do what they want to do, with confidence.”   Banking on teamwork   For many mentors, fostering young new talent is a kind of course correction. “When I began my career, we did not have the liberty to listen in on discussions. We were supposed to just do what we were told,” says Kannada actor-director Rishab Shetty, who is mentoring young voices. “Cinema is teamwork, and we travel together while making a film. There should be no egos.” Ranjith looks at it as encouraging change — when new stories and new ways of looking at them are given a push, change will take place. “There’s no model. The success of Pariyerum Perumal [Mari Selvaraj’s 2018 debut which dealt with caste discrimination] gave me the confidence that these subjects will also work commercially. While Pariyerum had some commercial elements, Seththumaan is pure cinema,” says Ranjith, who also backed last month’s psychological thriller Kuthiraivaal , starring Kalaiyarasan, and co-directed by newcomers Manoj Leonel Jahson and Shyam Sunder. But in the end, it is about lending a hand. Award-winning Kannada writer-director Hemanth M Rao — who made 2019’s neo-noir thriller, Kavaludaari — believes filmmaking is a solitary journey. And that mentoring is a “combination of paying it forward and wanting to be that person who didn’t exist in my journey.” “When I come across young filmmakers facing problems similar to what I experienced, I give them my perspective in the hope that it helps them overcome any barriers. These could be self-built barriers — of what works or doesn’t work — that add layers of crippling pressure to those starting out. Half the battle is undoing that, and I help in that process,” concludes Hemanth, who has produced indie filmmaker Manu Anuram’s short film. With inputs from Sangeetha Devi Dundoo and Surya Praphulla Kumar   Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/cinemas-new-mentors-in-the-south-south-indian-cinemas-new-mentors/article34113876.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s top 3: MMR, Bengaluru and Pune||Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Bengaluru and Pune are currently the top three markets for buying homes for end-use and investment. With property prices having bottomed out in MMR — the most expensive real estate region of the country — both investors and end-users are back in the market. The IT/ITeS sectors’ post-COVID boom has worked well for the IT-centric realty markets of Bengaluru and Pune. Interestingly, Bengaluru and Pune have, respectively, also been declared the top two most liveable cities of India in the recent Ease of Living Index published by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). This coveted title further reinforces their attractiveness. Data indicates that these three cities remained the most active markets in 2020 — together accounting for a 67% share of the total housing sales (of approx. 1.38 lakh units) recorded in the top seven cities, and 60% of all new launches (approx. 1.28 lakh units). “Given the ongoing uncertainties in the stock market and financial sector, housing is currently being viewed as one of the safest long-term investment bets,” says Prashant Thakur, Director & Head — Research, Anarock Property Consultants, adding, “While the stock market prices are at their peak, property prices have bottomed out and various offers and discounts result in further reductions in acquisition costs. Affordability of homes in top cities is also at its best — estimated to be 27% in FY21 as against 53% in FY12.” Housing prices have been range-bound for the past 7-8 years, but past market dynamics would indicate that the return of demand in these pandemic times will cause prices to harden once COVID-19 stabilises. From that perspective, MMR, Bengaluru and Pune are currently ideal residential investment destinations, with potentially satisfactory price appreciation over the next 5-10 years. MMR Despite skyrocketing prices compared to other top cities, the region remains a hot favourite with investors, primarily because of the nation’s financial capital and its strongest economic growth engine — Mumbai. MMR is one of the biggest contributors to India’s overall GDP and thus attracts investors from all over the country. The region’s market remained active in 2020, despite the pandemic. Its unsold housing inventory declined by 6% — the highest in 2020 as against the previous years. In the previous seven years, MMR’s stock either increased y-o-y or declined by no more than 3%. Additionally, ongoing projects such as multiple metro links, Mumbai Trans Harbour Link etc. make it a favourable investment destination. In the current pandemic times, MMR’s property prices have bottomed out. Before COVID-19, it was anticipated that average property prices would increase marginally in 2020. Instead, inventory pile-ups and cost-overruns have been wooing buyers with discounts and offers. The limited-time stamp duty cut and lowest-best home-loan rates are other added benefits. The cost of property acquisition in MMR has reduced by anywhere between 5% and 15% — a previously unimaginable scenario. The recent limited-period 50% reduction in construction premiums may further help property prices reduce by 5-7%. As per Anarock research, the average property prices in MMR towards 2020-end were Rs. 10,610 per sq. ft. Bengaluru The city’s housing sector has consistently withstood the test of time, emerging far more resilient than most other major cities — not just before the pandemic but after it, too. While housing sales in other cities picked up only after the relaxation of pandemic lockdowns, Bengaluru housing sales did quite well even during the lockdown. The fundamentals of the city — right pricing, high-quality products, timely delivery, etc. — give it an edge over other cities. Also, being the predominant IT/ITeS hub, Bengaluru is an evergreen property investment destination. The city saw its unsold stock decline by a massive 51% in 2020 as against 2016 — from 1.21 lakh units in 2016 to nearly 59,330 units as of 2020-end. As per Anarock research, the average property prices in the city currently hover at Rs. 4,955 per sq. ft. — which is far more affordable than most other top cities. Pune  Pune hasa perfect mix of IT/ITeS, manufacturing and services industries, which gives it a decisive advantage. Moreover, it perpetually presents itself as a significantly more affordable property market than neighbouring Mumbai — while providing a comparable lifestyle — and, going by the recent Ease of Living Index, a better one. Over a seven-year horizon to gauge price growth across top cities and markets, Pune saw the highest rise of 38% in average property prices between 2013 and 2020. As per Anarock research, Pune’s average property prices stood at Rs. 3,980 per sq. ft. in 2013. This increased to Rs. 5,510 per sq. ft. in 2020 (a 38% jump).  Anarock Property Consultants  Continued on page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/indias-top-3-mmr-bengaluru-and-pune/article34113938.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Our time in the sun||Ispent last weekend visiting a few of Bengaluru’s many outdoor spaces. Cubbon Park, Lalbagh Botanical Gardens, and the vibrant Church Street. A stark difference from my hometown, Chennai, where aside from the beaches and a few parks, it has little to offer in terms of vast, open spaces. Open areas aren’t just for people to get their time in the sun, but for everyone to come together — be it your neighbourhood florist or a teen in college kickstarting his baking business. Something that was refreshing to see in Bengaluru — from potters and artists displaying their work at the car-free Church Street to children skating and playing at the over 150-acre Cubbon Park. All through lockdown in 2020 and even in the post-Covid scenario, outdoor spaces have proven to be lifelines across the world. People haven’t headed to a mall or the cinemas first, but to parks and open streets, as they offered what no built structure could: relaxation and a connection with Nature. So, why is this vital aspect of city design ignored in India, a country that has one of the highest population densities in the world? The 2014 Urban and Regional Development Plans Formulation and Implementation guidelines suggest a norm of 10-12 square metres of open space per person. This means a 25-35% allocation of a city’s area to be earmarked as recreational and open spaces, in addition to environmentally sensitive areas ( downtoearth.org.in ). Given the fact-paced concretisation of our neighbourhoods over the years, it is no surprise that most Indian cities do not meet the standards of required land cover for recreational spaces. Large, independent houses have given way to high-rise buildings and apartments for a few years now, and the lesser we see of this trend the better. However, rising levels of population and migration to cities tell a different story and should be proof enough that India’s share of green needs a massive boost. An article in The Journal of Public Space , titled ‘Green public spaces in the cities of South and Southeast Asia’, talks about how parks compete for space in a city along with ‘... capitalist-led pressure to build more condominiums and malls on public space as well as the propensity of local governments to erect multipurpose buildings on green spaces.’ The creation of green public spaces is expensive and a great opportunity cost in relation to deals that could instead be made with real estate developers. Perhaps that’s why The Guardian columnist Simon Jenkins making a case for turning Buckingham Palace into a public space is timely. He addresses how millions of people have found refuge and comfort in parks. ‘...it is surely time for the monarchy to make a gesture. Every dynasty has donated open space to London. The Stuarts gave Hyde Park, the Hanoverians Regent’s Park, Queen Victoria, Epping, and Kensington Gardens. The House of Windsor’s record is bare,’ he writes. Jenkins also highlights another vital aspect. With many more headed to such places and even other cities and countries in the months to come, how will these spaces cope? With our cities shrinking, it’s time governments and urban planners took a serious look at what post-pandemic India will be like. Here are my pointers: Firstly, give impetus to creating more green spaces and not eat into what’s left after years of building projects in the name of development. The Aarey forest and Mollem are a case in point.  Look at how accessible these zones are. An area that isn’t safe for women or one that isn’t built keeping in mind the needs of the elderly or the disabled will remain underutilised.  Create car-free, pedestrian-friendly streets. While it’s followed in a few cities on a small scale, it needs much wider implementation. But with a few tweaks: ensure public transport to access these streets. Driving to a car-free zone and parking in the next street (and causing a traffic jam) is no solution.  Bring in guidelines that ensure outdoor areas are well maintained. For instance, allowing only a few people at a time, setting time slots, ensuring social distancing, etc. The more spaces there are, the less crowded each is going to be. In Singapore, for instance, there is a government booking system that allows residents to reserve common public infrastructure for temporary private use.  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues   Most Indian cities do not meet the standards of required land cover for recreational spaces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/our-time-in-the-sun/article34113946.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Legal heirs to a property||My father-in-law passed away intestate and he has three legal heirs — my wife, mother-in-law and sister-in-law (US citizen). There is a flat in his name in Chennai and the other occupants of the flat want to demolish the existing building and construct a new one, for which the legal heirs are agreeable. In the absence of a Will, what are the documents to be obtained to ensure the property belongs to the three legal heirs prior to the building’s demolition and once it is constructed? R Sridhar Chennai The legal heirs have automatically become owners of the property by operation of law. A Legal Heirship Certificate from the concerned Tahsildar has to be obtained for taking any action with respect to the property. Thereafter, the legal heirs, either themselves personally, or through their Power of Attorney, can deal with the development/ construction aspects. Our flat was built between the years 1991 and 1992 on an area of 4,800 sq.ft. and the land comprises eight flats owned by eight individuals. While registering the undivided share of land (UDS) the engineer, along with his associate, created a ninth document in the name of the associate’s wife without the knowledge of the remaining eight buyers. She does not own any flat in the building. In nutshell, the land – 4,800 sq.ft. is owned by nine individuals but the flats (eight in number) are owned by eight individuals. The creation and existence of the ninth document is posing a difficulty in selling any of the flats as well as for future demolition and development. Please suggest a legal remedy for this issue. M. Ramesh Chennai If you can get the ninth person’s co-operation, future redevelopment will be easy. She can execute a Deed of Gift in favour of the remaining eight owners (though the stamp duty and registration charges may have to be paid as sale). It may also be possible to initiate legal proceedings explaining the circumstances and seek a declaration that the entire property is owned jointly by the eight owners under `adverse possession’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/legal-heirs-to-a-property/article34113940.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Kickstart the summer cleanup||It’s the small things that elevate a room from being good to great. But are you ensuring that these essentials are clean? If you aren’t, we tell you what you must do: Pillows Pillows aren’t just packed with foam or down; they can also house several types of allergy-inflaming fungi. Add to that the sweat, drool and skin that you shed, and the conditions are ideal for dust mites. How to keep them spanking clean? Apart from regularly laundering bedding, anti-allergen covers can help protect pillows from outside germs. Bed sheets All the factors that pillows have plus lots more sweat — since the entire body rests on a bed sheet. So what do you do? Washing everything in hot water is a great idea but drop the sheets in a batch of bleach once in a while. Studies have proven that a hot wash with a bit of bleach will kill bacteria on the bed linen and also clean up the machine. Bath mats Bath mats don’t have the most enviable job — they must sit in a dank atmosphere, be soaked with water and are prone to the growth of mold and bacteria. Add to this the fact bathroom floors, along with the bowl, are amongst the most contaminated parts of the bathroom. Make sure you wash the mats once a week on high heat and with bleach; wash separately from bedding or clothes. Ensure that you disinfect the floor so that bacteria don’t get back on a clean mat. Laundry baskets The laundry bag gets a whole lot of bacteria, courtesy sweaty workout gear, underwear and bedding. Make sure you use one bag for dirty clothes and use another for clean ones. Ensure that you wash the dirty bag along with the clothes! Hard hampers, be they wood or plastic, can be subbed down with a disinfectant but stay away from bleach as it may discolour the material. Rugs The rug that provides your feet a cushioned landing the moment you wake up sees a lot through the day. Dirty feet, muddy shoes, and coffee/tea spills — no wonder it’s a sitting duck as far as bacteria is concerned. Shake small rugs every day to dislodge dry dirt, brush out pet hair and vacuum regularly. Consult care labels for small rugs to determine whether they should be dry-cleaned, spot-cleaned, or laundered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/kickstart-the-summer-cleanup/article34113944.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Protecting Karnataka’s Turahalli forest||Turahalli Forest, which has been the focus of Bengaluru’s green activists, has been spared the fate of a tree park. All thanks to the ‘Save Turahalli’ movement which was created over a fortnight and demanded that the forest be kept in its pristine, natural form. But the threat still looms as it is part of the Vision 2022 Programme document announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. An on-the-spot announcement by Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali, in response to people’s resistance, has halted work for the time being and bulldozers have been withdrawn. Perhaps only a few know that the Turahalli Forest was created due to a people’s movement. Decades ago, it was a mere scrubland with a few rocky outcrops facing the harsh sun in summers and rains thereafter. It was the residents of the area who planted saplings, took meticulous care of them and turned the area into a green patch. It was at their behest that the Forest Department surveyed the area later and designated it as an urban forest and put up a board declaring it a ‘mini-forest’. Local support The locals had formed several groups to protect it from encroachment and prevent any activity which may disturb the region’s flora and fauna. ‘Clean Up Turahalli’ has been used to mobilise volunteers to collect trash every fortnight and Chiguru, an NGO, would conduct guided tours for school students, making them aware of the natural process through which forests thrive, act as carbon sinks, conserve groundwater and encourage wildlife. Two more civic organisations — Save RR Nagar and I-care — have also worked in tandem with the Forest Department and forest guards. According to activist Chaitanya Subrahmanya, the COVID-19 lockdown was a relief as no forest fires were reported in the summer of 2020, a departure from earlier years. A Bhanu, activist and Chief Technical Officer in the civil engineering department of the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, says the 597-acre Turahalli Forest has nearly 1.20 lakh trees, hosts 120 species of animals, 80 species of butterflies, and boasts of a population of 200 peacocks. Unauthorised construction The area’s lush surroundings prompted builders to advertise their apartment projects with reference to the foliage the region offers them, says Shodhan Kumar of Mission Disha, which spearheaded the recent campaign. He explains how nothing could save the entire area from encroachment. “Even the BDA carved out a parcel of land to plan a layout. Some green activism and a PIL in the High Court in 2013 led the Forest Department to recover much of the encroached land which regained the forest characteristics due to active involvement of local residents in planting of saplings,” says Kumar. Though chain-linked fences were set up to demarcate the boundaries, the forest area was not fully protected against anti-social elements, as was evident from the trash collected by green activists. In 2011, a 40-acre plot at the extreme end of the forest was turned into a tree park and inaugurated by the then Chief Minister Sadananda Gowda.  Few perhaps know that Turahalli forest itself came up as a people’s movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/protecting-karnatakas-turahalli-forest/article34113948.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Fancy a carved door?||Every metropolis sees thousands of new houses being built every year. If one were to guess how many of these structures have an ornate, carved wooden entrance door, the answer would be in minimal numbers. There is, however, one common architectural element seen in a majority of homes across India and it has multiple names — otla , thinnai , jagali , chaavadi , katte — all meaning the entrance or verandah. It is the arrival point and a transitional space that provides for shade, shelter, comfort for informal sit-outs. At the most mundane level, the door in the verandah denotes a passage from the outdoors to the inside of a home. With the shutters carved with images of deities, flora and fauna, it takes us to another realm, suggesting introspection. Back to the past Manushyaalaya Chandrika is a vastu text which compares a house to a temple, as if both are ‘aalayas’ — one for humans and the other for divine beings. So a house too needs a befitting entrance. Enclosing spaces is necessary for security, while opening doors is necessary for functionality. However, everyone knows that the main door is not merely a functional element. In all traditional doors, we can notice many symbolic meanings and community beliefs. Earlier, every region had its range of main door designs carved by skilled craftspeople, who were not mere carpenters. Unfortunately, architects and interior designers generally ignore the value additions of crafted doors, which are highlighted neither in architectural education nor in professional consultancy. The deeper decorative and symbolic meanings of doors are getting lost, under the claimed shortage of money, time and skilled artisans. Having said that, India has several skilled wood carvers and there’s hope to save the craft. A single example would suffice the need for artistically carved doors. Imagine hundreds of apartments with the same plain, identical doors and in contrast one carved door in an apartment. The latter will stand out. Handmade creations need to be given importance for preserving an art. Panel discussion Keeping the revival of carved doors in mind, the arts and crafts revival group, Madhurya Creations in South Bengaluru recently hosted a panel discussion with architects inclined to adding craft in architecture. Panellists included V. Vishwanath, co-founder and principal architect of Vishwanath Associates; Prathima Seethur, principal architect of Wright Inspires, and Dimple Mittal, principal architect of mayaPRAXIS.  More than money and machinery, it is the mindset that has relegated crafted doors to the back seat. Artistic doors need to be up front, to recreate the symbolic meanings of an Indian home, restore pride in our crafts capabilities, be culturally appropriate and finally, be climatically conforming.  The author can be contacted at varanashi@gmail.com   More than money and machinery, it is the mindset that has relegated crafted doors to the back seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/fancy-a-carved-door/article34113953.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s top 3: MMR, Bengaluru and Pune||Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Bengaluru and Pune are currently the top three markets for buying homes for end-use and investment. With property prices having bottomed out in MMR — the most expensive real estate region of the country — both investors and end-users are back in the market. The IT/ITeS sectors’ post-COVID boom has worked well for the IT-centric realty markets of Bengaluru and Pune. Interestingly, Bengaluru and Pune have, respectively, also been declared the top two most liveable cities of India in the recent Ease of Living Index published by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). This coveted title further reinforces their attractiveness. Data indicates that these three cities remained the most active markets in 2020 — together accounting for a 67% share of the total housing sales (of approx. 1.38 lakh units) recorded in the top seven cities, and 60% of all new launches (approx. 1.28 lakh units). “Given the ongoing uncertainties in the stock market and financial sector, housing is currently being viewed as one of the safest long-term investment bets,” says Prashant Thakur, Director & Head — Research, Anarock Property Consultants, adding, “While the stock market prices are at their peak, property prices have bottomed out and various offers and discounts result in further reductions in acquisition costs. Affordability of homes in top cities is also at its best — estimated to be 27% in FY21 as against 53% in FY12.” Housing prices have been range-bound for the past 7-8 years, but past market dynamics would indicate that the return of demand in these pandemic times will cause prices to harden once COVID-19 stabilises. From that perspective, MMR, Bengaluru and Pune are currently ideal residential investment destinations, with potentially satisfactory price appreciation over the next 5-10 years. MMR Despite skyrocketing prices compared to other top cities, the region remains a hot favourite with investors, primarily because of the nation’s financial capital and its strongest economic growth engine — Mumbai. MMR is one of the biggest contributors to India’s overall GDP and thus attracts investors from all over the country. The region’s market remained active in 2020, despite the pandemic. Its unsold housing inventory declined by 6% — the highest in 2020 as against the previous years. In the previous seven years, MMR’s stock either increased y-o-y or declined by no more than 3%. Additionally, ongoing projects such as multiple metro links, Mumbai Trans Harbour Link etc. make it a favourable investment destination. In the current pandemic times, MMR’s property prices have bottomed out. Before COVID-19, it was anticipated that average property prices would increase marginally in 2020. Instead, inventory pile-ups and cost-overruns have been wooing buyers with discounts and offers. The limited-time stamp duty cut and lowest-best home-loan rates are other added benefits. The cost of property acquisition in MMR has reduced by anywhere between 5% and 15% — a previously unimaginable scenario. The recent limited-period 50% reduction in construction premiums may further help property prices reduce by 5-7%. As per Anarock research, the average property prices in MMR towards 2020-end were Rs. 10,610 per sq. ft. Bengaluru The city’s housing sector has consistently withstood the test of time, emerging far more resilient than most other major cities — not just before the pandemic but after it, too. While housing sales in other cities picked up only after the relaxation of pandemic lockdowns, Bengaluru housing sales did quite well even during the lockdown. The fundamentals of the city — right pricing, high-quality products, timely delivery, etc. — give it an edge over other cities. Also, being the predominant IT/ITeS hub, Bengaluru is an evergreen property investment destination. The city saw its unsold stock decline by a massive 51% in 2020 as against 2016 — from 1.21 lakh units in 2016 to nearly 59,330 units as of 2020-end. As per Anarock research, the average property prices in the city currently hover at Rs. 4,955 per sq. ft. — which is far more affordable than most other top cities. Pune  Pune hasa perfect mix of IT/ITeS, manufacturing and services industries, which gives it a decisive advantage. Moreover, it perpetually presents itself as a significantly more affordable property market than neighbouring Mumbai — while providing a comparable lifestyle — and, going by the recent Ease of Living Index, a better one. Over a seven-year horizon to gauge price growth across top cities and markets, Pune saw the highest rise of 38% in average property prices between 2013 and 2020. As per Anarock research, Pune’s average property prices stood at Rs. 3,980 per sq. ft. in 2013. This increased to Rs. 5,510 per sq. ft. in 2020 (a 38% jump).  Anarock Property Consultants  Continued on page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/indias-top-3-mmr-bengaluru-and-pune/article34113957.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Who killed the exclusive?||What an irony that an elegy of the media exclusive is being explored less than two weeks after one of the most talked about television exclusives of recent times. Of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s racy confessional to talk show matriarch Oprah Winfrey. That is the epitaph. Now the funeral. It starts in the backroom of a content platform. “We are offering you an exclusive,” says an email. Details waffle in of a brand campaign or a person whose name carries familiarity, even fame, a creative or business head. Sometimes you are promised photographs from a show or a clip from a fashion film. For most journalists, the reflex response to a potential “exclusive” is piqued interest. Your fuzzy head oscillates between self-importance and the value of the publication you work for. The adrenaline surge of a feisty (imaginary) headline riding on a tricky little tag — exclusive — is too much to resist. It is funnily unfunny though when you scrutinise such offers, if not the very notion, and realise that the exclusive media story from the age of journalism gone by, is dead. When information was not authored and controlled by a posse of image managers. When news was broken by us hacks as bread and not as free fine dine hosted by our subjects. The primacy of the written word in newspapers gave way to easily consumable television. TV opened other visually mesmerising doors, video for instance. Social media became the protagonist (villain?) of the news revolution. The phone camera chased away the photo journalist. The armchair blogger beat the field reporter. And as Alan Rusbridger, former editor ofThe Guardian argues in the introduction of his book Breaking News: The Remaking of Journalism and Why it Matters Now , “Some thought we were drowning in too much news, others feared the danger of becoming newsless. Some believed we had too much free news; others, that paid-for news was leaving behind a long caravan of ignorance.”  Stuck in a loop  Today, digging for information and verifying its veracity by questioning the prettily packaged, glossy versions of fashion brands and designers handed out to us is not something we can be proud of. Certainly not in lifestyle journalism, even as the exclusive in daily television news, business reports, politics and sports is equally threatened. Even a quick internet search throws up a dozen “exclusive” interviews with couturier Sabyasachi Mukherjee for instance. Perhaps as many with top league designers Manish Malhotra and Anita Dongre. Milind Soman, our middle-aged model, runner and stunner has been exclusively interviewed tens of times. As are actors Sonam Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Kareena Kapoor even Jacqueline Fernandes in similar “exclusives” on fashion, film roles, relationships, airport looks and troll stalking. Scores of exclusives on Deepika Padukone’s battle with depression wait to be discovered. Everyday “exclusives” dance on our attention spans — from cricketer Jaspreet Bumrah’s wardrobe for his Goa wedding just a few days back to how Queen’s Gambit star Anna Taylor-Joy almost did not wear the breathtaking green Dior gown recently at the Emmys. When you read these articles, it is hard to detect anything that is exclusively revelatory. Most stories wheeze under repetitive quotes. So overexposed are the views of beauty entrepreneur Huda Kattan for instance, or pop stars like Lady Gaga and Rihanna, the sustainability arguments of designer Rahul Mishra, the excitement of Manish Malhotra’s 30 years in Indian fashion, the manner in which Sabyasachi Mukherjee controls the narrative of all news that leaves his headquarters, that you know the story before you have written it. Sometimes, you fall for the exclusive tag with your eyes wide open. Case in point, the stories around the death of French couturier Pierre Cardin, 98, in December. Design guru Rajeev Sethi who had worked under Cardin in Paris and was familiar with the late designer’s insights on Indian fashion sent messages to a number of Indian journalists offering to speak on Cardin’s work. Sethi undoubtedly had an “exclusive” India angle to Cardin, yet every story that appeared in Indian publications over the next few days had similar quotes, all from Sethi.  Breaking down content  This is an age of intense public exfoliation, over-documented Instagram lives, journalists managed by social media agencies, the confusion and conflict between bloggers projecting themselves as brands and brands positing as institutions. Content is deliberately trivialised in the name of democratisation and “reach” through influencers. PR teams of fashion designers send journalists ready-to-uplink posts for Instagram complete with captions, images, tags and hashtags, even a specific release time, all programmed to create strategic persistence. So why plead the cause of the exclusive? For media stories, we are offered a tiny piece of a pie cut into thin slices by a smart publicity manager. Then, each collection, campaign, celebrity face of the brand and announcement is portioned out. One is exclusive to a digital platform. Another to a print magazine. One interview with a business head is restricted to retail expansion, another with the same brand head must be only around marketing. Exclusive use of photography is granted a few days after a film or show has been sighted digitally across the world but is peddled as an “India Exclusive”. Indian brands politely remind that you are among the select few offered the story “before others”. Bloggers, vloggers and Instagram influencers are invited to post, tag and hashtag. That’s the nature of the beast, we have willingly signed up for.  Power of the untold story  This lament doesn’t have any moral play or job leverage. But if we do want an exclusive, we can chase one. Far from pre-packaged formulas handed out by PR representatives, the trail of the untold story has not vanished. It can be sniffed out. With photographers and reporters fired from many news outlets though, the question of who will walk these deserted trails is difficult to answer. However, if Oprah’s interview with the Sussexes had an exclusive air, the recently televised CNN Freedom Project documentary Silk Slaves of India that investigates bonded labour inside Karnataka’s silk weaving industry is without doubt an exclusive story. The real exclusive perhaps lives in the way we search for and choose our stories, ask questions, report, write, and reject cloning, promotional tones. It takes years of newsroom training to write a story that becomes an exclusive read for its narration and research. At least three people must be committed to such a pursuit — the proprietor, editor, and the reporter. “Ultimately, the reader will pay to read your original and better reporting. You cannot reduce the resources required for original reporting,” the legendary journalist Marty Baron, till recently the executive editor of The Washington Post toldThe Indian Express’ Vivek Goenka in an interview this January. He was responding to Goenka’s question if the Post’s support of fair journalism by billionaires is a model that can be adopted worldwide. It may also be worthwhile to look beyond the PR-networked, often incestuous, English lifestyle media for a masterclass on exclusives. An instance is Anwesha Banerjee from EI Samay, a Bengali language digital news portal, who won the Ramnath Goenka award in 2020 for regional language reporting for her stories on human trafficking told through the lives of the women of a nomadic tribe. The State of Journalism 2021, a Muck Rack study, released earlier this week focuses on “reporting, social media habits and preferences for working with PR in the year of Covid-19.” The exclusive is dead. Long live the story. Shefalee Vasudev is editor ofThe Voice of Fashion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/who-killed-the-exclusive/article34114683.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The parent test||It’s the time of year when parents are less frenzied over the cut-offs on jeans (could your shorts be any shorter?!) and more about the cut-offs in marks. Will the offspring make the grade for that Jack-and-the-beanstalk STEM to transport them up to another world? What if Maths just doesn’t add up? Or Chem explodes? Will the kids deliver to us bragging rights or not? Honestly, it’s that time of year when a parent test is called for, as well. Q1: Biology: What does your teen need to change physically to present a more successful image? Stronger memory? More focus? Better eye-hand coordination? Surely, at least his hair needs cropping? A1: Chop off the umbilical cord. If he’s looking a bit pale lately, it’s for want of Vit D. Let him off the hook, off his books and into the sun. Not to play a list of organised sports, but to roam around, street-eat, bus it, or do anything with his day that you’re not remote-controlling for him. Q2: Maths: Calculate n as the number of hours your kid needs to be pumped with x tuitions and y nutritional supplements, to crack the exam.  A2: He’ll crack, all right, and not the exam. Could you perhaps allow your kid to do the maths problems without turning him into one? Q3: Foreign Language: How do you talk to a kid whose head is always stuck in some gadget?  A3: You talk to the back of the head, the headphones, the hand, the closed door. Your kid’s got the superpower to hear you through any of that, tough as it is to believe. Q4: History: Whose kid topped which class in which year by doing what?  A4: This is every kid’s nightmare question. So any answer is going to start a war. Bury the past. It won’t predict the future. Utilise the present in taking him out for pizza. Q5: Geography: Which direction will your child’s career take? Which college, country, corporate, climatic zone will he land up in?  A5: Answer to be found in the Computer Programming course, if he were a bit of bytes you could code. But he isn’t. And you can’t. Move to the Chemistry class then. Mix yourself something that sorts you out. If you stop hovering over him, he’s going to turn out just fine.  Your score: You’ve graduated with an A. All parents do. We’ve done our best, and more. The only thing, the toughest test to pass now, is to just let go. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-parent-test/article34114665.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Putting Alappuzha on the global art map||Shed D of KSCC (Kerala State Coir Corporation) in Alappuzha, one of the main venues of Lokame Tharavadu (The World is One Family in Malayalam), resembles a wedding house. The upcoming contemporary art show — organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation in association with the state government, and curated by artist Bose Krishnamachari — may have pushed its opening date (pandemic protocols), but the preparatory work continues unabated. I step into a cacophony of drilling machines, stone cutters and an earthmover. Young men and women — artists and volunteers of the Foundation — unload wooden crates from vans and remove bubble wrap to reveal paintings and sculptures. I spot Nijeena Neelambaram’s installation titledAlmirah, with the names of women from history visible through the packaging. “Thealmirahis part of a girl’s trousseau when she gets married, a customary tradition in Kerala; it’s a keepsake and baggage as well,” shares Neelambaram. Fresh paint is being applied to the walls around me, framers adjust pictures, and the strong smell of polish, glue and linseed oil pervades. Next month, Lokame Tharavadu will turn the spotlight on 268 Malayali artists from India and abroad. Their works will be showcased across five venues in this seaside town with its Venice-like canals and quaint bridges, including the Port Museum, Easter Produce Company (EPC), the Goodacre Warehouse at the Revi Karunakaran Museum, and the New Model Society Building. “We are days away from the official launch and two of the venues are almost ready. But production will go on simultaneously till all the works are up,” Krishnamachari explains as we walk through the din. “These cubicles will hold video works,” he says, pointing to aluminium frames on which boards are going up as partitions. An installation by CF John made of coir and jute hangs perilously from the high roof. 268 artists united Works of many artists are up already. Krishnamachari rattles off names. “Here’s Babu Cherian, one of Kerala’s most important names in the 80s, a self-taught artist... there’s Prathapan, Jyothi Basu, Surendran and Sudevan, a filmmaker... I’ve collected works from those I find talented.” He explains that the Alappuzha show is an extension of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale (KMB). “Just as the Sydney Biennale moves out to Cockatoo Islands, a location that’s an hour away, similarly Alappuzha is close to Kochi and carries its charm.” In 2004, Krishnamachari had curated BombayX 17 , a show that had brought into focus visual art experiments by Mumbai artists, followed by Double Enders a year later (both hosted in Fort Kochi), which exhibited works of Malayali artists from around the world. These shows can be seen as a prelude to Lokame Tharavadu. Now, after a pandemic has disrupted the entire world and affected artists the hardest, he is producing this ‘survey show’ as a tribute to the fraternity. In Alappuzha since January, Krishnamachari has been ideating for the past seven months. The show (three times the size of KMB with reference to participants) will not only display the works on one platform, but will allow collectors, curators and viewers to evaluate pieces for later exhibitions or for their personal collections. “An online exhibition cannot replicate the strength of a physical display of art, just like life. There has been no tangible show for a long time. This [show] will build the confidence of the artists, who are all highly talented,” adds Krishnamachari. The show is being buoyed by the hopes of the people of Alappuzha. “They have formed a group and meet every other day at venues to oversee the progress of how the huge exhibition is coming about.” Breaking the white cube Next, Rohana Jeyaraj of the Foundation guides me to Port Museum on the beach, a longish row of barracks interspersed with spaces opposite the iconic kadal palam (pier). A landscape garden is being readied here and a café is to come up soon. Artist Arun KS is at work, putting up an installation using mud, lime and cow dung. He has created hundreds ofOnattapan-like (a clay figure symbolic of Lord Vamana) structures in different sizes and colours, which are neatly arranged on mud blocks. Tiny sea shells and manjadikuru (lucky red seeds) are scattered on its surface. “I made these working right through the pandemic last year. Ideas block creativity so I just let one thought lead to another,” says the Baroda-based artist of his untitled work. Jeyaraj points to the walls where a Jitesh Kalat will be displayed and a hall which awaits a Gigi Scaria. Out on the beach a mural by Sameer Kulavoor in bright exterior weather-proof paints grabs my attention. It forms a backdrop to the open air stage where playback singer Shahabaz Aman will perform during the opening. “A few thoughts were running through my mind: Noah’s Ark, the phrase ‘we are all in the same boat’, and the title of the show,Lokame Tharavadu,” Kulavoor later tells me, over phone from Mumbai. “I decided to put everyone on a boat — the man from Harappa to the 3,000 BC sculptures of Easter Island, to represent the whole of humanity.” We drive to the other venues, where I see Anpu Varkey’s striking murals on the walls of Goodacre and EPC. Varkey was the first artist to be invited to show at KMB’s first edition. “Surprisingly, here too she’s the first,” says Jeyaraj. Her sky blue de-boned fish is splayed across the wall of the venue. Meanwhile, at EPC, she has created a powerful mural of coir ropes and hands, a tribute to the factories here and the people powering them.  Lokame Tharavadu will open in April. Tickets at Rs. 20. Details: kochimuzirisbiennale.org/   lokame-tharavadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/putting-alappuzha-on-the-global-art-map/article34114666.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Javadekar hits out at AAP over pollution issue||The pollution level in Delhi is less than previous years because of steps taken by the Centre, but “some people in Delhi” were taking credit without having done anything, Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday, taking a dig at at the AAP government in Delhi. Responding to a question by BJP MP Rajeev Pratap Rudy in the Lok Sabha on Delhi’s air being categorised as “hazardous” by a Swiss institute, the Minister acknowledged that air pollution is the “most serious problem”. ‘Centre addressing issue’ The Minister also admitted that the air quality along the Indo-Gangetic belt is poor, but the Centre has taken a number of steps, including a National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) to address the issue of air pollution in 100 cities. Listing out other measures, he said the Badarpur power plant has been shut down, the Eastern and Western Express Peripheral Ways was built to divert nearly 50,000 trucks that used to pass through Delhi, provided Piped Natural Gas (PNG) for 3,000 industries in Delhi and used zig-zag technology or another 3,000 brick kilns to bring down pollution levels. Mr. Javadekar also mentioned about superior emission standards by using BS6 technology for vehicles and introducing electric vehicles. “A new report has stated that pollution level in Delhi is less than previous years,” Mr. Javadekar said, adding that “there are some people in Delhi, who have no contribution towards it [bringing down pollution levels], but are running for credit and giving advertisements in newspapers claiming pollution has come down”. A Swiss organisation, IQAir, in its recent ‘World Air Quality Report, 2020’, stated that 22 of the world’s 30 most polluted cities are in India, with Delhi being ranked the most-polluted capital city globally. But the report also noted that Delhi’s air quality showed 15% improvement between 2019 and 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/javadekar-hits-out-at-aap-over-pollution-issue/article34114327.ece
20 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Schools, colleges closed in Punjab after surge||Amid rising cases of COVID-19, the Punjab government has announced State-wide restrictions beginning March 20, with closure of educational institutions till March 31 and restrictions on entry to cinemas and malls. “All educational institutions, other than medical and nursing colleges, will remain closed till March 31, with restriction of 50% capacity in cinema halls and not more than 100 persons in a mall at any time,” said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, chairing a meeting of the Covid Task Force with top officials. In the 11 worst-hit districts, a complete ban has been ordered on all social gatherings and related functions, except for funerals, cremations and weddings, at which only 20 persons will be allowed. The new curbs will come into force from March 21. In these 11 districts, which will remain under night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m, the Chief Minister has ordered cinemas, multiplexes, restaurants, malls etc. to remain closed on Sundays, though home deliveries will be allowed subject to night curfew. Industries and essential services shall be allowed to function, but barring these, all restrictions shall be strictly enforced, the Chief Minister told top civic and police officials in these districts. Also, starting next week, one hour of silence will be observed across the State every Saturday, from 11 a.m. to 12 noon, in memory of those who lost their lives to COVID; no vehicles will be allowed during this hour.  ‘Involve public’ The Chief Minister asked district administrations to involve the general public, along with market committees, sarpanches etc. in this initiative, which will, however, remain voluntary. Directing health officials to ramp up daily tests to 35,000, the Chief Minister said special focus should be on super spreaders. Government employees must be tested routinely. RAT testing should be stepped up along with RT-PCR testing, he ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-colleges-closed-in-punjab-after-surge/article34114311.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mahila Cong. protests against Uttarakhand CM’s comment||The Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress (DPMC) on Friday organised a protest at Connaught Place against comments made by Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat — who had criticised women for wearing ripped jeans. Mr. Rawat had also questioned the values of the women who follow the trend. The DPMC workers, wearing ripped jeans, raised slogans and held placards against Mr. Rawat’s comments, demanding an apology for his “anti-women” remarks. The party workers said “ripped jeans were cool but a ripped mindset is uncool”. DPMC chief Amrita Dhawan said why should Mr. Rawat decide what women can wear and cannot wear. “Such a misogynist and ripped mindset is what pollutes society especially when it comes from someone who has just been sworn in as Chief Minister,” Ms. Shawan said. She added that if the Chief Minister shares such an attitude, the people on the ground will also learn to have such an attitude and continue to objectify and harass women. The protest garnered support from several women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mahila-cong-protests-against-uttarakhand-cms-comment/article34114322.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out in slum cluster in Vasant Kunj||A fire broke out in a slum cluster in south-west Delhi’s Vasant Kunj in the early hours of Friday, leaving three people injured and gutting 14 shanties, the police said. The injured were identified as 35-year-old Mukesh and two children, aged four and two, they said. Mr. Mukesh was injured while trying to save the two children, the police said. The fire was reported at 2.45 a.m. and nine fire tenders were pressed into action, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the fire broke out in a garbage heap near the shanties. A total of 14 shanties were gutted in the blaze, which was later brought under control. Meanwhile, another minor fire incident was reported in a bank in Old Delhi’s Chandni Chowk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fire-breaks-out-in-slum-cluster-in-vasant-kunj/article34114329.ece
20 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Daily cases cross 100 mark in Odisha||The daily COVID-19 cases crossed the three-figure mark in Odisha on Friday after more than a month. While Cuttack saw the highest increase with 20 cases, it was followed by Khordha which recorded 15 new cases. Mayurbhanj and Nuapada districts had nine each. Daily infections jumped by 26 compared to 84 detected on Wednesday. Of 20 cases detected in Cuttack, 13 belonged to a private education institute. Though the situation is yet to become alarming in the State, screening facilities at railway stations, airports and bus terminals have been strengthened. “We are keeping a close watch on people coming from other States. We have asked officials to intensify testing and tracking,” said Niranjan Mishra, State Director of Public Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/daily-cases-cross-100-mark-in-odisha/article34114312.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDA nod for commercial complex pending: DMRC||Following a plea seeking action against a proposed commercial complex to be built by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, near the Bhikaji Cama Place metro station, the DMRC told the National Green Tribunal (NGT) while it had obtained requisite approvals from the Union Urban Affairs Ministry, approvals from other agencies like Delhi Development Authority (DDA) were pending. Based on the recommendations of an NGT-appointed committee, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the DMRC to ensure maintenance of adequate greenery to mitigate the adverse impact of the project. The green panel also said that a committee comprising officials from the Central Pollution Control Board, DDA and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Delhi would monitor the survival of transplanted trees apart from evolving a plan for mitigation measures against air pollution on account of traffic and congestion based on authentic and realistic data. Earlier the NGT had constituted a committee to conduct carrying carrying capacity studies. The committee, in its report, had said, “The project proponent must ensure that all necessary permission, approvals, permission, clearance conditions must be complied with at all times. An undertakng may be submitted by the project proponent that no groundwater will be extracted during the construction phase. During construction and occupancy phase of the project, all environmental norms and proposed mitigation measures should be strictly adhered to by the project proponent.” The committee also said that the recommendations would stand withdrawn or cancelled automatically if the size of the project was enhanced or proposed mitigation measures were flouted.  A committee comprising officials from the CPCB, DDA and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Delhi, will monitor the survival of transplanted trees and evolve a plan for mitigation measures National Green Tribunal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dda-nod-for-commercial-complex-pending-dmrc/article34114331.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects Mufti’s plea to stay ED summons||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to stay the summons issued to former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh declined any relief to the 61-year-old saying, “We are not giving any stay. We are not granting any relief.” The court has posted the hearing on her petition for April 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the ED, said Ms. Mufti just has to appear before the officials. The ED has now summoned Ms. Mufti for March 22. ‘Hostile acts’ The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief, in her plea, has contended that ever since she was released from preventive detention following the formal abrogation of Article 370, she has been facing a series of “hostile acts by the State”. She has alleged that the ED is conducting a “roving inquiry about her personal, political and financial affairs”. She also pointed out her acquaintances and old family friends, have also been summoned by the agency. Ms Mufti said she has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness, nor she has been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with, and the scheduled offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) which gave rise to the present proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-muftis-plea-to-stay-ed-summons/article34114318.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth arrested for extorting vendors||A 26-year-old youth has been arrested for allegedly extorting vendors in weekly markets on the directions of a criminal lodged in jail, the police said on Friday. DCP (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Anil alias Monu, gangster Rishiraj alias Lambu’s cousin. The police had received a complaint from a man who stated that some unknown persons were threatening him in the name of gangster Rishiraj and trying to extort money. A case was registered and the arrest was subsequently made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-arrested-for-extorting-vendors/article34114320.ece
20 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Bypolls: Rajasthan Cong. faces tough test||The ruling Congress in Rajasthan faces the challenge of dealing with factionalism in the run-up to by-elections at three Assembly seats next month. The State government’s recent “admission” of phone tapping during last year’s political crisis has added a new dimension to internal strife in the party. The by-elections, to be held in Sujangarh, Sahara and Rajsamand constituencies on April 17, will also be important for Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot as a test during his third term. Since two of these seats were earlier held by Congress MLAs, any reversal will be perceived as an adverse decision on the government’s performance. The family members of deceased MLAs Bhanwarlal Meghwal and Kailash Trivedi are likely to be fielded in Sujangarh and Sahara, respectively. Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi, representing the Nathdwara constituency, will play an important role in the selection of candidate at Rajsamand.  Challenge for BJP too While Congress has to defend its turf in Sujangarh and Sahara, the Opposition BJP will face the challenge of retaining its Rajsamand seat, which was vacated after the death of MLA Kiran Maheshwari. The 7.43 lakh voters, who will exercise their franchise at the three seats, constitute a large enough number to give the verdict on the State government’s two years in office. The discontent simmering in the party since the rebellion of Sachin Pilot came to the fore in the Assembly last week with three legislators of his camp alleging discrimination in the House proceedings and their constituencies being ignored. The revelation of tapping of telephone conversations of a Union Minister and some MLAs came as an embarrassment for the faction-ridden Congress earlier this week. However, the State government affirmed that no illegal phone tapping was done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bypolls-rajasthan-cong-faces-tough-test/article34114313.ece
20 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP scared of critics, keeps them behind bars: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the fear of free-thinking and confident critics makes the Bharatiya Janata Party keep them behind bars. He made an indirect reference to jailed activist and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, a critic of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act who is contesting the upcoming Assembly polls from jail. Interacting with college students in eastern Assam’s Lahowal, Mr. Gandhi said the BJP is scared of confidence in opponents and critics. The saffron party keeps such critics behind bars because of the fear that each would inspire 10 others to start a movement, he said.  ‘Can’t face students’ “Have you ever seen the Prime Minister or your Assam Chief Minister facing students like I am doing now? They cannot because they don’t have the courage or confidence to face free-thinking students. It needs confidence and honesty to face the students because they are unbiased and think liberally,” he said. The Wayanad MP said the confident, free-thinking people challenge the BJP’s policy of trying to control people. “So, they put them behind bars,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-scared-of-critics-keeps-them-behind-bars-rahul/article34114314.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia exhorts students to think out of the box to be job providers||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday stressed on the importance of thinking out of the box and the need to ensure that a fleet of students is developed who will be job-providers and not job-seekers. Mr. Sisodia was speaking at The New Code Education 2021 Awards to celebrate educationalists and institutions in higher education who are building, enabling and embracing best digital practices for the future of education. “Our education system is set on the false ideals that our children obtain worldly knowledge by passing an end of school exam. Government structures need to understand that the pursuit of knowledge is beyond passing exams, it is about developing a holistic profile,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said that there was a need to redirect focus to strengthen research activities that can be done through correct leadership. “Our leadership needs to have the right priorities in higher education,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-exhorts-students-to-think-big-aim-to-generate-employment/article34114323.ece
20 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for selling drugs in Dwarka||A 29-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly selling drugs in Dwarka. The accused used to work as a delivery personnel with an online food delivery application, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said that the accused has been identified as Jatin Chutani, a resident of Gurugram. Police said that on Wednesday, an information was received that a person is selling drugs in Durga Vihar in Najafgarh and will be coming to the same place, after which a team apprehended him on the informer’s signal. The man was identified as Jatin and during the search, a polythene containing over 30 gm of drugs were recovered from him, police said. During interrogation, the accused allegedly told the police that he used to work as a delivery personnel with an online food delivery application. He lost his job during the lockdown, police said. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-selling-drugs-in-dwarka/article34114319.ece
20 March 2021||New Delhi,||LoP blames Kejriwal for deaths due to pollution||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Friday demanded Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s resignation holding the Delhi government responsible for the death of 54,000 citizens due to pollution-related issues. Mr. Bidhuri charged the Delhi government with abject failure on this front and alleged it had been indifferent and insensitive to such an important issue. “In the last one year, 54,000 innocent citizens have lost their lives in Delhi due to pollution and pollution-related diseases and the government remains unmoved. The Centre has given liberal aid and assistance to the Delhi government to deal with this issue but it did nothing,” he said. A study done by WHO in relation to 1,650 cities put Delhi among the most-polluted, Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lop-blames-kejriwal-for-deaths-due-to-pollution/article34114324.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||The stir so far||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-stir-so-far/article34114664.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s new mentors in the South | South Indian cinema’s new mentors||Last month, P.S. Vinoth Raj’s “seemingly simple” Tamil film, Koozhangal (Pebbles), won the much-coveted Tiger Award at the 2021 International Film Festival Rotterdam. The jury called it “creating a maximum impact with a minimum in means”, a feat the debut director says wouldn’t have been possible without the support he received from senior filmmakers. By now, mostly everyone knows how the 31-year-old met Ram (of Thanga Meen k al and Peranbu fame) at last year’s Film Bazaar in Goa, and how the National Award-winning director backed Vinoth’s film, and introduced him to actress Nayanthara and filmmaker Vignesh Shivan (who went on to present Koozhangal ). “I made a good film and it might have done well by itself,” says Vinoth, “but if Ram anne [brother] had not stepped in to chart a path for me, I would have been exhausted. It was such a relief to know there was someone who had my back”. Until just a few years ago, one of the few ways aspiring filmmakers could hope to get help with their projects was by assisting a renowned director before branching out. Mani Ratnam, for example, has mentored several of his associates, including Azhagam Perumal ( Dum Dum Dum ), Shaad Ali ( Saathiya ) and, more recently, Dhana Sekaran ( Vaanam Kottatum ). But, of late, this mindset is changing, especially with the emergence of a different kind of filmmaker — one not trained in an institute, and with hardly any on-set experience. These creators envision dramas that are deeply rooted in the hinterland, that defy genres. And commercially-established directors and producers are now open to mentoring these ‘strangers’ just on the merit of the stories they bring to the table. “There are so many talented people who are not getting visibility. I’m certain that if we organise this talent better, it will help the industry. As it grows, we will grow too,” says Kannada actor-writer-filmmaker Rakshit Shetty, who has been backing young talent — such as Senna Hegde ( Katheyondu Shuruvagide ), and Kiranraj K (the upcoming 777 Charlie ).  Putting stories over connections  Unlike most regional cinema, Tamil has mostly been commercially driven. But now a parallel voice is emerging in the state, feels Puducherry-based Samir Sarkar, co-producer of Arun Karthick’s Nasir , which won at Rotterdam in 2020. “Young directors like Arun and Vinoth Raj are pioneers of this new wave of cinema, exploring themes that are gritty and thought provoking. And directors such as Ram, Vetri Maaran and Pa Ranjith are supporting these strong voices. This will not only get these new talents the necessary media exposure, but also help them with theatrical releases and sales.” Thamizh, whose Seththumaan premièred at the recently-concluded International Film Festival of Kerala, comes from a non-film institute background. When he decided to make a movie based on writer Perumal Murugan’s short story, Varugari (fried meat), it was tough. “I’d managed to gather just Rs. 8 lakh [of the Rs. 15 lakh required to shoot] when I decided to meet [filmmaker] Ranjith.” Thamizh adds, “I knew none but him in the present crop of producers would touch a film like this, which speaks about food politics [and caste],” he says. Ranjith, known for films with strong sociopolitical narratives, backed Seththumaan , and helped Thamizh with suggestions. Today, it is doing the festival rounds. “I was walking with my film. Now with Ranjith on board, I feel a bigger responsibility. So even if I’m tired, I want to run with the film, to justify confidence he had in me,” says Thamizh. Over the past few years, Ranjith’s Neelam Productions has been backing stories told by voices not often heard before. The 38-year-old, who calls Babasaheb Ambedkar his mentor, says what he offers younger filmmakers is “his duty” and not a service. “When I began nine years ago, I had to moderate what I wanted to say because producers were hesitant. I could not make the films I wanted to,” he tells me. “Now that I have made a space for myself in Indian cinema, in Tamil cinema, I thought I should help others like me do what they want to do, with confidence.”   Banking on teamwork   For many mentors, fostering young new talent is a kind of course correction. “When I began my career, we did not have the liberty to listen in on discussions. We were supposed to just do what we were told,” says Kannada actor-director Rishab Shetty, who is mentoring young voices. “Cinema is teamwork, and we travel together while making a film. There should be no egos.” Ranjith looks at it as encouraging change — when new stories and new ways of looking at them are given a push, change will take place. “There’s no model. The success of Pariyerum Perumal [Mari Selvaraj’s 2018 debut which dealt with caste discrimination] gave me the confidence that these subjects will also work commercially. While Pariyerum had some commercial elements, Seththumaan is pure cinema,” says Ranjith, who also backed last month’s psychological thriller Kuthiraivaal , starring Kalaiyarasan, and co-directed by newcomers Manoj Leonel Jahson and Shyam Sunder. But in the end, it is about lending a hand. Award-winning Kannada writer-director Hemanth M. Rao — who made 2019’s neo-noir thriller, Kavaludaari — believes filmmaking is a solitary journey. And that mentoring is a “combination of paying it forward and wanting to be that person who didn’t exist in my journey.” “When I come across young filmmakers facing problems similar to what I experienced, I give them my perspective in the hope that it helps them overcome any barriers. These could be self-built barriers — of what works or doesn’t work — that add layers of crippling pressure to those starting out. Half the battle is undoing that, and I help in that process,” concludes Hemanth, who has produced indie filmmaker Manu Anuram’s short film. With inputs from Sangeetha Devi Dundoo and Surya Praphulla Kumar   Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cinemas-new-mentors-in-the-south-south-indian-cinemas-new-mentors/article34114572.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Some appum, some Kori||The Appumm House, so far a coastal food delivery service that offers appumms (50 non-vegetarian and 30 veg options)  with stews and curries, is now being launched in Worldmark, Sector 65, Gurgaon. Meanwhile, Bengaluru Oota Company, which celebrates the Mangaluru and Gowda cuisines of owners Divya Prabhakar and Vishal Shetty, respectively, has been named in the new Essence of Asia 2021 list by The World’s 50 Best Restaurants. Try their Kori Ajadina and jackfruitidliswhen in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/some-appum-some-kori/article34114669.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Front row at fashion week||The ongoing FDCI x Lakme Fashion Week has designers such as Payal Singhal (5 pm), Samant Chauhan (8 pm) and Manish Malhotra (9 pm) showing their collections today. On FDCI, LFW Instagram handles. Bargain hunters, find labels at up to 70% off at the third edition of FDCI’s Designer Stockroom. On March 22 and 23. fdci.org. Meanwhile, designers Monica Shah and Karishma Swali’s handcrafted luxury clothing brand, JADE, has two new locations: in Emporio Mall, New Delhi, and in LA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/front-row-at-fashion-week/article34114670.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Learning quick||Learn the secrets of the trade as Alcheringa, IIT Guwahati’s annual cultural fest, presents Creators’ Camp. There will be workshops and panel discussions. One of them on YouTube Content Creators has Ankit Patel, founder of Only Desi channel (over 600k subscribers). Rs. 250 on insider.in. Bombay Live, an initiative by AIESEC, has online workshops on digital marketing and a panel discussion on themes like body positivity. Featuring career consultants, LGBTQ activists and poets. On March 20, 21. Rs. 350. on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/learning-quick/article34114671.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunder Nursery concert||To support artists and others in the festival circuit, Jodhpur RIFF and the British Council, in association with Aga Khan Trust, has organised The Classic Bagh Festival . Set in New Delhi’s go-to heritage park, Sunder Nursery. Performers include theqawwalisinger, Dhruv Sangari, and Hindustani vocalist Smita Bellur. On March 21. 6 am to 10 pm. If hip-hop is more your sound, book your seat for rappers Divine and MC Altaf, live in Bengaluru. On April 3. Starts at Rs. 2,000. On inbookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sunder-nursery-concert/article34114673.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Bird calls and toast||Online meeting fatigue is a thing. Inject some fun with A Zoom Call Re: Birds , a performative audio-visual experience. Presented by Indian Ensemble, it includes interviews with A Karuppuraja of Pothakudi, which switched off streetlights for 35 days to help a robin. Rs. 300 onwards. March 21 and 26-28. At 4.30 pm and 7.30 pm. On insider.in. If you would rather attend an offline event, When Chai Met Toast, a neo-folk band from Kochi, is performing at Barracuda Brew on College Road. On March 26, 7 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bird-calls-and-toast/article34114674.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Trail mix||Carvaa Travelers, launched in October last year, could be a choice for this year’s summer holiday season. There are two — called Fine and Rare — that can accommodate five and three people respectively. They come equipped with a stocked kitchenette, drinking water and water for other purposes, a washroom, camping tents, pillows and quilts, and more. On Instagram @carvaa.india. Travelling within Delhi-NCR? The Rydeo Bike-Taxi app hopes to make travel for women safe. Choose male or female captains for the ride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trail-mix/article34114676.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Learn stuff||The Pink Lotus Academia, an online tutorial platform focused on Indian classical art forms and yoga, is now offering monthly master classes to the students of sitar, at the intermediate and advanced stages. These, conducted by Soumitra Thakur, focus on strengthening the base and on the principles of practice. Rs. 2,000 per class; at thepinklotusacademia.com. Have a mind full of facts and figures? Get ready for the The Great India Quiz show by India Wants to Know. Quizmaster Navin Jayakumar will be at the helm. Rs. 99, on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/learn-stuff/article34114678.ece
20 March 2021||March 20 2021 00:00 IST,||Cinema’s new mentors in the South | South Indian cinema’s new mentors||Last month, P.S. Vinoth Raj’s “seemingly simple” Tamil film, Koozhangal (Pebbles), won the much-coveted Tiger Award at the 2021 International Film Festival Rotterdam. The jury called it “creating a maximum impact with a minimum in means”, a feat the debut director says wouldn’t have been possible without the support he received from senior filmmakers. By now, mostly everyone knows how the 31-year-old met Ram (of Thanga Meen k al and Peranbu fame) at last year’s Film Bazaar in Goa, and how the National Award-winning director backed Vinoth’s film, and introduced him to actress Nayanthara and filmmaker Vignesh Shivan (who went on to present Koozhangal ). “I made a good film and it might have done well by itself,” says Vinoth, “but if Ram anne [brother] had not stepped in to chart a path for me, I would have been exhausted. It was such a relief to know there was someone who had my back”. Until just a few years ago, one of the few ways aspiring filmmakers could hope to get help with their projects was by assisting a renowned director before branching out. Mani Ratnam, for example, has mentored several of his associates, including Azhagam Perumal ( Dum Dum Dum ), Shaad Ali ( Saathiya ) and, more recently, Dhana Sekaran ( Vaanam Kottatum ). But, of late, this mindset is changing, especially with the emergence of a different kind of filmmaker — one not trained in an institute, and with hardly any on-set experience. These creators envision dramas that are deeply rooted in the hinterland, that defy genres. And commercially-established directors and producers are now open to mentoring these ‘strangers’ just on the merit of the stories they bring to the table. “There are so many talented people who are not getting visibility. I’m certain that if we organise this talent better, it will help the industry. As it grows, we will grow too,” says Kannada actor-writer-filmmaker Rakshit Shetty, who has been backing young talent — such as Senna Hegde ( Katheyondu Shuruvagide ), and Kiranraj K (the upcoming 777 Charlie ).  Putting stories over connections  Unlike most regional cinema, Tamil has mostly been commercially driven. But now a parallel voice is emerging in the state, feels Puducherry-based Samir Sarkar, co-producer of Arun Karthick’s Nasir , which won at Rotterdam in 2020. “Young directors like Arun and Vinoth Raj are pioneers of this new wave of cinema, exploring themes that are gritty and thought provoking. And directors such as Ram, Vetri Maaran and Pa Ranjith are supporting these strong voices. This will not only get these new talents the necessary media exposure, but also help them with theatrical releases and sales.” Thamizh, whose Seththumaan premièred at the recently-concluded International Film Festival of Kerala, comes from a non-film institute background. When he decided to make a movie based on writer Perumal Murugan’s short story, Varugari (fried meat), it was tough. “I’d managed to gather just Rs. 8 lakh [of the Rs. 15 lakh required to shoot] when I decided to meet [filmmaker] Ranjith.” Thamizh adds, “I knew none but him in the present crop of producers would touch a film like this, which speaks about food politics [and caste],” he says. Ranjith, known for films with strong sociopolitical narratives, backed Seththumaan , and helped Thamizh with suggestions. Today, it is doing the festival rounds. “I was walking with my film. Now with Ranjith on board, I feel a bigger responsibility. So even if I’m tired, I want to run with the film, to justify confidence he had in me,” says Thamizh. Over the past few years, Ranjith’s Neelam Productions has been backing stories told by voices not often heard before. The 38-year-old, who calls Babasaheb Ambedkar his mentor, says what he offers younger filmmakers is “his duty” and not a service. “When I began nine years ago, I had to moderate what I wanted to say because producers were hesitant. I could not make the films I wanted to,” he tells me. “Now that I have made a space for myself in Indian cinema, in Tamil cinema, I thought I should help others like me do what they want to do, with confidence.”   Banking on teamwork   For many mentors, fostering young new talent is a kind of course correction. “When I began my career, we did not have the liberty to listen in on discussions. We were supposed to just do what we were told,” says Kannada actor-director Rishab Shetty, who is mentoring young voices. “Cinema is teamwork, and we travel together while making a film. There should be no egos.” Ranjith looks at it as encouraging change — when new stories and new ways of looking at them are given a push, change will take place. “There’s no model. The success of Pariyerum Perumal [Mari Selvaraj’s 2018 debut which dealt with caste discrimination] gave me the confidence that these subjects will also work commercially. While Pariyerum had some commercial elements, Seththumaan is pure cinema,” says Ranjith, who also backed last month’s psychological thriller Kuthiraivaal , starring Kalaiyarasan, and co-directed by newcomers Manoj Leonel Jahson and Shyam Sunder. But in the end, it is about lending a hand. Award-winning Kannada writer-director Hemanth M. Rao — who made 2019’s neo-noir thriller, Kavaludaari — believes filmmaking is a solitary journey. And that mentoring is a “combination of paying it forward and wanting to be that person who didn’t exist in my journey.” “When I come across young filmmakers facing problems similar to what I experienced, I give them my perspective in the hope that it helps them overcome any barriers. These could be self-built barriers — of what works or doesn’t work — that add layers of crippling pressure to those starting out. Half the battle is undoing that, and I help in that process,” concludes Hemanth, who has produced indie filmmaker Manu Anuram’s short film. With inputs from Sangeetha Devi Dundoo and Surya Praphulla Kumar   Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cinemas-new-mentors-in-the-south-south-indian-cinemas-new-mentors/article34114570.ece
