21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, United States resolve to intensify defence cooperation||India on Saturday resolved to intensify defence cooperation with the U.S. Central Command in Florida and with the U.S. Commands in the Indo-Pacific region and Africa. The announcement was made by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh who held talks with U.S. Secretary of Defense General Lloyd James Austin III (retd). Mr. Austin described the partnership as a “central pillar” of the American policy for the Indo-Pacific. “We reviewed the wide gamut of bilateral and multilateral exercises and agreed to pursue enhanced cooperation with the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command. Acknowledging that we have in place the foundational agreements, LEMOA, COMCASA and BECA, we discussed steps to be taken to realise their full potential for mutual benefit,” Mr. Singh said at a joint meeting with the media at the Vigyan Bhavan. He said the bilateral discussion covered “military-to-military engagement across services, information sharing, cooperation in emerging sectors of defence, and mutual logistics support”. Earlier in the day, the visiting Secretary of Defense paid tributes at the National War Memorial. He arrived here on Friday and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “India in particular is an increasingly important partner among today’s rapidly shifting international dynamics. I reaffirm our commitment to a comprehensive and forward looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar to our approach to the region,” Mr. Austin said. This is his first trip after taking charge on January 22 as part of the Biden-Harris administration. Mr. Austin’s visit is crucial as it comes in the midst of expectations that the U.S. is likely to deliver a message over India’s plans to acquire the Russian S-400 missile defence system in the coming months. The move could attract U.S. sanctions under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. China angle In a clear hint to Beijing’s growing military activities in the South China Sea region, Mr. Austin said the India-U.S. defence partnership will “grow” in the coming years. “The relationship is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region. PM Modi has stated that India stands for freedom of navigation and freedom of overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce and adherence to international law. This is a resounding affirmation of our shared vision for regional security in the Indo-Pacific.” U.S. industry Reflecting the American policy, Mr. Singh drew attention to the recent Leaders’ Summit of India, U.S., Japan and Australia under the Quadrilateral Framework and emphasised the collective “resolve to maintain a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”. He said both sides also discussed non-traditional challenges such as “oil spills and environment disasters, drug trafficking, Illegal, Unreported, Unregulated (IUU) fishing”. He also welcomed the U.S. industry and said it should take “advantage of India’s liberalised foreign direct investment policies in the defence sector”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-united-states-resolve-to-intensify-defence-cooperation/article34122005.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||‘Deshmukh sought Rs. 100 cr. a month’||An email to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) purportedly from Param Bir Singh, who was shunted out as Mumbai Police Commissioner, sparked controversy on Saturday as it alleged that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs. 100 crore every month from suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, who is now in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia bomb scare case. Mr. Deshmukh was quick to deny the charges, saying the letter is being written by an officer who is facing inquiry along with Mr. Vaze in the case. “Param Bir Singh has made false allegations in order to save himself as the involvement of Sachin Vaze in Mukesh Ambani and Mansukh Hiren’s case is becoming clearer from the investigation carried out so far & threads are leading to Mr. Singh as well,” Mr. Deshmukh said. He added that he would file a defamation case against Mr. Singh. Mr. Deshmukh said, “Why was he [Mr. Singh] silent for all this time if he was informed about this in February? The only reason is to divert attention from the ongoing investigation as he is going to be in trouble for the same. He is trying to blackmail the government. The decision to reinstate Waze was taken in his capacity as no minister is involved in it.” However, later in the evening, the CMO claimed that the letter was not sent from Mr. Singh’s registered email ID. “Chief Minister secretariat received a letter on its official email ID at 4.37 p.m. on Saturday from paramirs3@gmail.com with only the name of Param Bir Singh without any signature. The department is in the process of checking its authenticity,” said a statement from the CMO. It said, as per records, Mr. Singh’s personal email ID in government documents is parimbirs@hotmail.com. Calls to step down The letter comes in the wake of reports indicating a possible inquiry against him and his arrest by the NIA in the bomb scare case. The letter to the Chief Minister said, “Shri Sachin Vaze who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police was called by Shri Anil Deshmukh, Hon’ble Home Minister, Maharashtra to his official residence Dyaneshwar several times in last few months and repeatedly instructed to assist in collection of funds for the Hon’ble Home Minister. The Hon’ble Home Minister expressed to Shri Vaze that he had a target to accumulate Rs. 100 crore a month.” The BJP was quick to demand action against Mr. Deshmukh citing allegations by Mr. Singh. They said Mr. Deshmukh should take responsibility and resign. “The allegations levelled in the letter are extremely grave and never has such accusations been made in the history of the State. Either the Home Minister should resign immediately, accepting moral responsibility, or Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must ask him to tender resignation,” said Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. The BJP has called for a State-wide agitation on Sunday demanding Mr. Deshmukh ouster. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray too demanded the State Home Minister’s resignation. However, the Congress questioned the timing of the letter. “The Home Minister had said a month ago that he was under pressure. The Central agencies are being used to pressure the administration,” said Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. Commenting on Mr. Singh’s claim that the suicide of MP Mohan Delkar should not have been probed by the Mumbai Police, he said that if the Sushant Singh Rajput death case can be probed by the Bihar Police, then why can’t the Mumbai Police probe the Delkar death case. “The whole episode is being planned to suppress the Delkar death case,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deshmukh-sought-rs-100-cr-a-month/article34122509.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||NIA to probe death of Thane man||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday transferred the probe into the mysterious death of Thane resident Mansukh Hiran to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case is currently being investigated by the Maharashtra Police. Hiran was the last occupant of the sports utility vehicle (SUV) which was found laden with gelatin sticks near Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, on February 25. The NIA had earlier arrested police officer Sachin Vaze on the charge of parking the vehicle near Antilia. Twenty pieces of unassembled gelatin sticks were found in the vehicle. Mr. Vaze, an assistant police inspector with the Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police, was arrested on March 13 under various charges of forgery, criminal intimidation, criminal conspiracy and the Explosives Act. An NIA spokesperson said the MHA had notified the transfer of investigation to NIA and the case would soon be re-registered by the agency. The explosives case was transferred to the NIA on March 8 from the Maharashtra Police. Mr. Vaze, who is a former member of the Shiv Sena, had been accused of custodial killing earlier. He was under suspension since 2004 and was reinstated in June 2020 by the Maharashtra government. The NIA had on March 16 recovered a black colour Mercedes-Benz used by Mr. Vaze. From the car, the number plate of the abandoned SUV, more than Rs. 5 lakh, a note counting machine and some clothes were recovered. Hiran’s wife Vimla had told the Maharashtra Police that her husband was in touch with Mr. Vaze and it was the latter who was using the vehicle that was found near Antilia. Hiran had told the police that the SUV was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. According to Thane police, Hiran, who was in vehicle spare business, left his shop around 8.30 p.m. on March 4 in an autorickshaw and since then his phone was switched off. His family then lodged missing person complaint. His body was fished out from the Thane creek area on March 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-takes-over-probe-into-death-of-thane-resident/article34122007.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,||TRS wins both Council seats||The TRS won both the seats for which elections were held to the Legislative Council from graduates constituencies on March 14. The party wrested the seat from the BJP in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and retained the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency. The marathon counting of votes which commenced at 8 a.m. on Wednesday continued till Saturday night when the results were officially declared in favour of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s daughter S. Vani Devi at Hyd-RR-Mahbubnagar and the sitting MLC Palla Rajeswara Reddy at Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trs-wins-both-council-seats/article34122330.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||NITI Aayog vision for Great Nicobar ignores tribal, ecological concerns||In what appears to a re-run of recent developments in Little Andaman Island (A bullet through an island’s heart, The Hindu , February 1), more than 150 sq. km. of land is being made available for Phase I of a NITI Aayog-piloted ‘holistic’ and ‘sustainable’ vision for Great Nicobar Island, the southernmost in the Andaman and Nicobar group. This amounts to nearly 18% of the 910 sq. km. island, and will cover nearly a quarter of its coastline. The overall plan envisages the use of about 244 sq. km. – a major portion being pristine forest and coastal systems. Projects to be executed in Phase I include a 22 sq. km. airport complex, a transshipment port (TSP) at South Bay at an estimated cost of Rs. 12,000 crore, a parallel-to-the-coast mass rapid transport system and a free trade zone and warehousing complex on the south western coast. What stands out prominently in the whole process, starting with the designation in mid-2020 of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation (ANIIDCO) as the nodal agency, is the speed and co-ordination with which it has all unfolded. The other is the centrality of the NITI Aayog. First, on September 4, 2020, the Director, Tribal Welfare, A&N Islands, constituted an empowered committee to examine NITI Aayog’s proposals for various projects in Little Andaman and Great Nicobar Islands. A copy of the 2015 ‘Policy on Shompen Tribe of Great Nicobar Island’ was part of the communication sent out, giving an indication of the aims of the committee. Significant changes have also been effected to the legal regimes for wildlife and forest conservation. Ecological uniqueness In its meeting on January 5, 2021, the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) denotified the entire Galathea Bay Wildlife Sanctuary to allow for the port there. The NBWL committee seemed unaware that India's National Marine Turtle Action Plan that was under preparation then (it was released on February 1, 2021) had listed Galathea Bay as one of the ‘Important Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Areas’ and ‘Important Marine Turtle Habitats’ in the country. It is included in Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ)-I, the zone with maximum protection. Then, on January 18, another Environment Ministry expert committee approved a “zero extent” Ecologically Sensitive Zone (ESZ) for the Galathea NP to allow use of land in the south-eastern and south-western part of the island for the NITI Aayog plan. The October 2020 draft notification for this zero extent ESZ had ironically listed out in great detail the park’s ecological uniqueness – that it is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site, houses a range of forest types, has one of the best preserved tropical rainforests in the world, is home to 648 species of flora and hosts 330 species of fauna including rare and endemic ones such as the Nicobar wild pig, Nicobar tree shrew, the Great Nicobar crested serpent eagle, Nicobar paradise flycatcher and the Nicobar megapode. It also notes that the park is home to the indigenous Shompen community. The notification says that an ESZ is needed to protect the park from an ecological, environmental and biodiversity point of view, but goes on in the very next para to propose a zero extent ESZ for nearly 70% of the periphery of the park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/niti-aayog-vision-for-great-nicobar-ignores-tribal-ecological-concerns/article34122009.ece
21 March 2021||YADGIR,||Chief Minister goes all out against Congress, its leaders||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday made a sharp attack on the Congress and its leaders, saying that the party would not come to power for the next 20 years at the Centre. He was speaking at a rally at Maski town in Raichur district. Maski is one of the Assembly seats where bypolls will be held. He said the Congress’ rule for the last 70 years had ruined the country and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule had resulted in India making tremendous progress. The BJP and Mr. Modi’s governance focussed on people of all faiths, including Hindu, Muslim, and Christian. He challenged critics to show if the government was favouring people of any one faith or community. Going all out against the Congress, Mr. Yediyurappa alleged that the Congress was in power for so many years by using money power and muscle power and misused the administration. He found it strange that leaders of that party such as D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah were now criticising the Modi government. “They have no moral right to do so,” the Chief Minister said. “I promise you of getting many dream projects for Maski. Once I make a promise, I will not go back on it,” he said. Presently, there was water shortage for 5 A canal, he said and promised that the Basaveshwar lift irrigation project at Watagal would be implemented, he said. The Chief Minister said that there would be a tough fight even in the coming zilla panchayat elections and added that the BJP would win all the six constituencies in Maski “with your blessings”. Mr. Yediyurappa welcomed the former MP K. Veerupakshappa into the party. Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP State unit president, said Mr. Siddaramaiah would quit the Congress soon because of his differences with Mr. Shivakumar. Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol and Laxman Savadi; Ministers K.S. Eshwarappa and B. Sriramulu; and Sanganna Karadi, MP, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-goes-all-out-against-congress-its-leaders/article34122303.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC revokes clean chit to Yediyurappa||Finding fault with special court’s order of refusing to proceed against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in a 10-year-old illegal land denotification case, the High Court of Karnataka directed the special court to take cognisance of offences against him, and proceed further on the basis of charge sheet filed by the Lokayukta Police in 2012. The High Court also directed the special court to take cognisance of offence against former minister Katta Subramanya Naidu in another for illegal land denotification case as per the charge sheet.. Justice John Michael Cunha delivered the verdict on March 17 while allowing a petition filed by one A. Alam Pasha, a resident of Bengaluru. The petitioner had questioned July 25, 2016, order of the special court declining to proceed against Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Naidu based on the chargesheet. Mr. Pasha had filed a private complaint of alleged corruption against then minister Murugesh Nirani and eight others in 2011 and the special court had ordered a probe by the Lokayukta Police. However, the Lokayukta Police, in May 2012 had filed “B” report on nine persons named in the complaint, stating that no evidence was found against them but had filed a chargesheet against Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Naidu stating that their illegal and corrupt acts came to light from the records inspected during the investigation. The chargesheet had accused Mr. Yediyurappa of illegally denotifying 20 acres of land at Hoovinayakanahalli village, Jala hobli, Bengaluru North taluk. Mr. Naidu was accused of illegally denotifying 4 acres 6 guntas of land at Makanakuppe village, Nelamangala taluk, Bengaluru Rural district. Both were accused of causing crores of rupees loss to the State exchequer by illegally denotifying lands acquired for industrial purposes by abusing their positions. ‘ No discretion’  “When the chargesheet was filed before the special court alleging commission of cognizable offences under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrupt Act, the special court has no discretion to choose to ignore the cognisable offence staring on the face of the record and give reprieve to the accused on the flimsy ground that the allegations of the cognizable offences were not made in the complaint or in the FIR,” observed Justice Cunha. “I find that the special court was oblivious of the fact that it was dealing with the allegations relating to the violation of the provisions of PC Act that was enacted with the avowed object of eradicating corruption in public life,” Justice Cunha observed. Meanwhile, the High Court directed the special court to examine the “B” report filed stating that no evidence was found against Mr. Nirani and eight others as the special court had not passed any order on “B” report while declining to accept the chargesheet. Cover for petitioner As Mr. Pasha’s counsel told the Court that the complainant is “apprehending danger to his life”, the Court directed the police to provide necessary protection to him as per the law while asking him to approach the jurisdictional court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-revokes-clean-chit-to-yediyurappa/article34122000.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||India reports 40,953 new COVID-19 cases||India reported 40,953 new COVID-19 infections, the highest single-day rise in 111 days, taking the cumulative case tally to 1,15,55,284. The country also reported 188 fatalities in the 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Saturday, taking the death toll to 1,59,558, as per the data released by the Health Ministry. There are 2,88,394 active cases.  New cases “Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 25,681. It is followed by Punjab with 2,470, while Kerala reported 1,984 new cases. A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight States — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. Kerala, however, is showing a consistently declining trend,” the Ministry said. It added that Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab accounted for 76.22% of the active cases.  Recoveries The cumulative recoveries stood at 1,11,07,332, with 23,653 registered in the past 24 hours. Five States accounted for 81.38% of the fresh deaths, with Maharashtra reporting 70 casualties, followed by Punjab (38) and Kerala (17). Doctors have requested the Centre to expand the vaccination coverage to include caregivers of patients who are bed-ridden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-over-40000-covid-19-cases/article34122003.ece
21 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. assures waiver of farmer debts in Assam||Waiving off the debts of farmers and beginning the process of identification of illegal immigrants topped the list of promises in the Congress manifesto that former party president Rahul Gandhi released in Guwahati on Saturday. The party also promised to write off the debts of women who have taken loans from micro finance banks, provide free yarn, loom and other equipment to them and make their travel in State buses free. The Congress pledged to take steps to solve the problem of illegal immigrants based on the March 25, 1971 cut-off date as prescribed in the Assam Accord. It said the process of identifying illegal immigrants would be according to the decision of the Supreme Court that had monitored the exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) of 1951. “The number of NRC offices and recruitment of officials will be started. These offices will be made functional at the earliest so that people who have been left out have the opportunity of redressing their grievances. It will be ensured that no Indian citizen is left out of the NRC,” the manifesto read. Mr. Gandhi said the manifesto was prepared with inputs from all sections of the people of the State. “The document contained the aspirations of people. The BJP and the RSS are attacking the diverse cultures of the nation. They are attacking our language, history, ways of thinking and living. This manifesto is about protecting the idea of Assam, its culture and identity,” he said. The manifesto incorporated the ‘5 guarantees’ that was part of the party campaign during the run-up to the polls. “The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which has endangered the language, culture and history of Assam, will not be implemented and rigorous attempts will be made by the Congress party to repeal this law that threatens to divide people.” The Congress promised to provide five lakh government jobs and 25 lakh jobs in the private sector, raise the daily wage of tea workers to Rs. 365, free electricity up to 200 units per household and Rs. 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. “A pension will be extended to the families of freedom fighters and martyrs of the Assam Agitation, language movement and the CAA movement. The landless inhabiting State-owned land will be provided ‘land patta’. ST [Scheduled Tribe] status will be given to Tai-Ahom, Moran, Motok, Chutia, Tea-Tribes and Koch-Rajbongshi communities,” it said. Holy places such as ‘namghars’ (Vaishnavite prayer centres), temples, mosques, churches, etc, which are over 50 years old, have been promised some financial assistance. “Kerosene and sugar will be distributed publicly again at minimum price. Gaushalas will be built in each district. A corpus fund will be created for lawyers and Rs. 5 crore will be extended towards it. Mobile clinics will be set up in poverty-stricken regions of cities and villages,” according to the Congress manifesto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-assures-waiver-of-farmer-debts-in-assam/article34122454.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Active cases cross 2,000-mark||The State reported the highest single-day tally of COVID-19 infections in the past three months adding to the rising number of cases of late. In the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, two more deaths and 380 infections were reported. The last time single-day tally was over 380 and touched 400 was in the last week of December 2020. The positivity rate of the daily tests was also the highest in past three months at 1.23% for the 30,978 samples tested in the last 24 hours. The daily positivity rate is gradually increasing in the past couple of weeks. The overall positivity rate of 1.47 crore samples tested is 6.08% The cumulative tally increased to 8.93,366  and the toll reached 7 ,189. The death rate slightly came down to 0.80%. For the first time in two months, the number of active cases crossed 2,000-mark and reached 2,083  even as 204 patients recovered in the past day. The overall recoveries stand at 8,84,094  and the recovery rate further decreased to 98.96%. Each of the two new deaths occurred in Kurnool and Prakasam districts. Meanwhile, Guntur has been witnessing a spike in new infections as it reported 70 in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (60), Kurnool (51), Krishna (44), Visakhapatnam (43), East Godavari (26), Anantapur (22), Nellore (21), Srikakulam (15), Vizianagaram (9), Kadapa (8), Prakasam (6) and West Godavari (5). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,803), West Godavari (94,400), Chittoor (88,349), Guntur (76,194), Anantapur (67,946), Nellore (62,594), Prakasam (62,278), Kurnool (61,095), Visakhapatnam (60,402), Kadapa (55,534), Krishna (49,308), Srikakulam (46,359) and Vizianagaram (41,209).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-covid-19-infections-cross-the-2000-mark/article34121999.ece
21 March 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal must lead in BJP’s national rout: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged the people to bowl out the BJP to defeat them in the country. “You should play in such a manner that the BJP is bowled out of the ground. If the BJP is bowled out in Bengal, then we will be able to surely defeat them nationally,” Ms. Banerjee said at a meeting at Khejuri. Khela hobe (Game will be played) is the Trinamool Congress slogan for the Assembly polls and the reference to “bowl out” is taking it forward. Ms. Banerjee told the people of Khejuri, the constituency adjoining Nandigram where she is contesting from, to not let their guard down even after the polling in the constituency on March 27. Terming the BJP “biggest extortionists”, she said the BJP must clear air over the fate of the demonetised money and the PM Cares funds. Later in the day, the Chief Minister ridiculed the BJP and saying it is not getting proper candidates for the polls, therefore they are fielding MPs. Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee also hit the campaign trail holding a road show at Debra in Paschim Medinipur for Humayun Kabir. At a rally, he took a swipe at the Prime Minister’s remarks in Kharagpur where he had referred to WhatsApp services being affected for 50 minutes on Friday evening. “The Prime Minster is concerned if WhatsApp does not work for 50 minutes, but he remains indifferent if migrant workers die while returning home,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-must-lead-in-bjps-national-rout-mamata/article34122456.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||BMC to begin random testing at public places||With a spurt in coronavirus cases in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to carry out over 47,000 rapid antigen tests at public places every day. Mumbai has added more than 37,000 new cases in a month. It recorded the highest one-day rise in cases earlier this week. In a circular issued here, the BMC stated that rapid antigen tests will be carried out for free, except at shopping malls where it will be chargeable. The tests will be mandatory for those selected randomly. Those who refuse will have to face action under the Epidemic Act, 1897, the BMC circular stated. “It is a bitter pill we have to swallow now to check the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city. We appeal to citizens to comply and help carry out the rapid antigen tests,” an official said. BMC officials have been given a target of carrying out 47,800 tests daily at railway stations, bus depots, food joints, markets, malls and government offices. Even if a person has already undergone testing, the BMC will insist on retesting, as detection of the infection is more important, the official said. Aaditya tests positive Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Saturday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and urged people not to let their guard down. Mr. Thackeray tweeted, “On having mild symptoms of COVID-19. I had myself tested and I am COVID-19 positive.” The guardian minister of Mumbai suburbs also requested people who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. “I urge everyone to realise that it is extremely important not to let your guard down. Please follow COVID-19 protocols and stay safe,” the son of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-to-begin-random-testing-at-public-places/article34122505.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Minority students benefited most under overseas scholarship scheme’||Contrary to the general perception that minorities are neglected in the implementation of welfare schemes, it’s the students from the minority communities who have benefited the most under the overseas education scholarship schemes since 2014-15 in the State. This was informed in the Assembly by Minister for Scheduled Castes Development Koppula Eshwar during the Question Hour on Saturday. Replying to a question raised by members G. Kishore Kumar, K.P. Vivekanand and B. Haripriya, the Minister stated that a total of 3,676 students of SC, ST, BC and minorities were benefited under the scheme from 2014-15 to 2020-21 with a scholarship amount of Rs. 589.69 crore for pursuing higher education overseas. He explained that of the students who availed the benefit under the scheme, 54% went to the US, 25% to Australia, 11.5% to the UK and the remaining to 10 other countries for pursuing higher education with government help. “It’s because of the scheme that students from the most backward districts such as Kumram Bheem-Asifabad have been able to study abroad,” he said and assured that gaps, if any, in the selection process would be addressed. Mr. Kishore Kumar and Ms. Haripriya requested the government to increase the income limit from the existing Rs. 5 lakh per annum to Rs. 8-10 lakh per annum so that more students could avail the scheme. They urged the government to extend the scheme to a second student in a family, and include 10-15 other countries under the scheme such as Russia, Ukraine, EU countries and include MBBS course. Non-release of the scholarship instalments during the lockdown period last year was brought to the government notice by Mr. Vivekanand. He also wanted the government to allow applying for the scheme even after joining the courses overseas.  Asking the government to resume inviting applications for the bankable loan schemes for minority communities, Jaffar Hussain and six other members of AIMIM said applications were not being taken since 2016-17. He said the need for the scheme was more at a time when the livelihoods of people were affected badly due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minority-students-benefited-most-under-overseas-scholarship-scheme-koppula-eshwar/article34122345.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Schools in State to be shut for Classes 9 to 11||The Tamil Nadu government has announced that schools will be closed for Classes 9, 10 and 11 from March 22 until further orders. Hostels will also be shut, according to an order issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department. With COVID-19 case clusters increasing in the State, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has said it is not advisable to continue in-person learning for students of Classes 9 to 11. However, Class 12 students who have to sit for the board examination can be permitted to have in-person learning since the number will be fewer. But they will have to comply with all the standard operating procedures, the Directorate has said. Intense testing and contact-tracing are under way, besides micro-containment in zones where clusters have sprung up. The emergence of clusters at a few schools has prompted the decision. The order has also said the conduct of the examinations for Class 10 students of boards other than the State Board and special classes and hostels for them will be permitted. Digital learning can continue for Classes 9 to 11. In a statement, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan said the Director of the Directorate of Public Health had pointed to the emergence of clusters at schools in Thanjavur and a few other districts. Though their number was small, public health experts opined that the clusters could spread to localities where the students resided and contribute to an increase in the cases not only in these areas but also in the districts. To prevent the spread of the contagion, permission for in-person learning for Classes 9 to 11 had been revoked. The recommendations of the Directorate of Public Health have been taken into consideration, he said. Mr. Ranjan said that in some districts, the increase in the cases could be due to a mix of programmes, meetings, festivals as well as non-compliance with mask-wearing in public places and non-adherence to guidelines. A meeting was held on March 16 and 17, wherein it was decided to step up preventive measures and vaccination. Micro-containment zones “Due to increased and aggressive testing, the RT-PCR tests administered went up from 50,000 to 75,000 per day. ...even if the number of those testing positive is high, all efforts are being made to isolate and treat them immediately to control further spread,” Mr. Ranjan said. Streets and residential complexes that had more than 3 cases would be declared a micro-containment zone, he said. “...mask-wearing in public, hand-washing and physical distancing should be followed by all. In the last three days, 24,700 persons/institutions have been fined Rs. 52.64 lakh for flouting these norms,” he said. Schools were reopened for Classes 10 and 12 on January 19. In February, schools were permitted to function for Classes 9 and 11. Later that month however, the government declared all students of Classes 9 to 11 promoted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-in-state-to-be-shut-for-classes-9-to-11/article34122113.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Govt. to sponsor Mangaluru kite festival||Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C.P. Yogeshwar said here on Saturday that the government will henceforth sponsor the Mangaluru kite festival and will promote it as an annual event. At an interactive session here, the Minister said that the festival can be promoted as a Mangaluru brand. Earlier, kite flyer Dinesh Holla from ‘Team Mangaluru’ sought the government’s support for the festival. The Minister asked the stakeholders of tourism in the coastal belt to sit together and prepare an itinerary of activities to be promoted in the belt by linking the activities. “Provide the government a concrete plan to attract tourists to the coastal belt,” he said. B.S. Girish, vice-president, Hotel Ocean Pearl, said that organising kambala events in the belt is becoming a personal affair. It can be promoted as a sports event in a particular place by making four or more pairs of buffaloes to run in slush tracks at a time. There is a need to prepare a calendar of events of tourism activities in the belt. Naren Koduvattat, IT professional, said that tourism activities should be planned in such a way that tourists should be retained in the coastal belt for sometime to enable them to attend the activities and visit places. The homestay concept should be nurtured with the support of the government. Mr. Koduvattat drew the attention of the Minister on the urgent need to protect the beaches, especially in Udupi district, from the menace of building sea walls. The pristine beaches are being lost in the coastal belt, he said, adding that yacht tourism can be promoted in the belt. Other suggestions emerged included need for the marketing of tourist attractions at the Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama, promoting boat houses, promoting rain tourism, surfing, river festivals, heritage museums, tourist villages, fishing expedition, and the like. President of DKUWJ Srinivas Nayak Indaje suggested that the Minister organise an investors’ meet in Mangaluru to enable those interested in investing in tourism sector to get to know the opportunities available. Responding to it, the Minister said that the government will organise it shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-sponsor-mangaluru-kite-festival/article34122484.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Minister asked for Rs. 100 crore every month’||Former Mumbai police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has alleged that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs. 100 crore every month from suspended police officer Sachin Vaze. Mr. Singh levelled this allegation in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-demanded-rs-100-crore-every-month/article34121996.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC reserves judgment on MPTC, ZPTC elections||The High Court reserved its judgment on the conduct of elections to MPTCs and ZPTCs after hearing petitions which wanted the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to hold them without further delay. Counsel for SEC N. Ramesh Kumar contended that the latter was not answerable to court on the issue of his discretion to conduct or not to conduct the elections and that the court could not entertain a writ petition at this stage. Advocate-General S. Sriram argued that the court’s restrained deference to the constitutional authority was not to be abused and even the inaction of Speakers on disqualification petitions was a subject matter of the review power of courts. He insisted that the SEC’s approach with no scrutiny or constitutional accountability was repugnant to the Constitutional governance of the State. The court questioned if the SEC could go to the extreme of saying that it had no power to look into the matter at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-reserves-judgement-on-mptc-zptc-elections/article34121932.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Victory roar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/victory-roar/article34122037.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Railways: No proposal to collect user fee||Naresh Salecha, member-Finance, Railway Board, who visited the Byappanahalli terminal on Saturday, told the media that there was no proposal to levy user fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railways-no-proposal-to-collect-user-fee/article34122039.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Dattatreya Hosabale, backs law on ‘love jihad’||Newly-elected RSS Sarkaryavaha (general secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale, hailing from Shivamogga district in Karnataka, has backed laws against ‘love jihad’ brought into force by some States and proposed by a few others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dattatreya-hosabale-backs-law-on-love-jihad/article34122040.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Ration delivery scheme will be nameless: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme would now be nameless in the wake of the Centre red-flagging the use of ‘Mukhya Mantri’. The Delhi Cabinet will meet on Monday to formally drop the reference to the CM from the scheme, scheduled to begin from March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ration-delivery-scheme-will-be-nameless-kejriwal/article34122201.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Raje govt. too tapped my phone, claims RLP leader||Former NDA ally and national convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party Hanuman Beniwal claimed that phone tapping by the Ashok Gehlot government was not a one-off incident as the previous BJP government headed by Vasundhara Raje had also done the same. “The Gehlot government should resign... It had no reason to tap phones of legislators other than the hunger to hold on to power,” Mr. Beniwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raje-govt-too-tapped-my-phone-claims-rlp-leader/article34122204.ece
21 March 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata didi runs school of brutality, charges PM||Claiming that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had betrayed the people of West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the Trinamool Congress chairperson and accused her of brutality towards political opponents. “Mamata didi runs a school of brutality wheretolabaji(extortion), cut money, syndicate and anarchy form syllabus,” Mr. Modi said, while addressing a rally in Kharagpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-didi-runs-school-of-brutality-charges-pm/article34122457.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘India cannot turn a blind eye to crisis in Myanmar’||As hundreds of Myanmarese people took shelter in Mizoram fearing a military crackdown in the neighbouring country, State Chief Minister Zoramthanga has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that “India cannot turn a blind eye” to the humanitarian crisis unfolding right in its backyard. Mr. Zoramthanga said that “political refugees” from Myanmar should be given asylum, and provided food and shelter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-cannot-turn-a-blind-eye-to-crisis-in-myanmar/article34122458.ece
21 March 2021||Singur,||Singur’s resistance has turned full circle||Weeks before Singur goes to the polls on April 10, farmers are busy filling ubiquitous pink sacks with the harvested potato crop on the erstwhile factory site. Each sack containing 50 kg of the tuber will earn them anything between Rs. 280 and Rs. 330. The constituency has oscillated between agriculture and industry, hope and despair, and resistance and triumph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/singurs-resistance-has-turned-full-circle/article34122459.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,||RT-PCR testing resumes at Talapady checkpost||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has reopened the RT-PCR testing facility at Talapady checkpost on NH 66 to enable regular commuters between Kerala and Karnataka to undergo the test for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rt-pcr-testing-resumes-at-talapady-checkpost/article34122486.ece
21 March 2021||Chennai,||Schools in State to be shut for Classes 9 to 11||The Tamil Nadu government has announced that schools will be closed for Classes 9, 10 and 11 from March 22 until further orders. Hostels will also be shut, according to an order issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department. The order also said the conduct of the examinations for Class 10 students of boards other than the State Board and special classes and hostels for them will be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-in-state-to-be-shut-for-classes-9-to-11/article34122472.ece
21 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Congress will retain Punjab, says Ashwani||Senior Congress leader Ashwani Kumar said the electoral arithmetic of Punjab leans heavily in favour of Congress in the run-up to the Assembly polls, which are due early next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-will-retain-punjab-says-ashwani/article34122527.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Undisclosed income found with city builder||The Income-Tax Department has detected undisclosed income of about Rs. 270 crore during searches on a prominent builder and developer group based in Mumbai. The searches were carried out at 29 locations in Mumbai, while a survey action was undertaken on 14 premises. The real estate group is developing a commercial mall, having 950 units exclusively for the mobile accessories business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/undisclosed-income-found-with-city-builder/article34122507.ece
21 March 2021||Nagpur,||Tiger cub found dead at sanctuary in Nagpur||A seven-month-old tiger cub was found dead at Umred Paoni Karhandla Sanctuary in Maharashtra's Nagpur district on Saturday, a forest official said. The half-eaten carcass was found in compartment no 363 RF of Karhandla beat in the sanctuary, the field director of Pench Tiger Reserve said in a release. It has been confirmed that the cub belonged to the tigress identified as T1.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiger-cub-found-dead-at-sanctuary-in-nagpur/article34122510.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||Four dead, one hurt in two blasts at chemical factory||Four workers were killed and one of their colleagues suffered injuries in two blasts at a chemical factory in Khed taluka of Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district on Saturday morning, a police official said. Around 40 other workers were rescued by the fire department staff and the police personnel following the blasts that triggered a blaze, he said. As per the preliminary investigation, a boiler at the factory exploded due to overheating. The exact cause of the incident is being ascertained. .PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-dead-one-hurt-in-two-blasts-at-chemical-factory/article34122511.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Surging TPR: Next two weeks crucial||With a second wave of COVID-19 appearing to set in, Karnataka’s surging Test Positivity Rate (TPR) has become a cause for concern. COVID-19 experts said the coming two weeks would be extremely crucial for Karnataka and unless drastic measures were initiated to cut transmission, the State might go the Maharashtra way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surging-tpr-next-two-weeks-crucial/article34122300.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Six places identified for setting up heliports’||Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C.P. Yogeshwar said here on Saturday that Mangaluru was among six places identified for setting up heliports in the State for promoting tourism and improving connectivity under UDAN scheme. The other places identified are Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubballi, Hampi, and Kalaburagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-places-identified-for-setting-up-heliports/article34122301.ece
21 March 2021||Shivamogga,||Take tractors to Bengaluru, urge leaders||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and other leaders from Delhi have called upon people of Karnataka to join the agitation against the “anti-farm laws” by blocking entries to Bengaluru as it had been done in Delhi. Mr. Tikait, addressing the first Raitha Mahapanchayat in Shivamogga on Saturday, said: “You have to create Delhi in Karnataka.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-tractors-to-bengaluru-urge-leaders/article34122041.ece
21 March 2021||KALLKURICHI,||CM Palaniswami slams Stalin’s ‘fake farmer’ jibe||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami hit back at DMK president M. K Stalin’s “fake farmer” jibe and accused his rival of trying to spread “falsehoods” and “confuse” the voters in a desperate bid to capture power as his party had been out of power for 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-palaniswami-slams-stalins-fake-farmer-jibe/article34122108.ece
21 March 2021||THUCKALAY,||Didn’t you award contracts to kin, Stalin asks CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who “crawled like a lizard” to get the coveted post, should explain to the people if his close relatives were been given contracts worth about Rs. 4,000 crore or not, DMK president M.K. Stalin asked on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-asks-cm-whether-he-awarded-contracts-to-kin/article34122109.ece
21 March 2021||Chennai,||T.N. reports 1,243 fresh cases, 8 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 1,243 new COVID-19 infections and eight fatalities, taking the caseload to 8,65,693 and the death toll to 12,590. There was an overall rise in fresh infections in many districts. Chennai, along with its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, accounted for 58% of the fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-1243-fresh-cases-8-fatalities/article34122110.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Restrictions are back in temples||With the sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the government has reintroduced restrictions in temples for the safety of devotees and employees. Devotees will be allowed only up to a certain point inside the temple, in queues while maintaining adequate physical distancing. No archanais will be performed and prasadam and theertham (holy water) will not be distributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-are-back-in-temples/article34122471.ece
21 March 2021||Singur,||Singur’s resistance has turned full circle||A pile of drain pipes surrounded by farmlands reaping a good potato harvest is all that remains on the 997-acre plot in Singur where the Tata Motors’ Nano factory once stood. It is almost impossible to locate the site of the factory whose structure was demolished by controlled explosions after the Supreme Court verdict in 2016. The verdict overruled the land acquisition by the Left Front government and in September 2016, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee returned the land to the farmers, with a symbolic sowing of mustard seeds. Five years later, with the promise of industry on the lips of all political parties fighting the Assembly election, including the Trinamool Congress, life in Singur has turned full circle. People residing in no other constituency in West Bengal have seen so many cycles as Singur has in the past 15 years, oscillating between agriculture and industry, hope and despair, resistance and triumph. Weeks before Singur goes to the polls on April 10, farmers are busy filling ubiquitous pink sacks with the harvested potato crop on the erstwhile factory site. Each sack containing 50 kg of the tuber will earn them anything between Rs. 280 and Rs. 330. For 75-year-old farmer Bharatchandra Das, who resisted the acquisition and could not farm for 14 years till 2020, the elections mean little. “We have been used for politics,” he said. Mr. Das and other farmers have invested thousands of rupees to make their land tillable because of the concrete and mortar in the soil and need more money. Several plots are yet to be levelled or cleared of wild plants. In Bengal, landholding is typically small, and the plots on the factory site have title and mapping issues. Cross currents There is also disquiet among the people of Singur after 89-year-old Trinamool veteran Rabindranath Bhattacharya, one of the most respected and credible leaders of the fight against land acquisition, moved to the BJP.  Mastermoshai (teacher), as he is fondly called, was ready to retire but is now contesting against the party that elected him to the Assembly for four consecutive terms. Pitching for industry, he said, “The land movement was not against industry but against land grab by force. If voted to power, I will push for industry on 650 acres of the Tata site.” When the Trinamool fielded Becharam Manna, another prominent face of the Singur agitation, a miffed Mastermoshai joined the BJP which promptly nominated him from Singur. However, the decision led to protests as BJP workers were upset that a senior Trinamool leader had been favoured instead of a party worker. Battling inner-party squabbles, the BJP’s campaign is yet to pick up. Mastermoshai said the voters “are socially and politically aware” and that he would get their blessings for a fifth term. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the BJP had a lead of over 10,000 votes in this Assembly segment but with weeks left for polling day, the party has a muted presence. Posters of Becharam Manna along with Trinamool flags are at every nook and corner. “Becharam Manna, despite his flaws, is a very good organiser,” admitted a local. The exit of Tata Motors from West Bengal in 2008 gave the perception that the political climate in the State was not conducive for industrial growth. Close to the end of her 10-year regime, the Chief Minister announced an agro-industrial park at Singur on about 30 acres of land that was acquired for the small car project. With this announcement, the Trinamool Congress, which was catapulted to power in 2011 after the movement against forcible, land acquisition, has also taken a pro-industry turn. The Left, Congress, ISF-led Samyukta Morcha has fielded young SFI leader Srijan Bhattacharya at Singur. Launching his campaign, Mr. Bhattacharya revived former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya’s slogan, “ Krishi amader bhitti, shilpo amader bhobishoyt (Agriculture is our foundation, industry our future)”. Touring the constituency on a motorbike along with supporters, the 27-year-old greeted and waved to people. The strong political divide has blurred with the young CPI(M) candidate reaching out to Manoranjan Malik, seeking his support. Mr. Malik’s daughter, Tapasi, was brutally killed during the violent agitation in December 2006 and two Left members were indicted. “In Singur it was never about agriculture versus industry; it was about industry that can be built on the success of agriculture. When the Left government launched a pilot project at Singur post the 2006 Assembly election victory, the intention was right but not the implementation,” Mr. Bhattacharya said. Land for industry “will have to be acquired in consensus with farmers,” he added. In 14 years, not only has the site of the small car factory changed, so have the hopes and aspirations of the people. “We don’t want divisive politics anymore,” a farmer said, echoing many voices in Singur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singurs-resistance-has-turned-full-circle/article34121889.ece
21 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Welfarism rules UDF manifesto||The United Democratic Front (UDF) election manifesto unveiled on Saturday guaranteed a minimum monthly income of Rs. 6,000 to Kerala's most impoverished families. The unconditional cash transfer under NYAY ((Nyuntam Aay Yojana) would reduce income inequality, mitigate starvation and help indigent households escape the worst deprivations of daily life. The scheme would increase spending, spur demand and catalyse the economy, the UDF claimed. Welfare pension Rs. 3,000 Welfarism seemed to take centre stage in the UDF manifesto. The Opposition attempted to outdo the ruling front by promising a monthly welfare pension of Rs. 3,000 instead of the Rs. 2,500 guaranteed by the Left Democratic Front (LDF). The UDF also appeared to cast its net far and wide to draw voters of various income brackets, social background, employment status, age and gender. It seemed social welfare and subsidies trumped economic constraints in the UDF manifesto. The UDF's 2016 election promise to prohibit liquor found no notable mention in the 2021 manifesto. The UDF targeted homemakers aged between 40 and 60 by vowing to transfer them Rs. 2,000 monthly if not already covered by the minimum income guarantee scheme. The UDF fixed the minimum daily wage at Rs. 700. It also proposed a law to recover 5.5 lakh acres from illegal owners and accord the land to landless tribal people and Dalits. The front sought to attract the support of households earning more than Rs. 1 lakh a year by assuring non-priority ration cardholders 5 kg of free rice every month. At a stroke, the UDF had sought to eclipse the free ration and food kits supplied by the LDF government during the COVID-19 pandemic. Subsidised health care The UDF manifesto put immense stock in subsidised health care. It would underwrite the medical expenses of cancer, heart, kidney, organ transplant and haemophilia patients and promised ‘no bill hospitals’ in the public health sector. One lakh unemployed youth would get two-wheelers at half the market price. An ex gratia one-time payment of Rs. 5,000 is on the cards for autorickshaw and taxi drivers. Free housing for five lakh low-income families and maternity allowance for Scheduled Caste/Tribe mothers are other highlights. The UDF matched the LDF by promising a Rs. 250 minimum price for rubber. It would write off agriculture loans up to Rs. 2 lakh. It vowed to subsidise public transport and self-owned autorickshaw and taxi fuel to make travel more affordable. On the political front, the UDF promised a law to defend the Sabarimala faith. It promised to stop back-door appointments, make it mandatory for government departments to report vacancies to the Public Service Commission and preserve the high seas for traditional fishers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/welfarism-rules-udf-manifesto/article34121940.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Austin raises human rights concerns||U.S. Defense Secretary General Lloyd James Austin III (Retd.) addressed the issue of human rights in India during his meetings with Cabinet Ministers here on Saturday. An informed source said the issue also came up during his conversation with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, which also covered a broad range of topics such as the situation in Afghanistan and the West Asian tensions. “The Defense Secretary said as the two largest democracies in the world, human rights and values are important to us and we will lead with these values,” said the source. Earlier, addressing a select group of American and Indian media outlets, Mr. Austin said he raised the violation of human rights of the Muslims in Assam with the Indian side. “I did have a conversation with other members of the Cabinet on this issue,” Mr. Austin was quoted saying by the NDTV. He, however, clarified that he “did not have an opportunity to talk to” Prime Minister Narendra Modi on reports of human rights violations targeting minority communities. “We have to remember that India is our partner, a partner whose partnership we value. And I think partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions. And certainly we feel comfortable doing that. And you can have those discussions in a very meaningful way and make progress,” he said in a report that appeared on NDTV online. To a question from the news channel whether the issue of erosion of democracy featured in his discussions, Mr. Austin said, “You’ve heard President Biden say human rights and rule of law are important to the U.S. We always lead with our values. As a democracy that’s pretty important to us.” Human rights and the right to peaceful protest have featured in India’s relations with many countries, including the U.S. in recent months because of the crackdown on the protest by the farmers. Mr. Austin was asked to raise reports of violations by Chief of the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee Senator Robert Menendez who emphasised that India-U.S. partnership in the 21st century must be based on “adherence to democratic values”. India, he said, “has been trending away from those values”.  Indo-Pacific issues The Indo-Pacific also came up during the meeting with Mr. Jaishankar. The American side briefed the Indian team about the trips of Mr. Austin to Japan and South Korea where he held discussions on the region before arriving in India. Among the other regional issues, the peace process in Afghanistan featured in the meeting. “Assessments were exchanged on the peace process and the ground situation as also the concerns and interests of regional powers and neighbours. The External Affairs Minister appreciated the Biden Administration’s engagement with India on this issue,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/austin-raises-human-rights-concerns/article34121958.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Both vaccines are effective, but a comparison is months away’||The government held an emergency meeting on Friday amid reports of clotting of blood in some patients in Europe who had received shots of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and it was concluded that no such problem had been reported in India, said N.K Arora, head of the operations research group of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Task Force for COVID-19, in an online interaction with Indian Police Service (IPS) officers on Saturday. Dr. Arora said that the finding from India had been shared with the World Health Organization (WHO), and that most European countries had restarted their vaccination programme. He claimed that, overall, if 10,000 people were vaccinated, then adverse symptoms such as fever, swelling, redness and pain were reported only in 40. “Yesterday [Friday], 97.5% of the people who developed symptoms (post vaccination), had these adverse effects. So overall, among 10,000, only 40 were having significant symptoms... I am using these figures as I am talking to an illustrious group. Adverse symptoms are uncommon. We have given 4 crore injections, [and] have not lost individuals because of severe events,” Dr. Arora said. V.K. Paul, Member, NITI Aayog, who participated in the interaction, said that the incidence of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) was minimum, at 0.05% . The virtual meeting on COVID-19 vaccination was organised by the IPS (Central) Association and moderated by senior IPS officer Aditya Mishra. At least two IPS officers sought to know which of the two vaccines was more effective. Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, said that it would be months before a comparison could be made, but both vaccines were equally effective. “Covaxin uses inactive platform and Covishield uses virus vector platform to put spike protein in [the] body. Currently, both [are] given through intramuscular route….both vaccines produce good amount of antibodies...We should take the vaccines available to us. It would be many months [before] we could compare A to B, but they are more or less equally effective. Considering we have to vaccinate large number of people, both have been approved,” Dr. Guleria said. He said the vaccines could provide protection for “at least eight months-one year” and even longer, but it would depend on how the virus behaved and how the protection evolved for different populations. No antibodies Dr. Arora said that 30% of people infected by COVID-19 may not develop antibodies, and if they took the vaccines, it would act as a booster. “Pregnant women and children below 18 years are not to be given the vaccines for lack of scientific study so far. Individuals suffering from hypertension, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, or those who are on blood thinners, can get the vaccine...those who are taking cancer drugs and suffering from auto immune disorder, even they can take it.Take the vaccine at topmost priority,” Dr. Arora said. Dr. Paul said the supply of vaccines was limited and they had to be given to people who need them the most. “78% deaths are among people above 50 years,” he said, adding that the police could play a role in enforcing COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/both-vaccines-are-effective-but-a-comparison-is-months-away/article34121974.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sivasankar fabricating evidence, ED tells SC||The Enforcement Directorate has told the Supreme Court that former top civil servant and prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, M. Sivasankar, is fabricating evidence to prove that the probe officer is “exerting pressure” on accused Swapna Suresh to entangle Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. The ED appealed to the apex court to cancel Mr. Sivasankar’s bail.’ The ED’s move just a few days ahead of the Assembly polls came even as the Kerala police have, in a rather unconventional turn of events, filed a case against ED officers for ‘forcing’ Ms. Suresh to implicate Mr. Vijayan. “After coming out on bail, the respondent accused [Mr. Sivasankar] has been influencing other accused and is using the State machinery to fabricate false evidence against the investigating officer and the investigating agency in the form of creating false statements containing allegations against the investigating officer that he is exerting pressure on one of the prime accused to name the Chief Minister of Kerala in the gold smuggling case by two women State police constables who were allegedly on guard duty during the custody of the accused Smt. Swapna Suresh from August 5, 2020 to August 11, 2020,” the ED said in an application filed in the apex court. Harassment alleged The application refers to a complaint made by another accused, Sandeep Nair, before the Sessions Court. Mr. Nair had claimed that he was harassed by the investigating officer to name Mr. Vijayan, three other Ministers and the son of an influential person in the smuggling case. Mr. Nair had claimed that he was shown a list of companies and asked to give a statement that the Ministers had investments in them. The ED said these allegations have been “cooked up” to subvert the probe. “These are cooked up stories to tarnish the image of the investigating agency and to sabotage the ongoing investigation with the help of highly influential accused and other persons,” the application said. The ED said the “entire episode” was precipitated after the release of Mr. Sivasankar on bail. “He is using his influence to derail the ongoing investigation with the help of the State machinery,” the ED said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-fabricating-evidence-ed-tells-sc/article34121948.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Awareness key to early detection of breast cancer||Being aware of the signs and symptoms, self-breast examination and screening with mammogram were key for early detection of breast cancer, experts pointed out. A webinar on “Self-awareness and early detection of breast cancer” was organised as a part of The Hindu Wellness Series presented by Fujifilm on Saturday. Highlighting the signs and symptoms of breast cancer, Shilpa Lad, consultant, Breast Imaging and Interventions, NM Medical Center, Mumbai, said pain was not a typical sign of breast cancer. “Breast pain is typically associated with hormonal fluctuations during the menstrual cycle. Some of the signs of breast cancer are nipple retraction, dimpling, hardening, red discolouration, asymmetry in size, growing vein, nipple fluid and painless palpable lump.” She said being aware and doing a self-breast examination once a month were important. “The best time of the month to do a self-breast examination is between day 7-14 of the menstrual cycle, that is the week after the period,” she said. On imaging techniques, Bhawna Dev, senior consultant, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, said screening mammogram was X-ray of the breast taken to check for breast cancer in the absence of signs and symptoms. If picked up at the right time, breast cancer can be treated and will have better survival rates, she said. “The five-year survival rate in India was 60% because we do not pick up cancers early,” she said, adding, “Women aged in the 40s and older should have mammograms every year. Women with a higher than average risk of breast cancer may need mammograms before the age of 40.” Cancer treatment was multimodal — surgery, chemotherapy that includes targeted therapy, radiation and hormonal therapy, said Mandar Nadkarni, breast oncosurgeon, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Mumbai. “Multi modalities of treatment are mandatory but the requirement of treatment is lesser if we catch cancers early.” Dr Nadkarni also spoke on breast conservation surgery. Chandershekhar Sibal, senior vice-president, Head of Medical Division, Fujifilm India Pvt Ltd, spoke on the various awareness initiatives taken up by Fujifilm. Noting that they had launched a screening centre at Bengaluru where screening for 10 common cancers were done, he said they were planning to launch 100 such health-screening centres across the country. (Watch webinar at http://bit.ly/THWSFSBS)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/awareness-key-to-early-detection-of-breast-cancer/article34121950.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hosabale is RSS general secretary||Dattatreya Hosabale was elected the Sarkaryavah or general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) at the All India Pratinidhi Sabha (AIPS) meet of the organisation in Bengaluru on Saturday. Mr. Hosabale now holds the second highest office in the RSS, the ideological mothership of the Sangh Parivar and the ruling BJP. Mr. Hosabale, 66, replaces Suresh “Bhaiyyaji” Joshi, who held the post for 12 years or four terms. The sarkaryavah’s position in the RSS hierarchy is much like that of a chief executive officer (CEO) who handles the hands-on issues of running the organisation and coordinating within the Sangh Parivar and its more than 30 affiliated outfits including the BJP, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh. Born in Shivamogga in Karnataka in 1954 into an RSS family, Mr. Hosabale joined the RSS in 1968, and its student organisation, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). He is a graduate in English literature from Bangalore University. His stint in the ABVP encouraged the RSS higher-ups to appoint him general secretary of the ABVP in 1978 and he held the post for over 15 years. He remained under detention under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) during the Emergency for 12 to 14 months while with the ABVP. He has been credited with helping set up the Youth Development Centre in Guwahati, and was, before his appointment as sarkaryavah , one of several joint general secretaries in the RSS. The reasons why Mr. Hosabale was picked from other candidates was not just that he was the senior-most but because he also ticked all the right boxes as far as the RSS was concerned. He is said to have cordial relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, and has helped in coordinating many issues that may have turned relations sour. Just after the election of Prime Minister Modi in his first term, the RSS held a three-day coordination meeting for its affiliate organisations in New Delhi in September 2015, where the government’s then outreach to Pakistan was also discussed and various views were aired. Mr. Hosabale, on being asked about the RSS views on such an outreach, termed Pakistan and other SAARC countries as “brothers”, and said, “Sometimes relations (go bad), like it happens between brothers and so we also discussed how we can improve our relations with those who are historically and geographically attached to us.” The statement made sure that the RSS backing to Mr. Modi was demonstrably incontrovertible even on contentious issues. Work with youth His work in the ABVP for many years meant that he has experience of working with young people, especially in areas such as the northeast, not the traditional stomping ground of the RSS. The young cohort group of BJP MPs, more than 100 out of the 300 BJP MPs, have dealt with him as members of the ABVP when he was their general secretary. His replacement of Suresh “Bhaiyyaji” Joshi who had been the post for 12 years will signal a change in the RSS and its relationship with its affiliates and expectations in the organisation are that this change will mean a more closely aligned Parivar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hosabale-is-rss-general-secretary/article34121960.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition decries adoption of report on farm law||Opposition members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution say they were not consulted before the adoption of a report calling for the implementation of the Essential Commodities Amendment (ECA) Act. Protesting farm unions calling for the repeal of the law have slammed parties who were part of the committee for “betraying farmers”. The committee is chaired by Trinamool Congress MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay and includes members of the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party, Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena, all of whom have previously called for the repeal of three farm laws, including the ECA Act. However, the report adopted by the committee says the law “will become a catalyst for unlocking vast untapped resources in the agriculture sector” and recommends that the government implements the law “in letter and spirit, and without let or hindrances”. The report on price rise of essential commodities was submitted to the Lok Sabha on Friday. Mr. Bandyopadhyay was not present for the final meeting of the committee on Thursday, March 18, when the report was adopted. Instead, that last meeting was chaired by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Ajay Misra. “This is the BJP’s cheap and dirty tricks department in action,” tweeted Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien. “Con job was done when Chairman of Parliament Committee was not at meeting,” he said. Congress MP Saptagiri Ulaka says he was not present at the meeting either, although his name is on the list of attendees in the minutes appended to the report. “The 18th meeting was called at a very short notice. I got a call at around 9 p.m. [on 17th] informing about it. The draft report, running into 100 pages, also landed around that time. I couldn’t attend the 18th meeting because I had to be in the Lok Sabha for the demand for grants discussion,” he told The Hindu . Fellow Congress MP Rajmohan Unnithan also missed the meeting on March 18 as he was in his constituency in Kerala in the run-up to State polls. “It is unprecedented that a report is adopted in the absence of the Chairman. It has never happened in my 17 years as an MP,” said Jairam Ramesh, who is the Congress’ chief whip in the Rajya Sabha. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann was present at the meeting on March 18, but told The Hindu that his opposition was not taken into account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-decries-adoption-of-report-on-farm-law/article34121995.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Rising cases are because of carelessness in following the norms’||Director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) Rakesh Mishra discounts the possibility that the recent surge of COVID-19 cases is caused by a more transmissible variant from outside India since the around 300 cases of new variants in the country are insignificant. He calls for studying the evolution of the virus, its mutations and strains ever since the pandemic hit the country.  What explains the constant rise in cases in States such as Kerala and Maharashtra? Though we have not found a concrete reason for it, there could be a couple of possibilities. One, this surge is caused by a more transmissible variant from outside India but we don’t have any such indication. Around 300 cases of new variants in the country are insignificant. Second possibility is of a new variant emerging within the country. To confirm this possibility, we need to analyse larger number of people for a longer period. But since we have not found any common mutation or common change in the cases that are occurring, it is less likely to be the cause. And third possibility is that the people are not taking adequate preventive measures. Well, we feel that there are high chances of this to be true. It can lead to a chain reaction, and a sudden surge of cases. Kerala controlled the epidemic very fast in the beginning, which means not many people got infected or exposed to the virus in the State and so not many developed the protective antibodies. It means a lot of people are vulnerable to catching the infection in the State. Though people across country are becoming complacent, same degree of indiscipline on people’s part in a State like Kerala may lead to much more cases of COVID-19. It is the same time of the year last year when COVID-19 cases began to rise. Now again the cases are rising. Can we see another wave? How important is vaccination? Another wave is always possible. As summers are harsher in India, people tend to stay indoors, switch on their ACs and coolers and then come out in the evening in masses. This could lead to rise in infection. But the correlation between last year’s and this year’s rise could just be a coincidence. Looking at the trend of rising cases, one thing is very clear that these are because of carelessness on people’s part and we can easily stop the spread by following COVID-appropriate behaviour which include wearing mask, washing hands, avoiding large gatherings, avoiding indoor crowding. Vaccination is a powerful tool and I think so far the vaccination drive has gone on well. But now we may think of opening it up to private sector so that we can reach a large number of people in less time. If we can double or triple the number of people getting vaccines, we can stop or curb COVID spread effectively. COVID is also manifesting differently in different people. Why? This is the least understood part of COVID. Most of our time so far has gone into fighting the disease and managing it. Now we need to conduct serious studies to understand the clinical features of the disease, how it affects organs, what all organs it affects, etc. We need to study how it behaves in different people with different comorbidities. We will take a couple of years to explain every aspect of the disease. This virus binds to the Ace2 receptor, protein sitting in the surface of the cell, to gain entry into the cell. Depending upon the health condition of the person, and expression level of the receptor on a given cell type, it may cause more damage to some organs than others. Recently strains from South Africa, the U.K., Brazil have been reportedly found in India. Is this a cause of worry for us? The source of infection in most of these cases is from outside India. We checked several other samples of those who have currently tested positive for COVID, we have not found any of these variants in them which means there is no spread of the variant in the country. So, as of now it is not a cause of worry. It also means that the recent rise in cases is not because of these new variants; it is because people have lowered their guards, they have become complacent, and are not following COVID norms. How do we keep a track of the virus? There are many ways we track a virus. We have found an interesting and easy way to see its presence and prevalence in a locality. We can detect virus RNA in a sewage sample, and by studying the number of RNA molecules present, we can tell what percentage of people in a locality have infection. It is a much faster way to track a virus. Recently, we were able to validate this way of measuring level of infection in the population by sero-survey method. We might be able to use this method to track other pathogens as well. Can mutations in the virus lead to reinfections? 501Y mutation in the U.K. has shown an increase in the number of infections but not reinfection. In Brazil too, there are not many cases of reinfection. In fact, all over the world, the reinfections are fewer. But this is the current situation, it does not mean that more rounds of mutations will not lead to re-infections. So, it is important that we keep a tight vigil and prevent spread of the disease as much as possible by social vaccine of mask, hand hygiene and social distancing, especially avoiding clustering of people in closed space.  Vaccination is a powerful tool ... we may think of opening it up to private sector so that we can reach a large number of people in less time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rising-cases-are-because-of-carelessness-in-following-the-norms/article34121969.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,||No poll-luck for T.N. biriyani makers||A packet of sumptuous, hot biriyani is the one thing that unites cadre across all political parties. When nominations and campaigning kick off across the State, the  biriyani  cauldron usually keeps bubbling. After campaigning for the candidate in the sweltering heat, party cadres relish piping hot biriyani, sometimes along with a bottle of liquor. However, many biriyani  makers claim that demand from political parties is poor in this Assembly election. With the Election Commission of India (EC) keenly tracking expenditure, including the cost of food, biriyani seems to have lost its flavour this season. “The practice of giving biriyani started over 20 years ago. It is most often provided at meetings held to introduce candidates to cadres. Some wealthy candidates also distribute it during campaigns. Before this, normal [vegetarian] meals used to be given. Even now, candidates who are not wealthy provide only variety rice to the cadre,” said K. Srinivasa Gandhi, former councillor of the Vellore City Corporation. Hotels and private caterers in the biriyani  business say that, compared with the previous elections, sale volumes are low this time. “We have seen close to 10 elections and, every year, we used to sell 300 to 500 packets of biriyani per day, starting from the day of campaigning till elections were over. However, this year, we have not even got one [big] order from political parties. Business has been dull,” said M. Muneer Ahmed, managing director, Star Biriyani, Ambur. Another biriyani  maker in Vellore said that election officials have asked businesses to pass on the information if anyone ordered more than 100 biriyani  packets. “Fearing that it will be added to the election expenditure, many are avoiding ordering biriyani. N.S.R. Nizamuddin, a private caterer from Arambakkam in Tiruvallur district said that during the previous Assembly elections, he would get orders for 800 to 1,000 chicken biriyani  packets per day. “But this time, I haven’t even received one order,” he said. It is not just the biriyani makers — some party workers are also crestfallen. “Some of us now have food in our house or sometimes in the house of other cadres,” said a worker in Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polls-lose-flavour-for-biriyani-makers/article34121900.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||WCD Ministry to seek Rs. 37,000 cr. loan to execute schemes||The Women and Child Development Ministry plans to seek loans totalling Rs. 37,179 crore from five different multinational development banks to implement new and existing schemes, including a research centre on child development as well as plantation of 200 million trees under mission Kalpatru to eradicate malnutrition. The Ministry has sent its proposals to the Department of Economic Affairs for approval and the documents have been reviewed by The Hindu . The Ministry is planning to apply for a loan of Rs. 14,600 crore from Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, Rs. 11,550 crore from Japan International Cooperation Agency, Rs. 7,300 crore from New Development Bank (formerly BRICS Development Bank), Rs. 3,650 crore from Asian Development Bank and Rs. 79 crore from GIZ (German Development Cooperation). Each of these funds have been sought for a period of four years and 11 months from April 2021 to March 2026. The additional support cover the entire gamut of programmes under the Ministry, including safety of women, child protection and delivery of nutrition. The Ministry received Rs. 24,435 crore in the Budget for financial year 2022. It is already implementing Poshan Abhiyaan or Nutrition Mission at a cost of Rs. 9,000 crore for three years from 2017, half of which is funded through a World Bank loan. The Ministry has sought a loan of Rs. 11,550 crore from the Japan International Cooperation Agency, which will be supplemented by another Rs. 11,550 from the Centre. The total amount of Rs. 23,100 crore will be spent on yet to be announced Mission Kalpatru, under which the government plans to plant 200 million trees as “food forests” for long-term nutritional requirements. With a funding of Rs. 14,600 crore from the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the Ministry aims to augment the infrastructure of its various institutions, including ‘One Stop Centres’ for survivors of gender-based violence, anganwadis and children’s homes. This will include water supply, electricity back-up, provision for stoves, digital infrastructure for last-mile connectivity. The Ministry plans to rope in the private sector for maintenance of these facilities. With a loan of Rs. 7,300 crore from the New Development Bank, too, the Ministry plans an infrastructure upgrade vis-a-vis sanitation, setting up child-friendly toilets, provision of safe disposal of sanitary napkins and ensuring awareness about health and sanitation measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wcd-ministry-to-seek-rs-37000-cr-loan-to-execute-schemes/article34121956.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Left-Congress tied up with ISF to break Hindu-Muslim binary’||The Left Front (LF), which was reduced to 32 seats in the 2016 West Bengal Assembly election, announced in February that the LF-Congress combine or the Samyukta Morcha was forming a grand alliance with Abbas Siddique’s newly floated political outfit, the Indian Secular Front. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Mohammed Salim , who is contesting from Chanditala in Hooghly district, explains why the alliance is necessary and the Left’s road map for a revival. Excerpts:  How did you manage to build this grand alliance with the ISF which has now become a talking point? You are considered to be the chief architect of the Left joining hands with Abbas Siddique. It is a collective effort. In January 2020, I held a press conference and said the Left will launch a movement which will not be on conventional lines. From seat adjustments with the Congress in the 2016 election, we have now moved to an electoral understanding and brought the ISF into the alliance because the main objective is to pull the anti-BJP votes in a common fold. The main motto is to pull the secular vote together, and also stop the anti-incumbency vote against the Trinamool Congress from going to the BJP. The alliance with the ISF is part of tactics to break the binary of Hindu and Muslim. We tied up with the ISF only after Abbas floated a political outfit. The Congress is not too happy about it. But to stem the flow of votes to the BJP, we had to do something. How would you describe the ISF? It is a front of marginalised sections, Dalits, tribals, Muslims, and the ISF has fielded candidates across castes and religions. In Bengal, among Muslims, 95% of them hail from ‘other backward classes’. The ruling Trinamool, and the BJP, have been trying to turn the minorities against the Left. But they are our constituency. Critics feel the Left must take on the BJP more than the Trinamool… The Trinamool Congress came into being to decimate the Left. As soon as it was formed, it joined an alliance with the BJP, calling it [the BJP] its natural ally. When divers take a dive, they need a springboard — Trinamool was the springboard to allow the BJP to dive into Bengal politics. Our job is to remove both the diver and the springboard — we cannot do this alone in our reduced strength and in an environment of so much of terror. What are the key election issues? The Left alliance is addressing various social and economic issues from governance, attacks on Dalits, women, the reign of terror in the Bengal districts, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens, and so forth. From class divide to social issues, we have been part of many movements. Many social divisions are being created by the Trinamool and the BJP as diversionary tactics away from the real issues. You are saying the Left should not be written off…how big is the anti-incumbency factor? Well, the media, experts and commentators have been trying to do that — they announced the results of the 2021 Assembly election right after the 2019 Lok Sabha election results, forgetting that there is another year — 2020 — in between. Everyone remarked that the CPI(M) vote had gone to the BJP in 2019 and that the BJP would win the 2021 election. But the Tripura model will not work for the BJP in Bengal. Mamata Banerjee, too, announced that the Left could not be seen even through binoculars and was no more. But there’s a three-layer anti-incumbency on the ground — anti-Trinamool government, anti-party, anti-Mamata family (the third factor was not there in the 2016 election). In several areas, there will be a three-cornered contest. What is the road map to revive the Left? The Left has to revitalise, reposition, re-energise and refurbish itself. Some of it you are seeing in the fielding of young leaders; forming a broader alliance is another way.  The ruling Trinamool, and the BJP, have been trying to turn the minorities against the Left||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-cong-ties-with-isf-needed-to-break-hindu-muslim-binary/article34121885.ece
21 March 2021||Shivamogga,||Take tractors to Bengaluru, farm leaders tell supporters||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and other leaders from Delhi have called upon people of Karnataka to join the agitation against the “anti-farm laws” by blocking entries to Bengaluru as it had been done in Delhi. Mr. Tikait, addressing the first Raitha Mahapanchayat of South India in Shivamogga on Saturday, said: “You have to create Delhi in Karnataka. This is a long fight and I am confident we will win. We will not give up until the three laws are withdrawn and a law to ensure minimum support price is assured.” He warned that the Centre had a plan to take back land from farmers in the next 20 years. “This is not only the issue of three laws passed. The Centre is bringing more draconian laws related to seeds, pesticides among others. If we don’t fight now, they will bring them all,” he said. Mr. Tikait opined that to make the agitation a success, the slogans “Jai Ram” and “Jai Bheem” should go together. “Farmers and Dalits have to join hands to intensify the protest and succeed in our demands,” he said. Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, stressed the need for dharnas in Bengaluru. “For you, Delhi is quite far. But, you can travel to Bengaluru with your tractors and block the roads,” he said. In Delhi, he said, the protests had been termed as the agitation of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. But, it was not the protest of farmers alone. “This is the biggest agitation in the world. We have come to Karnataka to convey that people from Kashmir to Kanyakumari are part of the agitation,” he said. Darshan Pal, leader of Krantiveer Kisan Union, exuded confidence that protesting farmers would win. The farmers would not get up from the streets until the three anti-agriculture laws were withdrawn by the Narendra Modi-led government. However, he warned of other possibilities. “Mr. Modi might try to force us to move out. It is not so easy. He has to either bring in tankers or drop bombs from helicopters to remove us from our place. Even then, he will face backlash across the globe,” he said. He stressed the need for bringing all factions of farmers’ organisations together, as had been done in Delhi. He also thanked the farmers of Shivamogga and the organisers of the Mahapanchayat for expressing their solidarity with those on the streets in Delhi. “Farmers in Delhi wanted to know what the farmers of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and other States would say about the protest. Now, you have conveyed to us that you are with the protest,” he said. Shobha Sundaresh, wife of late N.D. Sundaresh, a prominent leader of Karanataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, presided over the meeting. Hundreds of farmers from Shivamogga and neighbouring districts attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-tractors-to-bengaluru-farm-leaders-tell-supporters/article34121934.ece
21 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Two Kerala BJP nominees rejected||The BJP State unit suffered a severe jolt after the nominations of party candidates in the Thalassery and Guruvayur constituencies were rejected during the scrutiny on Saturday. The nomination papers BJP district president N. Haridas in Thalassery were rejected on the ground that Form (A) submitted by him did not have the signature of BJP president J.P. Nadda. Mr. Haridas told the media that he filed a nomination on Friday at 12 noon. “When the issue was brought to our attention, we got a document online and tried to submit it at 3 p.m. However, the RDO refused to accept the document and also the affidavit submitted by them," he said. Mr. Haridas said he would approach the Supreme Court to get his nomination accepted. The rejection of nomination, however, has left the BJP in a fix, as party candidate V.K. Sajeevan had received 22,125 votes in the 2016 Assebly election. Lack of signature The nomination papers of Mahila Morcha State president Nivedita in Guruvayur were rejected as the affidavit submitted along the nomination did not have signature of the BJP president. As the nomination of the dummy candidate too was incomplete, the BJP is left with no candidate in the constituency. Earlier, the nominations of three Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidates were not accepted as they failed to file them on time. The rejection of the nominations filed by BJP candidates has touched off a row with the UDF and the LDF trading charges about the politics of adjustment for electoral gain. While Congress State president Mullappally Ramachandran alleged that it had exposed the deal between the CPI(M) and the BJP, CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan termed it the result of a covert understanding between the UDF and the BJP. The nomination papers of NDA candidate Dhanalakshmi Marimuthu to the Devikulam constituency was rejected by the returning officer on Saturday. Ms. Dhanalakshmi is a nominee of the AIADMK, a coalition partner of the BJP in the NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-kerala-bjp-nominees-rejected/article34121941.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ex-PM Rao’s daughter among TRS winners||The TRS won both the seats for which elections were held to the Legislative Council from graduates constituencies on March 14. The party wrested the seat from BJP in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnaga and retained the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency. The marathon counting of votes which commenced at 8 a.m. on Wednesday continued till Saturday night when the results were officially declared in favour of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s daughter S. Vani Devi at Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and the sitting MLC Mr. Palla Rajeswara Reddy at Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda. Significantly, the victory of TRS was not ensured through the targeted first preference votes which was equal to half of the total valid votes. As none of the candidates reached the magical figure, the counting was stretched till the second preference votes were considered by a process of elimination. In all, 91 candidates were eliminated in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and 69 in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda till the winners were decided between S. Vani Devi and N. Ramchander of BJP in the former and Palla Rajeswara Reddy and an independent Teenmaar Mallanna in the latter. In both the constituencies, the number of invalid votes were more than the victory margin of the winning candidates. Ms. Vani Devi secured 1.12 lakh first preference votes and 36,000 second preference votes till the contest was tied with her BJP rival in the final elimination round. The BJP candidate had 1.04 lakh first preference votes and 32,000 second preference votes till then. In the final tussle to apportion second preference votes between them, Ms. Vani Devi forged ahead with 40,000 votes which was 20,800 votes in excess of the magic figure. Prof. K. Nageswar was in the third place and there were 21,300 invalid votes which were a game changer. The scene was more or less the same in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda where the contest was tied between Mr. Rajeswara Reddy and Teenmaar Mallanna. Mr. Reddy polled 1.32 lakh votes and Mr. Mallanna 1.08 lakh votes till then. Requiring 1.83 lakh votes to reach the quota, Mr. Reddy polled only 29,000 votes in the final elimination round to finish at 1.61 lakh votes. Yet, he was declared winner on the basis of polling the highest votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-pm-raos-daughter-among-trs-winners/article34121991.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||Ex-Mumbai police chief targets Minister||An email to the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) purportedly from Param Bir Singh, who was shunted out as Mumbai Police Commissioner, sparked controversy on Saturday as it alleged that State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded Rs. 100 crore every month from suspended police officer Sachin Vaze. Mr. Vaze is in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia bomb scare case. “Chief Minister’s secretariat received a letter on its official e-mail address at 4.37 p.m. on Saturday from paramirs3@gmail.com with only the name of Param Bir Singh without any signature. The department is in the process of checking its authenticity,” a CMO statement said. Alleges defamation Mr. Deshmukh, however, was quick to deny the charges. He would file a defamation case against Mr. Singh. “The former Commissioner of Police, Param Bir Singh, has made false allegations in order to save himself as the involvement of Sachin Vaze in Mukesh Ambani & Mansukh Hiren’s case is becoming clearer from the investigation carried out so far & threads are leading to Mr. Singh as well,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Mr. Singh, in his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, said, “Shri Sachin Vaze who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police was called by Shri Anil Deshmukh, Hon’ble Home Minister, Maharashtra, to his official residence Dyaneshwar several times and repeatedly instructed to assist in collection of funds. The Hon’ble Home Minister expressed to Shri Vaze that he had a target to accumulate Rs. 100 crore a month.” The BJP was quick to demand action against Mr. Deshmukh, saying the Minister should take responsibility and resign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-mumbai-police-chief-targets-minister/article34121954.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI/NOIDA,||Migrant workers face debt and job loss||Construction sites, industrial clusters, markets and homes in the National Capital Region (NCR) are abuzz with activity, but for the migrant workers who make a living in these spaces, life is far from normal a year after the country was locked down to curb the spread of COVID-19 in March 2020. Almost a year since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown on March 24, migrant workers in the NCR are facing wage cuts, mounting debts and uncertainty over their families’ futures, many of whom have not returned from the villages due to the pandemic. Mangal Dev, a plastic moulder working in Delhi’s Uttam Nagar, says he only worked three months in the past year. Having found a job in February, he says, he is slowly trying to pay back Rs. 35,000 in rent dues for his Rs. 4,500-a-month single room in Sagarpur. Faced with months of no income, he says he made the decision to send his family, including two school-going daughters, back to his village in West Bengal. Not only was it difficult to find work in 2020, with factories shutting down or reducing staff, he says the salaries being offered now were well below the around Rs. 18,000 minimum wage for skilled workers set by the Delhi government. According to the Union Labour and Employment Ministry, over 1.14 crore inter-State migrant workers returned to their homes during the lockdown. In a reply to the Rajya Sabha on March 17, the Ministry said “most of them have gone back to their original or workplaces and engaged themselves in productive employment”. One such worker who made the long trip back home was Neb Singh, who is currently working at a construction site in Noida’s Sector-107. Having spent months at home without any work, he made his way to Noida last month. How did he manage without any income all this while? “Everyone has problems. The way the poor were surviving back then, they are doing now,” he says, with a shrug. Fourteen-year-old Anjana Ahirwar, who lives in Noida with her brother and mother, says she had to drop out of school and start working in a house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-workers-face-debt-and-job-loss/article34121971.ece
21 March 2021||Srinagar,||No fresh infiltration after India-Pak. pact: J&K DGP||Jammu & Kashmir Director-General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh on Saturday said no incident of infiltration was reported along the Line of Control (LoC) after a fresh affirmation by India and Pakistan in February to abide by the 2003 ceasefire agreement. “I would love to see zero infiltration throughout the year 2021. There has been zero infiltration on the LoC across the UT and no fresh ceasefire violation was reported,” Mr. Singh said on the sidelines of the inauguration of an Under-19 T20 zonal-level cricket tournament at the Sher-i-Kashmir Cricket Stadium in Srinagar. He said 2020 was one of the best years in the UT. “I hope 2021 is better than the previous year.” On the recent spurt in local recruitment in militant ranks in the Valley, Mr. Singh said, “The situation is not alarming. Some youth have joined militancy in Srinagar as they were radicalised by those elements who are not happy with the peace. We will deal with such issues. We will have to put our heads together with the religious leaders and social activists. They have to play a role to ensure that the youth are kept away from the gun.” The DGP said there was no let-up in neighbouring countries “sending weapons and drugs in large quantities”. “Huge quantities of pistols, AK rifles of various kinds, M-4 U.S.-made rifles and those made in Pakistan or Afghanistan were seized last year in the Valley,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-fresh-infiltration-after-india-pak-pact-jk-dgp/article34121963.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||NIA takes over probe into death of Thane resident||The NIA had on March 16 recovered a black colour Mercedes Benz used by Mr. Vaze. From the car, the number plate of the abandoned SUV, more than Rs. 5 lakh, a note counting machine and some clothes were recovered. Hiran’s wife Vimla had told the Maharashtra police that her husband was in touch with Mr. Vaze and it was the latter who was using the vehicle that was found near Ambani mansion on February 25. Hiren had told the police that the SUV was stolen on February 18. Hiran went missing on March 4, and his body was found the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-takes-over-probe-into-death-of-thane-resident/article34121951.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||HC revokes clean chit to Yediyurappa||Mr. Pasha had filed a private complaint of alleged corruption against then Minister Murugesh Nirani and eight others in 2011, and the special court had ordered a probe by the Lokayukta police. However, the Lokayukta Police, in May 2012 had filed “B” report on nine persons named in the complaint, stating that no evidence was found against them but had filed a chargesheet against Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Naidu stating that their illegal and corrupt acts came to light from the records inspected during the investigation. The chargesheet had accused Mr. Yediyurappa of illegally denotifying 20 acres of land at Hoovinayakanahalli village, Jala hobli, Bengaluru North taluk. Mr. Naidu was accused of illegally denotifying 4 acres 6 guntas of land at Makanakuppe village, Nelamangala taluk, Bengaluru Rural district. Both were accused of causing crores of rupees loss to the State exchequer by illegally denotifying lands acquired for industrial purposes by abusing their positions. “When the chargesheet was filed before the special court alleging commission of cognizable offences under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrupt Act, the special court has no discretion to choose to ignore the cognisable offence staring on the face of the record and give reprieve to the accused on the flimsy ground that the allegations of the cognizable offences were not made in the complaint or in the FIR,” observed Justice Cunha. “I find that the special court was oblivious of the fact that it was dealing with the allegations relating to the violation of the provisions of PC Act that was enacted with the avowed object of eradicating corruption in public life,” Justice Cunha observed. Meanwhile, the High Court directed the special court to examine the “B” report filed stating that no evidence was found against Mr. Nirani and eight others as the special court had not passed any order on “B” report while declining to accept the chargesheet. As Mr. Pasha’s counsel told the Court that the complainant is “apprehending danger to his life”, the Court directed the police to provide necessary protection to him as per the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-revokes-clean-chit-to-yediyurappa/article34121935.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||India records over 40,000 COVID-19 cases||The country also reported 188 fatalities in the 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Saturday, taking the death toll to 1,59,558, as per the data released by the Health Ministry. There are 2,88,394 active cases. “Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 25,681. It is followed by Punjab with 2,470, while Kerala reported 1,984 new cases. A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight States — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. Kerala, however, is showing a consistently declining trend,” the Ministry said. It added that Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab accounted for 76.22% of the active cases. The cumulative recoveries stood at 1,11,07,332, with 23,653 registered in the past 24 hours. Five States accounted for 81.38% of the fresh deaths, with Maharashtra reporting 70 casualties, followed by Punjab (38) and Kerala (17).    Doctors have requested the Central government to expand the vaccination coverage to include caregivers of bedridden patients. Dr. Rajendra Prasad, senior consultant neurosurgeon and spine Surgeon, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, Delhi, said, “Bedridden patients are exposed to COVID-19 virus through their caregivers, both professional and family members. With the next wave imminent, it is imperative that we vaccinate caregivers of the elderly, disabled and the bedridden as early as possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-over-40000-covid-19-cases/article34121952.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||NITI Aayog vision ignores tribal concerns||It is almost as if the unique diversity of life just listed suddenly disappeared because of an arbitrary line drawn to allow a slew of high value projects. This is illustrated in the case of the Giant leatherback turtle and the Nicobar megapode, two charismatic species for whom Great Nicobar is very important. The beaches here, like at the mouth of the river Galathea in South Bay are among the most prominent nesting sites globally of the Giant leatherback. It for this reason that the bay was declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1997, but has now been denotified to allow for the transhipment port. In his 2007 study of the Nicobar megapode, the globally endangered bird unique to the Nicobars, K. Sivakumar of the Wildlife Institute of India documented 90% of this ground nesting bird’s nests to be within a distance of 30 m from the shore. He notes that the existing protected area network in Great Nicobar is not designed for the protection of the megapode and recommends that the entire west and southern coast of Great Nicobar – precisely the area sought for the NITI Aayog proposals – be protected for the megapode and other wildlife like nesting marine turtles. This is also in stark contrast to the current move to create a zero extent ESZ for the Galathea National Park. Threat to Shompen Similar concerns exist about the impact on the Shompen community. The proposed project areas are important foraging grounds for this hunter-gatherer nomadic community and the official Shompen Policy of 2015 specifically noted that the welfare and integrity of these people should be given priority “with regard to large-scale development proposals in the future for Great Nicobar Island (such as trans-shipment port/container terminal etc.)”. Now, large forest areas here could become inaccessible and useless for the Shompen. Available evidence suggests that issues of the geological volatility of these islands are also not being factored in. The December 26, 2019, tender document by WAPCOS Limited for a ‘Traffic Study for Creating Transshipment port at South Bay, Great Nicobar Island’ justifies the port here by noting that “the topography of the island is best suited, which has not been damaged much even by the tsunami on 26.11.2004 (sic)”. Yet, a 2005 Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI) Special Earthquake Report by a multi-disciplinary team from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, recorded witness accounts of 8-metre-high tsunami waves hitting the Great Nicobar coast on December 26, 2004. “The lighthouse at Indira Point, the southernmost tip of the Great Nicobar Island, which was on high ground before the earthquake,” the report notes, “is now under water, indicating a land subsidence of about 3-4 m.” Loss of life and property then was limited because the Great Nicobar coast is largely uninhabited. This raises questions over safety of life, property and the investments in this zone and that too without accounting for the complex ecological, social and geological vulnerabilities here. Little, if anything, is also known of the NITI Aayog vision document itself – What is its rationale? What was the process of its creation? Which agencies/individuals were involved? What impact assessments, if any, have been done at all? Neither the NITI Aayog nor the agencies that are facilitating it with zeal have made this available.  (Pankaj Sekhsaria has been researching issues of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for over two decades. He is also author of five books on the islands.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/niti-aayog-vision-ignores-tribal-concerns/article34121953.ece
21 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Allahabad HC slams indiscriminate arrests||Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are a gross violation of human rights, the Allahabad High Court has observed as it granted anticipatory bail to a person accused of abetting his wife’s suicide over alleged dowry harassment in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh. “The courts have repeatedly held that arrest should be the last option for the police and it should be restricted to those exceptional cases where arresting the accused is imperative or his custodial interrogation is required. Irrational and indiscriminate arrests are gross violation of human rights,” Justice Siddharth said in an order dated March 17. The case relates to an FIR registered in Jhansi under Dowry Prohibition Act. The accused person, Dharmendra, approached court praying for anticipatory bail. It was alleged that his wife took her life by hanging because of dowry harassment. The petitioner was also accused of being a habitual gambler and drunkard who lost money in gambling and had also sold his wife’s jewellery. The petitioner's counsel said the incident took place on December 5, 2020. The marriage took place in the year 2004 and it is not credible that on account of demand of dowry, she committed suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allahabad-hc-slams-indiscriminate-arrests/article34121972.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘India cannot turn a blind eye to crisis in Myanmar’||As hundreds of Myanmarese people took shelter in Mizoram fearing a military crackdown in the neighbouring country, State Chief Minister Zoramthanga has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that “India cannot turn a blind eye” to the humanitarian crisis unfolding right in its backyard. Mr. Zoramthanga said that “political refugees” from Myanmar should be given asylum, and provided food and shelter. He said the Ministry of Home Affairs’recent communication to deport “political refugees” was not acceptable to Mizoram. The Tatmadaw, or Myanmar military, took over the country after a coup on February 1. In a letter dated March 18, Mr. Zoramthanga wrote to the Prime Minister, “You are aware a human catastrophe of gigantic proportions is happening in Myanmar today right in front of our eyes. The whole country is in turmoil and innocent hapless citizens are being persecuted and killed by the military regime who are supposed to be their guardians and protectors. Mizoram shares a 510 km-long border with Myanmar, and every day terrified Myanmar citizens are struggling to cross over to Mizoram in search of shelter.” “Mizoram cannot just remain indifferent to their sufferings today,” the letter accessed by The Hindu stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-cannot-turn-a-blind-eye-to-crisis-in-myanmar/article34121975.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘ART not appropriate for live-in or same-sex couples’||Given the Indian family structure, social milieu and norms, it will not be very easy to accept a child whose parents are together but not legally married, says the 129-page report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare on the Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) (Regulation) Bill, 2020, submitted in Parliament earlier this week. The committee, in its report, said that keeping the best interest of the child born through ART services and other parentage issues in case of their separation, it would not be appropriate to allow live-in couples and same sex couples to avail themselves of ART. “The rights of people in same-sex relationship and live-in relationships frequently keep getting redefined; however, the ART Bill endorsed the recommendations of the Select Committee on Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, wherein the definition of “couple” has been retained and live-in couples and same-sex couples have been excluded from availing surrogacy services,” the Committee said in its report. Six IVF clinics In its observation, the committee expressed anguish over the fact there were only six IVF (in vitro fertilisation) clinics in the government sector,while the remaining thousands of IVF centres were in the private sector. “The committee, therefore, recommends that the government should ensure that each medical college or premier Government Hospital/ Institute must have IVF/ART facilities so as to enable the common poor masses to avail the services of ART,” it said. Stating the India had become one of the major centres for ART, the committee noted that “there are only guidelines of ART, and no law still exists.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/art-not-appropriate-for-live-in-or-same-sex-couples/article34121993.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘BJP insulted Punnapra martyrs’||The Bharatiya Janata Party candidate in Alappuzha has insulted the martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising by trespassing on the martyrs’ memorial at Valiya Chudukadu, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) State committee said in a sharply worded statement on Saturday. The land in question is under the ownership of the Alappuzha district secretaries of the CPI and the CPI(M). The Punnapra-Vayalar struggle was against feudalism and imperialism. It struck at the very roots of the terror rule unleashed by Sir C. P. Ramaswamy Iyer. The BJP candidate's act of hurling flowers at the memorial and shouting ‘Jai Sri Ram’ insulted history and the memory of the martyrs, the CPI(M) said. The party has alleged a larger conspiracy behind the BJP candidate's act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-insulted-punnapra-martyrs/article34122394.ece
21 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||India is not dharamshala, says Anij Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anij Vij on Friday said information was being gathered in connection with the Rohingyas reportedly beginning to settle in Haryana, adding that India was not ‘dharamshala’ (inn) that anyone could come and settle in. “Information is being gathered about them. Further action would be taken. India in not an inn for sure that anyone can come and settle here,” the Haryana Minister was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-not-dharamshala-says-anij-vij/article34121955.ece
21 March 2021||Srinagar,||Bajwa’s remarks positive: PDP||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday welcomed the recent remarks of Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa and said the way to peace passes through J&K. Describing the remarks and offer of peace by General Bajwa during a programme in Pakistan as “positive and welcoming”, Ms. Mufti said, “Mr. Bajwa’s talk about burying the past differences is a welcome statement. There is a need to reciprocate the peace offer.” At a rally in Kulgam, Ms. Mufti said the time had come to bring an end to oppression against people of Kashmir. “The way to peace is through Kashmir. Till the Kashmir issue is not addressed, till the oppression is not ended and the cross-Line of Control movement allowed, no peace is possible.” She said there is a good opportunity for a long-lasting solution to the Kashmir issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bajwas-remarks-positive-pdp/article34121961.ece
21 March 2021||KASARAGOD,||No COVID-19 checks at Thalapady||The Karnataka government did not check passengers from Kerala for COVID-19 negative certificate at the Thalapady border check-post on Saturday. Karnataka officials had started verification on Friday by stopping vehicles and people crossing over to Karnataka on the State border. The check was carried out based on the orders of the Karnataka government in the wake of growing COVID-19 cases. However, after people raised objection, the officials decided to postpone the check to Saturday. But interestingly, the officials skipped the screening on Saturday. It is understood that they relaxed the inspection due to fear of a backlash in the court. A Kasaragod native Subbaiah Rai had renewed his petition in the High Court seeking an injunction restraining Karnataka from making the RT-PCR test mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-covid-19-checks-at-thalapady/article34122393.ece
21 March 2021||PALAKKAD,||Row over washing of feet||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s high-profile candidate in the Palakkad constituency E. Sreedharan has found himself in the centre of a controversy over obsequious display of love and respect by party supporters during his electioneering. The social media turned abuzz with critics lashing out at the BJP and Mr. Sreedharan for servile acts such as prostrating at his feet and washing it, and the ‘Metroman’ justifying it. Some voters Mr. Sreedharan approached in Palakkad prostrated before him and some others washed his feet. These excessively deferential acts have been rarely found during electioneering in the State. Critics accused the BJP and Mr. Sreedharan of trying to revive ancient cultural values by resorting to such defunct and self-abasing displays of affection and respect. Some described washing Mr. Sreedharan’s feet and kneeling and prostration before him as a sign of servitude that the BJP was trying to propagate. However, Mr. Sreedharan countered the allegation saying that there was nothing wrong in it and that it was part of Indian culture. He went on to the extent of saying that those who could not agree with such practices had no right to call themselves as Indian. “There’s nothing wrong in it. It is a display of respect, and not worship. It’s Indian culture. It’s our dharma; it’s our tradition,” Mr. Sreedharan said. He said those finding fault with such acts were looking at things with a constricted mind. “They can’t call themselves as Indian,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-washing-of-feet/article34121946.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students want Mehta, Arvind reinstated||The students of the Ashoka University plan to boycott classes on Monday and Tuesday to protest the exits of their professors Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian. They are demanding that Prof. Mehta be offered his job back with a public acknowledgement of the pressures behind his resignation, as well as a divestment of the trustees’ powers to the university staff, students and faculty. “If these demands are not met by Tuesday, we will be organising a separate movement demanding that the Vice-Chancellor resign,” said the statement issued by the student union on Saturday. “Not only have we lost intellectual giants and erudite academics whose scholarship we value deeply, but also our trust and faith in this administration to protect the students within this university from external political pressures — specifically, the Vice-Chancellor [Professor Malabika Sarkar], Chancellor [Professor Rudrangshu Mukherjee] and Founders of this university. This is a gross violation of academic freedoms and we strongly condemn it,” they said. They demanded an open meeting of the university’s founders with the student body. “We must create a body with both members of the faculty and student body to serve as a medium to discuss matters with the founders and the administration.” On Friday, at least four of the trustees met the faculty to hear their concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashoka-students-want-mehta-arvind-reinstated/article34121965.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,||AAP missing in action in Kerala||Even amidst the din created by new political formations-turned-political parties fielding candidates in numerous constituencies in Ernakulam and Central Kerala, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is missing in action in the State. The party has not fielded even a single candidate in any of the 140 Assembly seats. The coordinator of AAP’s State election committee P.C. Cyriac said, “The party is not contesting the Assembly polls now, as its recently reconstituted State committee has just now launched the revamp of the party structure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-missing-in-action-in-kerala/article34121897.ece
21 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Modi govt. ‘destroyed’ SMEs: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the Narendra Modi government for “destroying” small and medium businesses and increasing the unemployment rate across the country. He also picked holes in the Prime Minister’s credo of ‘Make in India’, holding demonetisation and faulty implementation of Goods and Services Tax for the economic slump in the country. “PM Modi said about ‘Make in India’. Has it happened? The PM uses a phone on the back of which is written ‘Made in China’,” Mr. Gandhi told a crowd at a rally in Assam’s Gohpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-govt-destroyed-smes-rahul/article34121893.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||BJP’s musical campaign||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has come out with a handful of commercials and a theme song to pep up its election campaign in Kerala. The commercials, each about a minute in length, take a dig at the “flawed policies” of the CPI(M)-led LDF and the Congress-led UDF. Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan C.N. released the 10 commercials and the theme song on Friday. Home Minister Amit Shah had launched the BJP’s election slogan Puthiya Keralam Modikoppam (the new Kerala stands with Modi) on March 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-musical-campaign/article34121895.ece
21 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Toolkit to defame Assam tea’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday used the ‘toolkit issue’ to attack the Congress for “conspiring” with those trying to destroy the reputation of Assam tea. “You must have heard about toolkit in recent times. A conspiracy was hatched to defame Assam tea and yoga worldwide. The conspirators want the Assam tea gardens to suffer huge losses,” he told a crowd at a rally in poll-bound Assam’s Chabua. “Congress is openly supporting the conspirators. How does it dare seek votes in Assam?” Mr. Modi asked the crowd, adding, “Who can understand the problems of tea workers better than a chaiwala?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toolkit-to-defame-assam-tea/article34121907.ece
21 March 2021||Kolkata,||‘Mamata runs school of brutality’||Claiming Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had betrayed the people of West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the Trinamool Congress chairperson and accused her of brutality towards political opponents. “Mamata didi runs a school of brutality where tolabaji (extortion), cut money, syndicate and anarchy form syllabus,” Mr. Modi said, while addressing a rally in Kharagpur. During his speech, the Prime Minister referred to the 2018 panchayat polls in the State and said that the whole world watched how the democratic rights of the people were curtailed by not allowing them to take part in elections. “This time, Didi will not be allowed to trample on democratic rights. What the Trinamool Congress used to do in the previous election will not be allowed this time,” Mr. Modi said. He raised slogans such as Bhoy noi, Sudu joi (No fear only victory)  and Is Baar BJP Sarkar (This time, it will be a BJP government). The Prime Minister also showered praise on State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, saying that the party was proud to have a chief like him who withstood several attacks at the hands of the Trinamool. Mr. Modi also pointed out that about 130 of the BJP’s cadre had been killed by Trinamool workers. Referring to Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee hailing from the State of West Bengal, the Prime Minister claimed that the BJP was the only party of Bengal in true sense. “The DNA of the BJP has the DNA of Syama Prasad Mookerjee,” he added. The remark by the Prime Minister is aimed to counter the campaign of the Trinamool that BJP is an outside party. Mr. Modi also took a swipe at the Trinamool slogan Khela Hobe (The game will be played). “Didi is saying Khela Hobe . Entire Bengal is saying ‘ Khela Sesh Hobe Vikas Hobe (Game over, now there will be development),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-didi-runs-school-of-brutality-modi/article34121967.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Telangana MLC poll: TRS candidates maintains lead||Candidates from the ruling TRS is leading in the elections to the Telangana Legislative Council from two Graduates constituencies on Saturday. Counting of votes is still on. Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister P.V. Narsimha Rao, is leading in Mahabubn-agar-Rangareddy- Hyderabad constituency. Sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy is ahead in the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-mlc-poll-trs-candidates-maintains-lead/article34121944.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Rs. 1.84 crore||average assets per candidate contesting in the first phase (47 seats) of the Assam Assembly election. 39% of the candidates are crorepatis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-184-crore/article34121890.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||16%||of the candidates contesting in the first phase of the Assam Assembly election have declared criminal cases against themselves||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16/article34121891.ece
21 March 2021||Mysuru,||Cyclists penalised for off-roading in Chamundi Hills reserve forest||A bunch of cyclists who ventured into the reserve forests of Chamundi Hills found themselves on the wrong side of the law and were slapped with a fine of Rs. 25,000. Though the incident took place almost two months ago, Forest Department personnel conducted an inquiry, which proved the transgression of the law, and a fine was imposed on the organiser of the expedition a few days ago. The Deputy Conservator of Forests (Territorial), Prashanth Kumar, said it was illegal for anyone to venture into the reserve forest area of Chamundi Hills. But a group of around 40 cyclists was found riding along the path used by the forest guards. While all kinds of motorised vehicles and cycles are allowed to use the asphalted road of the PWD or use the steps to reach the hilltop, people cannot venture into the forest area, said Mr. Kumar. “The Chamundi Hills reserve forest harbours leopards and the organisers had even taken schoolchildren inside the forest area without permission, unaware of the lurking danger,” said the official. It is speculated that the group had ventured into the reserve forest area for off-road cycling along the unpaved road that is used only by the forest guards for patrolling. “It is not a well-maintained road and is used only by the guards. In case of any injury to the children, the Forest Department would have been blamed,” said Mr. Kumar. Fire season Besides, it was the beginning of the fire season when the incident took place, and the reserve forests of Chamundi Hills were already dry in certain parts and susceptible to ground fire. The presence of such a large group inside the forest area was definitely a dangerous violation that cannot be disregarded, or else such mistakes could be repeated, the official said. Chamundi Hills provides a continuous elevation and gradient and is enticing for cyclists. The authorities said they have no issues if cyclists take the asphalted road. Such misadventures have turned tragic in other parts of the country. A group of trekkers caught unawares of a forest fire died in Theni district of southern Tamil Nadu three years ago. In 2016, a group of trekkers was rounded up inside BRT Tiger Reserve and cases were booked against the organisers for conducting a trekking expedition inside a tiger reserve — which is illegal — and endangering the lives of the group members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyclists-penalised-for-off-roading-in-chamundi-hills-reserve-forest/article34121987.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Cong. to field Satish Jarkiholi in Belagavi||To counter the political dominance of two Jarkiholi brothers of the ruling BJP in Belagavi district, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Saturday recommended the candidature of its working president Satish Jarkiholi for the byelections to the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. The State Congress leaders, including KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, senior members R.V. Deshpande, S.R. Patil, and Dinesh Gundu Rao decided to propose the name of Mr. Satish to the party high command. The high command is expected to clear the candidature in the next few days. Mr. Satish, currently member of the Legislative Assembly, was elected from Yemakanmardi reserve constituency (ST) in Belagavi district. He served as the Minister in the coalition government led by H.D. Kumaraswamy and the previous Congress government led by Siddaramaiah. His brothers Ramesh Jarkiholi and Balachandra Jarkiholi are BJP MLAs. Mr. Ramesh is currently in the news for his alleged involvement in a sex-for-job scandal and the SIT is investigating the case. Mr. Satish said the party has recommended two more names along with his. Prakash Hukkeri’s, former MP, name was also recommended to the party high command. Mr. Hukkeri did not attended Saturday’s meeting. Mr. Satish said he would meet the high command and express his views on contesting the polls. He would contest if the party fields him in Belagavi constituency, he said. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Shivakumar said the party has decided against conducting more public meetings in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Only two public meetings each would be conducted in Maski and Basavakalyana constituency. Filing nominations Mallamma, the party’s candidate in Maski, will file nomination on March 29 and Basanagouda Turvihal will file nomination in Basavakalyana constituency on March 30. All top leaders of the party would be present in both constituencies on the day of filing papers, Mr. Shivakumar said. KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre said leaders have been identified to supervise elections in all three constituencies which would go to polls on April 17.  Mr. Satish said he would meet the high command and express his views on contesting the polls. He would contest if the party fields him in Belagavi constituency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-field-satish-jarkiholi-in-belagavi/article34121937.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Garment store directed to refund excess GST, pay Rs. 10,000 compensation||A district consumer commission directed Brand Factory to pay Rs. 10,000 as compensation for deficiency in service. It also ordered a refund of Rs. 74.98 which a complainant said that the company had charged him as excessive GST, and Rs. 10 which the company had charged for a carry bag. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Hyderabad – I was dealing with a complaint filed by Srikhande Umesh Kumar, 29, a resident of Risala Abdullah, against Brand Factory outlet in Parklane. The complainant stated he bought a pair of jeans which was on 40% discount. The maximum retail price was Rs. 2,499, which the complainant stated was inclusive of GST, and after discount, the price was Rs. 1,499.40, including GST. But the outlet charged the complainant Rs. 1,594.38. An excess amount of Rs. 74.88 as GST was charged. The complainant also stated that Rs. 10 was charged for a carry bag which had the logo of the outlet printed on it. He alleged that the company made customers their ‘advertising agents’. Meanwhile, Brand Factory denied all allegations, and contended that ‘GST would be stated to have been determined based on the transaction value.’ The outlet pointed out that that transaction value was inclusive of the GSTand justified the same with calculations. In connection with the charging Rs. 10, it said that a notice was displayed prominently, and that there was no deficiency of service. With regards to the carry bad, the commission stated, “The opposite party ought to have provided the said carry bag to the complainant free of cost. It should have informed the complainant prior to selection of the goods but not at the payment counter as such the action of opposite party certainly amounts to deficiency in service and also adoption of unfair trade practice on its part.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/garment-store-directed-to-refund-excess-gst-pay-rs-10000-compensation/article34121945.ece
21 March 2021||Kochi,||Customs serves notice on Vinodini again||The Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate has asked Vinodini Balakrishnan, wife of Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to appear before it for questioning on March 23. Ms. Balakrishnan had failed to turn up for interrogation on March 10 after the Customs served her a notice in connection with its probe in the dollar smuggling case. The agency had allegedly found that Ms. Balakrishnan was in possession of one of the six expensive mobile phones handed over by Santhosh Eapen, managing director (MD) of Unitac Builders, to Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, as bribe. Ms. Balakrishnan had denied the allegations and claimed that she had no links with either Mr. Eapen or Swapna. Commission Mr. Eapen had filed a statement before the Kerala High Court that the expensive mobile phones were given along with Rs. 4.8 crore as commission to bag the UAE consulate’s contract to construct 140 dwellings in Thrissur via the government’s LIFE Mission programme to provide free housing for the poor. The UAE Red Crescent had offered to underwrite the project through the country’s diplomatic mission in Thiruvananthapuram.  The agency has found that Vinodini is in possession of one of the six mobile phones handed over by Unitac MD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/customs-serves-notice-on-vinodini-again/article34121992.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI:,||Rs. 270 cr. undisclosed income found with Mumbai builder||The Income-Tax Department has detected undisclosed income of about Rs. 270 crore during searches on a prominent builder and developer group based in Mumbai. The searches were carried out at 29 locations in Mumbai, while a survey action was undertaken on 14 premises. The real estate group is developing a commercial mall, having 950 units exclusively for the mobile accessories business. “Of these, about 905 units have been sold starting from 2017 till date. The evidence stored in a pen drive found on the searched premises revealed that the builder group has taken an amount of Rs. 150 crore as on-money receipts over and above the agreement value, which is not accounted for in the books of accounts on sale of such units,” said the Department. The agency has also come across evidence about on-money receipts of Rs. 70 crore related to a residential-cum-commercial project. “In respect of the dealers engaged in the business of mobile accessories, various incriminating evidence has been found pertaining to out-of-books sales. The group imports goods from China and sells these goods to various parties all over India. The imports are under-invoiced and payments are made through the ‘hawala’ channels,” the Income-Tax Department said. In all, 13 secret godowns containing unaccounted stock have been discovered, wherein the stock is being inventorised and valuation is in progress. The agency has also found evidence of unaccounted investments by the dealers, amounting to Rs. 40.50 crore, of which investments to the tune of Rs. 21 crore are against the purchase of units in the commercial mall. “Four undisclosed bank accounts in the names of employees have also been detected, which are used to collect the sale proceeds from the retail vendors...the total deposits in the bank accounts amount to Rs. 80 crore,” said the agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-270-cr-undisclosed-income-found-with-mumbai-builder/article34122512.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A keenly watched fight in Kolathur||Kolathur is one of the keenly watched constituencies in Tamil Nadu by virtue of the fact that DMK president M.K. Stalin is contesting from here for the third consecutive time. This Assembly segment, carved out of Purasawalkam and Villivakkam, has a chief ministerial candidate contesting in it for the first time. Mr. Stalin takes on Adhi Rajaram, an old rival and senior leader of the AIADMK. While there are many others in the fray, the battle would be essentially between the DMK and AIADMK as in the last two elections. Comprising voters largely from middle-class and lower middle-class families, Kolathur, abutting Perambur, has had some significant infrastructure development in the past few years, including better interior roads, a flyover at the Retteri junction and more parks. Residents credit the MLA with the recent reconstruction of the corporation community hall near the Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar bus stand that remained abandoned for many years, and with swift action to reduce water-logging. While acknowledging Mr. Stalin’s significant contribution to the improvement of the locality from its previous sorry state, residents note some of the long-pending demands need to be addressed. Widening of Paper Mills Road from the Retteri junction to Perambur, improvement of the old sewer network and completion of the road over-bridge near the level crossing of the Villivakkam railway station are among them. Mr. Adhi Rajaram is banking on the government’s welfare schemes, and plans to reach out to voters on the Chief Minister’s achievements. Accusing his opponent of failure to fulfil the basic needs of the people, he says, “The locality still lacks some basic amenities such as safe drinking water and proper roads. During my campaign, I also found garbage disposal to be erratic in some areas. Localities such as Ambedkar Nagar and Thenpalani Nagar continue to be flood-prone.” However, the DMK sets its store by the many infrastructure projects completed, including parks, additional classrooms in schools and primary health centres, and the groundwork for its victory. Mr. Stalin visited the constituency at least twice a month to attend events or for grievance redress meetings. Action was initiated immediately on the petitions submitted at the MLA’s office or on the dedicated helpline, DMK sources said. Listing the schemes executed in the past five years, P.K. Sekar Babu, MLA and DMK district secretary (Chennai East), says, “Our leader has represented the issues of his constituency in the Assembly many times. Free computer coaching and tailoring classes are being conducted through Anitha Achievers Academy. Two more academies will be set up for vocational training.” Acknowledging sewer issues, he says more sewage pumping stations, replacement of the old sewer lines and improvements to the drinking water supply are on the DMK’s agenda. Key issues While areas such as Vetri Nagar escaped the floods, thanks to the well-laid storm water drain, the network needs to be improved in areas, including Ambedkar Nagar and Poompuhar Nagar. P. Bhoopal, general secretary, Federation of 200 feet Road Residents’ Welfare Association, notes that areas, including Venus Nagar, lack sewer connections. Recalling Mr. Stalin’s efforts at retrieving the site at Ganesh Nagar, he says a sewage pumping station is waiting to be built. The bus terminus at Thiru.V.Ka. Nagar and the Periyar Nagar peripheral hospital need to be upgraded. The AMMK has fielded J. Arumugam and the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) has nominated Poovai A. Jagadish, a 32-year-old businessman who had contested in the Poonamallee by-election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-keenly-watched-fight-in-kolathur/article34122119.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 students of Madras University suspended||Five students, who had been protesting for the past three days in front of the centenary building, University of Madras, demanding action against the head of the Department of Archaeology, have been suspended. The fourth semester students had alleged that a professor had given them low scores in the internal assessment due to which they had failed in the exams. Re-evaluation demand The students had demanded that their papers be re-evaluated by an external examiner. On March 18, the students staged a sit-in alleging that the HoD had misbehaved with a girl student when she asked the professor about her poor scores. The university has set up a committee to investigate the issue. “The disciplinary committee of the university said the students not only created a nuisance but also misused the premises,” an official said. A senior official said the activities of the students and their behaviour with the university officials had forced them to take the decision. “The students were assessed by another professor in the department but the HoD was being targeted. Besides, the students were behaving rudely with the professor, which the committee found unacceptable. There was no truth in the students’ allegation,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-students-of-madras-university-suspended/article34122152.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily COVID-19 case count continues to rise||As the number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Tamil Nadu, another 1,243 persons tested positive, taking the overall case tally to 8,65,693. The active case-load increased to 7,291. There was an overall rise in fresh infections in many districts. Chennai, along with its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, accounted for 58% of the fresh cases. While Chennai continued to top the table with 458 cases, Chengalpattu recorded 134 cases and Coimbatore 103 cases. Tiruvallur and Thanjavur recorded 87 and 85 cases respectively. There were 41 cases in Kancheepuram, 33 in Tiruppur, 28 in Salem, 22 in Tiruvarur and 21 in Kanniyakumari. There were 10 to 20 cases in 11 districts, while the number of districts that recorded fewer than 10 cases each dropped to 16. Three returnees — one each from the UAE, Maharashtra and Rajasthan — were among those who tested positive. The fresh cases took Chennai’s total case count to 2,41,127, while Coimbatore’s tally stood at 57,023 and that of Chengalpattu 54,206. Of the 7,291 active cases in the State, Chennai alone accounted for 2,747, while Chengalpattu and Coimbatore had 669 and 635 active cases respectively. There were 509 patients undergoing treatment in Tiruvallur. Eight more persons succumbed to the infection, including two in Chennai. Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Thanjavur, Tiruchi and Villupuram recorded one death each. This took the toll to 12,590. Another 634 persons were discharged after treatment. Tamil Nadu’s vaccination coverage crossed 20 lakh as another 1,21,471 persons were vaccinated on Saturday. So far, 20,88,316 persons have been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-covid-19-case-count-continues-to-rise-in-state/article34122146.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t allow even an inch of forestland to be desecrated’||The Madras High Court on Friday said the number of elephants in captivity in the State appears to be much more than what may be ignored. It also lamented human habitations coming up along traditional elephant corridors and hoped that the environment and forest department personnel would put their best foot forward to not allow even an inch of forest land to be ‘desecrated’ besides endeavouring to restore old corridors too. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said: “There appear to be many elephants in captivity in the State, whether in connection with temples or being used as beasts of burden by their human captors or even in official duties. While some elephants may be used by forest officials for the general maintenance of the forest and to traverse the length and breadth of the forest to assist other habitants thereat, the number of elephants in captivity in the State appears to be much more than what may be ignored,” the court said. “Often times, the elephants may not be fed appropriately or even treated properly particularly by those using elephants as beasts of burden.” The judges also said that though some attention had been given to preservation of forest lands in the recent times, there were corridors between one forest and another which had been occupied by humans. When elephants retrace their steps from one forest to another through those passages, which used to be corridors, they come into contact with the human habitations. Such man-animal conflict had led to gruelling deaths of many elephants either by bursting crackers or by being set on fire or by electrocution. “For such purpose, it is not only imperative that forest land be maintained and preserved, but also that the corridors between two forests be left as untouched as far as possible,” the first Division Bench observed. It also went on to state that at times, roads, particularly highways, cut through a forest and the only way from one side to the other was by crossing the road. It was also usual for settlements to come alongside highways which impede the access of the animals. In several countries, flyovers are created at places to allow the usual access to the animals and in other places humps are created over roads and planted green to allow animals to cross over without stepping on the roads, the judges pointed out. “It may be an expensive proposition, but if the humans are going to cut through forest by building roads, avenues and pathways have to be left open or made anew for the animals to cross over from one side to the other without disturbing the traffic,” they added. Observing that it was encouraging to note the greater concern being shown in the recent past for animals and preservation of forest land, the court hoped that the forest officials would not let even an inch of forest land to be desecrated in the future. The observations were made while disposing of a public interest litigation petition filed by Chennai-based animal lover T. Murugavel, through his counsel R. Srinivas, seeking a direction to the forest department to desist from capturing 40-year-old male elephant Rivaldo from the Sigur region which was part of a buffer zone of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in the Nilgiris district. He feared officials might keep Rivaldo in a kraal (a closed enclosure) in an attempt to tame the animal and subject it to unnecessary pain. However, Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal told the court that the elephant was being captured only to provide treatment for its ailments and that it would be released into the wild immediately after that. Expressing delight at the issue having had a happy ending for the present, the judges disposed of the case after recording the AAG’s submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-allow-even-an-inch-of-forest-land-to-be-desecrated/article34122283.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not allow Delhi to rule Tamil Nadu, says Alagiri||Alleging that the AIADMK government headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was a “benami” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said “Tamil Nadu should be ruled by Tamil Nadu and not by Delhi”. Campaigning for Velachery Congress candidate J.M.H. Hassan, he said though the BJP had fielded candidates for 20 constituencies in the State, in reality it was contesting in all the 234 Assembly constituencies. “When Jayalalithaa was alive, she wanted the people to choose between, “Modi and this Lady,” because she had the courage to face the Centre. But Mr. Palaniswami could not take a similar stand, because all the AIADMK Ministers are facing corruption charges. That is why the AIADMK government is ready to sacrifice the interests of Tamil Nadu,” Mr Alagiri said. He said the DMK-Congress alliance had promised development and employment opportunities since 80 lakh youth had registered in the employment exchange. “Mr. Palanisami also promised government job for one person in a family. Can he come out with statistics on the jobs given by his government in the last five years?” he asked. Mr Alagiri said people would believe a political party only if it had fulfilled its promises in the past. “We have promised to bring down the prices of petroleum products since Mr. Manmohan Singh, when he was the Prime Minister, reduced the price of petroleum products. The AIADMK cannot give six gas cylinders as promised in its manifesto because its finances will not permit the measure owing to the 7 lakh crore debt,” he said. Reiterating that a change was necessary since the AIADMK had been in power for 10 years and could not function properly, Mr Alagiri said that the government had failed in all fronts. He promised that DMK leader M.K.Stalin would function effectively as he had not occupied the seat of Chief Minister so far. “He rose to the present position from a secretary of an ordinary branch of the party. He is a hard worker and is well- qualified for the post of the Chief Minister,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said the DMK would fulfil its electoral promises and if it failed, the alliance partners would persuade it to fulfil them. “The government will follow the economic policies of the Manmohan Singh government. He is a renowned economist. We will follow his economic policies and usher in a change in Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-allow-delhi-to-rule-tamil-nadu-says-alagiri/article34122162.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIDS patients seek more budgetary allocation, health insurance cover||People living with HIV/AIDS want the Tamil Nadu government to implement the Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Act, 2017. The government should make a budgetary allocation based on the prevalence of the infection in districts and ensure there is no delay in giving free anti-retroviral drugs, they said. Around 30 district networks, including Positive Women Network (PWN) and the Indian Network for People Living with HIV/AIDS (INP+), besides 20 NGOs, have submitted their demands to be included in the election manifestos. All private and public hospitals should provide major clinical and surgical treatments and care to those living with HIV/AIDS without bias and discrimination, they have said. They have also demanded that those diagnosed with HIV/AIDS, including children, be brought under all health insurance schemes. If a treatment is not available at government hospitals, it should be provided at private hospitals through a government corpus fund. The government should launch women-centric programmes for primary infection prevention; a basic minimum income of Rs. 12,000 should be ensured for HIV-infected people as they are bereft of socio-economic security under the employment generation schemes. Irrespective of their financial status, all people living with HIV/AIDS should be supported with supplementary nutrition through the public distribution system or given Rs. 2,000 a month. This will help to prevent opportunistic infections and chronic diseases, the organisations have said. They point out that the recent report from the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society has estimated that the State has around 2.2 lakh patients. If their family members are included, the number will be 12.5 lakh. The organisations have demanded reservation for the HIV-infected people in government and private sector jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aids-patients-seek-more-budgetary-allocation-health-insurance-cover/article34122157.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 doctors to be redeployed to Chennai for COVID-19 duty||The steady rise in the number of fresh COVID-19 infections has led to the Health department stepping up its response with regard to infrastructure and manpower. While COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) are being readied in Chennai and many other districts, the department is all set to redeploy manpower from less-affected districts to Chennai. Like last year, when doctors from a number of districts were deployed to Chennai to manage the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Health Department may post doctors from districts where there are fewer COVID-19 cases or where the situation is under control to the city. “We are deputing 300 doctors working under the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services to the Directorate of Medical Education in Chennai as there is a slight rise in cases,” R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said. Already, 625 doctors, 325 laboratory technicians and 1,250 multipurpose health workers recruited last year for COVID-19 work have been given an extension till May. “We have doctors who have completed their postgraduation. There are 550 non-service PGs engaged in COVID-19 work now. We are extending the Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship period that ends in March for two months (April and May) for COVID-19 work,” he added. Covid care centres The Tamil Nadu Housing Board’s flats in Athipet are being converted into COVID-19 care centres. Along with this 4,600 bed facility, another care centre with 300 beds will be available at the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, Egmore. Similar facilities are being created in districts too. With the buildings of educational institutions released from COVID-19 requirement, officials have turned to other facilities. “In districts, there are facilities other than educational institutions, such as new buildings of the housing board or slum clearance board, hospital buildings constructed recently for a speciality but yet to be activated and bigger trade complexes. Decentralised decisions will be taken as beds and mattresses are already in position,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 health centres have been augmented with additional oxygen facilities, he added. Dr. Narayana Babu said in the first phase, four blocks — each consisting of 1,150 beds — were being readied at Athipet CCC while two other blocks were kept on reserve. “Each of four government medical college hospitals in Chennai will be allotted a block at Athipet. We will be posting 150 doctors,” Dr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-doctors-to-be-redeployed-to-chennai-for-covid-19-duty/article34122550.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions are back in temples||With the sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the State government has reintroduced restrictions in temples for the safety of devotees and employees. Devotees will be allowed only up to a certain point inside the temple, in queues while maintaining adequate physical distancing. No archanais will be performed and prasadam and theertham (holy water) will not be distributed. The HR and CE Department issued a circular to this effect on Friday to all temples asking them to ensure enforcement of standard operatring procedures, including wearing of masks, frequent use of hand sanitisers, restricting entry of children aged below 10, elders above 60 and pregnant women. “Temple officials have been instructed to consult with health officials of respective local bodies and take necessary precautions. This is pertinent, especially in temples where the Panguni festival is under way,” said an official. Major temples have made arrangements for mobile vaccination points where devotees can use their Aadhaar cards and get free vaccination. Temple fest Meanwhile, at the Kapaleeswarar Temple in Mylapore, where the annual Panguni festival is on, officials have put in place all these protocols. “We are arranging for masks to be distributed to those not wearing them. The temple is being disinfected at least thrice a day. We are checking temperature of devotees and have arranged to send those with fever to the nearby Corporation dispensary. We have a mobile vaccination van stationed near the Eastern Gopuram,” said a temple source. The temple has urged the various trusts and organisations not to distribute food or buttermilk on streets, including the four Mada streets, Kutcheri Road and Ramakrishna Mutt Road since it could lead to crowding. On March 25, devotees will not be allowed to clamber up the temple car to have a darshan of the deities. Webcast on YouTube Kapaleeswarar temple authorities have made arrangements for live telecast of important events on the temple YouTube channel, including Adhikara Nandhi on Sunday morning, Rishaba Vahanam on March 23, car festival on March 25, Arubathi Moovar festival on March 26 and Tirukalyanam on March 28. Last year, due to lockdown restrictions, the rituals related to the festival were held inside the temple with devotees not being allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-back-in-temples-amid-covid-19-surge/article34122131.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani Ramadoss lauds CM’s welfare schemes||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Saturday praised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for implementing several policies for the welfare of Tamil Nadu and said that a farmer should become the Chief Minister again. He was campaigning for Saidapet constituency candidate Saidai Duraisamy.  Mr. Palaniswami’s farm loan waiver scheme, 7.5% medical reservation for government school students, reservation for Vanniyars and plans for delta regions were the reasons for PMK joining the alliance. “On the one side, we have Edappadi Palaniswami, the farmer. On the other, we have M.K. Stalin, who is a businessman. Stalin will ask what is social justice. He has brought in a man from Bihar to manage his party by paying him Rs. 500 crore. If he does not know how to manage his own party, how will he govern Tamil Nadu?” he asked. Dr. Ramadoss defended AIADMK’s election promise to provide a washing machine to every household. “Modern equipment is needed in this world. When we wash clothes, we usually waste 100 litres of water. But, in a washing machine, only 10 litres are needed. It is important to manage water better in a world that is affected by climate change,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anbumani-lauds-cms-schemes/article34122160.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 9 GIM projects in IT have begun functioning||It’s been five years now and only 7 out of the 17 projects for which Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) were signed by the Information and Technology Department during the first edition of the Global Investors Meet (GIM) 2015 have commenced operations. Data collated from the Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (ELCOT) through RTI shows that 5 projects are still in the under-construction stage and various stages of implementation. A firm called W.S. Industries India Limited had signed a deal with the government for constructing an IT park involving investments of Rs. 1,517 crore but there are no details about that MoU now. Four projects from GIM 2015 that were inked with Hewlett Packard India Private Limited, Intel Technology India Private Limited, Sutherland Global Services Limited and ASV Constructions Private Limited have been dropped. But ASV Constructions had signed another deal with the government during the second edition of GIM that happened in 2019. In terms of investments, only 62.99% has come in. Against a signed commitment of Rs. 10, 950 crore as on date, the MoUs were signed in the IT sector managed to bring in Rs. 6,898 crore, providing employment to 72,373 people. In 2015, during the GIM event,the government had said that more than two lakh people would be inducted into the sector over a period of three years. Data collated on deals that were signed during the second edition of GIM that happened in 2019 shows that two projects – Bayline Infocity Limited (formerly ETA Technopark Ltd.) and Tranzo Digital Services – have commenced operations, five are under construction, two firms have purchased land while another firm is still in the process of identifying land. Another firm Netlink InfoComm Sdn Bhd is in the process of commencing activity. Investments to the tune of Rs. 2,056.5 crore have come in till date as against the commitment of Rs. 11,974 crore through the 11 deals. “With COVID-19, some of these deals might now take more time to translate into reality. With people working from home, the demand for IT space has shrunk – so investments will be done cautiously,” said a source from one of the firms that had struck a deal to invest in this sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-9-gim-projects-in-it-have-begun-functioning/article34122135.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for blackmailing wife||A 41-year-old man was arrested on Saturday by Cyber Crime Police of Central Crime Branch after he allegedly threatened to upload intimate photos of his estranged wife, unless she moved back with him. Sources said the accused, a resident of Tambaram Sanatorium, was arrested by the police based on a complaint by the woman from Poonamallee. The complainant alleged that the man threatened to post online the pictures and videos he had secretly shot, and also said that if she did not want that to happen, she should move back with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-blackmailing-wife/article34122137.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||19 years on, three land grabbers convicted||A special court here has convicted three persons for grabbing land worth Rs. 150 crore belonging to a private firm in Thirumangalam. They were sentenced to three year rigorous imprisonment for the offence. According to a prosecution, Sri Krishna Tiles and Potteries Ltd., represented by its chief administrative officer V. Subramaniam, lodged a complaint with Central Crime Branch in 2002 alleging that 4.76 acres belonging to the firm had been grabbed. The police arrested S. Jagannatha Pandian of Raja Annamalaipuram, Rajesh of Mandaveli and Balakrishnan, alias Parthe Baskar of T. Nagar. The chargesheet was filed in 2006. The case was tried before the special court for CCB and CB-CID cases. At the conclusion of the trial, judge P. Nagarajan convicted the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-years-on-three-land-grabbers-convicted/article34122138.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK workers’ protest triggers tension in Erukkanchery||Tension prevailed on Saturday afternoon at Erukkanchery after a section of DMK cadre squatted on the road demanding that the returning officer of Perambur Assembly constituency reject the AIADMK candidate’s nomination papers. In Perambur constituency, Perunthalaivar Makkal Katchi president N.R. Dhanapalan has filed nomination papers as AIADMK candidate and R.D. Sekar has been fielded as DMK candidate. When the Returning Officer Rajagopalan took up the papers for scrutiny, it was found that a proposer failed to write his Aadhaar number and instead attached a copy of Aadhaar. DMK representatives protested demanding the nomination papers of Mr. Dhanapalan be rejected. Hence the decision on the final list was put on hold briefly and later the nomination was accepted since it was a minor issue. When the Returning Officer came out at 3.30 p.m, the DMK cadre blocked his car demanding that the papers of AIADMK candidate be rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-workers-protest-triggers-tension-in-erukkanchery/article34122139.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyber Crime Cell arrests imposter||The Cyber Crime Cell of Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Saturday arrested an imposter who cheated several persons after advertising mobile phones for sale on an online portal and handing over unusable gadgets after receiving money. According to the police, B. Rajesh lodged a complaint with the city police alleging that he was cheated by a man through an advertisement on the OLX online portal under the guise of selling mobile phones. On seeing the advertisement, he evinced interest in buying a phone and the seller asked him to come to Chintadripet. The stranger handed over the pack in Chintadripet and left after receiving Rs. 10,000 from him. Later, Mr. Rajesh found the mobile phone to be not working. Based on his complaint, the police registered a case and a special team traced the transaction to Abdul Majeed who had created various fake accounts in the online portal using different names. He was found continuously posting ads and was put under surveillance by the police. Abdul Majeed was arrested in Chintadripet. The police seized electronic gadgets used for the commission of the offence including mobile phones, SIM cards and memory cards. He was detained under the Goondas Act in 2007 for a video piracy offence, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-crime-cell-arrests-imposter/article34122147.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1.4 tonnes of tobacco products seized||The police seized 1.4 tonnes of banned tobacco products from two godowns and arrested three persons who smuggled them from another State for distribution in the city. Following a tip-off on the movement of contraband, a special team of police intercepted a goods carrier on Tambaram-Mudichur Road and found huge quantities of gutka and pan masala products on the vehicle being brought to the city for sale. The accused, V. Muthukumar of Mudichur, A. Rajendran, of Chengalpattu and S. Ilayaraja of Peerkankaranai, who were travelling on the vehicle, were arrested by the police. Stocked in godowns The investigation revealed that Muthukumar and Najeem had illegally transported the contraband and stocked them in two godowns in Mudichur. They supplied the tobacco products through two other associates, said the police. About 1,470 kilo banned tobacco products, three motorcycles, a mini van and Rs. 4 lakh were seized from them, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-tonnes-of-tobacco-products-seized/article34122148.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jewellers seek clarity from poll watchdog on carrying documents||Many jewellery shops in the city are experiencing a dip in footfalls as customers hesitate to purchase and carry home jewellery since the election model code of conduct is in force. Jewellers said sales had dropped by 30% owing to the fear of being questioned by Election Commission teams or seizure of cash or gold. Business had looked up after COVID-19 lockdown curbs were relaxed, and such measures would cripple the trade, the jewellers said. Moreover, transactions among manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers had dropped by 40%. This was to avoid seizure of jewellery meant to be supplied to retailers despite having supporting documents. The Jewellers and Diamond Traders' Association, Madras, recently represented to the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu, to lay down guidelines on documents to be carried along with the ornaments to avoid seizure and instruct field-level officers. Association general secretary S. Santhakumar said the recent budget announcements on import duty and drop in gold prices had helped bring more customers into the jewellery stores. However, business had slowed down despite the wedding season. Although jewellers or staff members carried various documents, they faced hardship and there were many instances across the State where the ornaments had been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellers-seek-clarity-from-poll-watchdog-on-carrying-documents/article34122547.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As poll heat rises, helicopters, special flights see more takers||As the Assembly elections approach, the Chennai airport has been buzzing with helicopters and special flights flying in and out, carrying politicians who travel to campaigns in various districts. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said there were 161 helicopters and special flights with 77 arrival flights and 84 departure flights at Chennai airport in the last 15 days. In total, over the past two weeks, as many as 228 passengers have travelled through special flights, officials said. Preferred choice A few politicians took helicopters or special flights to places ike Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai for election campaign. “While a few still continue to travel by regular flights, some prefer special flights to save time. They can arrive or depart according to their convenience, depending on the timing of their campaigns. This is definitely more expensive than travelling by regular flights. It could cost anywhere between a minimum of Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh, depending on what aircraft is chosen and the facilities,” an official said. Officials said that after COVID-19 and the lockdown, the number of chartered flights arriving in the city had gone up with many passengers coming in from West Asia through such flights. “Usually, whenever elections are approaching, we see a significant increase in the number of helicopter or special flight movements in the airport. This is what has happened this time too. In the coming two weeks, we may see more movements,” another official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-tn-election-heat-rises-choppers-and-special-flights-see-more-takers/article34122129.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM launches online degree programmes||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), Kattankulathur, has launched new online degree programmes approved by UGC. The online degree programmes approved by the UGC are MBA specialisation in Finance/ HR/ Marketing/ Business Analytics, MCA, BBA specialisation in Digital Marketing, BCA specialisation in Data Science, according to a statement. The admissions are open for the February/March academic session, it added. SRMIST said it had developed an online cloud-based technology stack, called SRM Online Learning Platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-launches-online-degree-programmes/article34122132.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Business facilitation cell set up||The Indo-Japan Chamber of Commerce has set up a Japan-India Business Facilitation Cell to facilitate Japanese Investments, business from Japan and joint ventures for Indian businesses. Webinar on March 25 A webinar for Japan on the subject, ‘Investing in India: Recent Initiatives’ is being organised on March 25, in which B. Shyam, Consul General of India for Osaka and Kobe, will deliver a keynote address, according to a release. For registration, contact indo-japan@ijcci.com / www. ijcci.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/business-facilitation-cell-set-up/article34122150.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Candidate barred by EC can’t enter fray’||The Madras High Court on Friday rejected a contention that the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) order disqualifying a person from becoming an MP or MLA for three years could not be considered a disqualification against contesting the election as such and therefore he/she must be allowed to contest the polls without rejecting the nomination papers. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy termed such contention as “fallacious” and refused to accept it. The judges said conduct of elections lead to considerable expenditure of public money and therefore allowing a disqualified candidate to contest the election might result in a futile exercise if such a candidate ends up winning. The observations were made while disposing of a writ petition filed by S.F. Mohammed Gaddafe, who had been fielded as Naam Tamilar Katchi’s candidate in Harbour constituency in Chennai. The petitioner challenged an order passed by the ECI on July 26, 2018 disqualifying him from being an MP or an MLA for three years. The disqualification order was passed for his failure to had been passed for not submit the election expense account when he contested from Mudukalathur in the 2016 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidate-barred-by-ec-cant-enter-fray/article34122548.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK man stabbed by gang||A functionary of AMMK was stabbed by a gang near his house on Friday night. The police identified the victim as Yuvaraj, 47, a block secretary in Vyasarpadi. On Friday night, Mr. Yuvaraj just returned home after the day’s campaign. While he was sitting near his house, a gang of five men waylaid him and hit him on his head with a knife. Hearing his cries, his brother Govardhan, an advocate, came out and attempted to fend off the attack. The gang hit Mr. Govardhan on his head and fled the spot. Neighbours rushed them to Government Stanley Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-man-stabbed-by-gang/article34122136.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 7,200 nominations received||Of the 7,243 nominations received in all the 234 Assembly constituencies till Friday, election officials accepted 3,562 nominations and rejected 2,131 during the scrutiny till 11 p.m. on Saturday. Among them, 6,166 nominations were received from men, 1,067 from women and three from members of the third gender. Nominations of almost all key candidates have been accepted. In case of multiple nominations, one valid nomination was accepted and the remaining were rejected. As for the bypoll for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency, of the 23 sets of nominations that were received, 11 were accepted and three rejected. The scrutiny was still on until late evening. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is March 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-7200-nominations-received/article34122163.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMDK’s Sudhish tests positive||Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) deputy general secretary L.K. Sudhish tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday, party sources said. Mr. Sudhish was admitted to a private hospital in Nungambakkam. Sources said he had visited Vridhachalam to be with his sister, Premalatha Vijayakant, who is contesting the election from there. He was reportedly with her when she filed her nomination in Vridhachalam on March 18 and subsequently returned to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudhish-tests-positive-in-hospital/article34122170.ece
21 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Candidate barred by EC can’t enter fray: HC||The Madras High Court on Friday rejected a contention that the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) order disqualifying a person from becoming an MP or MLA for three years could not be considered a disqualification against contesting the election as such and therefore he/she must be allowed to contest the polls without rejecting the nomination papers. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy termed such contention as “fallacious” and refused to accept it. Expenditure The judges said conduct of elections lead to considerable expenditure of public money and therefore allowing a disqualified candidate to contest the election might result in a futile exercise if such a candidate ends up winning. The observations were made while disposing of a writ petition filed by S.F. Mohammed Gaddafe, who had been fielded as Naam Tamilar Katchi’s candidate in Harbour constituency in Chennai. The petitioner challenged an order passed by the ECI on July 26, 2018 disqualifying him from being an MP or an MLA for three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidate-barred-by-ec-cant-enter-fray-hc/article34122254.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gateway to Ooty in neglect||Gone are the days when tourists heading to the Nilgiris used to get the first feel of the cool breeze while entering Mettupalayam town. There is a change in weather, and also public opinion. Voters feel they have been neglected for decades as the gateway to Ooty has not seen much development for several years. The constituency remained in the hands of the AIADMK for four consecutive terms from 2001, with O.K. Chinnaraj winning thrice from 2006 to 2016. This time, the party is fielding A.K. Selvaraj, who had won the seat in 2001. The DMK’s T.R. Shanmugasundaram is his main opponent. “Though Mettupalayam town is situated on the banks of the Bhavani and water is being pumped from the river to other places including Coimbatore, we get potable water only once in 10 to 15 days. People are forced to buy drinking water,” laments S. Basha, one of the organisers of Namma Mettupalayam Social Welfare Committee. Lack of enough space for widening of roads within the town is also a major concern, people say. “Crossing of railway gates for the movement of Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam train also leads to traffic congestion in the town. A road over bridge is a long-pending demand of the people,” says U. Masthan, secretary of Mettupalayam Consumer Protection Council. People in the region have also been demanding the upgrading of the Government Hospital at Mettupalayam, which is the immediate referral centre for many emergency cases that come from the Nilgiris. “When accident victims are brought to the GH, they are often referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital which is 40 km away. If the GH is upgraded with advanced emergency care facilities, many lives can be saved,” Mr. Masthan says. The underground drainage works that have been going on in the town for over a year have further added to the congestion. “Overflowing during rain and dug up roads are affecting local businesses too,” says B. Rangasamy of Mettupalayam Potato Traders Association.  Retail market Though Mettupalayam is a leading wholesale market of vegetables, especially those produced in the Nilgiris, the town lacks a well-organised retail market where farmers can sell their produce such as banana, curry leaf and vegetables. According to T.T. Rangasamy of Bhavani River Water and Groundwater Protection Council, farmers in the region have been using the water from Bhavani for irrigation for decades and they should be allowed to pump the water for irrigation till the Government implements irrigation projects that fulfils their needs. “Immediate attention is also required to save Bhavani from various forms of pollution” he says. G. Ranganathan, State executive committee member of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, says that farmers in the region are in constant struggle to protect their crops from wild animals such as elephants, deer, wild boars and peacocks. Shortage of manpower for farm works is also a concern for farmers and they are expecting the Government to allot labour force from Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for agricultural works to meet the demand. Weavers in crisis Though weavers of Sirumugai and Chikkadsampalayam in the constituency are among the top silk saree makers in the country, the potential of the sector has never been explored by governments over the years, feels V. Karappan, a weaver-cum-entrepreneur. “The demand for silk sarees in India is ever increasing and there is tremendous potential for various jobs from silk production to weaving to marketing. A weaver aged below 40 is a rare case now. The government should take efforts to boost the sector and educate youngsters about its potential. Facilities such as a research centre or textile park can boost the sector and create more job opportunities,” he says. Nature enthusiasts in Coimbatore district want the next Government to construct a flyover from Kallar Bridge to the second hairpin bend of Mettupalayam - Udhagamandalam Road via Coonoor (part of NH-67) to save the crucial Jaccanaire - Hulikal Durgam elephant corridor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gateway-to-ooty-in-neglect/article34122181.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK rivalry gets intense in Thondamuthur||The rivalry between the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is getting intensified by the day in the Thondamuthur Assembly constituency, where Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani is contesting against the latter’s Karthikeya Sivasenapathy. The latest in the rivalry between the two is the complaint that Mr. Sivasenapathy lodged with the returning officer against Mr. Velumani, alleging that the latter had misrepresented facts, particularly his wealth details, in the affidavit filed along with nomination. But the rivalry started the day Mr. Sivasenapathy reached Thondamuthur more than a week ago after having secured the DMK’s nomination. Besides targeting Mr. Velumani for his alleged corruption, Mr. Sivasenapathy had challenged him for a one-on-one debate saying the Minister should explain why, during his tenure in the municipal administration department, several items purchased for local bodies were over-invoiced. Using a moniker to taunt to the Minister, the DMK candidate had also alleged that the Minister had sold Siruvani water supplied to the city to a French company and also River Noyyal. The AIADMK hit back in the form of a press meet held by spokesperson Kalyanasundaram, who besides challenging Mr. Sivasenapathy asked him to prove that the Minister had compromised the city’s water supply. Using a counter moniker to taunt the DMK nominee, Mr. Kalyanasundaram alleged that the AIADMK’s enquiries about Mr. Sivaseapathy in his hometown, Kangayam, had revealed a few unsavoury factors. He also went on to allege that right from the day the DMK nominee reached the Thondamuthur constituency, he had been trying to create one problem or the other to have the election stopped. Mr. Sivasenapathy hit back saying that it would not be necessary because he was sure of winning the seat and the timing of the election did not matter. Digital space The rivalry and name calling had reached the digital space as well as the two are intensely trading charges by digging up old cases so as to discredit the opponent. With two more weeks to go for the election, it appears, the AIADMK candidate and his DMK rival have more to offer on their opponents to the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-rivalry-gets-intense-in-thondamuthur/article34122194.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||HC tells Tangedco to abide by rules for providing new connections||The Madras High Court has directed the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) in a recent order to comply strictly with the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules 2019 for providing electricity service connections. The Tamilnadu Government notified the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019 with effect from February 4, 2019. According to the rules, service connections for electricity, water, and sewage should be given by the service provider to all new buildings only when the completion certificate is produced. It exempted this rule for residential building upto 12 metres in height, not exceeding three dwelling units with 750 sq.m and all type of industrial buildings. The Tangedco issued instructions to its officials in May and July last year to insist on building completion certificate for all new connections except for the exempted category. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said that without any order from the Court or the government to the contrary, the Tangedco withdrew the order of insisting on completion certificate in October last year. “This unilateral illegal action would again encourage unauthorised and illegal constructions and would lead to unhealthy and unplanned growth. Hence, we (Coimbatore Consumer Cause) immediately filed a PIL and obtained a stay order on October 22, 2020 against Tangedco’s circular dated October 6, 2020,” he said. The court disposed of the Public Interest Litigation on March 18 and the first bench of Madras High Court ordered Tangedco to comply strictly with the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules 2019 with regard to the grant of electricity service connections. “We hope that hereafter people would not construct buildings with violation of Building Rules, compromising public parking area, fire safety measures etc.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-tells-tangedco-to-abide-by-rules-for-providing-new-connections/article34122282.ece
21 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Kovai Thangam’s exit will have no impact’||Tamil Maanila Congress leader and former MLA Kovai Thangam’s exit from the party would have no impact, the party’s Coimbatore urban south unit president V.V. Vasan told reporters here on Saturday. Mr. Thangam quit the party a few days ago after being denied a ticket to contest in the Valparai Assembly constituency. Mr. Vasan said the TMC would work hard for the victory of the AIADMK alliance and that its leader G.K. Vasan would be campaigning in Coimbatore in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-thangams-exit-will-have-no-impact/article34122185.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MNM nominee errs in filling papers, loses candidature||K. Rajkumar, the nominee of Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) for Mettupalayam constituency, lost his candidature due to an error in filling the nomination papers. R. Kumaresan, returning officer (RO) for Mettupalayam constituency, said that Mr. Rajkumar had filled a column given for registered-recognised party instead of the column meant for registered-unrecognised party. The error was found in the scrutiny of nominations conducted on Saturday. No one else had filed a nomination as MNM’s dummy candidate, said the officer. Although MNM is a registered party, it is yet to be recognised as a State or national party. 25 nominations rejected Out of the 36 nominations received in Mettupalayam constituency, 25, including that of Mr. Rajkumar were rejected, said Mr. Kumaresan. Sulur RO V. Santhi said that 16 out of the 25 nominations received were accepted while nine were rejected during the scrutiny in the Sulur constituency. In the Kavundampalayam constituency, a total of 27 nominations were received, of which 12 were accepted and 15 were rejected, said RO G. Ravichandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-candidates-nomination-rejected/article34122166.ece
21 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Election observers for 10 Assembly constituencies||The district administration in a release issued on Saturday that the following officers would be the expenditure observers for the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district. Amitabh Shah (94899-46723) for Mettupalayam, Swati Shahi (94899-46724) for Sulur and Thondamuthur, Vijay Kumar Singh (94899-46725) for Kavundampalayam and Coimbatore North, Shashank Dwivedi (94899-46728) for Coimbatore South, Hitendra Bhauraoji Ninawe (94899-46727) for Singanallur and Kinathukadavu and Ram Kishn Kedia (94899-46726) for Pollachi and Valparai, the release said and appealed to people to reach out to them to report violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-observers-for-10-assembly-constituencies/article34122184.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco AE, inspector arrested on graft charge||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Saturday arrested an assistant engineer and inspector of assessment of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) in Coimbatore district for demanding a bribe of Rs. 10,000. The arrested were M. Muthuraj, assistant engineer and R. Thangaraj, inspector of assessment, both attached to the Tangedco office at Pappampatty. They were arrested following a complaint lodged by a 27-year-old woman who had applied for two domestic service connections for her newly constructed house. The DVAC office in Coimbatore can be reached round the clock at 0422-2449550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-ae-inspector-arrested-on-graft-charge/article34122192.ece
21 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness event organised||The Regional Transport Office –South conducted an awareness programme on March 16 for drivers of trucks and mini trucks to not transport people in their vehicles. A release said officials addressed the drivers and pasted stickers on the trucks with awareness slogans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-event-organised/article34122281.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special team to check liquor movement||The district administration has constituted a team to check illegal movement of liquor and enforce Model Code of Conduct. A release from the district administration said the district revenue officer had tasked Sivakumar (99408-80903), taluk excise officer, Coimbatore North, and sub inspector Damodaran (90426-58468) and special sub inspector Gnanasekar (83000-05146). They would be checking smuggling illegal sale and hoarding of liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-team-to-check-liquor-movement/article34122183.ece
21 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||IET accreditation for eight BIT programmes||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology (BIT), Sathyamangalam, has been awarded Institution of Engineering and Technology’s (IET’s) international accreditation for eight of its undergraduate (UG) engineering programmes. A release said that IET is the world’s leading professional body for engineers and its accreditation is an internationally recognised benchmark, awarded to high quality engineering programmes. The institute had applied for the accreditation in 2018. The accreditation for eight graduating batches from 2016 to 2023 will have direct benefits including opportunities for international mobility, job prospects and acceptance of graduate students in foreign universities. It also enhances opportunities for interdisciplinary research as well as exchanges. The accreditation has been awarded for an initial period of three years and will be reviewed at the end of the term. S.V. Balasubramaniam, Chairman, BIT said that the institute is celebrating its silver jubilee year and the accreditation makes it special for the standards of education that the institute offers. He said that the accreditation will help both the students and the teachers to learn from international experience, and also share our values and ethos among others. M.P. Vijayakumar, Trustee, BIT said that the institute has implemented many initiatives to make education world-class, and the efforts are starting to yield rich dividends. “It is an opportunity to take the efforts to global forums and be discussed among the finest academicians of the world for accurate feedback and further refinements”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iet-accreditation-for-eight-bit-programmes/article34122280.ece
21 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Traffic congestion, pollution key issues in Turmeric City||Called as Turmeric City, Textile City or Loom City, two-third of the areas in the Erode Corporation limits come under the Erode East constituency where projects under Smart City Mission are being developed. E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market, weekly cattle shandy at Karungalpalayam, textile shops, power looms and turmeric processing activities keep the city busy. However, pollution in River Cauvery and Kalingarayan Canal continues to be a major concern for the residents and farmers. There are 297 bleaching units, 171 dyeing units and 37 tannery units functioning in the Corporation limits with many having individual effluent treatment plants. But, illegal discharge of effluents into the river and canal continues despite inspections by Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board officials. Also, 40 MLD of sewage generated in the Corporation limits every day is directly let into the river and canal as the Corporation’s underground sewerage scheme (UGSS) is yet to be completed. The demand for establishing common effluent treatment plants is yet to be fulfilled. Textile manufacturers were seeking a research and training institute to develop innovative products and explore new talents. Traffic congestion on arterial roads, absence of flyover on Mettur Road, slow pace of implementation of UGSS, delay in re-laying of damaged roads and absence of parking space in market areas are the key issues. There is a long-standing demand for establishing integrated parks for textiles and turmeric, language training centres and creating job opportunities for youngsters. K.S. Thennarasu of the AIADMK is the incumbent MLA. M. Yuvaraja of Tamil Manila Congress and Thirumagan Evera of Congress are all set to face each other in the Assembly election. While Mr. Yuvaraja, who is contesting in two leaves symbol, banks on the AIADMK’s welfare measures and promise of growth, Mr. Thirumagan Evera, son of former Union Minister E.V.K.S. Elangovan, banks on resolving pollution and traffic woes in the city. Makkal Needhi Maiam’s A.M.R. Rajkumar is also in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-congestion-pollution-key-issues-in-turmeric-city/article34122296.ece
21 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Wearing mask mandatory to enter places of worship in Erode||The district administration said that devotees entering temples should wear masks and use hand sanitisers. District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan chaired a meeting with officials and representatives from various places of worship at the Collectorate here on Saturday. He said that as part of the COVID-19 preventive measures, various steps had been taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in public places. It was mandatory for devotees to wear masks and enter temples. Hand sanitisers should be placed at the entry point for temples, churches, mosques and other religious establishments. Also, thermal scanning should be done for all devotees. He asked the authorities to ensure social distancing while inside the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wearing-mask-mandatory-to-enter-places-of-worship-in-erode/article34122289.ece
21 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Observer appointed||Election related complaints or opinions can be taken up with Navdeep Rinva, who has been appointed as the General observer for Erode (East) Assembly constituency. A release said Mr. Rinva was carrying out his duties from the Kalingarayan Guest House on Perundurai Road and he could be contacted at 91500-20720. Also, the public can meet him between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/observer-appointed/article34122290.ece
21 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to road widening works by the Highways Department in the Mettukadai substation – Villarasampatti electric line, power supply will be disrupted from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on March 22 at V.I.P. Golden City Veerapampalayam, Veerapampalayam Bypass Road, Thai Nagar and Subramaniyam Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34122291.ece
21 March 2021||KALLKURICHI/VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||CM slams Stalin’s ‘fake farmer’ jibe||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami hit back at DMK president M. K Stalin’s “fake farmer” jibe and accused his rival of trying to spread “falsehoods” and “confuse” the voters in a desperate bid to capture power as his party had been out of power for 10 years. Seeking votes for his party candidate M. Senthil Kumar from Kallakurichi constituency, the Chief Minister said the DMK president had invented a new term “fake farmer” while accusing him personally. “There is nothing called fake farmer. I am a farmer because I inherited land from my father. By using such words, he has insulted the farmers and farming as a profession. He does not know anything about farming,” he said, addressing a gathering at Katchery Road in Kallakurichi town. Terming the DMK a party of “rowdies”, the Chief Minister said the prevailing law and order situation in Tamil Nadu would collapse if the party was voted to power. Law-and-order “The law-and-order situation in Tamil Nadu is better now. People of all castes and religions are living peacefully here. If the DMK comes to power the rule of law will deteriorate. The DMK has already started threatening police officers,” he alleged. Speaking at Ulundurpet canvassing votes for AIADMK candidate R. Kumaruguru, Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK leader, without knowing the facts, was opposing the three farm legislations. “I have been asking how the farm laws are going to impact the life of farmers in Tamil Nadu. He says it will affect the life of farmers in Punjab. I am not a national leader. I will speak against the farm laws if it affects the lives of the people in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Attacking Mr. Stalin for his comments that the AIADMK had succumbed to the BJP, the Chief Minister said the DMK had enjoyed power at Centre by aligning with the saffron party when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister. Its leader Murasoli Maran held the ministerial position even while undergoing treatment, the Chief Minister recalled. “If they form the alliance, it is right and when we align with the BJP, it is wrong. It is better for the State to maintain cordial relations with Centre for getting funds,” he said, seeking votes for BJP candidate V. A. T Kaliavardan from Thirukkoilur constituency. At Villupuram, while canvassing for his cabinet colleague C.Ve.Shanmugam, the Chief Minister said the Assembly election would bring an end to dynasty politics in Tamil Nadu. He reiterated his charge that the DMK was a dynastic party. Mr Stalin had taken over the reins of the party from his father. Similarly, he was now laying the stepping stones to his son Udayanidhi, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-slams-stalins-fake-farmer-jibe/article34122165.ece
21 March 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered in Kovilpatti, two arrested||Two persons were arrested in connection with the murder of a man on Friday night. Police sources said that daily wage labourer A. Ramkumar, 30, of AKS Theatre Road in Kovilpatti suspected his wife Muthulakshmi, who was working in a printing press as computer operator, of having extra-marital affair with his employer Venkatachalapathi of VOC Nagar, also in Kovilpatti. When Ramkumar, who went to Muthulakshmi’s workplace on Friday morning, verbally abused her and Venkatachalapathi, the people there pacified him following which he returned home. On Friday night, Venkatachalapathi, his brother-in-law Gopinath, 35, and his friend Karuthapandi went to Ramkumar’s house in a bid to resolve the problem through negotiation. As a heated argument broke out during the talks, Gopinath allegedly stabbed Ramkumar to death and the trio fled the spot. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar visited the spot. Based on a complaint from Tamilarasi, mother of the deceased, the Kovilpatti West police arrested Gopinath and Venkatachalapathi while a hunt is on to nab Karuthapandi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-in-kovilpatti-two-arrested/article34122276.ece
21 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||General observers appointed for Krishnagiri district||The Election Commission of India has appointed general observers and expenditure observers for the six Assembly constituencies in the district. They will be available in the constituencies for the public to receive complaints. P.D. Palsan, (70102 83768) has been appointed as the general observer and will be available at Room No. 4, Circuit house, Krishnagiri between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m., Partha Sarthi Sen Sharma, (90804 79104) has been appointed general observer for Krishnagiri and Vepanapalli constituencies and will be available at Room No.7, Circuit House, Krishnagiri between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. and Hans Raj Chauhan (79041 67903) will be available at PWD Travellers Bungalow, Dinnur, Hosur. Suven Das Gupta (63819 80637) has been appointed as expenditure observer for Uthangarai and Bargur Assembly constituencies, and will be available at Room No. 4, Circuit house, Krishnagiri between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m.; Kalyanam (86101 81939) for Krishnagiri and Vepanapalli constituencies and will be available at Room No.2, Power Grid, Shoolagiri, between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m.; S.Balakrishna (63809 38410) for Hosur and Thalli constituencies and will be available at PWD Travellers Bungalow 2, Dinnur, Hosur between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. Police observer Sunil Bhaskar (90068 21004) has been appointed as the police observer for the six Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general-observers-appointed-for-krishnagiri-district/article34122287.ece
21 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 applications received for postal ballots||Krishnagiri district has received a total of 3,036 applications for postal ballots under Form 12 D for the 6 Assembly constituencies here. This includes 704 differently-abled voters and 2,332 voters above 80 years of age. According to the administration, there are 634 voters for Uthangarai (Reserved), 305 voters for Bargur, 567 voters for Krishnagiri, 332 voters for Vepanapalli, 419 voters for Hosur, and 779 voters for Thally. Form 12 D application has been a new introduction to the postal voting, enabling the infirm and the elderly above 80 years of age expressing inability to commute in view of the pandemic to vote with the help of postal ballots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-applications-received-for-postal-ballots/article34122286.ece
21 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three AIADMK leaders stalling development of Madurai: Stalin||The three AIADMK leaders — Sellur K. Raju, R.B. Udhayakumar and V.V. Rajan Chellappa — are stalling development of Madurai, charged DMK president M.K. Stalin here on Saturday. Addressing the public at Tirumangalam, he said that Mr. Sellur Raju was a comedian. Mr. Udhayakumar, who is the Revenue Minister, had only earned revenue for himself and not done any good for the public. He said Mr. Udhayakumar, who is contesting at Tirumangalam, had failed to set up industries, an integrated bus stand or construct underground drainage system in Tirumangalam. The BJP and the AIADMK are making false promises to the people, he said. The lack of progress in construction of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Madurai is an example. “While announcement for Madurai AIIMS was made along with 14 other AIIMS, work had commenced in all other AIIMS. When the government is funding construction of other AIIMS across the country, the Tamil Nadu government is waiting for a loan from JICA to construct Madurai AIIMS. Is Madurai in Japan,” he asked. He said that the AIADMK government was inefficient in handling the Pollachi sexual assault case. He highlighted various promises made by the DMK in its election manifesto. He urged the public to vote for the DMK to protect the interests of Tamil Nadu. M. Manimaran, DMK candidate for Tirumangalam; P. Moorthy, DMK candidate for Madurai East constituency; A. Venkatesan, DMK candidate for Sholavandan; P.V. Kathiravan of All India Forward Bloc, who is contesting from Usilampatti; Ravichandran of Indian National Congress, who is contesting from Melur, and S.K. Ponnuthai of CPI(Marxist), who is contesting in Tirupparankundram, were present during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-aiadmk-leaders-stalling-development-of-madurai-stalin/article34122480.ece
21 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Objections to nomination filed by Revenue Minister||Returning Officers in Madurai district accepted a total of 196 nominations out of 293 filed after they were found to be in order following a scrutiny on Saturday. They rejected a total of 97 nominations. Nominations of major contestants and political parties were accepted. Tension prevailed at the taluk office at Tirumangalam as candidates and members of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam raised several objections to the nomination filed by AIADMK candidate and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar. According to Tirumangalam Returning Officer R. Soundarya, AMMK cadre raised several objections during the scrutiny of nominations. They pointed out that a government pleader cannot authorise the affidavit filed by the candidate. However, the RO disregarded all the objections by citing the rules issued by the Election Commission of India. After clearing all the objections, the nomination filed by Mr. Udhayakumar was accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/objections-to-nomination-filed-by-revenue-minister/article34122477.ece
21 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||All precautionary measures taken to ensure free and fair polls: Police Commissioner||The Madurai city police have taken all necessary precautionary measures to ensure that the voters could exercise their franchise without any fear. In a statement, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that 27 history sheeted rowdy elements were detained under Goondas Act. Besides, 473 rowdy elements who were identified as potential threat to the maintenance of law and order, were bound over by getting bonds to ensure their good conduct. “Among them, 29 rowdy elements, who violated the bond conditions by indulging in criminal activities, were booked and remanded in judicial custody,” the Commissioner said. Stating that stringent action was being taken to curb illegal sale of liquor, he said that 733 cases were registered and 704 litres of illegal liquor valued at Rs. 4. 29 lakh was seized During the last two months, 183 kg of ganja valued at Rs. 18.30 lakh was seized. A total of 384 weapon licence holders in the city have deposited their weapons with their respective police stations. However, 148 banks were permitted to keep their weapons for their safety, the statement said. Notorious antisocial element Soundarapandi was recently arrested and pistol, bullets and country-made bombs were seized from his possession. Vulnerable booths Polling booths located in 114 locations were identified as politically, communally and caste-wise vulnerable and 15 flag marches were organised in these areas by two companies of paramilitary forces to instill confidence in the voters. Flying squads and Static Surveillance Teams have so far seized Rs. 34.18 lakh while transporting them without proper documents. Mr. Sinha warned that stringent action will be initiated against those who indulge in unlawful activities and voters can come out to cast their votes without any fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-precautionary-measures-taken-to-ensure-free-and-fair-polls-police-commissioner/article34122476.ece
21 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Buyer-seller meet concludes||The contribution of banks will increase to aid businesses that have suffered losses due to COVID-19 pandemic, said M.V.R. Muralikrishna, Deputy General Manager of State Bank of India, here on Friday. He was speaking at the valedictory function of the sixth edition of Buyer-Seller Meet organised by Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). President of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA) S. Anburajan said that it was important to start the Madurai-Thoothukudi industrial corridor to aid the industrial development of southern districts. MADITSSIA President B. Muruganantham and Chairman of Vendor Development Trade Fair P.J. Bansidhar also participated in the event. Seminar on vendor registration and procurement procedures was also held during the meet. Around 5,000 micro and small industrialists participated in the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buyer-seller-meet-concludes/article34122481.ece
21 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Gandhian manifesto’ released||‘A Mission for Gandhian Politics,’ a forum of followers of Gandhian principles, released the ‘Gandhian manifesto’ at the Gandhi Museum here on Saturday. The manifesto focuses on Gandhi’s ideas in achieving participatory democracy with more power to the common man. The members of the forum said that there was a need for participatory democracy rather than representative democracy. In order to achieve this every village should be made self-sufficient as envisaged by Gandhi, the members said. The importance of local bodies must be released and must be strengthened in such a way that people need not go beyond the local body to seek grievance redressal. Administration, health and education are some aspects that should be dealt with by local bodies, they said. They emphasised on the need to achieve total liquor prohibition, curb corruption, generate employment, focus on local industries like khadi and handicrafts, promote agriculture, dairy cooperatives and organic farming. The members said that no leader/candidate should be allowed to contest in more than two elections, only then will others and youngsters get a chance to compete. This in turn will help in curbing corruption, they said. Further, they said that the study on Gandhian principles should be made part of the school and college curriculum. It would put an end to discrimination and bring self-discipline among public. The other areas that needed focus were women’s rights, mother tongue as a medium of instruction in schools and decentralisation of power and decision making, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhian-manifesto-released/article34122483.ece
21 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Queen Mira school gets accreditation||Queen Mira International School here has been granted the Council of International Schools (CIS) accreditation, becoming the first CBSE school to receive this accreditation. Addressing the mediapersons here on Saturday, school Chairman C. Chandran said efforts of teachers and other staff helped the school to get this accreditation. The CIS is a non-profit membership community headquartered in the Netherlands. A total of 758 schools across the world have attained membership with CIS, out of which 503 schools have been granted accreditation. Sujatha Guptan, Director (Academics) of Queen Mira International School (QMIS), said that QMIS is the only CBSE school to have been accredited by the CIS. ‘In 2015, the school was not given membership by CIS citing that our school followed a national curriculum and it would not teach students up to international standards,’ she said. But, in the last five years the school took various initiatives including the ‘Global Citizenship Committee,’ to create awareness of global issues among students. In January 2021, a team of six evaluators assessed the school by speaking to all stakeholders including board members of the school, staff, parents, students, alumni and support staff. The school was evaluated under nine domains, including its governance, curriculum,teaching methodology and student well-being. Abinath Chandran, Managing Director, said the assessment was a rigorous process. Ms.Sujatha Guptan said that the CIS accreditation had helped the school to improve safety standards. It provided an opportunity to students to interact with students from international countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/queen-mira-school-gets-accreditation/article34122478.ece
21 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||World Sparrow Day celebrated||The students, staff and faculty of the Department of Zoology of The American College observed the World Sparrow Day on Saturday. Principal M. Davamani Christober inaugurated the programme. Artificial nest boxes were prepared by the M.Sc. students using shoe boxes. More than 25 boxes were distributed to the public. Mr. Davamani Christober inaugurated the distribution of the nest box and appreciated the efforts taken by the zoology students. A total of 25 students, staff, non-teaching staff and public participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-sparrow-day-celebrated/article34122474.ece
21 March 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 128.55 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 55 cusecs and a discharge of 300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.53 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 120 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,934 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34122267.ece
21 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||General, Expenditure and Police Observers arrive||General, Expenditure and Police Observers have reached the Assembly constituencies and the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha segment. According to Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind, the Election Commission of India has appointed General Observers for the six Assembly segments in the district, who will also be the Observers for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll. The public, in case of any poll code violation, may contact the General Observers to register their complaints. The Election Commission has appointed Akshay Sood for Kanniyakumari. He can be contacted on 94899 83217 or at Kanniyakumari Guest House between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m.), Dharmendra Singh for Nagercoil (94899 83219 at RDO Office, Nagercoil between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m.), Ashish Kumar for Colachel (94899 83215 at IREL Guest House between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m.), John Tlangtinkhuma for Padmanabhapuram (94899 83220 at Sub-Collector’s Office, Padmanabhapuram between 12 noon and 12.30 p.m.), Bhoskar Vilas Sandeepan for Vilavancode (94899 83216 at Travellers’ Bungalow between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.) and P.S. Reddy for Killiyoor (94899 83218 at Guest House, Nagercoil between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m.) as General Observers. They will also be General Observers of Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll. Police Observer Zaki Ahamad (83000 32803 at Guest House, Nagercoil between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m.) will be the Police Observer for the Assembly segments and Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll. As Expenditure Observers, Vikas Singh for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll (94899 83211 at Guest House, Kanniyakumari between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. and 6 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 7 p.m.), Sandip Kumar Mishra for Kanniyakumari and Nagercoil Assembly segments (94899 83212 at Guest House, Kanniyakumari between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. and 6 p.m. and 7 p.m.), Satish Mirdha for Colachel and Padmanabhapuram constituencies (94899 83213 at Sub-Collector’s Office, Padmanabhapuram between 2.30 p.m. and 3.30 p.m.) and Kalpesh K. Rupavatiya for Vilavancode and Killiyoor constituencies (94899 83214 at Guest House, Kanniyakumari between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.) have been posted. The public and the representatives of the political parties may contact the Observers on their mobile phones to register complaints, if any, and also provide suggestions, Mr. Aravind said. Tenkasi For Tenkasi district, Raju Narayanaswamy (80155 77002) will be the General Observer for Sankarankoil (Reserved) and Vasudevanallur (Reserved) constituencies and Prakash Bindu (80155 77004) will take care of Kadayanallur and Tenkasi Assembly segments. Alangulam has got Vedpati Misra (80155 77006). General public and the representatives of the political parties may meet them in Green Garden Guest House on Old Courtallam Road in Melagaram between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. The General Observer will be available at Sankarankoil Highway Travellers’ Bungalow, PWD (Water Resources Organisation) Inspection Bungalow and the Highways Department Travellers’ Bungalow when they visit their constituencies. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, Ashwani Kumar Choudhary (94899 47511) will be the General Observer for Vilaathikulam and Kovilpatti segments and Jujjavarapu Balaji (94899 47512) for Thoothukudi. Sushil Kumar Patel (94899 47513) and Savin Bansal (94899 47514) will take care of Tiruchendur and Srivaikundam respectively. Ottapidaram (Reserved) constituency will come under the control of Anil Kumar (94899 47515). As Expenditure Observers, Kundan Yadav (94899 47507) has been appointed in Vilaathikulam and Thoothukudi and Rakesh Deepak (94899 47508) for Tiruchendur and Srivaikundam. Surendra Kumar Mishra will take care of Ottapidaaram (Reserved) and Kovilpatti segments. As Police Observer, Sabya Sachi Raman Mishra (94899 47510) has been posted in Thoothukudi district. By appointment Since the Observers are in the Sagar Sadhan Guest House in SPIC, the complainants can meet them in person by appointment. Complaints on poll code violations can be made round-the-clock through 1800 425 3806, 1950 and 0461 2340101 and WhatsApp number 94864 54714, Collector K. Senthil Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general-expenditure-and-police-observers-arrive/article34122581.ece
21 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||This poultry hub looks for measures to improve exports||Namakkal, the major poultry hub in the country, looks for measures to be developed into a global export hub of poultry products. Though eggs are exported to other countries, farmers here have been demanding that the zone be declared as disease-free egg export zone and a veterinary lab should be established to improve exports. The AIADMK has fielded incumbent K.P.P. Baskar for the third time and the DMK is testing waters with P. Ramalingam. Improvement of Namakkal town is the major demand of industrialists. They want better road facilities, town planning and ring road to prevent traffic congestion. The ruling alliance has fulfilled the long-standing demand of the district for a Government Medical College and law college in the region. The setting up of medical college despite controversies has come as a relief as people had to depend on facilities in Salem or Coimbatore otherwise. Despite being a hub for auto body building industries, the demands for a truck stand and outer ring road are yet to be addressed. V. Shakthivel, a marketing professional, said the Namakkal bus stand had to be shifted and developed. The city roads had to be improved as the town saw huge inflow of tourists to the Anjaneyar temple here, he added. Small poultry farmers here have been demanding a cold storage facility to store eggs. They have also sought a high security animal diseases testing lab as they are now sending the samples to a lab in Bhopal. The constituency comprises a majority of Gounder community and the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi is posing a challenge to the ruling alliance. The Makkal Needhi Maiam has fielded Adam Farooq and the DMDK has nominated its district deputy secretary K. Selvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-poultry-hub-looks-for-measures-to-improve-exports/article34122285.ece
21 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Observers arrive at Namakkal||General observers for the six Assembly constituencies in Namakkal district arrived here on Saturday. According to officials, Shashidhar Mandal (8825663559) is the observer for Rasipuram and Senthamangalam constituencies, P.A.Shobha (9344793977) is for Namakkal and Navjot Pal Singh Randhawa (7010338009) is for Paramathi Vellur. The public can meet them between 11 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. at the Revenue District Office, Namakkal. A.B.Gor (8778950207) is the observer for Tiruchengode and Kumarapalayam constituencies and the officer could be visited at Tiruchengode Revenue District Office between 11 a.m. and 11.30 a.m.  Salem Eight general observers appointed by the Election Commission of India reached Salem on Friday. According to a release, eight general observers have been appointed for the 11 Assembly constituencies and the public, candidates and political party representatives could meet the observers and raise complaints at respective timings. According to a release, Vandhana Singh is the observer for Gengavalli and Attur constituencies, and the camp office is at Travellers Bungalow in Attur. Visitors time is between 4.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. The officer can be contacted at 63844 83907. For Edappadi and Omalur constituencies, Pankaj Yadav is the observer and the officer’s camp office is at Yercaud Travellers Bungalow. He can be visited between 10-11 a.m. and can be contacted at 63844 83912. For Mettur and Edappadi constituencies, Dinesh Prasad is the observer and his camp office is at Guest House at Salem Steel Plant. The officer can be visited between 4 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. and can be contacted at 63844 83910. For Sankagiri, Chinmayi Punlik Rao Kotamare is the observer and the officer’s camp office is at Power Grid’s guest house. The officer can be visited between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. and can be contacted at 63844 83911. For Salem West, Nithin Madhan Kulkarni is the observer. Salem Steel Plant guest house is the officer’s camp office and he can be visited between 4-5.30 p.m. and can be contacted at 63844 83913. For Salem North, Lalrinliana Fanai is the observer and the camp office is at Additional Travellers Bungalow in Hasthampatti. The officer can be visited between 4-5 p.m. and can be contacted in 63844 83914. For Salem South, Rupesh Kumar is the observer and the camp office is at Power Grid guest house and can be visited between 9 -10 a.m. and can could be contacted at 63844 83909. For Veerapandi, M. Ramachandrudu is the observer and the camp office is at Power Grid guest house and can be visited between 10-11 a.m. and can be contacted at 63844 83908.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/observers-arrive-at-namakkal/article34122295.ece
21 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Om Sakthi Sekar hits campaign trail||AIADMK leader Om Sakthi Sekar on Saturday hit the campaign trail in the Orleanpet constituency. Though Mr. Sekar had intended to contest from the Nellithope constituency, where he had put in a lot of work, the seat was eventually allotted to the BJP, which fielded A. John Kumar’s son, Vivilian Richards. Orleanpet is one of the five seats the AIADMK is contesting in the Assembly election. The party has fielded A. Anbalagan in Ouppulam; A. Baskar in Mudaliarpet; Vaiyyapuri Manikandan in Muthialpet; and K.A.U. Asana in Karaikal South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/om-sakthi-sekar-hits-campaign-trail/article34122545.ece
21 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||214 out of 486 poll nominations accepted||Out of a total of 486 nominations, 214 were accepted and 37 rejected, as the process of scrutiny was continuing late into the day on Saturday. Among the prominent leaders whose nominations were formally accepted on Saturday was N. Rangasamy, former Chief Minister and AINRC founder, for Thattanchavady. His second nomination in Yanam was still being processed at the time of going to print. The nominations of former Congress Minister M. Kandasamy for Embalam, BJP candidate for Kamaraj Nagar A. John Kumar, AINRC candidate K. Lakshminarayanan and the DMK’s S.P. Sivakumar for Raj Bhavan, AIADMK leader Vaiyyapuri Manikandan for Muthialpet and R.K.R. Anatharaman (Congress) for Manavely were also accepted. Rejected nominations The nomination of the BJP candidate for Kalapet, P.M.L. Kalyanasundaram, initially showed red (rejected) before turning green (accepted) later in the day. In Mahe, the nomination of Congress candidate Rameshan Parambath was rejected. Several others, who were not the declared candidates of the respective political parties, such as N. Periyannan, who filed his papers on behalf of the BJP in Kalapet, Shamsudheen V.T. on behalf of the Congress in Mahe, K. Murugavel for the DMDK in Nettapakkam and D. Tamilselvam for the AMMK in Thattanchavady, had their nominations rejected. The deadline for withdrawing nominations is Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/214-nominations-accepted-in-ut/article34122156.ece
21 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Schools shut till May 31||All schools (State Board, CBSE and ICSE) in the Union Territory of Puducherry will remain closed for Classes I to VIII from Monday (March 22) till May 31 in view of the sudden spike in the number of cases of COVID-19. The decision was taken based on a recommendation by the High Level COVID Vaccine Committee chaired by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. P.T. Rudra Goud, Director of School Education, said for Classes 9 to 11, online lessons will be conducted for five days a week from Monday to Friday. Meanwhile, the Union Territory recorded 60 new cases and 24 recoveries on Saturday. The new cases, which were confirmed from testing 1,345 samples, were reported from Puducherry (39), Karaikal (19) and Mahe (two). No case was reported in Yanam. The test positivity rate was 4.46%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.45%. The active cases in the U.T. stood at 353. Of these, 189 were in hospitals and 164 in home isolation. While 674 fatalities were recorded, the tally stood at 40,322 cases. As many as 39,295 patients recovered. Meanwhile, COVID-19 vaccinations rose to 40,522 with 1,096 members of the public, 808 healthcare personnel and 384 frontline workers getting their first dose on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-shuts-schools-till-may-31/article34122155.ece
21 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Child labour increased after COVID-19’||A rapid survey conducted by Campaign against Child Labour has found that there has been an increase in engagement of child labour following the COVID-19 pandemic here. Campaign against Child Labour is a group 24 non-governmental organisations and they conducted the survey among 818 children to study the impact of child labour following the COVID-19 pandemic. The group divided the State into five zones – North, East, Central, West and South. According to the survey, child labour increased by 280% among vulnerable communities. There was rapid increase in the North, South and West zones and it was lower in Central and East zones. The proportion of working children has increased from 28.2% to 79.6% due to the pandemic and closure of schools. Children are working over eight hours a day and 94% of children are working due to the economic condition of the family. The crisis has reversed the gains of reducing in child labour, according to the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-labour-increased-after-covid-19/article34122297.ece
21 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Flag march held in Namakkal||A flag march was conducted by the Namakkal district police along with Indo-Tibet Border Police Force here on Friday to instil confidence among the public to exercise their franchise fearlessly in the upcoming Assembly elections. Officials said the district police along with Indo-Tibet police force conducted the flag march in Namagiripettai town. It started at the Namagiripettai Girls Higher Secondary School and passed through Canara Bank, Attur Road, Bus stand, Kadai Veedhi, Four Roads and concluded at Namagiripettai police station. About 108 police personnel including 68 Indo-Tibet Border Police Force took part in the march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-march-held-in-namakkal/article34122294.ece
21 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Flag hoisted for temple festival||Flag hoisting for the celestial wedding (Tirukalyanam) of Goddess Andal with Lord Rengammanar, the highlight of the Andal Temple festival here took place on Saturday. After performing a special puja to the flag, it was taken around the four Car streets before it was hoisted on the temple premises. Temple Fitperson Ravichandran, temple Executive Officer A. Elangovan and a good number of devotees took part in the event. The celestial wedding will be held between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. on March 28 (Sunday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-hoisted-for-temple-festival/article34122261.ece
21 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur school booked for failing to adhere to SOP||A case has been registered against a private school in Thanjavur, where a cluster of cases was detected, on the charge of negligence in adhering to the standard operating procedure to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A second batch of 15 students at a private school in Thanjavur tested positive on Friday. Already 11 students at the same school had tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. Hence, a case has been registered against the school management and a fine of Rs. 5,000 was collected from it, Collector M. Govinda Rao said. In an attempt to ensure that standard operating procedures were followed scrupulously by the students, the schools from where positive cases were reported were being levied penalties, Mr. Rao said. As a measure to prevent the virus from spreading through schools, the flying squads formed in the 8 Assembly segments have been asked to monitor whether the students wore masks or not. Stating that the students who tested positive had only mild symptoms such as cold, cough and slight body temperature, the Collector said that out of 140 people, including students, teaching and non-teaching staff of various schools, 60 students had been discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College hospital on Friday. When his attention was brought to the violation of norms at the election campaign meetings, Mr. Rao said the contestants and the political party representatives had been asked to comply with the SOPs without fail. He called upon the public to cooperate with the district administration in checking the spread of the virus .  Flying squads formed in the 8 Assembly segments have been asked to monitor whether the students wore masks or not||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-school-booked-for-not-adhering-to-sop/article34122142.ece
21 March 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Observers for constituencies in Theni, Sivaganga districts arrive||The General Observers, Expenditure Observers and Police Observer appointed by the Election Commission of India for the four Assembly constituencies in Theni district have arrived. In a press release, District Election Officer H. Krishnanunni said Prabhu Datta David Pradhan will be the general observer for Periyakulam (Res) and Bodinaickanur segments. He can be contacted at 94426 00380. Public can also meet him between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. at the Circuit House on the Collectorate complex here. Ravindar has been appointed as general observer for Andipatti and Cumbum constituencies. He can be contacted at 94426 00379 and the public can meet him between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. Gillani Pasha will be the Expenditure Observer for Periyakulam (Res) and Andipatti. He can be contacted at 94426 00373 and representations can be given to him between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. Manas Mondal is the Expenditure Observer for Bodi and Cumbum segments. He can be contacted at 94426 00374. Public can meet him between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. Dawa Sherpa has been appointed as Police Observer for Theni district. He can be contacted at 94426 00378. The IPS officer will be available at the Vaigai Dam Guest House. Sivaganga H.S. Sonawane is the General Observer for Karaikudi and Tirupattur Assembly constituencies. He can be contacted at 83004 23991. Muthukrishnan Sankaranarayanan is the General Observer for Sivaganga and Manamadurai (Res) segments. He can be contacted at 83000-44263. Liremo Tsopoc Lotha is the Police Observer. He can be reached at 83007 99318. The Expenditure Observers are Rakesh Kakadiya for Karaikudi and Tirupattur and he can be contacted at 83004 30996. Vanashree Hullanananavar will take care of Sivaganga and Manamadurai (Res) and she can be contacted at 83004 36191. District Election Officer P Madhusudan Reddy said the ECI-appointed observers would stay at the Circuit House on the Collectorate complex. Public can either call them or meet them in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/observers-for-constituencies-in-theni-sivaganga-districts-arrive/article34122268.ece
21 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Flying squad seizes box with gold||A flying squad seized a box containing gold jewellery during a vehicle check at Ottapidaaram on Saturday. According to Collector K. Senthil Raj, a flying squad in Ottapidaaram (Reserved) constituency intercepted a car in which a few people with a gunman were travelling on Saturday night. Upon inquiring them, the flying squad found that they were reportedly carrying seven kg of gold jewellery kept in a box that can be opened only by using four keys simultaneously. Along with the valuables, the car was taken to the Office of the Returning Officer of the Ottapidaaram segment. “After depositing the box in the treasury, the Income Tax department officials have been informed about the seizure. The exact quantity can be ascertained only on opening the box,” Mr. Senthil Raj said. The licence of the gunman employed by the agency for taking the valuables was found to have lapsed a few months ago. However, he has applied for the renewal of the licence which is pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squad-seizes-box-with-gold/article34122275.ece
21 March 2021||THUCKALAY,TAMIL NADU||Didn’t you award contracts to kin, Stalin asks Chief Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who “crawled” to get the coveted post, should explain to the people whether his close relatives were given contracts worth about Rs. 4,000 crore or not, in violation of the law, asked DMK president M.K. Stalin. “If you want to project yourself as ‘Mr. Clean,’ you should tell people openly whether or not you awarded these bulky contracts to your relatives,” Mr. Stalin said on Saturday, while canvassing for votes on Saturday for the DMK and Congress candidates. CBI probe The Opposition leader said the DMK, besides submitting a petition detailing the corruption of Mr. Palaniswami and his Ministers to Governor Banwarilal Purohit, had approached the Madras High Court seeking a probe into the awarding of contracts to his relatives. A panicked Mr. Palaniswami, instead of bravely facing the CBI probe as ordered by the Madras High Court, obtained an interim stay. The reason was that he, after comfortably tweaking the norms, had awarded contracts to firms being run by his relatives, he said that necessitated the DMK to approach the Court. “We know very well that the Governor will never act on our petition. The spineless Mr. Palaniswami would have been behind bars had he accepted the DMK’s challenge and faced the CBI probe. Anyway, he will be in jail after the DMK comes to power in May,” Mr. Stalin said. The raid, which revealed that these relatives unlawfully amassed wealth, ultimately made Mr. Palaniswami the slave of the BJP-led Central government. While the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa vehemently opposed GST, NEET, the UDAY scheme and Food Security Act etc., through her letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2016, the “slaves,” after mortgaging the rights of Tamil Nadu, gleefully accepted these anti-Tamil moves initiated by the “arm-twisting BJP” at the Centre and had ultimately become its branch here, he said. Religious sentiments Mr. Stalin slammed the AIADMK for having backed the abrogation of Article 370, triple talaq, CAA, Farmers’ Act etc., in Parliament. “The victory of even an AIADMK MLA will be only beneficial to the BJP. Whipping up religious sentiments, Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are working overtime to divide the country. So, give the AIADMK–BJP combine a crushing defeat in the Assembly poll and also in the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha bypoll,” Mr. Stalin said. DMK manifesto On the salient features of the DMK manifesto, he said his party would never allow the Kanniyakumari Container Transhipment Terminal as it would wipe out farming operations in this region. He also promised to establish the Ayya Vaikundasamy Research Centre, the Vaniyakkudi fishing harbour, an Information Technology Park and cancer centre in the Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. “Since the Tamil Nadu government has given only Rs. 1,000 as COVID-19 relief while we bat for Rs. 5,000, the remaining Rs. 4,000 will be given from June 3, the birthday of M. Karunanidhi, after the DMK comes to power,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/did-you-award-contracts-to-relatives-stalin-asks-cm/article34122159.ece
21 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Integrated bus stand a vexed poll issue||The proposal on establishing an integrated bus stand for the city has turned an election issue yet again with candidates of various political parties promising action to end the stalemate over identifying a suitable site for the facility. The proposal has been hanging fire for nearly three decades, despite repeated promises by officials and elected representatives, including the present Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, down the years. Despite the 10-year stint, the AIADMK government has still not been able to identify a site for the proposed integrated bus stand. While consensus eludes the choice of a suitable location for the bus stand, former AIADMK MP P. Kumar, who is now contesting from Tiruverumbur Assembly constituency, has stirred a hornet’s nest claiming that the integrated bus stand will be established at Navalpattu, which he feels is ideally suited despite it being far off from the city. Former Minister and DMK candidate for Tiruchi West K.N.Nehru too has promised steps to establish an integrated bus stand, making it a poll plank for the leading contenders. Under the earlier DMK regime, authorities identified a site at Panchapur, off Tiruchi-Madurai Road, for establishing the bus stand. Locating site Down the years, successive governments have looked at various sites such as Devadhanam off Tiruchi-Chennai Bypass Road, Ariyamangalam compost yard on Tiruchi-Thanjavur Road, Ramji Nagar on Tiruchi-Dindigul National Highway, Pirattiyur, Panchapur and, finally, Kottapattu on Pudukottai National Highway. In October 2017, Mr. Palaniswami, during a visit to the city, announced that the bus stand would be established at Kottapattu. But the site was subsequently rejected. While the pros and cons of the choices have been debated widely, most city residents are fed up with the enormous delay in finalising a site and initiating the project. N. Ramakrishnan of MGR Nalpani Mandram accuses elected representatives of failing the city badly. “The political representatives do not have a vision for future growth of the city. People are highly disappointed and lost faith in them,” he says. He feels that only an intervention at the highest level of the new government can give a push to the project. Some others feel that it is time that the existing bus stand is developed further. Veteran consumer activist S. Pushpavanam, Secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, while conceding that public interest and long-term growth should be the guiding factors in the issue, however, feels that the people of the city have not felt the absence of an integrated bus stand that badly. “Without protest, they have carried on for years,” Mr. Pushpavanam observes. Further development He suggests that the existing Central Bus Stand be developed further. “It will have enough room to accommodate double the number of buses than now, if the space available along VOC Road is skilfully utilised. The bus stand could also be converted into a two tier bus station, with functionally planned entry and exit points.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrated-bus-stand-a-vexed-poll-issue/article34122258.ece
21 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||11 nominations accepted for Thiruthuraipoondi reserved constituency||Out of the 22 nominations filed at Thiruthuraipoondi (Reserve) Constituency, 11 were accepted as valid nominations, while at Mannargudi 11 out of 25 nominations qualified in Tiruvarur district. At Tiruvarur, 13 out of 23 papers were found eligible and at Nannilam 30 out of 33 papers were accepted.  Pudukottai Fourteen nominations were accepted in Gandharvakottai constituency and four were rejected in Pudukottai district. In Viralimalai, 25 nominations were accepted and nine rejected. In Pudukottai, 21 nominations were accepted and five were rejected. Six nominations were rejected by authorities in Thirumayam and 23 were accepted. There were four rejections in Alangudi and two in Aranthangi, official said.  Ariyalur Out of 19 nominations, six were rejected in Jayamkondam constituency in Ariyalur district. Ka.So.Ga Kannan (DMK), K. Balu (PMK) and G. Sornalatha alias Latha (Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi) were among those accepted. In Ariyalur constituency, the candidatures of Thamarai S. Rajendran (AIADMK) and K. Chinnappa (DMK) were among 13 nominations accepted by the Returning Officer.  Perambalur In Perambalur, eight of the 17 nominations were rejected after scrutiny and in Kunnam constituency 23 out of the 32 nominations have been accepted. The nominations of the respective AIADMK candidates (R.Tamilselvan and R.T.Ramachandran) and DMK candidates (M.Prabharan and S.S.Sivasankar) were accepted in the two constituencies.  Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts, 35 of the 123 nominations received for the six Assembly constituencies were rejected upon scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-nominations-accepted-for-thiruthuraipoondi-reserved-constituency/article34122253.ece
21 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||St. Joseph’s College plans transition to university||St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, has initiated steps to become a deemed-to-be university, purportedly to keep pace with the changes taking place in the higher educational system in the country. In the light of the provisions of the New Education Policy-2020 that advocates transformation of higher educational institutions of long-standing into multi-disciplinary universities and knowledge hubs, the college has sought the guidance of St. Xaviers’ University, Calcutta, for going through the transition. Having started the Joseph’s Institute of Management and putting in place a plan of action to start a law college on the campus, the Jesuit management has been evaluating its options based on opinions elicited from various stakeholders since the move entails going through the change process even while safeguarding the interests of teachers and students. At present, the salaries and pension of teachers are covered with government funding. While transformation of the college into a university has become inevitable in view of the National Education Policy-2020, the commitment to impart affordable education benefitting economically- backward sections of society will continue to be pursued in right earnest with the support of the alumni spread across continents, College Rector Rev. Fr. Leonard Fernando said. Tapping alumni Addressing Josephites’ Global Virtual Reunion-2021 recently for inauguration of alumni chapters in Singapore, Middle East and Bengaluru and reactivation of Chennai and Coimbatore Chapters, the Rector said the alumni network would be strengthened across continents to leverage sustained support of over 10,000 old students in the transition journey. One of the oldest colleges in the country, the instition celebrated its 175th year in 2019, coinciding with the A++ ranking awarded by the National Assessment and Accreditation Committee, Principal Rev. Fr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier, said. The college had, in recent years, signed MoUs with 20 entities for according further thrust to academic excellence of students and professional acumen of faculty, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-josephs-college-plans-transition-to-university/article34122255.ece
21 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK candidate’s nomination rejected||Nomination of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Tirunelveli constituency was rejected during the scrutiny on Saturday. In Tirunelveli district, 108 nominations were rejected during the scrutiny held in five Assembly constituencies on Saturday. The only sensational rejection was the nomination of AMMK candidate for Tirunelveli constituency A.P. Balakrishnan alias Paul Kannan, whose nomination was rejected after two of the 10 voters who proposed him were not found in the voter list. Though Mr. Paul Kannan, condemning the rejection, staged a dharna on the premises of Sub-Collector’s Office, he was evicted by the police. Now, Ramesh Kannan is the candidate of AMMK as he had filed his nomination as a dummy candidate. In Tirunelveli, 24 nominations were rejected to leave 16 candidates in the fray and Ambasamudram had 13 candidates after 19 nominations were rejected. Palayamkottai segment saw the rejection of 22 nominations and hence the segment had 10 just candidates, which is likely to go down further during withdrawal of nominations. In Nanguneri, 17 nominations were accepted while 24 nominations were rejected and Radhapuram has 26 candidates in the fray as of now after 19 nominations were rejected. In Sankarankoil (Reserved) constituency in Tenkasi district, 16 of the 30 nominations were rejected during scrutiny to leave 16 valid nominations. Neighbouring Vasudevanallur (Reserved) constituency had 11 valid nominations after 14 were rejected. Ten nominations were accepted and two candidatures were rejected during the scrutiny of nominations for Alangulam constituency. Tenkasi had 21 valid nominations and Kadayanallur had 26 nominations after seven were rejected. Kanniyakumari Of the 23 nominations received for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-poll, 10 nominations were rejected. Consequently, 13 candidates are in the fray before the withdrawal of nominations. In Kanniyakumari Assembly segment, 14 candidates are in the fray after seven of the 21 nominations were rejected. In Nagercoil Assembly segment, 11 of the 28 nominations were rejected to leave 17 candidates in the fray while Colachel had 13 candidates after two nominations were rejected. In Padmanabhapuram, eight of the 22 nominations were rejected and hence 14 persons are in the fray and all 17 nominations were accepted in Vilavancode. In Killiyoor, the 234th constituency of Tamil Nadu, two of the 16 nominations received were rejected to leave 14 persons in the battle of ballots. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, 26 nominations have been accepted and Vilaathikulam Assembly segment had 16 valid nominations while 10 nominations were rejected during scrutiny in this segment. In Ottapidaaram (Reserved) constituency, 18 nominations were accepted. In Kovilpatti, 29 nominations were accepted and 18 were accepted in Tiruchendur segment. Srivaikundam had 23 valid nominations after the scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-candidates-nomination-rejected/article34122579.ece
21 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will repair damage caused through wrong policies’||The DMK will repair the “collateral damage” caused through wrong policies of the AIADMK government over the past 10 years, DMK president M.K. Stalin has said. Canvassing votes here on Saturday, he said emphasis would be laid on fulfilling the poll promises of creating 10 lakh jobs a year, filling up 3.50 lakh vacancies in government departments with Tamil youths, revival of old pension scheme, etc. “We waived crop loan to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore in 2006 and gave 1.89 lakh acre to 1.50 lakh landless farmers. However, the AIADMK, which supported the NEET, CAA, Farmers Act in the Parliament was hoodwinking the voters with the fake promise that they would get them scrapped. They also cannot give the 1.97 crore jobs as the AIADMK has promised to give government employment to every family,” Mr. Stalin said. He promised a government college for Nanguneri, dental college and Siddha university for Tirunelveli, government women’s college in Radhapuram, and to revitalise the ailing IT SEZ in Gangaikondan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-repair-damage-caused-through-wrong-policies/article34122580.ece
21 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Man murders baby in Panagudi||The police have arrested an autorickshaw driver who murdered a eight-month-old baby girl after the parents of the girl rejected his unreciprocated love with their daughter. Police said autorickshaw driver Sivasankaran of Rosemiyapuram near Panagudi wanted to marry a girl from the same area. As the parents of the girl rejected the proposal, Sivasankaran, carrying a machete and kerosene, went to the house of the girl on Saturday morning. The girl’s father Russel Raj, a preacher, had gone out for a walk. After forcefully entering into the the house, Sivasankaran threatened the girl’s mother Glory with the weapon and hacked her in which she sustained cut injury on the neck. Then he attacked her 8-month-old granddaughter Akshaya who was killed on the spot. On hearing the scream from his wife, Russel rushed home and confronted Sivasankaran and he also sustained cut injuries. The Thirukkurukudi police have arrested Sivasankaran who has got injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-in-fury-murders-baby-in-panagudi/article34122272.ece
21 March 2021||TIRUPATHUR,TAMIL NADU||General Observer named for Ambur, Vaniyambadi||The Election Commission has appointed Manoji Khatri as the General Observer for Vaniyambadi and Ambur Assembly constituencies. He will be available at the Travellers Bungalow, Vaniyambadi, between 10 a.m and 11 a.m on working days till election (ph: 9360533678). Members of the public, political parties and candidates can contact him regarding election-related issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general-observer-for-poll-appointed/article34122149.ece
21 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Poll observers for Tiruppur district||Tiruppur district administration has released the contact details of the five general observers and the police observer deputed by the Election Commission of India for the voters to submit complaints regarding the election and political parties in their respective Assembly constituencies. A release said that Ravi Shankar Prasath is the general observer for Dharapuram (Reserved) and Kangeyam constituencies and he could be reached at 84386 42437. Chandra Prakash Verma will be the general observer for Avinashi (Reserved) constituency and his contact number is 80726 02696. Tiruppur North will have Umanandha Doley as its general observer and he will be available at 88701 16866. The general observer for Tiruppur South and Palladam constituencies is Mashir Alam and his number is 84387 52340. Kapil Meena will be the general observer for Udumalpet and Madathukulam and the contact number is 88383 16090, according to the release. The police observer for all eight constituencies in Tiruppur district will be Nilabh Kishore, whose contact number is 77087 65866.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-observers-for-tiruppur-district/article34122188.ece
21 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Election is about retrieving Tamil Nadu from Delhi’||DMK women’s wing leader and Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi on Saturday accused the AIADMK government of mortgaging the Tamil Nadu’s self-respect and identity to the Centre and asserted that the upcoming Assembly election will be about retrieving the State from Delhi’s control. Campaigning in Kundadam for DMK’s candidates for Dharapuram (Reserved) and Kangeyam constituencies Kayalvizhi Selvaraj and M.P. Saminathan respectively, she said: “In the past 10 years of the AIADMK rule, it has been the rule of the BJP for the past four years.” Asserting that this election would be a contest between social justice and those against it, she claimed that BJP State president and AIADMK front’s candidate for Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency L. Murugan was criticised by members of his own party for speaking about Dravidar Kazhagam founder ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy. Alleging that no employment opportunities were generated in the State in the past decade, she assured that the DMK would fill all the vacancies in the government departments and would prioritise youth from the State if elected to power. She said the DMK would restore the damaged Contour Canal under the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project, set up a market at Kundadam and implement the Anamalaiyar-Nallaru scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-is-about-retrieving-tn-from-delhis-control-kanimozhi/article34122169.ece
21 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 6 lakh cash seized in Tiruppur||A flying squad team seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 6.53 lakh during a vehicle check within Tiruppur North Assembly constituency on Friday. The cash was seized from the car of one Kaja Moideen. He claimed that he got the cash after selling a property, but as he did not possess any evidence, the officials seized the cash and handed it over to the treasury, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-6-lakh-cash-seized-in-tiruppur/article34122189.ece
21 March 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||It’s BJP-Cong. face-off in Udhagamandalam||The BJP and Congress will face-off against each other in Udhagamandalam constituency. The incumbent MLA, R. Ganesh of the Congress, is all set to face BJP’s Bhojarajan. The constituency has historically been a Congress stronghold, with the party candidates emerging victorious in seven of the last nine elections held in this constituency since 1980. Being dependent on the tourism and hospitality sector, the constituency requires a serious overhaul of its tourism infrastructure, primarily more space for parking within Udhagamandalam town. G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association, said that there needs to be policy-level changes that bring in regulated, high quality, low-volume tourism to the Nilgiris district. “This will ensure that people’s livelihoods are protected, while also not being overly damaging to the environment,” he said, pointing out that unregulated tourism was having a huge impact, such as the loss of forest cover, and an increase in the number of constructions. “There also needs to be a moratorium on construction projects in the districts, as most of the major towns have become concrete sprawls, with many buildings coming up so that they can be run illegally commercially as makeshift hotels and home-stays,” said a conservationist from Udhagamandalam town. Basic amenities too are lacking in villages located outside the major town of Udhagamandalam. Water shortages persist every season, while a proper waste disposal mechanism in residential areas, though it has improved in the last few years, needs further improvement. Parts of Udhagamandalam town too require attention, including the highly populated area of Khandal, where most residents still do not have access to individual household toilets. R. Suryan, resident of Khandal said that many people in the area defecate out in the open, due to dirty community toilets. The town’s roads too need to be re-laid and possibly extended in areas wherever possible due to increasing tourist inflow each year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-bjp-cong-face-off-in-udhagamandalam/article34122193.ece
21 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||18 COVID-19 cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,222, with 18 fresh cases reported on Saturday. In Ranipet district, six cases were reported and the total stood at 16,295. In Tirupathur district, two new case were reported. Tiruvannamalai district recorded six cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-covid-19-cases-reported-in-vellore/article34122546.ece
21 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Expenditure Observer tests positive in Virudhunagar dt.||Narasingh Kumar Khalkho, Expenditure Observer for Aruppukottai and Tiruchuli Assembly Constituencies in Virudhunagar district has tested positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Madurai. According to official sources, Mr. Khalkho’s liaison officer Murugan has also tested positive for the viral infection. As a precautionary measure, the Observer’s entire team has been kept under quarantine. General Observers, Expenditure Observers for all the seven Assembly constituencies arrived here by Thursday. While some of the Observers had come here after having taken RT-PCR test back home, few others took the test here on their arrival. “Some of them even had vaccinated themselves against COVID-19 after arriving here,” an official said. Meanwhile, in the wake of classroom teaching having been cancelled for Classes 9 to 11 from Monday, Collector R. Kannan said officials were closely monitoring schools and colleges on whether the standard operating procedure was followed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Any educational institution found to flout SOP will be imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh,” he added. Besides, people who are seen in public places without mask would be fined, he said. Virudhunagar district has recorded a total of 16,756 positive cases and 16,470 patients have been discharged. While the number of active cases has been on the rise in the last few days and stood at 54, the number of COVID-19 related deaths is 232.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expenditure-observer-tests-positive-in-virudhunagar-dt/article34122273.ece
21 March 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Nominations of candidates of major parties accepted||Nominations of all major political parties were accepted in the seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district after scrutiny by the respective Returning Officers on Saturday. Out of 259 nominations received, 87 were rejected and 172 were accepted. In Sivakasi, out of 47 nominations, 16 were rejected. “Many of them were the multiple nominations without affidavits of the candidates of political parties and of the dummy candidates. Other nominations were rejected for want of adequate details,” its Returning Officer C. Dinesh Kumar said. A check-list was given to the candidates seeking additional information. However, only some of them came back with the required details before 11 a.m. on Saturday when the scrutiny of papers started, he said. Among the discrepancies, some of the papers did not have signatures, and some candidates did not get all 10 proposers. The number of nominations rejected, accepted in each Assembly constituency is: Rajapalayam (11 and 20), Srivilliputtur (15; 23) , Sattur (13; 27), Sivakasi (16; 31), Virudhunagar (11; 20) Aruppukottai (11;30) and Tiruchuli also (10 and 21). Last date for withdrawal of nominations is Monday. In other districts After scrutiny of nomination at the respective Assembly constituencies in Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni and Dindigul districts, officials said the papers of candidates of major political parties such as the DMK, AIADMK, Congress, CPI-M and CPI and registered but unrecognised parties including NTK, AMMK, MNM were found to be valid. The constituency-wise breakup of valid nominations for each district: Sivaganga district: Sivaganga: 20; Manamadurai: 13; Karaikudi: 17; and Tirupattur: 27. Ramanathapuram district: Ramanathapuram: 23; Tiruvadanai: 18; Mudukalathur: 25; and Paramakudi: 15. Theni district: Andipatti: 22; Periyakulam: 23; Cumbum: 16; and Bodinaickanur: 25. Dindigul district: Palani: 29; Oddanchatram: 20; Natham: 18; Vedasandur: 20; Athoor: 20; Nilakottai: 18; and Dindigul: 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-of-candidates-of-major-parties-accepted/article34122277.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A primer on vaccination in Chennai||Who is eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine in Chennai? According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, all those aged above 60 are eligible. All those aged above 45 and up to 60 but have co-morbidities are also eligible (Please refer to this link for the approved list of co-morbidities:https://www.thehindu.com /sci-tech/health/ coronavirus-list- of-comorbidities-for- priority-in-covid-19-v accination/ article33950281.ece). This apart, owing to the increase in COVID-19 cases, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has expanded the definition of frontline workers to include street vendors, hawkers, security guards, rag-pickers and informal waste collectors. At an interaction with journalists on Saturday, GCC Commissioner G. Prakash said cab drivers and bearers in hotels were also included. This means these categories of frontline workers can get vaccinated if they are aged above 18. They can walk into any vaccination centre with their Aadhaar and street vendor cards or identity cards issued by their employers. A senior official of the GCC said these categories of workers, even if they did not have identity cards for employment, would be considered for vaccination, depending on the availability at the centres. All those above 18 years of age are not yet eligible. The GCC is, however, planning to expand vaccination to other professions like employees handling customers at banks. Where can one get vaccinated? There are a total of 432 government-run vaccination centres in Chennai. These include government hospitals, urban primary health centres and mini-clinics. Many private hospitals have also set up vaccination centres. The entire list of centres can be accessed at https://chennaicorporation.gov.in/gcc/covid-vaccine/ Anyone fulfilling the eligibility criteria can walk into a centre with relevant proof to get vaccinated. While Rs. 250 will be charged at private hospitals, vaccination is free at government-run centres. Will a camp be held in my area? The GCC is intending to provide a vaccination centre within a 500-metre radius of every household. Depending on the prevalence of cases and feedback from the sanitary inspectors of different localities, vaccination camps are organised at different places. A group of 40 eligible residents of one apartment complex or a few apartment complexes at a locality can contact the respective ward office for organising vaccination camps in their apartments. It will be arranged depending on the availability of medical teams. What are mass vaccination camps? On an experimental basis, the GCC organised a mass vaccination camp at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on Saturday. This was to help employees who cannot go to a vaccination centre on working days. The GCC intends to vaccinate 2,000-3,000 people on a day at the mass vaccination camp. The camp at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium will be held every Saturday. Depending on the success, the GCC is planning to have such camps at other places. Again, anyone meeting the criteria can visit these mass vaccination camps with relevant proof. While the GCC has so far vaccinated 4.5 lakh people, it aims to cover 25 lakh-30 lakh people by April-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-primer-on-vaccination-in-chennai/article34122141.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers are dominant voting block in Perambalur||Despite the constituency’s strategic location off Tiruchi-Chennai National Highway, Perambalur continues to lag behind in socio-economic development. While candidates have hit the road seeking votes, the electorate has a long list of pending demands that are yet to be heard. Come summer, the region faces a severe water crisis almost every year. The depleting water table and lack of proper water management practices are major cause of concern for farmers, who make up a large number of voters. While there are many water bodies in the region, they are not desilted properly. “Every other year, we face a drought-like situation. Many rain-fed lakes have silted up or full of weeds. Had they been cleared and check dams built at different points, it would have substantially improved the water table helping in further increasing our yield,” S. Ragavan of Pudhiya Payanam, a youth group working to conserve water bodies said. The government must also keep a record of the status of the water bodies to avoid encroachment, he added. Small onions, maize and cotton are major crops in the district. K. Rajendran, a farmer in Esanai, said cultivation of other food grains must be promoted in the district. “With increasing demand for grains, the government can provide support and even purchase and sell them through the public distribution system,” he contended. “A research facility to detect common diseases affecting shallots and maize and how to prevent them would prevent loss of revenue of farmers,” he added. Large-scale cultivation of small onions, cotton, paddy, banana, sugarcane and maize notwithstanding, the constituency lacks agro-processing units. Work on waste collection and management is poor across the district, and open defecation is still prevalent, Mr. Ragavan said. People have been demanding a government medical college for years and the proposal to start one is yet to become a reality. Lack of progress in setting up a special economic zone and a textile park has been burning issues. The demand for a new railway line to Perambalur has remained unfulfilled for decades. Activists are of the opinion that Ranjankudi Fort can be promoted and showcased better to attract picnickers. The AIADMK, which wrested the seat from DMK in 2011, also won in 2016. The party is banking on its two-time winning candidate R. Thamizhselvan to perform a hat trick. He will take on DMK’s M. Prabhakaran. Though it is a multi-cornered fight with candidates of the DMDK, IJK and Naam Tamizhar Katchi, the main fight in the constituency is between the AIADMK and DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-are-dominant-voting-block-in-perambalur/article34122250.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||158 nominations accepted, 62 rejected in Erode district||A total of 158 nominations were accepted and 62 were rejected in all the eight Assembly constituencies in Erode district after scrutiny on Saturday. A total of 229 nominations were received from March 12 to March 19 in all the constituencies and the scrutiny was carried out by the respective Returning Officers in the presence of representatives from recognised political parties and independent candidates. After scrutiny, 158 papers were accepted and 62 rejected. Since none of the papers of nine candidates were found valid during scrutiny, their names were left out in the rejection list too. Main reason for rejection was due to acceptance of papers of the primary candidate. Nominations accepted in each Assembly constituency were: Erode (East) – 21, Erode (West) – 18, Modakkurichi – 18, Perundurai – 26, Bhavani – 23, Anthiyur – 22, Gobichettipalayam 22 and Bhavanisagar (Reserved) – eight. Withdrawal of papers is allowed till 3 p.m. on March 22 after which symbols will be allotted. The final list of candidates will be announced on the same day. Salem/Namakkal Following scrutiny of nominations in Salem and Namakkal, repeated nominations and nominations of substitute candidates were rejected. In Kumarapalayam, following scrutiny, 35 papers were accepted and 10 were rejected. In Senthamangalam, 17 papers were accepted and four rejected. In Tiruchengode, 40 nominations were received till Friday and nominations of three candidates were rejected. In Salem South constituency, of the 39 nominations received, nine were rejected and 30 were accepted. Of them, 12 were of Independents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/158-nominations-accepted-62-rejected-in-erode-district/article34122293.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More than 50% nominations rejected||Returning officers of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district on Saturday rejected 180 of the 376 nominations received for the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly election. The officers scrutinised the nominations on Saturday after the window period of filing nominations ended on Friday. The maximum nominations rejected were in Thondamuthur – 29 followed by Pollachi 28, Mettupalayam 25, Singanallur 21, Kinathukadavu 18, Kavundampalayam 15, Coimbatore North 14, Coimbatore South 12 and Sulur and Valparai – nine each. This left 11 nominations in Mettupalayam, 16 in Sulur, 12 in Kavundampalayam, 21 in Coimbatore North, 10 in Thondamuthur, 21 in Coimbatore South, 17 in Singanallur, 15 in Kinathukadavu, eight in Pollachi and six in Valparai. The number could further come down at the end of the time given for withdrawing nomination, said sources. 170 accepted in Tiruppur Following the scrutiny of 281 nominations filed in theeight Assembly constituencies of Tiruppur district, 170 nominations were accepted and 111 were rejected on Saturday. Election officials said that no nominations filed by candidates from major parties were rejected. Kangeyam constituency saw 50 nominations being accepted, which is the highest among the eight constituencies. Out of these 50 accepted nominations, 24 were Independent candidates who were members of PAP-Vellakoil Branch Canal Water Protection Committee. Only eight nominations were rejected in Kangeyam constituency. Dharapuram (Reserve) saw 14 nominations being accepted and eight being rejected and Avinashi (Reserve) saw the acceptance of 12 nominations and rejection of 13 nominations. Out of the total 38 nominations received for Tiruppur North constituency, 19 were accepted and half of the nominations were rejected. At Tiruppur South, 22 nominations were accepted and 10 were rejected. Palladam saw 20 nominations being accepted and 24 rejected. For Udumalpet, 18 were accepted and 11 were rejected and for Madathukulam constituency, 15 nominations were accepted and 18 nominations were rejected, the officials said.  28 found valid in the Nilgiris The nominations of 28 candidates were found to be valid in the three Assembly constituencies that comprise Nilgiris district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-than-50-nominations-rejected/article34122182.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||154 fresh positive cases, two deaths in central region||A total of 154 patients tested positive in the central region on Saturday, with 89 of them hailing from Thanjavur district. Two deaths — one each in Thanjavur and Tiruchi — were reported. A 78-year-old man from Thanjavur with a history of hypertension and a 68-year-old man with comorbidity of diabetes from Tiruchi succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday. Among the 89 who tested positive in Thanjavur were 29 students from schools in Pattukottai and Thanjavur. Tiruvarur reported 22 fresh cases and Tiruchi 19. Among the patients in Tiruchi was a teacher of a government school in Manachanallur who reported positive on Saturday. His wife, a teacher in Thanjavur, had tested positive for the viral infection a few days ago following which primary contacts were tested. “Their child reported negative. As a precautionary measure, 129 samples have been lifted from some students and other primary contacts of the teacher,” senior health officials in Tiruchi said. Meanwhile, nine patients who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovery. Slight spike  Nagapattinam district reported a slight spike with 17 patients reporting positive. Five patients tested positive in Karur and three in Ariyalur. Two cases were reported in Pudukottai and one in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/154-fresh-positive-cases-two-deaths-in-central-region/article34122264.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eight new COVID-19 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported eight new COVID cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 15,046. While 13 persons were discharged, 117 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 28 positive cases were reported and all were indigenous. In Namakkal, 12 cases were reported and three patients returned from Hosur, Coimbatore and Salem. Coimbatore reported 103 new cases on Saturday, a day after 102 persons tested positive for the disease. The total number of cases reported in the district so far increased to 57,023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode-district/article34122288.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dhinakaran assures formation of new district||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam’s leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Saturday assured voters that a new district with Kumbakonam as its headquarters would be formed if his party is voted to power. Soliciting votes in favour of party candidate, S. Balamurugan (Kumbakonam) and Kudanthai Arasan of Viduthalai Thamizh Puligal Katchi contesting on the AMMK ticket in Thiruvidaimaruthur (Reserved), Mr. Dhinakaran said his party secured a considerable number of positions in local bodies in the last civic body election. Everyone mocked at the party saying that it would be able to field candidates only in delta districts, but the AMMK had fielded candidates in 165 constituencies across the State, he said. Expressing confidence that AMMK would emerge victorious in the coming election by defeating the ‘evil forces’ and ‘betrayers’, he said his party would provide secular governance if elected to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dhinakaran-promises-new-district/article34122167.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No entry’ to candidate||DMK candidate for Manachanallur constituency S .Kathiravan has been thwarted from canvassing for votes at Inam Samayapuram village after a section of residents belonging to Mutharaiyar community raised strong opposition to his visit. According to sources, Mr. Kathiravan, a Perambalur-based educationalist making his electoral debut on the DMK ticket, went to the village on Friday night. But his vehicle and that of his supporters could not proceed beyond a point as residents had placed iron railings and boulders on the road leading to the village. Mr. Kathiravan, along with the DMK cadre and his supporters, tried to reach the village on foot. But the residents opposed his visit saying they would allow only candidates belonging to Mutharaiyars. They also entered into an argument with him. Mr. Kathiravan tried to convince the residents and assured them that he would work for all voters irrespective of castes and communities. Since the agitators refused to budge, he was forced to retreat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-entry-to-candidate/article34122247.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nominations of two Ministers, K.N. Nehru sail through scrutiny||Nominations of most of the prominent candidates including Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan (Tiruchi East), Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar (Karur) and former Minister K.N. Nehru (Tiruchi West) were accepted following scrutiny of nominations on Saturday. The scrutiny was taken up in the presence of general observers, candidates and their representatives in their constituencies. The candidatures of Vellamandi N. Natarajan (Tiruchi East), DMK candidate Inigo Irudhayaraj (Tiruchi East), K.N. Nehru (Tiruchi West) of DMK. and V. Padmanaban of AIADMK (Tiruchi West), P. Kumar of AIADMK (Tiruverumbur), Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi of DMK (Tiruverumbur), former Minister M. Paranjothi of AIADMK (Mannachanallur), S. Kathiravan of the DMK (Mannachanallur), Ku.Pa. Krishnan of AIADMK (Srirangam), Sarubala R. Tondaiman of AMMK in Srirangam were among the prominent candidates accepted in Tiruchi district. In Karur district, nominations of former Minister V. Senthil Balaji, who is pitted against Mr. Vijayabhaskar in Karur constituency and former IPS officer and BJP candidate K. Annamalai in Aravakurichi constituency were among those accepted in Karur district. Out of 211 nominations filed for Karur, Krishnarayapuram (reserved), Kulithalai and Aravakurichi constituencies, 40 were rejected by the Returning Officers. Most of them were filed by independents and they were rejected for failing to furnish mandatory documents. When the nominations filed for Aravakurichi constituency were taken up for scrutiny, an independent candidate registered a protest that Mr. Annamalai had failed to provide details on cases pending against him. After intense scrutiny, the Returning Officer rejected the protest and ruled that Mr. Annamalai had furnished the information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-of-two-ministers-kn-nehru-sail-through-scrutiny/article34122248.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Slew of rejections in Thanjavur district||Three-fourths of the 232 nomination papers received for eight Assembly constituencies in Thanjavur district were rejected during scrutiny of nomination papers held on Saturday. A total of 177 persons, including ‘dummy’ candidates from political parties, had filed their papers with the Returning Officers of the respective constituencies till March 19. As some of them had submitted more than one nomination and several Independents had failed to submit their papers with required details or with mistakes, the nomination papers of 97 candidates, including those of some Independents, were only accepted by the Returning Officers, sources said. Out of the 20 nomination papers received at Thiruvidaimaruthur (Reserve) Constituency, six were rejected. At Kumbakonam 22 out of the 32 nominations were rejected and 17 out of 31 received at Papanasam were rejected. In Thiruvaiyaru 38 nominations were received and 25 of them rejected and in Thanjavur 34 were received and 21 of them were rejected. At Orathanadu 19 of the 33 nominations were rejected and in Pattukottai 17 of the 25 nominations were rejected. In Peravurani eight of the 19 nominations were rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slew-of-rejections-in-thanjavur-district/article34122252.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ayudh award for OFT security officer||Lt. Col. Karthikesh Kasinath, Security Officer, Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, has received the Ayudh award for 2020-21 conferred by Ordnance Factory Headquarters, Kolkata. The army officer was felicitated by the General Manager of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, Sanjay Dwivedi, on Thursday during the Ordnance Factory Day celebration. The award has been won by an officer of the Ordnance Factory for the first time since its inception in 1968. The ‘Best Security Officer’ award was conferred in recognition of execution of new security protocols andprocedures, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ayudh-award-for-oft-security-officer/article34122256.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 103 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 103 new cases of COVID-19, a day after 102 persons tested positive for the disease. The total number of cases reported in the district so far increased to 57,023. According to the Health Department, 635 persons from the district were undergoing treatment at different hospitals on Saturday. Meanwhile, 61 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from different hospitals on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 33 new cases, which took the overall tally to 18,823 cases. No deaths were reported as the toll remained at 224. As many as 18,349 patients have recovered and 250 were active cases in the district. In the Nilgiris, 11 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,493.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-103-new-covid-19-cases/article34122191.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||For 100% voter turnout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-100-voter-turnout/article34122271.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A home for the birds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-home-for-the-birds/article34122552.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools to be closed for Classes 9 to 11 in Tamil Nadu||Mr. Ranjan said that in some districts, the increase in the cases could be due to a mix of programmes, meetings, festivals as well as non-compliance with mask-wearing in public places and non-adherence to guidelines. Micro-containment zones A meeting was held on March 16 and 17, wherein it was decided to step up preventive measures and vaccination. “Due to increased and aggressive testing, the RT-PCR tests administered went up from 50,000 to 75,000 per day... even if the number of those testing positive is high, all efforts are being made to isolate and treat them immediately to control further spread,” Mr. Ranjan said. Streets and residential complexes that had more than 3 cases would be declared a micro-containment zone, Mr. Ranjan added. COVID-19 norms “...mask-wearing in public, hand-washing and physical distancing should be followed by all. In the last three days, 24,700 persons/institutions have been fined Rs. 52.64 lakh for flouting these norms,” he said. Schools across Tamil Nadu were reopened for Classes 10 and 12 on January 19. In February, schools were permitted to function for Classes 9 and 11. Later that month however, the government declared all students of Classes 9 to 11 as promoted.  Due to increased and aggressive testing, the RT-PCR tests administered went up from 50,000 to 75,000 per day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-to-be-closed-for-classes-9-to-11-in-tamil-nadu/article34122153.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Jansons   Institute of Technology: Webinar on “Exploring Kickstart2021", 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article34122186.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tongue in cheek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tongue-in-cheek/article34122128.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surging TPR: Next two weeks crucial||With a second wave of COVID-19 appearing to set in, Karnataka’s surging Test Positivity Rate (TPR), especially in eight districts, including Kalaburagi, Bidar, and Bengaluru Urban, has become a cause for concern. COVID-19 experts said the coming two weeks would be extremely crucial for Karnataka and unless drastic measures were initiated to cut transmission, the State might go the Maharashtra way. At 2.1%, the TPR in the week prior to March 18 was the highest in Kalaburagi and Bidar, followed by Mysuru (1.9%), Dakshina Kannada (1.8%), Tumakuru (1.7%), Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural (1.4% each), and Udupi (1.3%). These eight districts have a TPR higher than the State average that stands at 1.2%. TPR in the last seven days was the lowest in Haveri and Davangere at 0.1%. The surging TPR in Kalaburagi, Bidar, and Bengaluru Urban had also come up for discussion during the Prime Minister’s meeting with the Chief Ministers of various States. Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had said that a separate surveillance strategy would be chalked out for these three districts. Why cases are rising Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who is also the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said the districts were seeing a surge mostly as a result ofpooling of susceptible persons due to inward migration. Pointing out that those who were uninfected earlier, protected at home, might be at risk, Dr. Babu said, as the complete resumption of activities had resulted in the virus spreading through asymptomatic persons. “This is possible through children attending schools and young adults visiting offices or colleges. These districts need to be on high alert to ensure the transmission is not wide,” he said. “Containment measures should include enhanced testing using a syndromic approach and efficient contact tracing. Also, the vaccination of the vulnerable should be completed swiftly,” he asserted.  Sources in the TAC told The Hindu on Saturday that following BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad’s proposal regarding initiating stringent measures, including 50% seating capacity in cinemas, the TAC had an emergency meeting on Friday night. “We have seconded the BBMP Commissioner’s proposal and have again sent a five-page letter with several recommendations to the government. The situation is likely to worsen if the spread is not controlled now and there is an urgent need to introduce drastic measures,” said a TAC member. Apart from limiting seating in cinema theatres to 50%, it is learnt that the TAC has recommended closure of all religious institutions and educational institutions (except for classes that have exams going on) for the next two weeks. Besides, gyms and parks should also be closed, the TAC has said in its list of recommendations. ‘Ban public functions’ V. Ravi, TAC member and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in the State, said people should completely avoid going to crowded places now. “Unlike last year, the spread is through clusters now and we should ensure that more clusters do not buildup,” he said. “Lockdown is not the solution now. In my opinion, we should completely ban all public functions, especially in closed spaces. I also believe it may be worthwhile to close religious institutions and all schools and educational institutions where there are no exams going on for at least two weeks, besides allowing only 50% seating in theatres. If these stringent precautions are not taken now, we may go the Maharashtra way soon,” Dr. Ravi said. Hospital preparedness C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that apart from aggressive testing and contact tracing, focus should also be on hospital preparedness, in the same way it was during the July-August period without compromising on the treatment of non-COVID-19 patients. Restricting inter-State movement, particularly from high-risk States, without compromising on commercial activities should also be the priority now.  Lockdown is not the solution now. In my opinion, we should completely ban all public functions, especially in closed spaces. I believe it may be worthwhile to close religious institutions and all educational institutions where there are no exams going on for at least two weeks V. Ravi,TAC member and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surging-tpr-in-karnataka-next-two-weeks-crucial/article34122035.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dry leaves, garbage burning continues unabated||Two days before Maha Shivaratri, residents living near the burial ground near Shanthinagar bus stop in Wilson Garden were shocked to see plumes of smoke rising. They later found that leaf and garden waste had been set on fire in the burial ground, which was supposed to be cleaned ahead of the festival. The instances of burning of waste, particularly dry leaves and dry waste, has been increasing in the city. According to information provided by the control room of the Fire and Emergency Services, from January 1 to March 16, 2021, the control room had received 1,021 fire complaints, most of which pertained to garbage, grass/ leaves and other waste being set on fire. This garbage/ dry leaves burning is contributing to the already poor air quality. The recent ‘World Air Quality Report, 2020’ compiled by IQAir shows that the pollutant levels were above the World Health Organisation’s prescribed limits. Earlier, marshals had been deployed to monitor segregation and ensure there is no littering in the black spots at the ward level. However, with the increase in virus cases in the city, they have now been asked to focus on enforcement of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. With this, the burning of waste seems to be increasing, residents across the city complained. Srinivasamurthy Vasudev, president of the Girinagar Residents’ Welfare Association, said that leaf and garden waste burning is prevalent before the onset of summer and early summer when the trees shed their leaves. “Though pourakarmikas sweep the roads and streets and heap the dry leaves by the side of the roads, citizens set it on fire. The resultant smoke is toxic and can cause severe breathing problems, especially among children and senior citizens,” he said. Renukaprasad G.S. from Shanthinagar Residents’ Welfare Association claimed that there also instances of pourakarmikas themselves setting these heaped piles of leaves and dry waste on fire, claimed. Though this has been brought to the attention of the BBMP on several occasions, the civic body just looks the other way, he charged. Fines  Admitting that cases of burning of waste had increased, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep admitted to cases where pourakarmikas have set waste on fire. He also admitted that there was little awareness on disposing leaf/ garden waste. Heavy fines imposed by the civic body — which range from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 depending on whether they are regular or commercial/ bulk waste generators — do not appear to serve as a deterrent. However, it is difficult to catch those setting waste on fire as they flee the spot, he said and added that such violations would cost the BBMP in the forthcoming Swachh Survekshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dry-leaves-garbage-burning-continues-unabated/article34122065.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HSR Layout, R.R. Nagar, Bellandur among wards with most cases in city||As Karnataka joins four other States in making up for 80% of new infections in India, Bengaluru is beginning to witness a repeat of scenes from last year when COVID-19 was on a steady rise. In the last 10 days, 10 wards in particular reported the most number of cases: Arakere, Begur, HSR Layout, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bellandur, Shantalanagar, Hagadur, Doddanekundi, Banaswadi and New Thippasandra. However, the BBMP seems to have no specific plans for these wards. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said the same plan put in place for other wards will be applicable to these as well. “We are focussing on more testing and more vaccination,” he said. 10-day surge Though the city has been the primary contributor to the caseload throughout the pandemic, the marked increase in the last few days is raising concerns. On Saturday, 1,186 new positive cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban, along with five new deaths. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) war room data for Friday, there were 1,037 new cases. Recently, the BBMP had, after a detailed analysis on the recent surge in positive cases, said approximately 70% of the people who tested positive for COVID-19 had a travel history, while others contracted the virus when they attended weddings and social gatherings, visited places of worship or were in common areas in apartment complexes. The civic body had also said that many cases are being reported from apartments and multi-dwelling units. Giridhar R. Babu, Professor of Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, said the BBMP Commissioner has already addressed strategies needed to tackle the increasing numbers in his request to the government. “Some actions he cannot take at the BBMP level, such as banning super-spreader events, congregations, etc. Now, the government has to take action. In addition to this, increasing testing levels, and trying to step up contact tracing are very important in quickly isolating whenever there are newly-identified cases and decreasing onward transmission,” he said. Recommendations The civic body has recommended the closure of open air gyms in parks, regular gyms, swimming pools and party or community halls in apartments to stem the spread of the virus. The BBMP’s suggestion to reduce occupancy in theatres to 50% was ruled out by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hsr-layout-rr-nagar-bellandur-among-wards-with-most-cases-in-city/article34122074.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New RSS general secretary backs law on ‘love jihad’||Newly-elected RSS Sarkaryavaha (general secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale, hailing from Shivamogga district in Karnataka, has backed laws against ‘love jihad’ brought into force by some States and proposed by a few others. Addressing a press conference after his election in Bengaluru on Saturday at the Akhil Bharatiya Prathinidhi Sabha, Mr. Hosabale, said, “The use of fraudulent methods to lure girls into marriage and conversion is condemnable and must be opposed. Suitable laws and regulations have to be brought and RSS will support such laws.” Mr. Hosabale is the third person to occupy an important position in RSS from Karnataka, after H.V. Sheshadri and K.S. Sudarshan. Speaking in Bengaluru on the controversial comment of Uttarakhand CM on women’s attire, Mr. Hosabale said, “There is no reason to bring RSS into all allegations. Whatever RSS does in society, it does in the open with the knowledge of all.” Mr. Hosabale, known to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, reiterated that RSS’ support to the BJP will be issue-based. “The RSS takes a stand based on the issue and the situation. The stand of the RSS will always be in the best interests of the nation and the same will be expressed as required. This has been the practice and will continue,” he said. “The Prime Minister speaks to everyone... his mann ki baat.”  On the issue or reservation, Mr. Hosabale said, “RSS has time and again clarified its stand on the issue. It is of the opinion that reservations have to exist as long as it is required in society... Our Constitution too says that reservations are required as long as differences exist in the society and RSS conforms to the same.” Speaking on the role of the youth in RSS, he said RSS is ‘a nationalist organisation and not a religious one’ and young people are increasingly joining it and its societal work. In the next few years, RSS will focus on social harmony, environment, water conservation, and ‘parirvar prabodhan’ to inculcate family values, said Mr. Hosabale. “Soil experts have suggested various ways to improve the situation. RSS will take it up as a large campaign with pilot projects in this regard from April 13,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-rss-general-secretary-backs-law-on-love-jihad/article34122099.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NHAI told to fix street lights, build skywalks on airport highway||The national highway connecting the Kempegowda International Airport is used by thousands of motorists every day. However, the absence or poor maintenance of street lights on several stretches has become a cause for concern. Pedestrians, too, are finding it difficult to navigate the stretches owing to the lack of skywalks at several signal points starting from Kodigehalli Cross to Sadahalli Gate. In the backdrop of these safety hazards,the Bengaluru Traffic Police recently met with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to hammer out solutions. “Poor visibility on several stretches, especially near junctions, can result in accidents. We met with NHAI officials who assured us that the problem will be addressed soon,” said DCP Traffic (North) Sajeeth V.J. He added that the stretch between Kodigehalli Cross and Jakkur has no skywalk. “Instead,barricades have been installed between service roads and main lanes. As a result, pedestrians have to walk for over a kilometre to cross the road. Some people jump over the barricade to cross the road, thereby risking their lives. We have told NHAI officials to build a skywalk between Kodigehalli and GKVK stretch,” said Mr. Sajeeth. During the meeting, issues related to road safety measures such as signboards, installation of median grilles, and fixing three black spots after the trumpet interchange were also discussed. “From our side, necessary coordination will be extended to implement these works,” said the DCP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-told-to-fix-street-lights-build-skywalks-on-airport-highway/article34122063.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nirani bats for private players mining gold in Hutti||The State government has mooted the idea of allowing private players to carry out mining in Hutti Gold Mines. Allowing private players in mining will enhance gold production by bringing in a competitive edge and qualitative change, while day-to-day administration, management, ownership of HGML will rest with the government, said Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani. The Minister also said he would hold talks with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi to seek tax exemption including GST and income tax relief for jewellery start-ups in the State. His proposal on tax holidays for the jewellery ecosystem comes a day after the State announced ambitious sales and branding plans for its gold production. Karnataka is the only gold-producing State in the country. Responding to the demand of Jewellers’ Association and Jewellery Designers’ Association for tax holiday for new ventures, the Minister on Saturday said, “Tax holiday is the domain of the Centre and therefore I will consult the Union Finance Minister and Union Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Minister to seek tax exemption.” The jewellers’ and designers’ trade bodies that met Mr. Nirani also demanded better connectivity to the proposed jewellery park in Kalaburagi or Bidar in the Kalyana Karnataka region. The park will be set up on 50 to 75 acres of land close to the railway station and airport. “The government has been keen on promoting industries in the backward Kalyana Karnataka region to attract more investments and create employment opportunities,” he added. The jewellery park coming up in the Special Economic Zone is expected to generate more revenue for the government and job opportunities in the region.  Tax holiday is the domain of the Centre and therefore I will consult the Union Finance Minister and Union Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Minister to seek tax exemption. Murugesh Nirani Mines and Geology Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirani-bats-for-private-players-mining-gold-in-hutti/article34122102.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-Aasthi work causes delays in issuing property documents||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is in the process of implementing the e-Aasthi system in 97 wards in the core zones. However, the roll out is having an impact on the issuing of khata extract and khata certificate and collection of property tax arrears till 2007–08. In a press release on Saturday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad urged citizens to cooperate with the civic body and bear with the delay in issuing the requisite property documents. The delay has been attributed to the transfer of data set of properties from the old system to the e-Aasthi system. In November last year, the BBMP implemented the e-Aasthi pilot in three wards in Shanthinagar division — Neelasandra, Shanthinagar and Shantalanagar. The project is being implemented with an objective of bringing in more transparency, stamping out illegal transactions, and cutting out middlemen, apart from giving property documents a digital avatar. The benefits of e-Aasthi are multifold, BBMP officials said. Impersonation during registration is avoided as property documents will bear the photo of the owner and illegally created property documents can be easily identified. For instance, the khata certificate issued under the new system will have 46 different kinds of information. The documents will be digitally signed, barcoded, and uploaded onto DigiLocker. The release stated that under the first phase, the e-Aasthi system was being implemented in all 100 wards of the core zones. Under the second phase, it would be implemented in the remaining wards coming under the newly added zones — Mahadevapura, Yelahanka, Dasarahalli, Bommanahalli, Rajarajeshwarinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-aasthi-work-causes-delays-in-issuing-property-documents/article34122086.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A portal for film archives||To this day, there is a gap in documenting and archiving the history of Kannada cinema in an accessible way, which a new online portal — chitrapatha.com — aims to fill. The portal, designed with fonts from yesteryear film posters, is drenched in nostalgia for old films, songs, their history, trivia, and rare-to-find photographs. The portal, that remains free, is a passion project of film journalist Shashidhar Chitradurga, who said he had always felt the need for such a portal that documents Kannada film history. “As a journalist, I have faced many challenges in procuring information about our cinema’s history, especially while writing obituaries. Though there are some books, they are organised and are not accessible,” he said. But what made him passionate about film archives is his friendship with two still photographers — Bhavani Lakshminarayana and Pragati Ashwathnarayana. The duo worked as photographers for both film projects and newspapers for decades. “They have a treasure trove of photographs of several actors, on the sets of films and other events. I brought out seven books on various aspects of Kannada cinema history using their photographs. The success of these books made me start the online portal,” Mr. Shashidhar Chitradurga said. The portal is built mainly on the photographic archives of the two photographers. However, it also includes sections that are documenting other film trivia and memorabilia such as film posters, song lyric books and those on technicians who work behind the screens and have remained mostly unknown. The portal’s design, which has recreated fonts from film posters of the yore, has been a big draw. “I was keen on using those fonts. My friend Krishne Gowda N.L., who designed the website also created these fonts using old film posters as a stencil,” Mr. Shshidhar Chitradurga said. The portal also has write-ups on films of other Indian languages and world cinema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-portal-for-film-archives/article34122066.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three farm laws a violation of Constitution: Former SC judge||The three farm laws passed by the Central government totally “violate the Constitution”, said former Supreme Court justice V. Gopala Gowda here on Saturday. He was speaking at a panel discussion organised by the Forum for Democracy and Communal Amity–Karnataka chapter (FDCA-K) on “Current issues facing the nation”. Agriculture being a State subject, the three farm laws were violative of the federal feature of the Constitution under which each State is sovereign. If the farm laws were supposed to double farm income, then why has Minimum Support Price (MSP) not been included in the statute, he questioned. The Amendment to Section 17 of the Land Reforms Act brought in by Karnataka would allow corporates to take over farmers’ lands, he warned. He lamented that political parties had failed the people and urged people to raise their voice against them. Social democracy Justice H.N. Nagamohan Das, former judge of the Karnataka High Court, speaking on “Decline of democratic values in India” pointed out that contrary to what was being claimed by some, much had been achieved in India in the last 71 years. But now, 18 institutions that were meant to protect democracy had been compromised. He lamented that while political democracy was debated, economic and social democracy were not debated. Constitution is the only weapon in the hands of the people, and they should read it and use it to save democracy, he said. A. Narayana, associate professor at Azim Premji University, speaking on “Intolerance of dissent and free speech in India”, said the State had become “pathologically intolerant”. But more dangerous than this pathology of the State was the tolerance of society to the intolerance of the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-farm-laws-a-violation-of-constitution-former-sc-judge/article34122090.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cubbon Park rejuvenation project to be unveiled tomorrow||The Horticulture Department is set to unveil the Cubbon Park rejuvenation project on March 22, which is observed as World Water Day. The initiative to harvest rain water and recharge ground water levels, has yielded positive results, claimed India Cares Foundation in a press release. Along with Friends of Lake and Biome Environmental, the foundation worked with the Horticultural Department on the rejuvenation project. In 2019, two ponds — Karagada Kunte and the pond located behind the Wadiyar statue — and seven wells inside the park were rejuvenated. In addition to that, work on 73 recharge wells of 3ft diameter and average depth of 15ft depth was undertaken. Each well has the potential to recharge up to 6 kL during the rain. “Qualitatively it was observed that despite heavy rains, parts of the park that would frequently flood did not flood this time and continued to remain usable for the most parts of the year. It was also observed that the groundwater level in the open wells never fell below 10ft from ground level even during the summer reason,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cubbon-park-rejuvenation-project-to-be-unveiled-tomorrow/article34122070.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Trial courts should keep in mind common man, not Holmes’||Ttrial courts should have in mind the “quintessential common man” and not “the proverbial Sherlock Holmes” while deciding disputes over trademarks when allegations are made that one mark is deceptively similar to that of the other, the High Court of Karnataka has said. “...the [trial] courts should have in mind, not the proverbial Sherlock Holmes, but the ‘common man’ who goes to the neighbourhood shop with the idea of purchasing a product of his liking – or, rather the liking of his granddaughter – which he had purchased only a week ago, and because of the gift of his humdrum existence has only an imperfect recollection of the imprint of the package,” the court said. Justice P. Krishna Bhat passed the order while directing the trial court to reconsider the contentions in the suit over trademark between Sheta Khandelwal, proprietor of Matru Ayurveda Herbals, Bengaluru, and N. Dinesh Kumar, proprietor of Matruveda Herbals, Hyderabad. “The ‘common man’ is neither blessed with the wisdom of Solomon nor the trained eyes of Sherlock Holmes. There should be present in the mind of the trial court this important aspect that where there is/are a common element/elements in the marks of plaintiff and defendant which is also contained in a number of other marks in use in the same market,” the High Court said. It also observed that the trial courts will have to examine whether such a common occurrence in the market tends to cause purchasers to pay attention to the other features of the respective marks and to distinguish between them by those features. When the ‘trade name’ is set inside the trademark, the trial courts will have to examine whether there is likelihood of confusion arising between the two trademarks, in the mind of a ‘ common man’ who looks at them for a fleeting second, the court said. However, application of these principles depends on defendant successfully demonstrating that the marks containing the common element/elements are in fairly extensive use in the market in which the marks of the plaintiff and defendant are also being used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trial-courts-should-keep-in-mind-common-man-not-holmes/article34122091.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Byappanahalli terminal: Railways says no proposal to collect user fee||When it opens for commercial operations, the Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal at Byappanahalli, which has been built along the lines of the Kempegowda International Airport complete with centralised air-conditioning, will be one of the swankiest terminals in the country. But ever since its state-of-the-art infrastructure made headlines, questions have been raised on whether the Railways will collect user fee from passengers. Putting these concerns to rest, Naresh Salecha, member-Finance, Railway Board and ex-officio Secretary to the Government of India, who visited the terminal on Saturday, told the media that there was no proposal to levy user fee. The Railways has spent Rs. 314 crore to build the terminal, which is spread over 4,200 sq.m and can accommodate 50,000 passengers per day. After his visit on Saturday, Mr. Salecha said it gives the impression of being at an airport in Bengaluru, Hyderabad or any other city. “Amenities such as a waiting lounge, ticket counters, green initiatives and others are on a par with facilities available at airports,” he said. When asked the likely date for its inauguration, he said, “It will happen shortly.” South Western Railway, which had initially planned to open the terminal by March 15, is waiting for a green signal from the Prime Minister’s Office. Divisional Railway Manager (Bengaluru Division) Ashok Kumar Verma said the terminal would be handed over to Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/byappanahalli-terminal-railways-says-no-proposal-to-collect-user-fee/article34122059.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS holds session on adult mental health issues||The Heritage Museum and Department of Mental Health Education at NIMHANS in collaboration with FLUID-The Art Collective organised a session on adult mental health issues on Saturday. This is a part of CONVERS(G)E - Talks on Mental Health series that was inaugurated on February 3 with the intention of creating awareness about mental health issues that are commonly seen in our society. Saturday’s session, the third in the series, had a conversation between mental health experts on issues affecting Adult Mental health.  On addiction Experts — Vivek Benegal, professor of Psychiatry at the Centre for Addiction Medicine, NIMHANS and Himani Kashyap, associate professor, Department of Clinical Psychology, NIMHANS — who were on the panel discussed the common mental disorders prevalent in the adult population, the causes and effects, how and when to seek help. The talk also had a discussion on ‘Addictions — the how, what, when, who and why’. The most common mental disorders such as the less addressed but much suffered — anxiety, depression, burnout — the causes, effects and available treatment and therapy were also discussed. The section on addiction gave valuable information on who is vulnerable, what happens and why people get into an addiction. The session also had a section on suicides — the vulnerable, the why, who, what, when and the telltale signs to watch out for. Artworks by Peevee, Sharmila Aravind, Vasan, who are part of the art show MENTALITY, conceptualised by FLUID-The Art Collective, were on display. The art show spoke about many aspects of the common mental disorders and addictions being discussed. Pratima Murthy, head of the department of Psychiatry at NIMHANS, said the talk on adult mental health was planned around two very large areas - Common Mental Disorders and Addictions. The talk series is aimed at detaching the stigma associated with mental ailments and encouraging people to talk about it, and seek help at the right time. While the first two talks were on geriatric and paediatric issues, the final one will be on Mental Wellness on March 27, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-holds-session-on-adult-mental-health-issues/article34122077.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Signal-free corridor hits a snag||The signal-free corridor on the airport highway will take longer than anticipated. In October 2019, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had taken up work on a flyover near Sadahalli Gate to remove the last remaining signal between Hebbal and trumpet interchange. The project, however, has been dropped after finding fault with design. An official of the NHAI said, “While implementing the project, we realised that the design has some flaws and it was not a feasible option. Now we have modified the plan and sent it for approval. As per the new plan, an underpass, along the lines of the one at Mehkri Circle, will be constructed. Vehicles on the main lanes of the highway from Hebbal will move below the existing Sadahalli junction and reach the toll plaza.” Near the junctions, main lanes have been closed and vehicles have been diverted to service roads to reach the toll plaza.To ease congestion near the junction, the police too have asked the NHAI to expedite the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/signal-free-corridor-hits-a-snag/article34122053.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gang that targeted businessmen busted||The Sampigehalli police analysed footage from CCTV cameras spread over 400 km and five toll plazas from K.R. Puram to Nellore in Andhra Pradesh to track down a member of a gang that targeted businessmen and jewellers. The gang hails from Andhra Pradesh and used attention-diverting tactics, said the police. After scanning hours of footage, they identified and arrested one of the members, Chella Prabhu Das, 27. “We tracked down the motorcycle he was using,” said C.K. Baba, DCP (South East), who was heading the team.  Seven-member gang According to the police, Prabhu Das is among the seven-member gang headed by a habitual offender, Prateesh, who is presently on the run. “The gang would scout jewellery shops and sub-registrar’s offices for potential targets, follow them and rob them of their valuables,” said the police. Using this modus operandi , the accused allegedly stole 1,200 grams of jewellery from a wholesale jeweller. “The victim, Shivaram, was carrying the valuables in the boot space of his scooter to sell to local jewellers on February 19. He did not realise that Prabhu Das and other members of the gang were following him,” said a police officer. They allegedly robbed him when he parked his scooter to relieve himself. Recovered  With Prabhu Das’ arrest, the police have recovered 440 grams of gold jewellery and three motorcycles. Efforts are on to track down the other gang members. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, on Saturday, commended the efforts of the police team and announced a cash reward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-that-targeted-businessmen-busted/article34122072.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||For first time in 4 months, fresh cases cross 1,700||Continuing the upward trend in new cases, Karnataka on Saturday reported 1,798 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,68,487. Of these, 1,186 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The State is recording over 1,700 cases after a gap of four months, after witnessing 1,781 cases on November 20 last year. Withseven deaths, the toll rose to 12,432. This is apart from 19 deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other reasons. As many as 1,030 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 9,43,208. Of the remaining 12,828 active patients, 134 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.91%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.38%. As many as 94,043 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 88,029 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,02,87,369.  As many as 10,08,874 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1, when the second phase of vaccination was rolled out. That apart, 2,54,423 persons above the age of 45 with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Saturday, 50,880 senior citizens and 15,314 people above 45 years with comorbidities took the jab. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers — 2,34,199 and 42,677, respectively. So far, 5,15,683 healthcare workers and 1,94,526 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 3,13,631 healthcare workers have taken the second dose.  Services extended Meanwhile, in the wake of a steep rise in cases, the State government has extended the services of doctors, nurses, and paramedical and other staff who were hired on contract basis/outsourced last year. According to a Government Order issued on Saturday, their services have been extended from April 1 till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-cases-cross-1700/article34122075.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CD scandal: SIT searches businessman’s house||In continuation of the effort to track down the prime suspects in the alleged sex CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, the SIT officials on Saturday searched the house of a granite businessman in J.P. Nagar who allegedly provided logistical support to the suspects. A team of the police visited the house searched the premises and recorded the statements of family members since he was not at home. The businessman was said to have helped the suspects financially but also kept in touch with them eventually. The suspects are posing a challenge to the SIT by shifting their bases and not using their mobile phones, said sources. The police are anticipating that the accused would come before SIT in a few days. The woman in the CD is also yet to appear before the police. They suspect that she is with the accused. Meanwhile, SIT officials continued to question Ramesh Jarkiholi for around four hours and recorded his statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-scandal-sit-searches-businessmans-house/article34122100.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||People evacuated to safety following fire||As many as 15 people had a narrow escape when a medical store was destroyed in an accidental fire that broke out at a medical distribution firm opposite the Central Crime Branch office at Cottonpet on Saturday. The store is on the second floor of the five- storey building. According to the police, employees saw smoke coming out of the area where the inverter was located. It soon spread to the entire office. “Fortunately, people in the building were evacuated before the fire tenders could reach the spot. No one was injured in the accident,” a senior police officer. He added that a preliminary probe pointed to a possible short-circuit as the reason. “We are investigating in detail to ascertain the cause of fire, and are waiting for a report from the Fire and Emergency Services Department,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-evacuated-to-safety-following-fire/article34122061.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Realtor stabbed to death||A 32-year-old realtor was stabbed to death at Gurappanapalya on Friday evening. According to the police, the victim, Mohammed Rafiq, hailed from Mysuru and had come to Bengaluru on work. “While he was walking down Timber Lane, he was confronted by an armed assailant,” said the police. The unidentified attacker stabbed him multiple times and fled. Family feud? “Rafiq was bleeding profusely and died on the spot before passers-by could help,” said a police officer. The police are scanning CCTV camera footage to identify the accused. “We suspect the motive to be a family feud, but investigations are ongoing,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/realtor-stabbed-to-death/article34122060.ece
21 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on March 22 and 24 in the areas serviced from St. John’s and Sarakki sub-stations between 10.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. The power cut is in view of taking up of conversion of high-tension overhead by high-tension underground cable work, said Bescom in a press release. The areas to be affected on March 22 are (St. John’s, F1 feeder) 20th Main, 1st Cross to 5th Cross, BTM 1st Stage; and on March 24 are (Sarakki MUSS, F10 feeder) 17th Main, 24th Main, and BTM 1st Stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article34122052.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreign national held, drugs seized||The Govindpura police on Saturday arrested a 33-year-old foreign national from his residence at Chiranjeevi Layout for allegedly dealing in drugs and recovered 60 grams of cocaine worth Rs. 9 lakh from him. “The accused, James Kalvin, hails from Africa. We are verifying his documents to ascertain which country he hails from,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreign-national-held-drugs-seized/article34122071.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc. declares results of JAM 2021||Twenty-five per cent of the candidates who appeared for the Joint Admission test for Masters (JAM) 2021, organised by the Indian Institute of Science Bengaluru, have made it to the merit list. Candidates can visit the JOAPS website (https://joaps.iisc.ac.in) to check their results, said IISc in a press release. “A total of 58,969 candidates appeared for the examination, which was conducted on February 14 at 151 centres across India, and 14,725 candidates secured marks above the paper-specific cut-offs and therefore appear on the merit list,” stated the release. It also stated that the JAM 2021 score cards could be downloaded by the candidates on the merit list from March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-declares-jam-2021-results/article34122051.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AC sleeper service to Banahatti||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) effective from March 19, has started operating an AC sleeper service from Bengaluru to Banahatti, via Bagalkot, Jamakhandi. The tickets for the service are priced at Rs. 1,040. According to a release from KSRTC, the Bengaluru - Banahatti service will leave Bengaluru at 7.45 p.m. and reach Banahatti at 7 a.m., the next morning. In the return direction, the Banahatti to Bengaluru service will depart from Banahatti at 5.30 p.m. and arrive in Bengaluru at 5 a.m., the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ac-sleeper-service-to-banahatti/article34122096.ece
21 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply today||The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) on Saturday took repair work at Rajarajeshwarinagar to avoid the leakages in the 1600 mm dia pipeline of Cauvery Water Supply System 4th stage phase 1. In view of this, there was a disruption in water supply in many areas in the city on Saturday. Water supply will be disrupted on Sunday too, the BWSSB said in a release. According to a release, the water supply will be affected in the following areas on Sunday. They are: Mahalakshmi Layout, Rajajinagar, Nandini Layout, Milk Colony, Kanteeravanagar, KHB Colony, Kamakshiplaya, Kurubarahalli, Shankar Mutt, Sharada Colony, Shakthi Ganapathi Nagar, K.M. Halli, Yeshwantpur, APMC, RMC Yard, industrial yard, Basaveshwarnagar, Attiguppe, Govindarajanagar, Chandra Layout, Vijayanagar, Moodalapalya,Nayandahalli, Annapoorneshwarinagar, Sir M.V. Layout, Peenya, BEML Layout, Kamalanagar, LIC Colony, Teachers Colony, SBI Officers Colony, Vrushabhavathinagar,Dasarahalli, Nagarabhavi, NGF Layout, Papareddy Palya, ITI Layout, Vidhana Soudha Layout, Bagalgunte, Peenya, Laggere, RPC Layout, and surrounding places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-water-supply-today/article34122050.ece
21 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Creating Hands gets under way||Creative Hands, Ugadi shopping mela, an exhibition showcasing collection of art, craft, handloom, handicraft, and lifestyle products from across the country, presented by Bangalore Expo, began here on Friday. It will be on till March 28 at the Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath, Kumara Krupa Road, between 11 a.m. and 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/creating-hands-gets-under-way/article34122067.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Awareness campaign by Railways||South Western Railway, Bengaluru division, in a release, has said that an awareness campaign has been launched with immediate effect to educate passengers on-board on the harmful effects of plastics and, the discipline to be followed for non-use of plastic with specific attention to plastic carry bags. The campaign will be conducted for two months, after which the Railways will impose fines on those violating norms in respect of use of plastic on railway premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-campaign-by-railways/article34122097.ece
21 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Administration being taken to people’s doorsteps, says Ashok||The ‘village-stay’ programme by Deputy Commissioners of districts and other officials is the Revenue Department’s initiative of taking the administration to the public’s doorstep, Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said. Speaking to presspersons after his arrival at Chabbi village in Hubballi taluk of Dhawad district on Saturday for the ‘village-stay’ programme, Mr. Ashok said that already the programme had been well received by the public and the legislators were demanding that the programme be held in villages of their respective constituencies. The Minister said that his first ‘village-stay’ programme was in Doddaballapur taluk and the second was in Chabbi of Bombay- Karnataka region and the programme had led to the desired result. In the coming days suitable guidelines would be framed to allow participation of elected representatives in the programme, he said. Mr. Ashok said that all these years, the people were made to run from pillar to post for getting various works done. “Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners, tahsildars.. all are public servants. We don’t want people to wait before government offices with folded hands. The objective of the programme is to make the officials to visit the villages and take administration to the doorsteps,” he said. The Minister said that from the last 15 days, the officials of the Revenue Department had been visiting Chabbi village and collected a list of grievances and applications. “The programme is not just a mere formality. Officials have been strictly instructed to resolve all the issues pertaining to the Revenue Department within 24 hours,” he said. On his arrival at the village, the Minister visited Siddharoodh Mutt and took blessings. Subsequently he was taken in a procession in a bullock cart and the residents gave him a traditional welcome. Chairman of the Legislative Council Basavaraj Horattti, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, ZP CEO B. Susheela, Assistant Commisioner Gopalkrishna, tahsildars Prakash Nashi and Shashidhar Madyal, and others were present. As Mr. Ashok was proceeding to the Dalit colony (Ambedkar Colony), a group of girls clad in school uniforms appealed to him to set up a high school in the village and also provide additional bus facilities. The Minister promised the children that he would take requisite measures and told them that a residential school was being held at neighbouring Sherewad village at a cost of Rs. 24 crore and already 6.5 acres of land had been sanctioned for the purpose. He promised students Akshata, Prema, Manjula, and Chaitra that a proposal would be sent to set up a high school and temporarily additional buses would be provided. The Minister then had tea at the resident of Kallappa Doddamani and heard grievances of the colony members and promised to take steps to meet their demands. He was accompanied by former MLA S.I. Chikkanagouda and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/administration-being-taken-to-peoples-doorsteps-says-ashok/article34122307.ece
21 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘System being mooted to fill govt. vacancies in advance’||Revenue Minister R. Ashok said that his department was contemplating bringing in a system wherein candidates will be recruited and trained for a year to immediately fill up posts that become vacant following the retirement of employees. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of the ‘village-stay’ programme at Chabbi village in Hubballi taluk of Dharwad district on Saturday, Mr. Ashok said that the idea was still in the nascent stage and will be taking shape in another three to four months. The Minister said that currently recruitments are conducted after much delay and complaints are raised repeatedly over vacant posts, which naturally affect the functioning of various offices. “The idea is to conduct recruitment well in advance, train the fresh candidates for a year before posting them for regular works. They will replace the retiring employees the day they retire,” he said, clarifying that still several aspects were required to be sorted out particularly clearance from the Finance Department. Mr. Ashok, who also heads the Cabinet sub-committee to review the need for merger or closure of departments and review of cadre, said that the issue was being dealt at length considering the financial implications in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Suggestions regarding doing away with some departments and mergers will be considered. “Various suggestions have come in saying that the merger or closure will bring about savings in terms of administrative expenses and also systematic use of available manpower making the officials and employees more professional. The move will help in doing away with unwanted posts,” he said. He said that the earlier recommendations of the Harnahalli Ramaswamy-led committee on administrative reforms will also be considered while finalising the modalities for mergers and closures. The Minister said that the Revenue Department had already taken up digitalisation and drone surveys had been commissioned in five districts on a pilot basis. Various steps were being taken to make the department more active and people friendly, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/system-being-mooted-to-fill-govt-vacancies-in-advance/article34122311.ece
21 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Revenue Minister’s next village stay in Yadgir||Revenue Minnister R. Ashok on Saturday announced that his next village-stay programme on the third Saturday of next month will be held in Yadgir district of Kalyana Karnataka. Addressing a press conference after participating in various programmes held as part of his village stay at Chabbi in Dharwd district on Saturday, he said that the announcing it in advance would help the people to submit their applications and air their grievances early to the officials. 230 villages The Minister said that across the State ‘village-stay’ programmes by officials were being simultaneously held at 230 villages. Nearly 35,000 applications and memoranda were submitted during the last month’s programmes and all of them had been disposed of. The Minister said that it was bit difficult to resolve issues but still the programme will continue as the people were happy about the initiative. Arrival of officials at the village would lead to resolution of several issues, he said. Mr. Ashok said that he will be going to a backward village in Yadgir district and will also go to a remote village in Malnad area. Many villages will be covered in the next two-and-a-half years and several other Ministers will also be participating in the programme in the coming days. “It is good if legislators elected by people go to the doorsteps of the electorate,” he said. He said that Rs. 800 crore was available at the disposal of the Deputy Commissioners and the amount will be released towards compensation immediately. “Nearly 20,000 applications pertaining to house damage have come after three months and I have left it to the discretion of the Chief Minister. If compensation cannot be provided due to technical reasons, assistance will be extended through other schemes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-ministers-next-village-stay-in-yadgir/article34122312.ece
21 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protest against Dharwad ZP CEO||Dharwad Zilla Panchayat vice-president Shivanand Karigar on Thursday staged a lone protest condemning the functioning style of the zilla panchayat CEO, B. Susheela. Mr. Karigar alleged that the CEO was not providing proper information and was not responding to the queries raised by them. Even information on the funds sanctioned for development works, including road and drinking water projects, is not being provided by the officer, he claimed. Mr. Karigar said that while there was a need for the construction of check dams under the Mahatma Gandhi National. Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the construction of school compound walls, among others the CEO was not approving the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-dharwad-zp-ceo/article34122305.ece
21 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Elections for office-bearers of HKCCI today||The stage is set for the election of office-bearers of the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries (HKCCI), Kalaburagi, and voting will start at 8 a.m. on Sunday at Rotary Club School in the city. The elections will be held for the posts of president, vice-president, joint secretary, treasurer, and management committee members for the corporate sector and mofussil, and 15 managing committee members. The biggest contest will be for the post of the president where incumbent Amarnath C. Patil is expected to get a tough fight from Prashant S. Manakar. Meanwhile, former vice-president Arunkumar Loya is contesting the election to the post of president for the sixth time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elections-for-office-bearers-of-hkcci-today/article34122314.ece
21 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Youth held on charge of killing mother||A youth allegedly bludgeoned his mother to death after she refused to give him money for alcohol at Kallur (K) village of Jewargi taluk in Kalaburagi district on Saturday morning. The police said that 75-year-old Bheema Bai Poojari was killed by her younger son Yellappa Poojari after an argument broke out between them. The police later arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-held-on-charge-of-killing-mother/article34122304.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||RT-PCR testing resumes at Talapady checkpost on NH-66||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has reopened the RT-PCR testing facility at Talapady checkpost on National Highway 66 to enable regular commuters between Kerala and Karnataka to undergo the test for COVID-19. About 300 persons have been undergoing tests at the checkpost daily since Thursday, though the officials are not insisting on the production of RT-PCR negative certificates. Rakshith, a resident of Uppala in Kerala, who works in a civil engineering firm in Mangaluru, was among the many who subjected himself to the test on Saturday. “Though checking is not being done right now, I do not want to get caught napping as checking might resume any day. Hence, I am subjecting myself to the test,” he said. Mr. Rakshit had subjected himself to an RT-PCR test in February at the checkpost. “Before I could get the result, the checking was stopped,” he said. Among the others who were subjected to an RT-PCR test on Saturday was James, from Manjeshwar, the conductor of a private bus bearing Kerala registration number that operates on an interior route between Talapady and Kasaragod. “Yesterday, officials at the checkpost told us to carry COVID-19 negative certificates. As it is convenient and free, I am subjecting myself to the test at this checkpost.” Zakir, another resident of Uppala, who is scheduled to go by road to Bengaluru on Saturday, also subjected himself to a test. Several motorists were seen voluntarily stopping at the testing centre and taking the test. Staff posted The Health Department has posted four persons each for the morning and evening shifts at the testing centre. While three persons do the registration, one technician collects the nasal and throat swabs. At the end of the day, the samples are taken to the Government Wenlock Hospital for testing. Three Home Guards each have been posted for the morning, evening, and night shifts since Friday for checking COVID-19 negative certificates. “Yesterday, we told regular commuters to carry certificateS from Saturday. When we started checking the certificates from Saturday, there was a heated exchange of words with a few motorists. Then we were asked to stop. We are awaiting further instructions,” said a Home Guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rt-pcr-testing-resumes-at-talapady-checkpost-on-nh-66/article34122492.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard saves six crew members near Kasaragod||The Karnataka unit of Indian Coast Guard on Saturday saved six crew members of a vessel which was in distress, about 30 nautical miles west of Kasaragod, Kerala. The vessel had sailed from Old Mangaluru Port on Friday. S.B. Venkatesh, Commander, Indian Coast Guard, Karnataka, said in a release that the dhow, MSV Safina-Al-Marizal, was carrying 120 tonnes of goods. It left Old Mangaluru Port on Friday at around 2.30 p.m. Five members of the crew were from Gujarat and one was from Mangaluru. The New Mangaluru Coast Guard Doriner 773, which was on a routine sortie, picked up a distress call from the crew of the dhow at 11.35 a.m. on Saturday. After about 30 minutes of search, the dornier sighted the debris of the dhow and its six crew members floating in the sea. The dornier personnel passed on the information to the Coast Guard control room, which despatched its C-448 vessel for a rescue mission. The vessel reached within an hour and rescued the six crew members of the dhow. They were brought to the New Mangalore Port and handed over to the Coastal Security Police and the Fisheries Department for further action. According to the initial assessment by the rescue team, the seepage of seawater into the dhow’s engine room led to it sinking, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-saves-six-crew-members-near-kasaragod/article34122494.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 4.67-cr. surplus Budget for Udupi CMC||Udupi City Municipal Council (CMC) has reserved Rs. 24.98 crore in its Budget for 2021-22 for revamping roads and drains in the city. It has allocated Rs. 53 lakh for revamping its sewage treatment plant (STP) at Nittur. The fund has mainly been reserved for purchasing modern equipment to purify sewage water. The president of the CMC, Sumithra Nayak, presented a surplus Budget of Rs. 4.67 crore for 2021-22 at the council’s general body meeting on Saturday. The total receipts have been estimated at Rs. 146.91 crore, while the expenditure has been projected at Rs. 142.24 crore. The Budget has laid stress on increasing greenery and beautification of the city. Parks are to be developed at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh. In her address, the president said that measures would be taken to prevent pollution of Indrani rivulet, which has been contaminated for many years now. A project to build a revetment wall along the path of the rivulet will be taken up. “Partial work is being undertaken by the CMC using its own fund. However, more funds are expected from the State government. A proposal has been sent to the government in this regard,” she said. Kunjibettu ward councillor Girish Anchan said that the proposal to construct ‘Visvesvaraya Commercial Complex’ in the heart of the city under PPP model was a good one as it would bring more revenue to the CMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-467-cr-surplus-budget-for-udupi-cmc/article34122489.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Stone with Portuguese inscription a gravestone||Officials of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) have said that the stone with Portuguese inscription found on the premises of the College of Fisheries, at Hoigebazar in the city, a week ago is a gravestone. It belongs to Antonio [probably Teixeira] de Macedo Nobleman, who was killed by the moors in the siege of the fort, probably in 1528 or 1628 or 1728, professor and dean of the college A. Senthil Vel said in a release on Saturday, quoting ASI officials. Another inscription has Kannada characters of 12-13th Century CE. Several lines in the slab have been damaged and worn out. The ASI has interpreted from the existing script that it is a record of a gift of 100 gadeyana, which means 100 gold coins. These coins were initially given to some person for lighting a lamp perpetually. The lamp was being lit to act as a lighthouse as the area where it was found was a trading port (presently Old Mangaluru Port). Such a lamp, perpetually lit, can also be an indication of a temple. The rulers during those days belonged to the Alupa dynasty in the then south Canara, Prof. Vel quoted the ASI as saying. The stones were found while the ground was being excavated for constructing a building under the Smart City Mission. They were noticed by Shreyash G. Bhandary, a third-year B.F.Sc student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stone-with-portuguese-inscription-a-gravestone/article34122491.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Six places identified for setting up heliports’||Minister for Tourism, Environment and Ecology C.P. Yogeshwar said here on Saturday that Mangaluru was among six places identified for setting up heliports in the State for promoting tourism and improving connectivity under UDAN scheme. At an interactive session on ‘promoting tourism in the coastal belt’ organised by the Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists, the Minister said that a heliport was like a base camp from where tourists/people can hire helicopters to the identified places where helipads have been built. It is just like operating a bus from a depot to different identified places. It is not just tourists who can hire the helicopters; others in any emergency can do so. The other places identified are Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubballi, Hampi, and Kalaburagi. “These are the six circuits identified. The helicopters will operate in a radius of 100 km to 200 km, offering their services to tourists and others,” he said. The Minister also said that the government intended to promote seaplane service in the coastal belt for boosting tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-places-identified-for-setting-up-heliports/article34122083.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Meeting||MESCOM will conduct a meeting of its consumers in virtual mode at its sub-division office in Vitla on Wednesday. It will be from 11 a.m. to noon. Call 08255-239909.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting/article34122498.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone for bathing ghat laid||The seer of Udupi Sode Mutt Vishwavallabha Tirtha laid the foundation stone for the ‘Krishnaangaraka bathing ghat on the Swarna bank in Sheembra-Perampalli near Udupi on Saturday. The Minor Irrigation Department has sanctioned Rs. 1 crore to take up this project. Speaking on the occasion, the seer said that the project would not only benefit the devotees who visit Siddivinayaka Temple on the bank of the Swarna, but would also boost the tourism prospects. The Tirtha Prabhanda travelogue by Vadiraja Swami, the 16th century Dwaita philosopher, mentioned this place. President of Udupi City Municipal Council Sumithra Nayak and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-for-bathing-ghat-laid/article34122499.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||118 new COVID-19 cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||With 52 new COVID-19 cases and 14 patients discharged, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada went up to 492 on Saturday. A fine of Rs. 37.91 lakh has so far been collected in 36,835 cases of people not wearing masks. In Udupi, 66 new cases were reported and 12 patients were discharged on Saturday. The number of active cases stood at 193. As many as 26,736 persons aged above 60 and 3,992 persons aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Dakshina Kannada, while 31,514 aged above 60 and 4,956 persons aged above 45 have received the vaccine in Udupi so far. So far, 38,550 (first dose) and 23,825 (second dose) healthcare workers and 6,666 (first dose) and 2,311 (second dose) frontline workers have received the vaccine, respectively, in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/118-new-covid-19-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article34122500.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister escapes unhurt||Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar escaped unhurt following the collapse of the temporary stage laid to offer puja to the Nandini here on Saturday. Mr. Yogeshwar had come to inaugurate the two-day Nandini River festival in Sasihitlu here on Saturday evening. The temporary stage was laid on the banks of Nandini. Soon after the Minister went up on to the stage it collapsed. Mayor Premanand Shetty, hereditary trustee of Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple Anantapadmanabha Asran, and few other persons were on stage. Volunteers rushed to help the Minister and others persons, who had minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-escapes-unhurt/article34122501.ece
21 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘OBC tag for Panchamasalis should not hurt others’||The inclusion of Panchamasalis and other communities in the OBC category should not be at the cost of other communities, namely the Billavas and Thiyas which are claiming reservation under this category, said MLA for Mangaluru U.T. Khader on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said Billava, Thiya, and Kulal communities from Dakshina Kannada are among the communities in the 2A category of OBC. If the demand of Panchamasalis for inclusion in the 2A OBC category is accepted, it will cause great injustice to Billavas and other communities, he said. He also said it was unfortunate that Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, and the seven BJP MLAs from Dakshina Kannada were being “silent” on the rights of OBCs who have been backing the BJP. “The Congress will stand for the rights of all OBCs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/obc-tag-for-panchamasalis-should-not-hurt-others/article34122495.ece
21 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MUDA to focus on drinking water, housing schemes||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) proposes a comprehensive drinking water project to cater to the future requirements of the city, take up group housing and joint development of residential layouts with landowners, and kickstart the Peripheral Ring Road development with the involvement of RITES. These are some of the salient projects announced in the MUDA Budget for 2021-22 which envisages an income of Rs. 1,468.85 crore and an expenditure of Rs. 1,083.11 crore, leaving it with a surplus of Rs. 385.74 crore. The MUDA Budget was presented by Commissioner D.B. Natesh here on Saturday. The drinking water project is expected to cater to the requirements of R.T.Nagar, Vijayanagar 4th stage and private layouts surrounding it, Devanur 3rd stage and surrounding areas, Ambedkar Nagar A and B block, Sathgalli 2nd stage and surrounding areas, Vasanth Nagar, Lal Bahadur Shastri Nagar, Shanthaveri Gopalgowda Nagar and surrounding areas. The new schemes will be taken up by the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board and will meet the requirements of the projected population for the next 30 years. The MUDA has earmarked Rs. 25 crore for the Haleunduwadi drinking water scheme to be taken up by the KUWSDB and Rs. 30 crore to shore up the capacity of the Bidargudu-Kabini drinking water scheme. While the group housing and joint development of residential layouts is a concept that has been announced in the past, the PRR gets an official stamp with the allocation of Rs. 100 lakh towards the preparation of a feasibility report and a DPR by RITES. The MUDA proposes to construct high-rise apartments at Vijayanagar 4th stage, Dattagalli 2nd stage and Gokulam 3rd stage. In all, 1,144 housing units will come up in these apartments at a cost of Rs. 372.36 crore against which the allocation is Rs. 100 crore for the financial year 2021-22. The MUDA will also take up a housing scheme for the benefit of migrant workers employed in the industrial areas of Mysuru and who live in temporary sheds. The proposal is to construct housing units of 350 sq ft to 500 sq ft with the involvement and contribution of the Department of Labour, and MUDA has earmarked Rs. 5 crore for it. The joint development of residential areas in partnership with the landowners is a idea which is floating since almost a decade but the budget has earmarked Rs. 15 crore for it. MUDA has received approval for joint development of plots from the landowners in Udbur-Daripura, Bommenahalli, Devagalli-Mulluru and Vajamangala. The allocation is Rs. 50 crore. The MUDA has received clearance for joint development of plots on a swathe of 145 acres of land at Udbur-Daripura for the development of 2,500 plots, 160 acres in Bommenhalli where 2,800 plots can be developed, 78 acres in Devgalli-Mulluru where 1400 plots can be developed and 132 acres in Vajamangala where 2,376 plots can be developed. Mr. Natesh said the PPR for Mysuru was included in the Mysuru Master Plan 2031 and entails a length of 87.17 km and will facilitate the growth of Mysuru and would cater to its long-term requirements. Besides this, 14 important roads in the city will be developed at a cost of Rs. 24 crore. The Budget plans to revive and restore some of the water bodies in and around Mysuru and they include Bogadi lake, Devanur lake, Kergalli lake, Ayyajayyanahundi lake, Balahalli lake and Sathalli lake on survey number 106. This is in addition to other minor water bodies in the region and the MUDA has earmarked Rs. 4 crore for the purpose in the new financial year against the projected expenditure of Rs. 12.74 crore.  MUDA will take up a housing scheme for the benefit of migrant workers employed in the industrial areas of Mysuru and who live in temporary sheds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-to-focus-on-drinking-water-housing-schemes/article34122518.ece
21 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||A slew of projects to shore up the city’s green quotient||The MUDA Budget for the financial year 2021-22 has a slew of projects for the city which is expected to shore up its green and clean quotient once implemented. Also in the offing is a new tourism project at the Bannimantap Grounds where the visitors can spend at least 4 hours to 5 hours. The MUDA plans to have a planetarium, a science museum on the lines of Visvesvaraya Museum in Bengaluru, a toy train for children etc., on a 16-acre plot for which the MUDA has earmarked Rs. 10 crore for the new financial year. Sewage treatment The Budget has earmarked funds for 10 sewage treatment plants and a solid waste treatment plant at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore in the city limits. It has also identified Devanur layout for installation of a similar plant at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore to cater to handle waste generated locally. Concrete and building debris recycling plants are also proposed jointly with the Mysuru City Corporation and the MUDA has earmarked Rs. 1 crore. The maharajas had earmarked 20 acres of land adjoining Kukkarahalli Lake and Saraswathipuram for the development of Lal Bagh, in 1921. The MUDA plans to develop a portion of it which is now vacant as a mini Lal Bagh and has earmarked Rs. 1 crore for it. Green cess The development of Freedom Park has received Rs. 2 crore and the MUDA plans to introduce a 2 per cent green cess on layout development plan fee. Skating rink track development is also in the offing while urban forestry project will also be encouraged and 100 parks will be developed under PPP model. Clocktowers in the new MUDA layouts, construction of arches at the gates leading to Mysuru city, and development of ‘Autonagar’ are other proposals in the Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-slew-of-projects-to-shore-up-the-citys-green-quotient/article34122516.ece
21 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘BSY indulging in adjustment politics’||A.H. Vishwanath, former Minister and BJP MLC, on Saturday questioned the need to have brought down the erstwhile coalition government of the Congress and the JD(S) in the State, while hitting out at Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for allegedly covering up the wrongdoings of former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Vishwanath once again trained his guns at the Chief Minister and said the State was not run by a BJP government, but by “a type of national government” headed by Mr. Yediyurappa. “Mr. Siddaramaiah protects Mr. Kumaraswamy and the latter returns the favour. Both of them together protect Mr Yediyurappa. All of them are practising adjustment politics to cover up their corrupt practices,” he rued. He said there had been “adjustment” politics not only for corruption, but also in the sleaze CD episode involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who was incidentally one of the coalition MLAs involved in bringing down the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. While Mr. Siddaramaiah was playing “adjustment politics” to cover up the alleged Arkavathi Layout denotification case, Mr. Kumaraswamy was doing the same to hide the alleged phone tapping case. Referring to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s tweet asking for a vaccine for the BJP government’s corruption in Karnataka, Mr. Vishwanath sought to question who destroyed the “vaccine” called Lokayukta and accused the Congress leader of sounding the death knell of Lokayukta just to cover up his alleged corruption in the Arkavathi case. Mr. Siddaramaiah, responding to the allegation, wondered what moral right a person who resigned as JD(S) State unit president to join the BJP have to talk about “adjustment politics”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-indulging-in-adjustment-politics/article34122094.ece
21 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||World Sparrow Day observed, bamboo bird houses distributed||The once ubiquitous sparrow which is fast disappearing from the urban milieu came to spotlight as World Sparrow Day was observed in the city on Saturday. Activists of Jeev Daya Jain Charity (JDJC) which has launched a “Save Sparrow’’ initiative to revive the sparrow population in the city, distributed earthen and bamboo bird houses, bamboo bird feeders and water bowls to the public. Nearly 200 sets of the earthen bird houses and water bowls were distributed at Kukkarahalli lake main entrance opposite the horse stable. That the sparrow numbers are dwindling across India has been documented and there are individual initiatives to revive the bird population. Experts and ornithologists attribute the dwindling population to rapid urbanisation and disappearance of habitat suitable to the bird and non-availability of food as fruit bearing trees have been replaced by ornamental plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/world-sparrow-day-observed-bamboo-bird-houses-distributed/article34122520.ece
21 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Publish caste census report: Siddaramaiah||The former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Saturday urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to immediately accept the report of the caste census and publish it. When his attention was drawn to the utility of the caste census in light of the ongoing campaigns for reservation by various communities, he said the caste census had been completed during his tenure as Chief Minister. The report was ready subsequently, but former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy refused to accept it. Even incumbent Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has not accepted the report for the past two years, Mr. Siddaramaiah lamented, before seeking its acceptance by the Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission. He said he was not aware of the reason behind the delay in acceptance of the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/publish-caste-census-report-siddaramaiah/article34122321.ece
21 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Felicitated||The Department of Visual Communication, Amrita School of Arts and Sciences, Mysuru and the alumni of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, felicitated two persons on Saturday. P. Nireekshith and Zubin Paul won international awards for the movie ‘Avalakki Pavalakki’. A release said Nireekshith, who is the recipient of Best Cinematography Award at Sweden Film Awards (December 2020) and Port Blair International Film Festival (January 2021) for the movie, was a student of B.Sc Visual Media in 2014. Zubin Paul, who did his BSc in Visual Media and MSc in Visual Communication, won award for the best orginal score and best musical theme at Port Blair International Film Festival (Jan. 2021), Best Composer award at American Golden Picture International Film Festival 2021 (Jacksonville, Florida, USA) and Best Original Score at Depth of Field International Film Festival, UFFO for the same movie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitated/article34122513.ece
21 March 2021||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Free fruits, buttermilk||Fruit and vegetable merchants, who are worried about the impact of the amendments to APMC law, offered watermelons to farmers attending the event. Arrangements were made to distribute water bottles, bananas, and buttermilk to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-fruits-buttermilk/article34122088.ece
21 March 2021||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Green shawls everywhere||The first Mahapanchayat of farmers in Shivamogga created demand for green shawls. Farmers and activists of political parties sported green shawls at the convention. Interestingly, the organisers also distributed green shawls to journalists covering the event as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-shawls-everywhere/article34122095.ece
21 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister says decision on candidates for byelections soon||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that a discussion is on regarding the candidates for the byelection to Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies and also for the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. The list of the final candidates will possibly be announced in a day or two, he added. The Chief Minister was talking to reporters in Sindhanur town of Raichur district on Saturday after arriving from Bengaluru to attend a rally in Maski. The Chief Minister, who was confident about winning, said, “We will fight the byelections based on out development works.” ‘Will help BJP’ When asked about the inclusion of former MP K. Veeruapkashappa into the party, Mr. Yediyurappa said that his entry will help the BJP in the byelections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-says-decision-on-candidates-for-byelections-soon/article34122313.ece
21 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir DC hears woes of villagers at Bilhar||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya heard the grievances of the public at Bilhar village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district during the ‘Jilladhikaari Nade Halli Kade’ and solved the many problems on the spot. Venkatreddy Mudnal, MLA, inaugurated the programme on Saturday. A majority of the problems were related to the Revenue Department. Dr. Ragapriya solved some of the issues on the sport.  She also visited the high school and spent some time with students. Later, she visited the anganwadi centre and sanctioned three additional rooms when she saw the poor condition of the current rooms. Meanwhile, Shilpa Sharma, Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat, who accompanied the Deputy Commissioner, came down heavily on the officials for not implementing Jala Jeevan Mission programme for providing tap water to the students in the government school. She also inspected the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-dc-hears-woes-of-villagers-at-bilhar/article34122315.ece
21 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Vardhanti Mahotsava celebrated at mutt||The 426th Vardhanti Mahotsava of Sri Raghavendra Swami at Mantralayam in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh was celebrated in a grand manner at the mutt on Saturday. Officials of Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams (TTD), who came from Tirumala, handed over the Seshavastram to Sri Subudhendra Tirtha Swami, the Peethadhipati of the mutt. He carried the Seshavastram on his head in a grand procession and offered the special puja at Mulabrindavan. Later, Panchamruta Abhishekam and Rathostavam were conducted. Officials of TTD hand over the Seshavastram during every year’s Vardhanti celebration. Several hundreds of devotees participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vardhanti-mahotsava-celebrated-at-mutt/article34122324.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BEML plants in Mysuru, KGF to manufacture export orders||BEML Limited, a ‘Schedule A’ company under the Ministry of Defence, has received export orders from Cameroon and Bangladesh under Government of India-Lines of Credit. The order for Cameroon, received from the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Regional Development, is for the supply of 71 units of construction equipment, consisting of bulldozers, excavators, wheel loaders, motor graders, and compactors for their Cassava Farm Project. The order for Bangladesh, received from the Ministry of Roads and Highways Department, is for the supply of construction equipment consisting of wheel dozers for construction, repair, and maintenance of road and infrastructure projects. Valued around $23 million, the equipment will have more than 90% indigenous content and will be manufactured at BEML’s Mysuru and KGF plants, signifying the spirit of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ with thrust on going global, a press release said. BEML isserving India’s core sectors, including defence, rail, power, mining, and construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beml-plants-in-mysuru-kgf-to-manufacture-export-orders/article34122519.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. functionary passes away||Former president of Mysuru Zilla Panchayat K.C. Balaram passed away in Bengaluru in the early hours of Saturday. “He was taken to a private hospital, where he breathed his last”, said a Congress leader in Mysuru. Mr. Balaram was hurt and depressed over his loss in the recently held elections to the post of Directors in Mysuru District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Societies Union Limited (MYMUL).  A close aide of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, he had served as president of Mysuru Zilla Panchayat when he was in Janata Dal (S) along with Mr. Siddaramaiah. Mr. Balaram, who had served as a Director of MYMUL from 2015, lost the recent elections, which was in the news for the prestige battle between former Ministers S.R. Mahesh and G.T. Deve Gowda. Mr. Balaram, who had lost one son in a road accident a couple of years ago, leaves behind his wife and another son. His body was brought to his native village Kupya on the outskirts of Mysuru for the last rites. Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah who arrived in Mysuru for the last rites said he and Mr. Balaram were together in politics since 1973. His loss in the MYMUL elections had upset him. However, Mr. Siddaramaiah said Mr. Balaram did not express his hurt when he spoke to him on the day the results were announced. Upset? May Mr. Siddaramaiah said Mr. Balaram may have been upset as he had never lost an election. “He had won in the elections to Zilla Panchayat and other cooperative bodies. He was hopeful of winning this time too”, the former Chief Minister said.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-functionary-passes-away/article34122515.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to sponsor Mangaluru kite festival||Earlier, kite flyer Dinesh Holla from ‘Team Mangaluru’ sought the government’s support for the festival. The Minister asked the stakeholders of tourism in the coastal belt to sit together and prepare an itinerary of activities to be promoted in the belt by linking the activities. “Provide the government a concrete plan to attract tourists to the coastal belt,” he said. B.S. Girish, vice-president, Hotel Ocean Pearl, said that organising kambala events in the belt is becoming a personal affair. It can be promoted as a sports event in a particular place by making four or more pairs of buffaloes to run in slush tracks at a time. There is a need to prepare a calendar of events of tourism activities in the belt. Naren Koduvattat, IT professional, said that tourism activities should be planned in such a way that tourists should be retained in the coastal belt for sometime to enable them to attend the activities and visit places. The homestay concept should be nurtured with the support of the government. Mr. Koduvattat drew the attention of the Minister on the urgent need to protect the beaches, especially in Udupi district, from the menace of building sea walls. The pristine beaches are being lost in the coastal belt, he said, adding that yacht tourism can be promoted. Other suggestions emerged included need for the marketing of tourist attractions at the Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama and the like.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-sponsor-mangaluru-kite-festival/article34122503.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Will BJP ticket go to Angadi family?||Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said that the BJP is considering a member from former Union Minister Suresh Angadi’s family to contest the Belagavi bypolls. Speaking at Sambra airport, he said the State leadership had forwarded three names to the Central election committee. Sources in the party said that earlier it was decided that the party will not field any member of the Angadi family. “This was in line with the party’s stand against politics of succession. This opinion was further cemented after senior leaders expressed displeasure at some of Mr. Angadi’s followers putting up banners in the name of ‘Suresh Angadi Fans Association’ during the party executive committee meeting in Belagavi last year,” said a senior member of the party’s state election committee. However, the demand that ticket should rest with the former Union Minister’s family have been many and long standing. Lingaraj Patil, former Karnataka oil federation chairman and relative of Mr. Angadi, asked Nalin Kumar Kateel, party State unit president, and other leaders to nominate Mangala Angadi, the former Minister’s wife, or other members of the family. Ramesh Katti, District Central Cooperative Bank chairman and brother of Umesh Katti, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies, said he would exit from the race if Angadi’s family member was to be chosen. Prakash Hukkeri, Congress leader, hit the headlines by saying he would campaign for the BJP if Angadi’s relatives were nominated. The party’s Raitha Morcha wing brought in Shraddha Angadi-Shettar, the former Union Minister’s daughter and daughter-in-law of Jagadish Shettar, Industries Minister, to attend a farmers’ meeting a few weeks ago. However, no leader has openly acknowledged that their names were on the shortlist of candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-bjp-ticket-go-to-angadi-family/article34122087.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Restored to its former glory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restored-to-its-former-glory/article34122057.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bright start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bright-start/article34122497.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry: Karnataka Coastline Business Conclave, Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Major and Medium Industries, to inaugurate, Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, to be guest, TMA Pai International Convention Centre, M.G. Road, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34122490.ece
21 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Awaiting revival stimulus from govt.||Chandrababu, 54, from Puthanambalam, near Muhamma, in Alappuzha has been a traditional coir worker for the past several years. After the COVID-19 outbreak wreaked havoc, his life has turned topsy-turvy as he failed to get regular work, which in turn affected his earnings. “I am an employee of a small unit making coir geotextiles. On an average, I get only three to four days of work per week, that too with a meagre salary. I don’t know when the situation will improve,” he says. Although the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has made interventions and initiated several steps to revive the crisis-ridden coir industry, a lot more needs to be done to ensure the survival of the sector, which employs thousands of people in the State. “Whoever comes to power in the State after elections, it should ensure the welfare of the traditional coir workers by guaranteeing regular work and wages,” Mr. Chandrababu says. Attention sought M. Kumara Pillai, Director (Marketing) (retired), Coir Board, says the next government should focus on helping traditional workers and small-scale producers. “Compared to the mechanised sector, a chunk of the workers is employed in the handloom sector (traditional sector). Although the coir industry is registering an overall growth between 10% and 15% every year, the traditional sector is on the decline. That should be a concern for the government. It should carry out a detailed study on how to rehabilitate and enhance the income of employees in the handloom sector along with making interventions to find a market for the products. The government should also consider introducing a minimum income support scheme with a subsidy for the traditional sector,” says Mr. Pillai. Tech upgrade Jospaul Mathew and Sajan B. Nair, chairman and secretary general respectively of the Federation of Indian Coir Exporters Associations (FICEA), say upgradation of technology and restructuring of wages by merging DA with the basic pay in tune with other traditional industries are the need of the hour. “There is a need to repair and carry out maintenance of the age-old equipment/machinery in the handloom sector. Fully automated high productivity defibering machines and coir spinning machines should be installed to improve coir fibre and yarn production. Coir ply factories utilising waste coir fibre should be set up as a substitute to plywood,” they say. The FICEA wants the next government to set up a coir commodity board with the participation of all stakeholders along with bringing payment of bonus under the Bonus Act and rules. It suggests a new scheme for the technological upgradation of the industry by providing a financial subsidy of 25% up to a maximum of Rs. 2.5 crore on investment up to Rs. 10 crore.  The government should consider a minimum income support scheme with a subsidy for the traditional sector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awaiting-revival-stimulus-from-govt/article34122397.ece
21 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Webcasting in 1,150 booths in Alappuzha||Webcasting facilities will be arranged in 1,150 polling booths in the Assembly polls in the district. Of the booths, 51 have been identified as hyper-sensitive and 139, sensitive. Proceedings from 188 polling booths in Amablappuzha will be webcast live. It is followed by Kayamkulam (148), Haripad (144), Mavelikara (127), Alappuzha (123), Cherthala (115), Chengannur (109), Aroor (105) and Kuttanad (91). A control room in the collectorate will monitor proceedings in these booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webcasting-in-1150-booths-in-alappuzha/article34122462.ece
21 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Power use touches all-time high||Power consumption reached an all-time high in the State on Friday. The total power consumption in the State on Friday was 88.417 mu (million units), as per data from the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC), Kalamassery. Previously, the high was 88.3386 mu recorded on May 23, 2019, the day of counting of votes in the last Parliament elections. An SLDC official on Saturday said there were chances of power consumption going above the present level in the coming days as the mercury was on the rise. He said temperatures had been ruling high in the past few days, which reflected in the power consumption levels too. Peak time consumption Normally, the peak hour consumption was from 7 p.m. to 8.30 pm. Now, the peak time consumption was from 10 p.m. to 12 pm. The increased use of air-conditioners and cooling equipment had resulted in the spike in power consumption. On Friday, power generated from hydel, thermal, wind farm, and solar power units in the State was 29.6461 mu. About 58.771 mu was imported from outside sources, said officials. A Kerala State Electricity Board official said the main hydel power station of the Idukki reservoir at Moolamattam generated 12.939 mu on Friday. All six generators were operating. The official said there was good storage in the reservoir to meet the demands of the summer. The storage in the reservoir on Saturday was 2,356.91 ft, which was 52% of the total storage level. Climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil said the reason for the rise in temperature was the movement of the sun towards the northern hemisphere and the situation would change with summer rain. The sun would reach the middle of the earth on March 22. The influence of the cloud formation and the nearness of the State to the movement of the sun also resulted in the rise in mercury. He said absence of clouds during the day resulted in direct sunlight. If there were clouds during daytime, it would lower the temperature and cloudy air during the night would increase the temperature level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-use-touches-all-time-high/article34122432.ece
21 March 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Papers of NDA candidate in Devikulam rejected||The nomination of Dhanalakshmi Marimuthu, National Democratic Alliance candidate in the Devikulam constituency, was rejected on Saturday. She was fielded by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which is in alliance with the NDA. The papers were rejected on the ground that the candidate had failed to fill Form 26. The nomination of her dummy candidate Ponnu Pandi was also rejected. Ms. Marimuthu said the same model of nomination papers were submitted for the Devikulam and Udumbanchola constituencies and she would approach the Election Commission. The nomination of another dummy candidate and BJP district secretary K.S. Aji was also rejected. Following this, Independent candidate S. Ganeshan was selected as the new NDA candidate in Devikulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/papers-of-nda-candidate-in-devikulam-rejected/article34122463.ece
21 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||CPI leader C.A. Kurian dies||Former Deputy Speaker and senior Communist Party of India (CPI) leader C.A. Kurian, 88, died in Munnar on Saturday. Mr. Kurian, who was undergoing treatment at Munnar Tata Tea General Hospital for age-related ailments, died in the morning. He served as Deputy Speaker from 1996 to 2001. Mr. Kurian represented the Peerumade Assembly constituency in 1977, 1980, and 1996. Mr. Kurian was State secretary of the All India Trade Union Congress, general secretary of the Indian Plantation Workers Federation, and CPI State executive member. Mr. Kurian was born at Puthuppally in Kottayam in 1933. He started his career as a bank employee and resigned the job in 1960. He came to Idukki to work for the welfare of tea plantation workers. Key role in Idukki Mourning his death, CPI leaders said Mr. Kurian had played a key role in making the party and its union prominent in Idukki, especially in plantation areas. Condoling the death of the veteran leader, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Mr. Kurian fought for the rights of the plantation workers in the State.  (Input from Press Trust of India)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-leader-ca-kurian-dies/article34122420.ece
21 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||NDA candidate’s papers rejected in Thalassery||The nomination papers of NDA candidate in Thalassery N. Haridas was rejected on Saturday. The Thalassery RDO rejected the documents citing that Form (A) submitted by Mr. Haridas, who is also the BJP Kannur district president, did not bear the signature of party national president J.P. Nadda. Mr. Haridas told the media that he had filed nomination on Friday at 12 noon. But when the issue was brought to his attention, he had got the signed document online and submitted it along with an affidavit at 3 p.m. But the official refused to accept them. “I will approach the Supreme Court with the documents, and we are hopeful of a favourable order,” he said. Meanwhile, the RDO confirmed that Mr. Haridas had not submitted Form A in time and in the required format. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to campaign for the BJP candidate in the constituency on May 25. However, with the rejection of the nomination, there are indications that the party may cancel the programme. The rejection of the nomination has triggered a political turmoil in the constituency where the BJP has a substantial vote share. In the last Assembly election, party candidate V.K. Sajeevan had garnered 22,125 votes.  Meanwhile, CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan alleged that the agreement between the BJP and the Congress was coming to light. He said that it was hard to believe that the incident happened due to carelessness. “It only shows that there is an agreement between the Congress and the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nda-candidates-nomination-papers-rejected-in-thalassery/article34122377.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Catapulted to the spotlight by a candidate||Piravom, the sleepy Assembly constituency straddling Ernakulam and Kottayam districts, was barely a blip on the electoral radar till the Left Democratic Front (LDF) announced its candidate. The announcement literally shook up things and pitchforked the constituency into prime time news almost overnight. While the LDF’s decision to allocate the seat to its ally Kerala Congress (M) was expected, it was the choice of candidate that surprised even the rival fronts. The decision to field Sindhumol Jacob, the CPI(M)-backed block panchayat member from Uzhavoor, did not go down well with the local CPI(M) rank and file, not to mention the outburst of KC(M) councillor and long-time seat aspirant Gils Periappuram who raised the spectre of ‘payment seat’ against party chairperson Jose K. Mani. Having resigned from the party, Mr. Periappuram has since campaigned against KC(M) candidates in Kottayam. To make matters worse, news spread that Ms. Jacob, who was a CPI(M) branch committee member from Uzhavoor, was ousted from the party to make way for her contest as the KC(M) candidate. Later, party district secretary V.N. Vasavan clarified that she was no longer a member and hence there was no need for an ouster. Eyeing a hat-trick The constituency has been a pocket borough of the Kerala Congress (Jacob) with the late T.M. Jacob representing it five times. The incumbent is his son Anoop Jacob, now a two-time MLA. The United Democratic Front camp remains confident of securing a hat-trick of victories for Mr. Jacob by exploiting the churning within the LDF over the candidate selection. The prognosis being that the grass-roots workers of the CPI(M), who even otherwise were reluctant to campaign for KC(M) having opposed the party all these decades, have been further antagonised by the ‘imported’ candidate. The CPI(M) camp, however, shoots down this argument claiming that its cadres are well regimented to set aside their predilections in the face of the party decision. It is further pointed out that the decision to field the candidate, a Jacobite married to a Knanaya Catholic, was not reckless, but a shrewd and tactical one against the backdrop of the prevailing feud between the Jacobite and Orthodox factions of the Malankara Church, which remains a critical electoral issue in the constituency. BJP’s hope The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken back the constituency from its ally, the Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), and fielded M. Ashish, a two-time panchayat member. The party hopes to improve on the vote share of the BDJS candidate in the last election by taking advantage of the national leadership’s mediatory role in the Church feud. It expects its Nair candidate to receive the support of both the Jacobite and Orthodox factions. The constituency is a fairly large one constituting of Piravom and Koothattukulam municipalities and parts of Tripunithura municipality and nine grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catapulted-to-the-spotlight-by-a-candidate/article34122404.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Straight fight on the cards in Angamaly||An intense straight fight between two contenders seems to be emerging in the Angamaly Assembly constituency. The Congress has fielded sitting MLA Roji M. John to retain its hold over the segment, while the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is banking on Jose Thettayil of the Janata Dal (Secular) to recapture it. Mr. John had ended the two consecutive terms of Mr. Thettayil in 2016, after the latter had to stay out of the electoral scene following a sexual harassment case against him. The United Democratic Front (UDF) camp has claimed that its candidate will sail through in the final lap. “We are requesting voters to help in ensuring UDF rule in the next five years. Despite being an MLA representing the Opposition benches, I was able to play a key role in the development of the constituency in the last five years,” said Mr. John, who defeated Benny Moonjely of the JD(S) by 9,184 votes in the 2016 election. Infrastructure projects Mr. Thettayil alleged that the sitting MLA had failed to execute various developmental projects despite the allocation of funds by the LDF government. “The Angamaly bypass project and Kalady bridge are some of the projects pending even after the allotment of sufficient funds. The voters are aware of the multi-crore infrastructure projects and other welfare initiatives implemented here during my term,” he said. BJP vote share The Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has fielded K.V. Sabu to step up its vote share in the constituency. It has chosen a member of the Jacobite community hoping that he may get a share of the votes. However, the rival fronts reminded that it might not work, as the Jacobite faction has announced an “equidistance” policy in the election. “We hope to improve our performance, especially after the performance in the local body elections. The party had won two seats in the municipality, besides bagging seats in Thuravoor, Parakkadavu and Kalady panchayats,” said Mr. Sabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-straight-fight-on-the-cards/article34122409.ece
21 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Absence of ace campaigner casts shadow over contest in Vypeen||It is not the candidates in the fray but the one missing who looms large over the electoral scene in the coastal constituency of Vypeen. Two-time legislator from Vypeen S. Sarma had turned the constituency into a Left fortress, with his majority of nearly 20,000 votes in the second contest being the best for an LDF candidate in the district. His absence is as much a loss to the LDF as it is an opportunity for the UDF, though the campaign managers of both the fronts will not admit it. Mr. Sarma has the ability to draw votes cutting across caste and communal equations while holding on to his solid vote bank of the fishing community banking on his goodwill as a former Fisheries Minister. Transferring those votes en-bloc to its candidate K.N. Unnikrishnan would be easier said than done for the LDF, and that leaves the UDF camp hopeful of the prospects of its candidate Deepak Joy. The BJP’s K.S. Shaiju and Twenty20 candidate Job Chakkalakkal complete the electoral scene. Discounting Mr. Joy’s single stint as a councillor of the Kochi Corporation in the UDF-led previous council, all four are debutants. That both LDF and UDF candidates belong to the Ezhava community leaves neither with an edge on that account, whereas the BJP candidate’s Dheevara community background may play to his advantage in some pockets of the fishing community. Except for Mr. Shaiju, none are from the constituency either. The rumblings within the Congress over seat allocation meant that the UDF had announced its candidate a fortnight after the LDF’s announcement. INTUC leader K.P. Haridas, with the solid backing of the trade union, was one of the aspirants, and the Congress, in an effort to avert a rebellion, made him the District Congress Committee (DCC) working president. The UDF camp claimed that the disputes were behind it and was now a united force behind the young candidate who is also the national coordinator of the Youth Congress. The proposed visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to the constituency, tentatively scheduled for next week, has upped the spirit of the UDF campaign managers. Unlike its prominence in Kunnathunadu, where it is a force to reckon with, Twenty20 remains a marginal player in the coastal constituency, according to election observers. Campaign issues Drinking water shortage, city entry of private buses, inundation of houses during high tide, and demand for coastal highway are among the main campaign issues in the constituency. Of the eight panchayats constituting the constituency, the UDF won Mulavukad, Edavanakkad, Nayarambalam and Elamkunnapuzha panchayats in the local body polls, while the LDF bagged Kadamakkudy, Kuzhupilly, Njarakkal and Pallippuram panchayats.  Unlike its prominence in Kunnathunadu, Twenty20 remains a marginal player in the coastal constituency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/absence-of-ace-campaigner-casts-shadow-over-contest-in-vypeen/article34122414.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No cheer for light and sound workers||The people behind creating the ‘sound’ and ‘fury’ in the election season remain in distress after being hit badly by the COVID-19 crisis. Light and sound workers, announcers and backstage artists engaged by the political parties to step up the election mood continue to suffer amidst hopes that the Assembly election may provide some succour to their shattered lives. “The 50,000-odd members affiliated to the Light and Sound Welfare Association of Kerala, which include people providing mike and sound systems on rent, announcers, and ‘pandal’ workers, have not yet come out of the financial crisis induced by the pandemic. We have lost an estimated Rs. 25 crore in terms of revenue and earnings after the breakout of COVID-19,” said Biju K. V, general secretary of the association. Hundreds had to leave their jobs as festivals, marriages and stage events were suspended following the crisis. “People who were offering mike systems on a smaller scale were the worst hit as they had no other option but to take up jobs in the construction sector or other odd jobs over the last one year,” he said. Abdul Raheem Kuzhippuram, president of the association and an announcer for long, said they had to sit at homes without any work after outdoor events and activities came to a halt since March last year.  Lack of avenues “The local body elections had witnessed a slight push in demand, but only a few had received assignments. With a sharp decline in the number of religious festivals and other public functions, the announcers ran out of opportunities,” he said. The association representatives pointed out that the Assembly elections may not bring a major change in their earnings as it is confined to 140 Assembly constituencies compared with the opportunities available in times of the three-tier local body elections. The decision by the major fronts to give improved focus on election campaign through social media and small gatherings in view of the pandemic had also dented the prospects of firms giving mike and sound systems on rent. Mr. Biju alleged that successive governments had neglected the concerns of the people working in the sector despite being a considerable vote bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-cheer-for-light-and-sound-workers/article34122406.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||228 more test positive in district||A total of 228 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. No new cases were recorded among health workers. Thirteen people have tested positive from Okkal, 10 from Thripunithura, nine from Piravom and eight each from Thrikkakara and Puthenvelikkara. As many as 128 people tested negative on Saturday. The active caseload is 2,945, and 7,792 samples were collected for testing. A total of 10,396 people remain in quarantine. While 2,343 people are recovering at home, 33 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 26 are at PVS Hospital, 12 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, and 148 are at private hospitals. At FLTCs, 16 people are recovering, and 74 patients are at SLTCs. Vaccination Mobile units began vaccinating residents at old age homes, and 138 people at four homes in Edathala and Asamannoor received the shot on Saturday. Five mobile units had been deployed, and each unit hoped to achieve a target of around 100 to 150 shots per day to cover all institutions for the elderly in about a week, said a health official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/228-more-test-positive-in-district/article34122416.ece
21 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Banana, tapioca farmers stare at steep price fall||Banana and tapioca farmers across the district are facing a steep fall in prices owing to a dip in demand, though banana farmers are looking forward to a slight improvement in the situation after March, ahead of the Onam season. The pandemic had seen farmers take up cultivation of both the crops seriously and expand acreage under them. It is learnt that there are around 8,000 hectares under ‘nendran’ and other banana varieties, while tapioca is spread over 5,000 hectares. Paulose Pongathil, a banana and tapioca farmer from Mekkadambu near Muvattupuzha, said that the price of nendran banana had fallen to Rs. 30 a kg this season as against Rs. 35 to Rs. 40 last season. He added that Rs. 35 to Rs. 40 would be the remunerative price for farmers. At the same time, the price of tapioca fell to Rs. 7 a kg. This is not a situation where tapioca cultivation is remunerative, said P. Sasheendran from Avoli. He added that he had harvested the crop on two acres and got only Rs. 7 a kg at the farm gate. “We are forced to sell at the price decided by merchants,” he said even as he felt that the cycle of price fall had hit farmers across the State hard. He added that Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 was expected this year, as COVID-19 restrictions had eased and demand was expected to pick up. Catering units The closure of catering business units in towns was one of the key reasons for the slackened demand for tapioca, which is an all-time favourite for those who eat out. Mr. Sasheendran said he had delayed harvesting tapioca from another 1.5 acres because of the low price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/banana-tapioca-farmers-stare-at-steep-price-fall/article34122411.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Twenty20 announces its new office-bearers||In an effort seemingly aimed at establishing its perceived increasing acceptance and legitimacy, Kitex-backed apolitical outfit Twenty20 on Saturday publicised the names of the new entrants to the organisation, which, it claimed, included the sons-in-law of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy actor Lal. This was announced at a media briefing by the office-bearers of the organisation, including its chairman Sabu M. Jacob and advisory committee chairman Kochouseph Chittilappilly. Mr. Chandy’s son-in-law Varghese George has reportedly given up his job as the chief executive officer of a Dubai-based company to join Twenty20. He was appointed as the youth wing coordinator of the outfit at an advisory committee meeting on Friday. He will also serve as a member of the advisory committee. Actor Lal’s son-in-law Alan Antony, who works for a foreign airline company, was named the youth wing president of the organisation. Mr. Lal is in the advisory committee, while entrepreneur Lakshmi Menon is the women’s wing president. Dr. George is the senior citizen wing president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twenty20-announces-its-new-office-bearers/article34122384.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB issues show-cause to Kochi Corporation||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has issued a show-cause notice to the Kochi Corporation for violation of environmental laws in connection with waste management at its Brahmapuram yard. Reply The notice has been issued by the Chief Environmental Engineer, Ernakulam, based on the directive of the PCB Chairman. The Corporation Secretary will have to submit a reply within 15 days. The civic body was found violating the provisions of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016; Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974; Environment (Protection) Act, 1986; and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Stating that the Corporation was showing negligence in ensuring proper management of solid waste at Brahmapuram, the notice pointed out that the civic body continued to collect biodegradable waste from other local bodies. It was being done despite the norm that those local bodies were duty-bound to manage waste as per the Municipal Solid Waste Rules, 2000. The Board would be forced to proceed with assessment of environmental damage or imposition of fine in view of the frequent fire outbreaks at the site. Such fire accidents caused damage to the environment in equal or similar proportions, it said. The Board found that fresh biodegradable waste taken to the plant was not properly segregated as per the directions given earlier. It was dumped over the old heaps of waste lying in dilapidated windrow sheds. Despite several directions by the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on solid waste management and the Board, the Corporation has not been able to practise spot treatment of fresh waste even after a gap of 10 years. The Board recalled that the corporation secretaries were given specific instructions on several occasions by the SLMC appointed by the National Green Tribunal not to repeat mismanagement of solid waste and fire accidents. Distressing “It is distressing to note that almost all components of the septage treatment plant were seen kept idle and there was clear evidence for untreated sewage discharge using flexible hose directly through outlet portion which ends in such marshy area. This marshy area is extended to Chithrapuzha River, one of the rivers identified as polluted out of 21 in the State and three in the district,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-issues-show-cause-notice-to-kochi-corpn/article34122417.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-up bags $10-million investment from UAE firm||A student biotech start-up that was fostered under the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre (IEDC) scheme of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has bagged an investment of $10 million from the UAE-based TCN International Commerce LLC, for its project titled ‘Algae-Seaweed Technology’, under the brand B-lite Cookies. The biotech start-up’s product was showcased at GITEX 2020 international conference held in Dubai, as it was part of the international start-up delegation led by the KSUM. Zaara Biotech, which focuses on research in energy and food crisis using micro-algae, got the funding for its research and development, production, distribution and marketing under TCN International Commerce to reach the global arena. Najeeb Bin Haneef, founder and CEO of Zaara Biotech, and Mohamed Shafi Abdulla, chairman and managing director, TCN International Commerce, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in this regard in Sharjah on Saturday. George Ninan, Principal Scientist, ICAR-CIFT (Central Institute of Fisheries Technology), Kochi; Tapan Rayaguru, CEO, KSUM; and Nixon Kuruvila, Principal, Sahrudaya College of Engineering and Technology, Thrissur, were among those present on the occasion, says a release. The start-up was founded by Mr. Haneef when he was a biotechnology engineering student of the college. The start-up, incubated at the Sahrudaya Technology Business Incubator (Sahrudaya TBI), has collaborated with ICAR-CIFT and it has helped the company become India’s first algae-seaweed food product designer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biotech-start-up-bags-10-million-investment/article34122386.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||48 kg of ganja seized at Aluva station||In a joint operation, the Aluva Range Excise and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) arrested two persons allegedly with 48 kg of ganja at the Aluva railway station. The arrested were identified as Nidhinnath, 26, of Malappuram, and Sudheer Krishna, 45, from Karnataka. They were arrested while taking the ganja smuggled in from Andhra Pradesh to an Idukki resident. Excise sleuths claimed that the arrested confessed to have smuggled in the contraband in connection with the forthcoming election. They were travelling with fake identity cards in the train’s AC compartment. The ganja smuggled from Andhra Pradesh was being sold as a premium variety from Idukki with the help of agents to tap into the increased demand in connection with the election. The Excise has deployed a special team to check the smuggling of drugs from outside the State. A team comprising Excise Inspector R. Aji Raj, RPF sub inspector P.V. Raju, preventive officer N.G. Ajithkumar, civil excise officers N.D. Tomy, Ratheesh K.R., Gireesh Krishnan, S. Anoop, Neethu P.U., and Thasia K.M. made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/48-kg-of-ganja-seized-at-aluva-railway-station/article34122387.ece
21 March 2021||Kollam,KERALA||84 left in the fray in Kollam||The scrutiny of 95 nominations received from the 11 Assembly segments of the district was held of Saturday. Of these, 84 were accepted while 11 nominations were rejected. In Kottayam, 13 out of the 83 nominations across nine constituencies were rejected at the scrutiny. With this, the number of contestants in the district has become 70. The nominations filed by all candidates in Kanjirappally and Changanassery constituencies have been accepted. Ettumanur has nine contestants while Kaduthuruthy, Kottayam, and Puthuppally have six candidates each. Pala has the highest number of candidates at 11. Poonjar and Changanassery has 10 candidates while Vaikom has seven. Kanjirappally has five candidates. 65 in Alappuzha In Alappuzha, 65 candidates are left in the fray in nine Assembly constituencies. The nomination of candidates of three major fronts — Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF) and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — in all nine seats were declared valid. Seventy-seven people filed papers in the district. The nominations held valid include 10 in Aroor, eight in Cherthala, six each in Alappuzha and Ambalappuzha, five each in Kuttanad and Haripad, seven each in Mavelikara and Chengannur, and 11 in Kayamkulam. In Pathanamthitta, only 39 out of the 87 nominations were accepted. With nine candidates each, Ranni and Aranmula account for the highest number of candidates while Konni has six nominees. Of the 18 nominations in Thiruvalla, 10 were rejected while in Adoor, seven out of 10 candidates qualified to contest. Final list tomorrow The final candidate list will be released after March 22, the deadline for withdrawing nominations.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/84-left-in-the-fray-in-kollam/article34122464.ece
21 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Temple festival to be scaled down||The Chamayavilakku festival of the Kottankulangara Sri Bhagavathy temple, Chavara, that falls on March 24 and 25, will be held as rituals only, said the temple authorities at a press meet here on Saturday. “The decision was taken as per the instructions of the district administration and the devaswom board to follow the COVID-19 protocol. The usual customs including Chamayavilakku, Kettukazhcha, Annadanam, Pongala, and procession will not be held inside or outside the temple compound,” they said. As per the restrictions imposed in connection with the protocol, devotees will not be allowed to participate in the two-day Chamayavilakku and get dressed up as women inside the temple or on its premises. Last year too It is for the second consecutive year that the temple is cancelling the festival that draws devotees from all parts of the State. In 2020, only pujas and temple rituals were held while some temple committee members dolled up as women and carried the five-wicked lamps to observe the ritual. Usually, the participants of Chamayavilakku line up from the temple for the procession of the goddess that takes place after midnight. Last year the Collector had imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC within 2 km radius of the temple to prevent devotees gathering near the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temple-festival-to-be-scaled-down/article34122469.ece
21 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC in a bind over symbol||Even as it awaits the allotment of a new election symbol from the Election Commission of India post a merger, the Kerala Congress’ plans to ensure a common symbol to all its candidates in the Assembly elections appear to have hit a blockade with the entry of a smaller outfit in the poll fray. According to party sources, all 10 candidates fielded by the Kerala Congress (KC) had sought ‘tractor’ as their election symbol. However, in Changanassery, it will have to compete with Babychan Mukkadan, a Congress rebel who contests as a candidate of the Indian Christian Secular Party, for the symbol. Concerned over the development, the KC leadership is working to convince Mr. Mukkadan to withdraw his nomination. “We are hopeful that he will come up with a favourable decision by March 22, the last date for withdrawing nominations,” said a top KC leader. Coin toss In case Mr. Mukkadan decides against pulling back, the allocation of the symbol will be decided on the toss of a coin. The party, meanwhile, is confident of its remaining nine candidates receiving the symbol without much fuss. Post its merger with the P.C. Thomas-led Keala Congress, the party tried to retrieve its old symbol ‘bicycle’, which did not fructify owing to a delay in approaching the ECI. Following this, the party's candidates marked ‘tractor’ as their preferred election symbol in their nominations, besides ‘coconut trees’ and ‘football’ as the second and third options. “The merger has taken place only in principle and P.C. Thomas, who remains the party chairman on the paper, has already endorsed our candidates as party nominees. The move now awaits approval from the ECI, which may take some time and hence, the candidates are most likely to contest with the symbols allotted by the respective returning officers,'' the leader added. The continuing uncertainty over the symbol also forced a delay in the candidates submitting their nominations till Friday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kc-in-a-bind-over-symbol/article34122422.ece
21 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||BJP to contest in Ettumanur, takes over seat from BDJS||After days of intense wrangling within the National Democratic Alliance, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has finally taken over the Ettumanur Assembly seat, which was earlier allotted to its partner, the Bharatiya Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS). With this, T.N. Harikumar of the BJP has replaced N. Sreenivasan of the BDJS as the coalition’s candidate in the segment, taking the total number of seats contested by the national party in the district to seven. The BDJS, meanwhile, will contest from two seats; Vaikom and Poonjar. Though the Ettumanur seat was originally allotted to the BDJS, the announcement of Bharath Kaipparedan as its candidate had triggered a row within the coalition. Alleging an unholy nexus between the BDJS and the CPI(M) in the candidate selection, the BJP raised objection, forcing the BDJS to announce Mr. Sreenivasan as its new candidate. Trouble in Poonjar Meanwhile, a similar issue cropped up in the coalition in Poonjar as well when the BDJS’s plan to field M.R. Ullas in Poonjar fell flat in view of a High Court order barring aided schoolteachers from contesting the elections. Following this, the BDJS decided to field its district president M.P. Sen in the segment. The infighting within the coalition, however, touched its boiling point on Friday when BJP district president Noble Mathew and Mr. Harikumar, filed papers in Poonjar and Ettumanur respectively as against the nominations submitted by Mr. Sen and Mr. Sreenivasan. Sensing trouble, the leadership of both parties kick-started discussions to resolve the issue amicably. It was decided to hand over the Ettumanur seat to the BJP while the BJP nominee in Poonjar will withdraw his nomination soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-to-contest-in-ettumanur-takes-over-seat-from-bdjs/article34122470.ece
21 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS slams CM over Kanam’s remarks||Continuing its tirade against the Left Democratic Front over the Sabarimala issue, the Nair Service Society (NSS) on Saturday came down heavily on a comment by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan backing CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran on the latter's remarks about the community organisation. In a statement, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said by justifying Mr. Rajendran, the Chief Minister was indeed denouncing the stance of the NSS in an indirect manner. “The stance of the NSS on protecting the rights of the [Ayyappa] devotees has been consistent right from the beginning and we will continue with it. The State government, at the same time, has never bothered to take a stance in favour of the faithful,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-slams-cm-over-kanams-remarks/article34122423.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Battle for Koduvally hots up||With the highest number of candidates in Kozhikode district, the fight is hotter this time at Koduvally. Sixteen candidates, including namesakes, have filed their nomination papers to test their luck in the constituency. The Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) strategy of fielding Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) dissident and sitting MLA Karat Razak again has evoked a much serious response this time from the United Democratic Front (UDF). The entry of its seasoned politician M.K. Muneer to take on the LDF candidate is expected to be a game changer for the front in the 2021 elections. Visibly, the confidence factor of the UDF is the lead it gained in the recent local body elections. The Koduvally municipality and the other six grama panchayats are now with the UDF. The front also hopes that the recent controversies over the gold smuggling case and its alleged links with the LDF candidate will favour it. “Voters know everything, and they will make the right decision,” say UDF workers. Meanwhile, LDF campaigners say no one can just think of a cakewalk by banking on the the local body election results. They add that the history of Koduvally is quite different as it has witnessed unexpected twists and turns. A constituency where the UDF enjoyed continuous victories from 1957 to 2001 is no more its bastion, they say. For the LDF, disagreements within the IUML over Dr. Muneer’s candidature in Koduvally have come as an advantage. The front claims that the number of IUML dissidents has multiplied in the constituency, which will create a favourable atmosphere for it in the election. It was in 2006 that the electorate gave its first shock treatment to the UDF. LDF Independent P.T.A. Rahim’s victory with a majority of over 7,500 votes had stunned the UDF. Though the UDF’s V.M. Ummer captured the constituency in 2011 with a margin of 16,552 votes, the electorate took a ‘U-turn’ again in the 2016 elections. LDF Independent Karat Razak wrested the constituency back with a thin margin of 573 votes against UDF candidate M.A. Razak. Amid the battle of the two major fronts, the focus of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is mainly on improving its vote share. The party had received 8.4% of votes in the last Assembly elections. The BJP has fielded T. Balasoman as its candidate in the constituency. He says the party will increase its vote share considerably in the upcoming elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-for-koduvally-hots-up/article34122379.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-19 protocol thrown to the wind as parties step up campaign||With electioneering moving up a gear, incidents of COVID-19 protocol violation in public places are on the increase, forcing the police to adopt stringent legal measures. The Kozhikode rural area is now witnessing the highest number of such violations, where the police have started taking spot action including the impounding of crowded vehicles. The reckless violations, which are likely to pose a threat to public health, mostly take place during outdoor campaigns of political parties in the presence of senior leaders. No hand-washing facilities or sanitisation arrangements are made ahead of election conventions. “Even senior citizens are moving around with no concern over the spread of the pandemic. Political parties are least bothered about overcrowded gatherings in the midst of their high-pitched campaigns,” says C. Baburaj, a health worker from Balussery. He points out that the vigilance shown during the local body elections is hardly visible now. Accredited Social Health Activists from panchayats say that there should be better crowd control mechanisms during the arrival of prominent campaigners in constituencies. The district administration’s directive to keep a proper record of visitors to malls, shopping centres and venues of public events has already been thrown to the wind in the absence of a checking mechanism. Thermal scanning is available only in a few shops. Bus operators are also seemingly ignorant of the existing regulations with the increasing rush of passengers. A police official from Vadakara said the declining number of COVID-19 positive cases reported by the Health Department was found to be a major reason for overlooking the safety protocol with a false sense of protection. “The majority of those booked for safety rule violations had come out with such responses. There should be proper awareness drives to sensitise people that the declining number of positive cases is hardly indicating a safe atmosphere around,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-protocol-thrown-to-the-wind-as-parties-step-up-campaign/article34122382.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||321 fresh cases in Kozhikode||As many as 321 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. There were 255 recoveries. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to increase the number of tests ahead of the Assembly elections. Mobile testing units will be set up outside offices and institutions. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said in a release that the decision was taken in view of reluctance on the part of the people to undergo testing. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 302 locally acquired infections, and the source of four others was not known. The Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 82 cases of local transmission, Maniyoor 19, Kodenchery 13, and Ulliyeri 10. The active caseload of the district is 3,123. Meanwhile, the Health Department said that vaccination would be held only at private hospitals in the district on Sunday. They are Elettil Hospital and Nursing Home, Fathima Hospital, Kozhikode; K.K. Hospital, Balussery; Vimala Hospital, Nellippoyil, and V.V. Hospital, Thamarassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/321-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article34122375.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A testimony to their zeal to excel in life||Down syndrome is not a handicap, and it does not stop the affected from expressing their talents. ‘Sargaseshi’ that opens in Kozhikode is a testimony to the capabilities of a group of persons with Down syndrome in the district. ‘Sagarseshi’ is probably the first project in India to provide direct employment opportunities to individuals with the condition. It features handicraft products made by 15 teams, a team consisting of a person with Down’s syndrome and his/her parents, from different parts of the district and is managed by three women with the condition. It will offer everything from mementos to office and home decor. It also features products of differently abled people. The showroom is a joint venture of Down Syndrome Trust (DoST), a Kozhikode-based NGO providing support to individuals and families affected by the condition, and ULCCS Foundation, the social responsibility wing of Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS). The teams were trained in handicraft manufacturing at Sargaalaya Arts and Crafts Village at Iringal. The one-of-its-kind showroom opens on Sunday, World Down syndrome Day. Mayor Beena Philip will inaugurate it near the YWCA at Nadakkavu at 2.30 p.m. She will also open World Down syndrome Day celebrations and DoST Awards Ceremony at Baby Memorial Hospital Hall later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-testimony-to-their-zeal-to-excel-in-life/article34122376.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Row over UDF candidate in Elathur continues||With two days left for withdrawal of nomination papers for the Assembly elections, the row over the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) candidate in the Elathur constituency in Kozhikode turned murkier on Saturday when Congress workers almost came to blows at a meeting held at the party district committee office here. At present, Sennin Rashi, a student leader of the Bharatiya National Janata Dal, Sulfikkar Mayuri of the Nationalist Congress Kerala and Congress rebel U.V. Dinesh Mani — all owing allegiance to UDF — have filed their nomination papers. Initially, the Elathur seat was offered to the BNJD, which has some political presence in the constituency. The party has committees in five grama panchayats and five elected representatives in the Chelannur grama panchayat. M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, and local Congress leaders are opposed to the candidature of Mr. Mayuri, who they claim is not familiar with the constituency. Minor altercation Saturday’s meeting was convened by the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee to arrive at a consensus, which was mediated by KPCC working president K.V. Thomas. Soon after the meeting began in the morning, minor altercation followed when it was declared that only senior leaders needed to stay back and others could leave. Prof. Thomas is learnt to have later told the local leaders to accept Mr. Mayuri’s candidature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-udf-candidate-in-elathur-continues/article34122418.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Kappan has failed to gauge political reality’||The exit of Pala legislator Mani C. Kappan from the party and his subsequent formation of a new political entity, the Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK), to align with the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) will not hamper the electoral prospectus of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. “The Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) had to be accommodated when these parties came into the LDF fold,” Mr. Saseendran told The Hindu . Thus sitting seats of the CPI(M) such as Kalpetta and Koothuparamba were conceded to the LJD. Likewise, the JD(S)’s Vadakara seat was given to the LJD. “Similarly, the NCP had to surrender the Pala seat under the seat-sharing pact. Unfortunately, Mr. Kappan failed to gauge the political reality,” Mr. Saseendran said. Chacko’s entry On Congress leader P.C. Chacko joining the NCP, he said activists and supporters of the party had been enthused and excited to receive the services of the seasoned leader. “Already many leaders of the Congress (S) who are in political hibernation have extended support to the NCP. As of now, we have not thought of a merger between the NCP and Congress (S),” he said. Exuding confidence of the continuity of the LDF government, he said all sections of society had benefited from its welfare schemes. “This government went through an unprecedented crisis after Kerala was hit by successive floods and then the COVID-19 pandemic. Still the government ensured good governance under the leadership of Pinarayi Vijayan,” he said. On his renomination from the Elathur constituency for the third consecutive time, Mr. Saseendran said the local, mandalam and district committees supported him. “Some leaders from outside the district opposed my candidature and a tiny minority orchestrated a campaign against me. But the Central leadership endorsed the decision of the State committee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kappan-has-failed-to-gauge-political-reality/article34122399.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity not to scrap new courses||The Calicut University Syndicate has withdrawn a reported move to cancel new courses allotted to Arabic colleges affiliated to the varsity. Protests This comes against the backdrop of protests by Muslim organisations and pro-UDF outfits. It was pointed out that the university’s move would lead to closure of the colleges. The State government too is reported to have intervened in the matter apprehending that it might be interpreted as an “anti-minority move” that would affect the LDF’s electoral prospects. According to sources, when the issue was taken up for debate at the Syndicate meeting on Saturday, the university authorities feigned ignorance of the move to cancel recognition. The previous UDF government had sanctioned two courses each in nine Arabic colleges in 2013-14, sources said. As many as 4,000 students are studying the courses. However, the statute amendment for the purpose had been delayed owing to a legal tangle. Now, some officials reportedly gave a proposal to the Syndicate to scrap the courses altogether. A proposal was submitted to the Chancellor’s office as well. Retrospective effect At Saturday’s meeting, it was decided to seek recognition for the courses with retrospective effect and move a proposal to the Chancellor’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-not-to-scrap-new-courses/article34122385.ece
21 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students’ plea to world leaders||National Service Scheme volunteers of St. Xavier’s College, Kozhikode, have submitted a memorandum to world leaders demanding the release of prisoners aged above 80 across the world. The memorandum prepared in Sanskrit, Hebrew, German and Arabic besides Malayalam, English and Hindi, and signed by 50 student volunteers state that aged prisoners deserve pardon. They have been forwarded to the United Nations Secretary General, United Nations Human Rights Commission, Amnesty International, the Prime Ministers of United Kingdom, Israel and UAE, the Presidents of the United States of America and Germany besides the President and the Prime Minister of India, the National Human Rights Commission, the Kerala State Human Rights Commission, the Supreme Court, the High Court and the Chairman of the University Grants Commission. The memorandum prepared on the basis of a survey conducted by students suggests release of aged prisoners subject to conditions. “Expert committees should examine whether these people who have undergone prolonged imprisonment could be pardoned. If their families did not accept them back, the governments should make alternative arrangements to accommodate them,” said Varughese Mathew, Principal of the college, who forwarded the memorandum to world leaders. “We hope that this memorandum will be a catalyst to change,” he said. People above 80 are physically and mentally weaker than they were before and rarely can be harmful to society, says the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-plea-to-world-leaders/article34122390.ece
21 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Anannyah on a historic mission||Well-known transgender radio jockey and make-up artist Anannyah Kumari Alex is poised to create yet another history in the State. She is the first transgender candidate contesting an Assembly election in Kerala. Anannyah had set another State record when she became Kerala’s first transgender radio jockey a couple of years ago. Anannyah has chosen to contest against Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) heavyweight P.K. Kunhalikutty in Vengara. “As it is a historic moment for the entire transgender community, I wanted it to be against an opponent worthy of fighting,” Ananya told The Hindu . Describing Mr. Kunhalikutty as “a power-crazy and anti-woman man”, Anannyah said that her fight would be for equality between man, woman and transgender. “Wherever we refer to matters relating to human beings, we should consider equality for men, women and transgender. Equal recognition is a must for transgender,” she says. Welfare issues A native of Peruman in Kollam and now settled in Kochi, 28-year-old Anannyah said transgender people could be good leaders. She said she wanted to work for the welfare of her community even when attending to people’s issues in general. Support is assured for Anannyah from the transgender community and her friends. She said she would focus on electioneering across Vengara in the coming days. “I’m planning to reach out to all sections of people in Vengara in the next two weeks. I may not reap the dividends of this historic move I make. It’s just a beginning. Next transgender generations will benefit from it,” she says. Poll symbol Anannyah is contesting on Democratic Social Justice Party’s (DSJP) banner with the television set as her election symbol. She says the DSJP was sending a great message to the society by offering her a seat. Riya Esha, leading transgender model in Malappuram, said that Anannyah’s was a bold move for the community. “The courage being displayed by Anannyah is definitely going to make a difference. It is a great and bold step forward in our struggle for recognition and equality,” Riya said. Added responsibility Anannyah said that she would cast her vote in Kollam. According to her, she has added responsibility to exercise her franchise this time, especially as she is contesting an election. A higher secondary dropout, Anannyah is keen on continuing her higher education. “Only through education any community can attain self-esteem and recognition. For us to hold our heads up, we need solid education,” she said.  As it is a historic moment for the entire transgender community, I wanted it to be against a worthy opponent||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anannyah-on-a-historic-mission/article34122430.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||I-T dept. begins probe into KIIFB projects||Close on the heels of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the Income Tax (I-T) Department has initiated a probe against the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) . The I-T Department has served a notice seeking details of KIIFB projects implemented in the past five years. It has asked KIIFB to submit the details of financial transactions made with the contractors who had been awarded works funded by the agency in the past five years. Besides, a letter from the Income Tax Additional Commissioner has also sought the details of income tax paid for each project funded by KIIFB in the last five years. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said KIIFB would give replies to the queries sought by the I-T Department and the threat by Central agencies to scuttle development and corner the Left Democratic Front government would not be allowed. Ammunition to UDF The probe by the I-T Department, the second by a Central agency against KIIFB, will give enough ammunition to the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) as campaigning picks up for the Assembly elections. The LDF is projecting the development initiatives executed through KIIFB as a major achievement under it in the past five years. The I-T Department’s move comes weeks after KIIFB Chief Executive Officer K.M. Abraham and Deputy Managing Director Vikramjit Singh failed to appear before the ED in Kochi for questioning in connection with its probe into the masala bonds of KIIFB. With the approvals given by the executive and governing body of KIIFB till February 15 this year, the KIIFB funding provided to infrastructure and development projects across the State has risen to Rs. 63,250.66 crore. Of this, Rs. 43,250.66 crore is for 889 infrastructure projects and Rs. 20,000 crore for six land acquisition projects.  Letter from I-T Additional Commissioner seeks the details of income tax paid for projects||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/i-t-dept-begins-probe-into-kiifb-projects/article34122424.ece
21 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shifting sands of Kattakada||A three-pronged fight is all set to be staged in the Kattakada Assembly constituency, which has shown a tendency to sway favours between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in previous elections amid a growing space for the National Democratic Alliance in the recent times. In the 2016 Assembly elections, I.B. Satheesh of the LDF scored a huge upset when he edged out N. Sakthan of the UDF by a slender margin of 849 votes in the constituency. Mr. Satheesh, former Students’ Federation of India (SFI) leader, was up against Mr. Sakthan, sitting Congress MLA and Assembly Speaker, in the second elections after the constituency came into being post delimitation. Mr. Satheesh polled 51,614 votes against Mr. Sakthan’s 50,765 votes. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had fielded P.K. Krishnadas for the second time, improved its performance from the previous elections. Its vote share went up from 22,550 votes in 2011 to 38,700 in 2016. Development initiative Hoping to retain the seat this time, the LDF has again backed Mr. Satheesh, district committee member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and district executive member of the Kerala Karshaka Sangham. The LDF is hoping that development initiatives with people’s participation such as the Jalasamruddhi project that have brought the constituency much fame will propel it to a comfortable victory. The UDF has fielded Malayinkeezh Venugopal, who has won seats for the party in the district panchayat and the Nemom block panchayat. Mr. Krishnadas, BJP national executive member and former party State president, is contesting from the constituency for the third time on the trot. The party hopes to make further inroads into the constituency, which has been mainly carved out of the Nemom and the erstwhile Aryanad constituencies. Today, the constituency comprises Kattakada, Malayinkeezhu, Maranalloor, Pallichal, Vilappil, and Vilavoorkal grama panchayats in Neyyattinkara taluk. Having stood once with the UDF and then the LDF, it will be difficult to predict which way the constituency will sway this time.  Trend changes In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Adoor Prakash of the UDF secured 51,962 votes against 45,822 votes garnered by A. Sampath of the LDF in the constituency. In the 2020 local body elections, LDF had the upper hand in four of the six panchayats. The constituency has 1,91,499 voters – 91,740 male, 99,755 female, and four from the transgender community. Nair and Nadar votes will be key to determining victory in the segment, where agriculture is an important economic activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-favourites-for-the-nascent-seat/article34122401.ece
21 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 2,078 new COVID-19 cases||Kerala reported 2,078 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 58,777 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began to 11,02,353 cases. The test positivity rate has been remaining steady below 4% and was 3.54% on Saturday. With 2,211 recoveries being reported, the active case pool dipped to 25,009 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began have risen to 10,72,554. The addition of 15 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State on Saturday took the State’s cumulative COVID toll till date to 4,482 deaths. Idukki reported four deaths, Thrissur and Pathanamthitta three each, Kozhikode two, while one death each was reported in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha and Ernakulam. The number of critically ill COVID patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State has come down to 459 on Saturday, according to official reports, with 135 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Five health workers Of the 2,078 new cases reported on Saturday, 1,865 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections, through contact with other infected persons. These include infections reported in five health workers. In 102 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States. No history of travel or contact with infected persons are reported or known in the case of 111 infections Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 321, followed by Ernakulam 228, Thiruvananthapuram 200, Kollam 169, Thrissur 166, Kottayam 164, Kannur 159, Malappuram 146, Idukki 126, Kasaragod 119, Alappuzha 105, Palakkad 68, Pathanamthitta 62 and Wayanad 45 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-2078-fresh-cases/article34122434.ece
21 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Her message on saving water gets an animation avatar||Now, a Kannur student’s message on water conservation will be viewed as an animation film by children around the country. Shreya K. of Amrita Vidyalayam, Thalassery, is among the top three students in the country whose storyboards have been selected for production as animated campaign videos on conservation of water and its sustainable use as part of the ‘H2Ooooh!-Waterwise Program’ for school students. The animation works will be unveiled by UNESCO on World Water Day on Monday. UNESCO has teamed up with the animation firm Toonz Media Group, National Mission for Clean Ganga, United Schools Organisation India and the ‘Water Digest’ magazine in connection with the water conservation awareness programme. Shreya, a Class 5 student whose family hails from Bijapur in Karnataka, says she was given three options for her story idea — sustainable water, water cycle and water pollution. Having seen the environment becoming increasingly polluted, she chose water pollution and came up with a story about two brothers who opted different means of livelihood. While one brother’s activities contribute to pollution, the other lives in harmony with nature. Eventually, the former is helped by the other to check water pollution through various measures. The sibling who has learnt his lesson promises to curb pollution, save water and recycle it. Green thumbs Shreya says her family also endeavours to be environment-friendly. Both her parents are Ayurveda doctors. “We have a farm back home in Bijapur, which I am interested in it. During the lockdown, we grew our own vegetables rather than buying from outside,” she says. Shreya, also a dancer and swimmer, is glad that she got an opportunity to send a message about water conservation to all through her story. A total of 17,000 students from 43 schools submitted story ideas for the initiative. After multiple screenings, 2,000 students took part in a qualifier round. Of them, 93 students, including eight differently abled students, were shortlisted for a week-long training by Toonz Animation where mentors introduced them to the basics of 2D animation, including script-writing, character sketching and storyboarding, an experience that Shreya describes as “superb.” The students who underwent training submitted storyboards on water conservation ideated by them. The three selected videos will be available on the UNESCO India website and partner websites after the release on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/her-message-on-saving-water-gets-an-animation-avatar/article34122426.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||200 fresh COVID-19 cases in capital||The district recorded 200 COVID-19 cases and 185 recoveries as the number of active cases rose to 1,949 on Saturday. The death toll remained at 859. The district administration placed 873 people under quarantine on the day, while 1,071 others were permitted to conclude quarantine. There were currently 15,385 people undergoing quarantine in their homes and 42 in various institutions in the district. Restrictions eased The containment zones that existed in Poojappura ward in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, and Navaikulam and Kadambattukonam wards in Navaikulam grama panchayat have been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/200-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-capital/article34122569.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||110 nominations accepted, 23 rejected||Twenty-three nominations filed in the district for the upcoming Assembly polls have been rejected. In all, 110 nominations have been accepted following the scrutiny held on Saturday. Last date Monday, March 22, is the last date for the withdrawal of nominations. Nemom has the highest number of candidates at the moment; 12. Aruvikkara and Neyyatinkara have the lowest number of candidates after scrutiny at five each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/110-nominations-accepted-23-rejected/article34122571.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M)-BJP deal evident: Chennithala||The nexus that was alleged between the CPI (M) and the BJP by RSS ideologue R. Balashankar is evident in recent elections in the State, Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. Inaugurating a UDF convention in Vattiyurkavu Assembly constituency on Saturday, Mr. Chennithala alleged that the BJP had worked for incumbent MLA V.K. Prasanth’s victory during the by-election in 2019. “Compared to the Assembly polls in 2016, the BJP candidate (former district president S. Suresh) lost nearly 14,000 votes in 2019. This vote swing worked to the advantage of the LDF candidate while K. Mohankumar of the Congress managed to retain the party’s vote base by securing 40,000-odd votes. UDF workers must remain cautious,” he said. Mr. Chennithala said the political climate was conducive for a major victory for the UDF. Shashi Tharoor, MP, and Congress candidate in Vattiyurkavu Veena S. Nair were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-bjp-deal-evident-chennithala/article34122574.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,061 candidates in State||In all, 1,061 nominations filed for the April 6 Assembly polls in the State have been accepted following scrutiny, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena has said. The scrutiny of 2,180 nominations filed in the 140 constituencies till Friday, the deadline for filing the nominations, was held on Saturday. As many as 1,119 nominations have been rejected on various grounds. A clearer picture of the number of candidates in the fray will emerge on March 22, which is the last date for the withdrawal of nominations. The nominations were filed from March 12 onwards after the Election Commission of India issued the notification for the Assembly polls. The number of candidates is lower this time compared to that of the 2016 elections. In all, 1,203 candidates -- 1,093 men and 110 women -- had contested in the Assembly elections in the State in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1061-candidates-in-state/article34122402.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held||The Vizhinjam police arrested a 37-year-old man for allegedly snatching a gold necklace from a woman. Rahul alias Saji of Vellayani was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held/article34122570.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM should apologise: Cong.||It is Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and not Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who should be tendering an apology in connection with the Sabarimala issue, Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said. Inaugurating the central election committee office of Dr. S.S. Lal, the UDF candidate in Kazhakuttam, Mr. Chennithala said the Chief Minister had donned the garb of a renaissance leader when the Supreme Court issued its verdict allowing the entry of women of all age groups into the hill shrine. The affidavit submitted by the LDF government after withdrawing the one filed by the Oommen Chandy government had resulted in such a verdict, Mr. Chennithala alleged. Mr. Chennithala wanted to know whether the Chief Minister was prepared to change the affidavit and apologise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-not-kadakampally-should-apologise-cong/article34122465.ece
21 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Result published||The results of the Kerala State Higher Judicial Service main examination have been published on the websitehckrecruitment.nic.in. The letter for viva can be downloaded from the recruitment portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/result-published/article34122431.ece
21 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM pursuing vendetta politics: BJP MP||The case registered by the Crime Branch against Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials is an attempt by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan to ‘sidestep’ the ongoing ED investigation, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi has said. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday in connection with the Assembly polls, Ms. Lekhi said the Chief Minister and the Speaker were pursuing ‘vendetta politics.’ “Swapna Suresh, who worked in the Chief Minister’s office, confessed that she did everything at the behest of the CM and the Speaker,” Ms. Lekhi said. Congress members, including those from Kerala, who were disillusioned by the opportunistic politics of their leaders, were meeting her, Ms. Lekhi said, although she declined to divulge names. “The Congress party in Kerala is in splinters due to its non-performance. They have realised that their leaders are hand in glove with the Left. So they would rather join the BJP,” she said. The BJP will do very well in Kerala this time as the people have recognised the ‘game of deception’, she said. “It is the LUDF the BJP is fighting, not the LDF or the UDF,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-pursuing-vendetta-politics-bjp-mp/article34122572.ece
21 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Cong.-BJP line getting thinner: CM||The borderline between the Congress and the BJP is getting thinner in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Addressing an LDF election convention at Thekkinkadu maidan here on Saturday, he alleged that it had become clear now that the Congress had helped the BJP to open an account in Kerala Assembly. BJP leader O. Rajagopal himself had made it clear, he said. Communalism Many such moves were happening in the background in this election too. The Congress had never taken a clear stand against communalism, he said. “One BJP leader said if they get 30 seats, the NDA can make a government in Kerala. What does it mean. From where will they get the rest of the seats. We have examples of other States such as Goa, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry. There is no guarantee that the MLA, who wins from the Congress, will remain there,” he said. “There have been many communal issues, some of them created with political agenda, in the recent past. But the LDF government has always taken a secular stand,” Mr. Vijayan said. “When we took power in 2016, our first mission was to regain the image of the State, which was ruined by scandals. Within no time, Kerala became a State with the best governance. We became an investment-friendly State,” the Chief Minister said. The LDF wanted to make our youth job providers instead of job seekers. The State had 4,000 startups in the last five years. The LDF wanted to make it 15,000 in the next five years. The LDF is planning a micro development project to bring 4.5 lakh people, who have been identified as very poor, to the mainstream with special attention and support.  Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar presided over. LDF candidates P. Balachandran (Thrissur); Murali Perunnelly (Manalur), Xavier Chittilappilly (Wadakkanchery), C.C. Mukundan (Nattika), and K. Rajan (Ollur) attended the function. Earlier, addressing a convention at Cheruthuruthy, the Chief Minister supported CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran, who criticised NSS (Nair Service Society) on the Sabarimala issue. Mr. Rajendran had not said anything provocative, Mr. Vijayan said. Criticised He criticised BJP candidate Sandeep Vachatspati who paid floral tributes at Punnapra-Vayalar memorial. “The BJP is trying to create tension in the area,” the Chief Minister said. Tension prevailed in the venue of the LDF convention on Saturday as a drunkard entered the venue of LDF convention at Thekkinkadu maidan. He tried to disrupt the speech of CPI(M) State secretariat member Baby John. Mr. John fell down in the melee. The incident happened after the Chief Minister left the venue after inauguration. The man has been identified by the police as Shukkur of Chenthrapinni. The Town East police are questioning him. The unexpected incident happened in a function attended by the Chief Minister has been viewed as a security lapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-bjp-line-getting-thinner-says-chief-minister/article34122389.ece
21 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Nomination of NDA’s candidate rejected||The nomination of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate in Guruvayur was rejected during scrutiny of papers on Saturday. The nomination of Nivedita, BJP Mahila Morcha State president, was rejected as the affidavit submitted along with the nomination did not have the signature of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president. As the nomination of the dummy candidate too was incomplete, the NDA will not be able to field a candidate in Guruvayur. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s [CPI(M)] N.K. Akbar and the Indian Union Muslim League’s (IUML) K.N.A. Khader are the other main contestants in Guruvayur. Earlier, nominations of three Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidates in the district were not accepted as they were not filed on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nomination-of-ndas-candidate-rejected/article34122540.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Reclaiming beach||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reclaiming-beach/article34122381.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Listing Left’s pluses||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/listing-lefts-pluses/article34122468.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the same page||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-same-page/article34122428.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the campaign trail in Palakkad||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-campaign-trail-in-palakkad/article34122543.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-ritual/article34122576.ece
21 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKOCH award for linking job scheme with water conservation||The Anantapur District Water Management Agency has won the Silver SKOCH Award for its efforts in utilising the employment generation scheme for the conservation of water and thus creating an impact of storing 2.61 tmcft of groundwater in those areas. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said that by building check dams, farm ponds, inter-linking them to create a network, the district was able to generate a good amount of groundwater in a district that was always water-starved. In addition to this, the Rural Water Supply and Irrigation Departments won SKOCH Certificates of Merit in their categories for being the finalists. The RWS had helped take water to 38 fluoride-affected habitations in the district at Rs. 5 per 20 litres and save lives there, whereas the Irrigation Department had taken water from 254 metres above mean sea level to 723 metres above MSL in Madakasira to serve farmers there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skoch-award-for-linking-job-scheme-with-water-conservation/article34122010.ece
21 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transgender ‘done to death’ in Hindupur||A 35-year-old transgender, identified as Niharika alias Narasimhamurthy, was allegedly done to death by two persons, near Indiramma Colony at Hindupur in the early hours of Saturday. According to the Hindupur I Town police, the half-burnt body of Niharika was found in the colony along the Hindupur-Sira Highway on Saturday. Search on for suspects The police are on the lookout for the two suspects, Rajasekhar and Hanumanthappa. According to the police, Niharika’s childhood friend Rajasekhar used to visit the former’s house and reportedly took Rs. 3 lakh over the last few years. In recent months, when Rajasekhar stopped visiting Niharika’s house, which angered the latter, Niharika allegedly threatened to complain to Rajasekhar’s wife, the police said. All this allegedly put Rajasekhar in a spot and he took the help of his friend Hanumanthappa and allegedly slit Niharika’s throat and set her body on fire, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transgender-done-to-death-in-hindupur/article34122011.ece
21 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders worth Rs. 2.5 crore seized||The Chittoor police on Saturday seized 5.2 tonnes of red sanders logs worth about Rs. 2.5 crore along with a lorry and a car carrying the consignment, at Penumuru cross on the outskirts of Chittoor. The police nabbed four accused after giving them a chase. Tip-off Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar told presspersons that acting on a tip-off about the movement of red sanders logs towards Bengaluru, a special party was formed with Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy, which took up random checks at Penumuru cross in the early hours. On noticing the police the lorry and the car, coming from Tirupati towards Bengaluru bypass road, zoomed past the Penumuru Cross. The police chased the vehicles and intercepted them. In the operation, the special party nabbed the four accused, and seized the logs and the vehicles. The accused were identified as Ummakka Sivaiah (31) of Kadapa district, who is reportedly wanted in 12 criminal cases involving red sanders smuggling; Kambham Krishnaiah (63), a resident of Nellore district, who got retired as thanadhar in forest department in Kadapa district; A Kiran (25) of Tirupati, and V. Balaji of Vellore town in Tamil Nadu. The SP said that preliminary interrogation revealed that the accused allegedly had links with several smuggling operatives in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A case was registered and the accused were sent for remand at sub-jail here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-worth-rs-25-crore-seized/article34122364.ece
21 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will make Tirupati capital if voted to power: Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday said that the Congress Party was committed to making Tirupati the capital of the State if elected to power. Dr. Mohan was campaigning for the by-election to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency at Srikalahasti and Satyavedu assembly segments. Speaking to the media at Srikalahasti, Dr. Mohan said that the ensuing by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha would decide the fate of Tirupati’s development. Sufficient water resources, availability of over one lakh acres in and around Tirupati, presence of many educational institutions, and international airport make the city fit as the State capital, he said. “In 2013, the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had positively responded to the demand for making Tirupati the capital of the bifurcated State. The UPA government had also promised the Special Category Status. Unfortunately, the NDA government had betrayed the people,” he said.  ‘Big battle’ “Tirupati by-election will mark a big battle between the two forces, one on spree of privatisation of public sector units, and the other committed to avert the dangers of privatisation,” Dr Mohan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-make-tirupati-capital-if-voted-to-power-chinta/article34122013.ece
21 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaypee bags contract to undertake sand mining||Jayaprakash Power Ventures Ltd, (Jaypee) bagged the tenders to undertake sand mining, storage and sale for a period of two years. At the end of the phase of accepting technical and financial bids for eligible agency, the firm has bagged the contract after bidding for Rs. 477.50 crore in first package, Rs. 745.70 crore in the second package and Rs. 305.60 crore in the third package. Under the existing sand policy, the government has earned a net income of Rs. 161.30 crore for the financial year 2019-20 and Rs. 380.00 crore for the current financial year (2020-21). The new sand policy is expected to generate about Rs. 765 crore per annum. The State government had brought in significant changes in the new sand policy aimed at making quality sand available to customers at affordable prices. The upgraded new sand policy would ensure that the stock yards were set up at the reaches, where customers could check the quality of the sand directly at the ramps, pay the money at the reach of their choice and take the required quantum of sand in the vehicle they arranged. The new policy would also ensure that sand is sold at the same price at each reach across the State and a price with an upper ceiling which is determined regionally based on distance. Details of the phone numbers to complain about the higher rates would be made available to the public. Strict action would be taken on such complaints. The new policy would not give any scope for recommendations and does away with the online applications. There would be no involvement of the transport conglomerate or middlemen in sand supply and those who could not afford to arrange their own vehicles, would have the option of obtaining sand through a transport conglomerate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jaypee-bags-contract-to-undertake-sand-mining/article34122044.ece
21 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pre-school education in for a qualitative change||FMCG major ITC is partnering with the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare to bring in qualitative changes in the pre-school education. ITC’s ‘Mission Sunehra Kal’ and Pratham Education Foundation have entered into a tripartite MoU with the government for augmentation of the pre-school education activities across YSR Pre-Primary Schools (anganwadi). The purpose is to ensure quality in the pre-school education. As part of the partnership, ITC’s ‘Mission Sunehra Kal’ has come forward for improving Early Childhood Education component at all the anganwadi centres in six districts – Kadapa, Prakasam, Guntur, East and West Godavari, and Visakhapatnam – by building the capacities of ICDS supervisors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pre-school-education-in-for-a-qualitative-change/article34122533.ece
21 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||First commercial flight to land at Orvakal airport on March 28||The IndiGo flight from Bengaluru will be the first commercial flight to land at the Orvakal airport, located about 20 km from Kurnool, on March 28. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will formally inaugurate the airport that is complete in all aspects on March 26. Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had inaugurated the greenfield airport on January 8, 2019. He had also inaugurated a mega solar energy park of 1,000 MW capacity. Though the trial run had been completed as the runway and terminal building were ready, other works pertaining to air-traffic control were not completed then. The airport is now complete in all respects. Vizag, Chennai services It has also received the DGCA safety approval. Flights to Visakhapatnam and Chennai too will be operated soon. Finance Minister B. Rajendranath and District Collector inspected the facilities at the passenger terminal on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-commercial-flight-to-land-at-orvakal-airport-on-march-28/article34122362.ece
21 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers lock RBK in Nellore village||Irate farmers locked the Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK) in protest against traders forming a syndicate to deny them a fair price for paddy at Gangavaram village near Kovur in Nellore district. The RBK, one-stop digital kiosk set up by the YSRCP government to provide all services to farmers including market intervention, was of ‘no use’ to them, a group of farmers complained before closing down the RBK in the village. Earlier, they tried in vain to plead with the RBK local head to bail them out by purchasing the harvested paddy at a rate not below the minimum support price announced by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-lock-rbk-in-nellore-village/article34122017.ece
21 March 2021||NUZVID,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nuzvid IIIT students bag top ranks in GATE||Students of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT - IIIT), Nuzvid, secured good ranks in the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE-2021). According to its Director G.V.R. Srinivas, a student of Chemical Engineering department, K. Suryanarayana, got the third rank while O. Hitesh Pavan of Electrical and Computer Engineering secured the 30th rank in the country. “In all, 32 students secured ranks in GATE at all-India level. Seven students got ranks below 500, seven below 1,000, 10 below 2,000 and six students secured ranks below 3,000,” said Prof. Srinivas at a press conference on the university campus on Saturday. RGUKT Chancellor K.C. Reddy, IIIT Registrar Prof. Swarajya Lakshmi and heads of various departments congratulated the students on their achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nuzvid-iiit-students-bag-top-ranks-in-gate/article34122023.ece
21 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let us unite to stop privatisation of PSUs, CPI(M) tells parties||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretariat member Y. Venkateswara Rao on Saturday exhorted all parties, including ruling and Opposition parties in the State, to put an end to the privatisation spree of public sector units(PSU), including the strategic sale of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited(RINL) by the Centre. The Centre’s decision to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) could be stopped only when a second “Visakha Ukku Andhrula Hakku” movement was spearheaded cutting across party-lines, he felt. Leasers of all political hues should back the March 26 Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations and trade unions to exert pressure on the Centre also to scrap the three farm laws, withdraw the Electricity Amendment Bill to phase out power subsidy to farm sector and provide statutory backing to minimum support price(MSP) at a time when the market price for almost all farm produce fell below the MSP with corporate firms ruling the roost. Advocating level playing field for the PSUs, he said VSP could make a turnaround when captive mines were allotted to the VSP. He disputed the view that the private sector units functioned more efficiently than PSUs. Privatisation of PSU banks, Railways, PSU telecommunication firms should be stopped at any cost, he said at a meeting organised here to mobilise support for the Bharat Bandh to save the national assets built by the toiling masses over a long period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-us-unite-to-stop-privatisation-of-psus-cpim-tells-parties/article34122016.ece
21 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Improve working conditions of revenue staff’||Andhra Pradesh Revenue Services Association president Bopparaju Venkateswarlu on Saturday demanded release of amounts spent by Tehsildars for setting up COVID-19 Care Centres(CCCs). Addressing the media here, he said the revenue staff, including Tehsildars, who worked overtime under constant pressure, are now financially stretched as the expenses that they incurred due to maintenance of CCCs and treating asymptomatic patients had not yet been reimbursed. He also alleged that the amount due in connection with the general elections in 2019 in the State was not yet settled, adding that many of the revenue offices in the State were working with poor infrastructure and dysfunctional computers. Some of them even faced the threat of disconnection of power supply for non-clearance of bills in time, he said and demanded that the government provide new computers to the offices, as most of the administrative works are done digitally. Despite clear instructions from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to not extend work hours of revenue staff, many of the District Collectors and Joint Collectors held video and tele conferences at odd hours and on Sundays, Mr. Venkateswarlusaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/improve-working-conditions-of-revenue-staff-govt-urged/article34122019.ece
21 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paramedical staff seek job regularisation||Members of the Andhra Pradesh COVID-19 Association staged a protest in front of the Government General Hospital, the nodal centre for treating COVID patients, on Saturday demanding regularisation of jobs. “When the coronavirus incidence was at peak, a large number of para-medical staff, hired on a contractual basis, rendered a yeoman service even risking their own lives. But now, we are left in the lurch after the job contract terminated,” the association district president P.Vinod said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paramedical-staff-seek-job-regularisation/article34122014.ece
21 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD presents ‘vastram’ at Mantralayam||TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Saturday presented a ‘Sesha Vastram’ at Raghavendra Swamy Mutt at Mantralayam in Kurnool district, commemorating the Vardhanti celebrations of Raghavendra Swamy. He handed over the vastram to the chief pontiff, Sri Subudendra Theertha Swamy, on behalf of the TTD. The TTD has been observing the practice since 2006 as a token of recognition of phenomenal services of the Guru in the promotion of Sanatana Hindu Dharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-presents-vastram-at-mantralayam/article34122020.ece
21 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD takes up inventory of temple jewellery||The TTD has embarked on an exercise of taking inventory of the jewellery at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. It includes the jewellery employed in the daily worship of the deity as well as that used during festive occasions besides the stock in the temple chest. The silver articles used in the daily worship of the deity also will be verified. A senior official said the The verification process is already under way and is expected to be completed by next week or the month end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-takes-up-inventory-of-temple-jewellery/article34122047.ece
21 March 2021||VEERAVASARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two constables held for theft in police station||The Palakol Rural police have solved the case of theft in the Veeravasaram police station with the arrest of two constables. The police recovered Rs. 8.04 lakh that was deposited by the staff of government liquor shops in the police station, from the accused. Two two constables, U. Gangajalam of Patha Pattiseema village and G. Ganeswara Rao alias Ganesh of Nallajarla mandal of West Godavari district, joined duty at the Veerasavaram police station a few days ago. They allegedly planned to commit theft in the police station and share the amount, said Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik. The role of other staff who were on duty, and the night duty officers in the circle at the time of theft was under investigation. Disciplinary action would be taken against the negligent staff, the SP said. Mr. Naik told newsmen on Saturday that Gangajalam joined service in 2013 in Chagallu police station. He worked in Velerupadu and Buttaigudem. The Polavaram police reportedly arrested the constable in a gambling case and he was suspended in November last year. He joined the Veeravasaram station on February 2. Ganesh, who was suspended on corruption charges in Tadepalligudem police station, joined duty on December 23 last year. The teams, led by Narsapuram DSP P. Veeranjaneya Reddy and Eluru Central Crime Station DSP Paideswara Rao, tracked the movements of the constables and arrested them on Saturday. The police seized the cash intact, broken locks, chain and seal papers behind the police station and recorded the statements of the accused. The accused allegedly planned the theft on knowing that the liquor shop owners would deposit the cash owing to bank holidays. At 2 a.m. Gangajalam allegedly broke open the lock of the lock-up and brought out the iron box in which the money was kept. He removed the seal, broke open the lock of the box and took the cash. Later, he kept the iron box in the same lock-up and locked it with another lock. The two constables allegedly shared the money and hid the cash in bushes near at Toorpu Cheruvu Centre in Veeravasaram. The movements of the accused were recorded in the CCTV footages, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-constables-held-for-theft-in-police-station/article34122373.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 10 lakh internships planned every year, says APSCHE chief||The State government is planning to provide internship for more than 10 lakh students coming out of professional colleges every year, and prepare them for securing jobs in multi-national companies, said Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy. He inaugurated a two-day workshop on Capacity Development Program-2021 for Training and Placement Officers (TPOs) on ‘Changed Recruitment Trends in Current Scenario’, at Velagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College (VRSEC) at Kanuru here on Saturday. Placement officers of various institutes of A.P., Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra attended the workshop. Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), managers, directors and HR heads of about 25 companies across the country participated. Prof. Hemachandra Reddy said it was very unfortunate that nowadays colleges were being measured on placements provided for the passouts. So, the TPOs and the institute managements were focussing more on providing jobs for their students. ‘Change of focus needed’ The colleges and the placement officers were focussing on employable candidates and not on unemployable students. TPOs should be aware of the change in recruitment trends, particularly during the pandemic, and prepare the students accordingly, he said. “During their course, one year should be marked for internship for each student. For providing internship and necessary training, State and Central governments have planned to rope in many industries, companies and small-scale units. The A.P. government is also planning a skill university with world class facilities to impart training for trainers (ToTs),” the APSCHE Chairman said. Later, CEOs, managers and heads of TCS, Virtusa, HCL, Infosys, Hexaware, HP and other organisations explained the importance of virtual interviews and selections, on which many companies had depended during the pandemic situation, and asked the TPOs to train students for online interviews. NCC Limited, Hyderabad, HR vice-president K. Narayana Rao was the guest of honour. AP TPOs Consortium president Prof. P. Venkata Rao, Siddhartha Academy of General and Technical Education (SAGTE) president N. Venkateswarlu, vice-president M. Rajaiah and VRSEC principal A.V. Ratna Prasad were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-10-lakh-internships-planned-every-year-says-apsche-chief/article34122591.ece
21 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC judge recuses from hearing on SEC plea||A writ petition filed in the High Court by the State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar for a CBI inquiry into the alleged leakage of his correspondence with Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on various issues, which he considered are privileged communications, was referred by Justice R. Raghunandan Rao to Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami for posting before another judge. In fact, Justice Raghunandan Rao recused from the matter and wanted it to be handled by someone on the bench. Mr. Ramesh Kumar approached the court seeking a CBI inquiry into the leakage of his letters to the Governor and his application for leave. He informed the court that Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana claimed to have seen on social media the contents of his correspondence with the Governor, which also included his discussion on the notices served to him by the Privileges Committee of the Legislative Assembly. It may be noted that Mr. Ramesh Kumar had met the Governor several times in the recent past and apprised him of the conduct of various elections, and certain issues between him and the government that had to be resolved by the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-on-sec-plea/article34122532.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sawang receives best DGP award||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang was presented with the Skoch best DGP award on Saturday. Mr. Sawang received the Best State Award from FICCI, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) and Skoch for implementing smart innovative policing in the State. He received the awards virtually. The A.P. Police also won an award for integration of various wings in the State. Police had integrated the forensics, courts, police, prosecutions and the prisons departments, which was giving better results, the DGP said. Pat from CM Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita and other Ministers congratulated the DGP and his team on winning the awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sawang-receives-best-dgp-award/article34122590.ece
21 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan revelling in political vendetta’||TDP Floor leader in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is revelling in political vendetta while the State’s ranking in various socio-economic indicators has slipped in recent times. In a release, Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged that while unemployment increased by 24%, poverty rose to 20%. The State’s ranking in the Human Development Index fell to 27 due to the “failure of the YSRCP government.” The Gini coefficient stood at 34%, he said. The government should focus on attracting investments and providing jobs to the youth instead of taking retrograde policy decisions. “Unruly elements are ruling the roost, which is evident from the rise in the number of rowdy-sheets opened by the police,” he said. “Law and order has become fragile, as the government has turned a blind eye to the atrocities being committed by miscreants at the behest of the ruling party leaders,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-revelling-in-political-vendetta/article34122530.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||EHV and environmental education exams on March 24, 27: BIE||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) on Saturday said that the examinations in Ethics and Human Values and Environmental Education would be conducted on March 24 and March 27 respectively for the students of Intermediate first year. Both the examinations would be conducted from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The BIE directed the principals of junior colleges to download the nominal rolls from their college login at: https://bie.ap.gov.in. The first year students should make note of the examination dates, as it was mandatory to qualify in the two examinations. “Students who do not qualify the two tests will not be issued the pass certificate and they will not be eligible to pursue their higher education,” the BIE said. The first year students of 2020-21 academic year should appear with the first year hall-ticket number. Students who did not appear for the examinations earlier and thus not qualified should write the examinations with the previous Intermediate hall-ticket number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ehv-and-environmental-education-exams-on-march-24-27-bie/article34122536.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTA to offer Rs. 2.6 crore scholarships for students||The American Progressive Telugu Association (APTA) president J.J.V. Subrahmanyam said that the organisation is going to distribute educational scholarships worth Rs. 2.60 crore to 1,300 beneficiaries in the Telugu States. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he said that APTA had been offering scholarships to poor and meritorious students along with taking up other service activities since its inception in 2008. He said with more Telugu NRIs joining the organisation they were able to help more beneficiaries and as part of it 1,300 students pursuing various courses were selected this year. He said due to the COVID the scholarship distribution programme had been decentralised and would be held at 60 locations in A.P. and Telangana. In Vijayawada, the programme would be held on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apta-to-offer-rs-26-crore-scholarships-for-students/article34122529.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seminar on Civil Services examination today||Sri Harini IAS Academy at Narasaraopet will organise a seminar on Sunday (March 21) on how to crack Civil Services exams. Delhi-based Sanjay Thakur, an expert in subjects such as Political Science, International Relations and Indian Constitution, will provide insights to the participants and share tips on how to crack the Civil Services exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seminar-on-civil-services-exams/article34122021.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling from March 23||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education will conduct the second and final phase of counselling for admissions into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed) and Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (UG D.P.Ed)- 2020 courses from March 23. Candidates should pay their fee, get their certificates verified and exercise their web options on March 23, the allotment of seats will be made on March 25, said a statement by T. Lakshmamma, Convener (Admissions), APPECET-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-from-march-23/article34122539.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revised criteria for admission into Homeo, Ayurveda courses||Dr. NTR UHS on Saturday released a notification inviting online applications and uploading of scanned documents for verification for admissions into PG-MD (Homeo) and MD/MS (Ayurveda) courses for the academic year 2020-21. In a statement, the University Registrar said, in view of the lowering of minimum qualifying cut-off scores in the All India AYUSH Post Graduate Entrance Test (AIAPGET)- 2020 for admission into AYUSH PG courses, applications are invited from candidates who fulfil the eligibility criteria for admissions into the Post Graduate AYUSH courses under Dr. NTR UHS. In the General category, the revised minimum qualifying criteria is 40th percentile with a cut-off score of 96 for MD (Homeo) and 135 for MD/MS (Ayurveda). For SC / ST / BC / persons with disability (SC/ST/BC), the revised minimum qualifying criteria is 30th percentile and a cut-off score of 80 in MD (Homeo) and a cut-off score of 119 for MD/MS(Ayurveda). For persons with disability (UR), the qualifying criteria is 35th percentile, and a cut-off score of 87 for MD (Homeo) and 126 for MD/MS (Ayurveda).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revised-criteria-for-admission-into-homeo-ayurveda-courses/article34122534.ece
21 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. failed to rein in price rise’||The TDP on Saturday targeted the ruling YSRCP on the issue of price rise. Addressing the media, TDP spokesperson Syed Raffi accused the YSRCP of “turning indifferent” to the problems of the poor and the middle class sections even as prices of essential commodities were hitting the roof. Stating the poverty was becoming a larger issue under the YSRCP dispensation, Mr. Raffi sought to know what had happened to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s promise of setting up a Rs. 5,000-crore price stabilisation fund. Instead of focussing on steps to mitigate the people’s woes, the government was spending its time on “targeting and harassing” the Opposition leaders, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-rein-in-price-rise/article34122535.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will not allow private players to take over VSP, assert trade union leaders||Trade union leaders, irrespective of their affiliations, have joined hands and vowed to ensure that the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) is not privatised. “The trade unions and employees are on the warpath, and they will fight tooth and nail the proposal to sell VSP to a private player,” Tapan Kumar Sen, general secretary of CITU, told the media here on Saturday. Leaders of various trade unions were present. “Thirty-two persons had been killed in police firing during an agitation seeking establishment of the VSP in 1966. If required, the agitation now will be scaled up to a level that forces the Union government to rethink its decision,” Mr. Tapan Sen said. The Union Government had in the past tried to sell many PSUs such as IISCO in Burnpur, Durgapur Steel Plant and NLC India, but due to sustained agitation by the employees and unions, it had to drop the proposal. “The VSP’s case will also be the same,” he said. “The VSP is the only shore-based integrated steel plant that does not have a captive iron ore mine. On the contrary, private steel plants such as Jindal has captive mine of its own,” he added. “It is a ploy not to allot captive mines to the VSP so that it incurs losses, thus enabling the private players to acquire it at a throwaway price,” he observed. On whether the doors of court could be knocked, Mr. Tapan Sen said the VSP was set up as a corporate entity and not by an Act of Parliament, as in the case of HPCL or BPCL. “Going to court is no solution, but sustained agitation is,” he said. “Steel plants are national assets and cannot be listed under non-strategic industries. Public sector steel plants are a lifeline for democracy and the cities in their vicinity,” AITUC general secretary Amarjeet Kaur said. “PSU steel plants are a source of employment. Those directly employed and lakhs of others sustain on it. Hence, VSP cannot be privatised,” she said. People of Visakhapatnam had parted with land for a PSU steel plant, and it cannot be handed over to a private player now, she argued. Captive mines Besides allocating captive mines, the Centre should also look into the VSP’s debts, she said, and added, “VSP has taken loans for its expansion from 3.3 MTPA to 7.3 MTPA. The Centre has not supported its expansion. On the other hand, the VSP has paid dividends and taxes of over Rs. 40,000 crore to the government,” she said. In this context, Mr. Tapan Sen said the VSP had never defaulted in paying interest on loans to the banks. ‘Banks cheated’ “But private companies have defaulted and cheated the banks, and closed their shops. The government has asked the banks to write off their debts,” he said. D.K. Pandey of BMS, a labour union affiliated to the BJP, said it was opposed to privatisation of all the PSUs, including the VSP. The Centre should come clear on “where, how and why there is a loss in the VSP,” he said. Mantri Rajasekhar Reddy of INTUC, G. Rambabu of TRS Trade Union, Ratnakar of TNTUC, Adinarayana of AITUC, Ch. Narasinga Rao of CITU, and Riyaz Ahmed of HMS spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-not-allow-private-players-to-take-over-vsp-trade-union-leaders/article34122488.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 70 new cases||The district reported 70 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 60,974 as on Saturday morning. This is said to be the highest single-day tally this year. This is also second highest single-day COVID-19 tally after December 3, 2020, when the day tally was 73. The number of active cases, which was 24 on March 1, has risen to 234. In the last 20 days, the total number of cases reported from the district was 434, as against 268 in February. According to the bulletin, the death toll stands at 540, since no death was reported in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries has increased to 60,200, with 19 persons recovering in the last 24 hours. According to District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana, the new cases were reported from Madhurawada, Gajuwaka, Arilova, Kanithi, Peda Gantyada, Pendurthi, Simhachalam, RTC Complex area and a few others. It was learnt that most of the cases came out after contact tracing of the previous ones. “We have conducted 6,500 tests in the last 24 hours. In some days, the number being increased to 7,500. Since the last few days, most of the cases are being reported from city limits only,” said Mr. Suryanarayana. He said that focus is also laid on educational institutions and tests are conducted randomly at many schools and colleges. The DMHO said that people should continue to wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain physical distancing. The Health Department through the Primary Health Centres have distributed about 10 lakh pamphlets in all areas of the district to create awareness on appropriate behaviour, he added. The DMHO said that people must come forward for vaccination and should also continue to take precautions even after vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-reports-70-new-cases/article34122559.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three militia members surrender||Three hardcore armed militia members of the banned CPI (Maoist) surrendered before the Superintendent of Police of Viskhapatnam B. Krishna Rao, here on Saturday. The surrendered militia members were identified as Pangi Jaggarao alias Srinu alias Jumadam Srinu (31), Pangi Mugiri alias Vishnu (28) and Vanthala Narayana alias Siddhu (25). All the three are from Jumadam village of Injari panchayat, Pedabayalu mandal, located in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district. Speaking to The Hindu , Jumadam Srinu, who is said to be an asset to the Maoists for his expertise in making and planting IEDs, said that he was disillusioned with the recent killing of tribal people by the left wing extremists, after branding them as police informers. He claimed that he was present when Gemmili Krishna Rao of Vakapalli village and Chikkudu Sateesh of Chintagaruvu were hacked to death at Vanagarai in Injari panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal, on December 14 and 24. According to him, Sudheer, commander of Pedabayalu area committee of the Maoists, had ordered the killings without even holding a ‘praja court’. “This is against the ethos of the party and after the two incidents, I decided to surrender,” he said. Ill health, continuous movement from one place to another due to the intensified combing operation of the security forces, lack of sleep and adequate rest, and longing to meet with the family were other reasons that forced the militia members to surrender. Jumadam Srinu had allegedly participated in 12 murders, four exchanges of fire with the security forces, four landmine blasts and planting of 22 landmines, two ambushes and four arsons. Srinu had joined the movement at the age of 15. Mr. Krishna Rao said his surrender was a big blow to the already sagging movement of the Maoists in Pedabayalu region.While Pangi Mugiri alias Vishnu was allegedly involved in two landmine blasts, one landmine planting, one ambush and one praja court, Vanthala Narayana was involved in two landmine blasts, two landmine planting and three ambushes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-hardcore-militia-members-surrender/article34121942.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU: stir by VSP staff will inspire unions of other PSUs||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) general secretary Tapan Kumar Sen said that the fight by the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) employees and workers unions against the privatisation of the VSP will inspire unions of various public sector units (PSUs) and other establishments across the country, which the government had decided to privatise in the coming days. He was addressing a large gathering during ‘Ukku Karmika Garjana’ organised by Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, at Ukkunagaram here on Saturday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Sen questioned why the Centre was interested in privatisation of the VSP rather than coming up with steps to bring back the plant into profits. He also said that VSP is the only integrated steel plant in India and demanded that the Centre allot captive mines rather than privatising the plant. He pointed out that the Centre was privatising the VSP under the pretext that it was a loss making unit, but the policy makers should realise that the country's GDP has also been very low since the last two years. Will the government be privatised?, he questioned. Mr Tapan Sen also alleged that the Centre is intentionally privatising PSUs in the country. INTUC president G. Sanjeev Reddy condemned the Centre's move to privatise the steel plant which is a sentiment to the people of the State. He said that people, workers, members of various workers unions should stop voting for the BJP in the next polls. AITUC All India General Secretary Amarjeet Kaur appealed to all the employees of various PSUs to join the agitation against privatisation of PSUs in the country including VSP. She said that the fight of the employees of VSP would receive support from people from various walks of life in the State. D.K. Pandey of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) said that they would not support the privatisation policy of the BJP. He also added that the BMS would continue supporting the agitations against privatisation of VSP. CITU State Secretary Ch. Narasinga Rao and members of trade unions J. Ayodhya Ram, Mantri Rajasekhar, D. Adinarayana and others spoke.  INTUC president G. Sanjeev Reddy condemned the Centre's move to privatise the steel plant which is a sentiment to the people of the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-stir-by-vsp-staff-will-inspire-unions-of-other-psus/article34122599.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP employee’s suicide note issue takes a new turn||Amid the ongoing agitation against the 100% strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), a letter written by an employee of the plant, wherein he had threatened to end his life by jumping into one of the furnaces at the plant, had created quite a flutter, here on Saturday. But after a quick investigation by the police, it was revealed that there was a different story to it. The letter written by one Srinivasa Rao claimed that he was taking the extreme step as protest against the Union government’s decision, and the letter had gone viral in the social media. This put the employees of the plant, management, CISF and the police, on tenterhooks throughout the day. But after investigation by the police team led by ACP (south) Penta Rao, the sequence of events lead to an alleged job fraud case. According to investigation, it was revealed that Srinivasa Rao, who is still missing, is working as a foreman in WRM (wire rod mill) unit and had attended night shift on Friday. Further, he made an entry of leaving the unit on Saturday at around 6.30 a.m. in the attendance sheet. He reportedly left his phone, wallet and other items behind at his workplace. He also left the suicide note in the logbook of the unit. According to the steel plant authorities, it is not possible for anyone to jump into the furnace. Further investigation revealed that Srinivasa Rao had made a few calls on Friday between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m. According to the police, on verification of the above called numbers, it came to light that he had taken Rs. 12 lakh and Rs. 38 lakh from two persons for ensuring job at RINL and Naval Dockyard. He also told the callers that the result for the Dockyard selected candidates will come out on Friday night. It is further revealed that a few more persons may also have been defrauded under the garb of giving employment. Mr. Srinivasa Rao is yet to be traced and further investigation is on. The suicide note gained significance as all trade unions along with the VSP employees held a mega meeting at Trishna grounds at the township in the evening on Saturday under the banner ‘Ukku Karmika Garjana.’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-employees-suicide-note-issue-takes-a-new-turn/article34122601.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srijana takes charge as GVMC Commissioner||G. Srijana took charge as the Commissioner of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) here on Saturday. The State government had transferred her before the Urban Local Body (ULB) elections and posted APEPDCL Chairman and Managing Director S. Nagalakshmi as the GVMC Commissioner. About a month later, as soon as the elections ended, the State government has once again posted Ms. Srijana as the Commissioner. Ms. Srijana said that she would continue to provide better amenities to citizens with close coordination with the elected civic body members. She said that she would have an interaction with the corporators. Ms. Srijana said that the GVMC will chalk out an action plan to ensure proper and regular drinking water supply. Drainage clearances ahead of rains, repairs of roads and sanitation activities will continue, she said. The GVMC Commissioner said that the civic body would also focus on the Swachh Survekshan 2021. Ms Srijana interacted with the GVMC staff. GVMC Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry, Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao and several others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srijana-takes-charge-as-gvmc-commissioner/article34122594.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor signs first file relating to solving water problems||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari on Saturday signed the first file relating to solving of water problems in the city. She also instructed officials to take steps to overcome the water problems in the ensuing summer season, a release from the GVMC stated. According to the GVMC officials, 44 works worth Rs. 3.14 crore would be taken up by the Water Supply and Engineering Departments to solve water supply issues this summer. The works include renting tankers, laying new borewells and pipelines, repairing old borewells, pumpset repairs and steps to avoid pipeline leakages, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-signs-first-file-relating-to-solving-water-problems/article34122597.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held, five juveniles taken into custody in three cases||The city police arrested four persons and also took five juveniles into custody for allegedly being involved in three case here on Saturday. In one case, the police arrested three youth — M. Praveen Kumar (25), P. Vijay Sunder (22) and A. Sai Kumar (19) — all from Kancharapalem area, for allegedly committing theft of five two-wheelers under Arilova, MVP and Dwaraka police station limits. The police have recovered four motorcycles from them. In another case, the MVP (Crime) police arrested N. Mahesh (19), a resident of MVP Colony, and also took four juveniles into custody, for allegedly robbing Rs. 40,000 from a person. In another case, the police took a juvenile into custody, for allegedly attempting to rob ATMs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-five-juveniles-taken-into-custody-in-three-cases/article34122592.ece
21 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brochure on national conference released||The two-day national conference on Smart Industry 4.0 is being organised by the Visakhapatnam Chapter of Computer Society of India (CSI) in association with RINL, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, from Sunday, at the TTI Auditorium, Visakhapatnam. The brochure and a poster was released on Saturday by P.K. Rath, CMD-RINL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brochure-on-national-conference-released/article34122600.ece
21 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Anti-trafficking units need to be set up in all districts’||Participants and experts at a workshop highlighted the need for the establishment of anti-trafficking units in all districts to check incidences of women and young girls being forced into prostitution, and also domestic labour. The workshop, organised by Kesali Foundation, discussed the causes and ways to end human trafficking. Speaking on the occasion, HELP organisation Director N. Rammamohan said that human trafficking is a serious issue and needs urgent attention. He urged the Union government to take steps for the smooth passage of the The Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2018 in Parliament as it was lapsed due to lack of majority in the Rajya Sabha three years ago. The Bill will facilitate establishment of rehabilitation centres at every level. “In the absence of specified authorities, investigation goes on at a snail’s pace in human trafficking cases even after rescuing victims. Moreover, there is no proper mechanism to ensure a decent livelihood for victims. Establishment of the anti-trafficking units and rehabilitation committees are necessary to fill the gaps,” said former member of AP State Child Rights Commission Kesali Apparao. SITAM College Director M. Sasibhushana Rao urged college students to be aware of the social evils and help others by creating awareness on the same. Vizianagaram Child Welfare Committee chairperson V. Lakshmana Rao and Vimukti organisation founder Meharunnisa urged the Labour, Women Welfare and Police Departments to work jointly for the common goal of ending trafficking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anti-trafficking-units-need-to-be-set-up-in-all-districts/article34122556.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to provide comprehensive vascular care in four centres||Aster Ramesh Hospitals in city is collaborating with Stanford Health Care faculty to provide comprehensive vascular care in this region. The initiative is spearheaded by Stanford Health Care Credentialed faculty Mikkineni Karthik, as part of Stanford Global Surgery efforts in the pursuit of sharing knowledge technology and empowering global communities to build inter-disciplinary and multi-sectoral teams and address urgent vascular needs in this region. “The idea is to provide the very best in diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease with outstanding quality, compassion and coordination. We strive for an unmatched record of scientific application and embracing technological innovation,” said Dr. Karthik, who hails from Guntur. As part of the collaboration, the hospital will now establish Vascular and Endovascular Surgery (Care) divisions in all the four tertiary care centres of Aster Ramesh Hospitals in Vijayawada, Guntur and Ongole.  Global outreach Dr. Karthik is also Director of Vascular Surgery, AIG Hospitals at Gachibowli in Hyderabad, as part of his global outreach. He is a distinguished faculty of the renowned Standford University School of Medicine, Division of Vascular Surgery, where he specialises in vascular disease management including aortic disease with international recognition in fenestrated and branched endografts in management of aortic and thoracic aneurysms, critical limb ischemia- limb salvage, management of carotid disease, thoracic outlet syndrome and mesenteric ischemia. Chief of anaesthesiology and medical director, Aster Ramesh Hospitals, Vijayawada, P. Srinivasa Rao, COO, Aster Ramesh Hospitals, Guntur Rayapati Mamatha, General Managers M. Kalyan and J. Rajasekhar were present at the signing-in ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-provide-comprehensive-vascular-care-in-four-centres/article34122588.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making it safe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/making-it-safe/article34122538.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking their due||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-their-due/article34122603.ece
21 March 2021||Bhadradri-Kothagudem,TELANGANA||BRF||M. Anandamohan, a junior assistant at the Palvancha Tahsildar’s office, was caught red-handed while he was allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs. 3,500 from a villager of Pandurangapuram for doing an official favour on Saturday. According to ACB sources, he demanded and accepted the bribe from K. Arun Sai for processing his online application for ‘family membership certificate’. Acting on his complaint, the ACB sleuths laid a trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34122568.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS candidate Vani Devi pulls off MLC election||After a nerve-racking 90 hours of counting, TRS candidate S.Vani Devi has been declared winner of the Mahabubnagar-RangaReddy-Hyderabad Graduates’ Constituency elections for the Telangana Legislative Council. Ms. Vani Devi received her certificate of winning from Returning Officer Priyanka Ala at 10 p.m. on Saturday, after approval from the Election Commission. As per the information shared by the GHMC — the election authority for the polls — Ms.Vani Devi secured a total of 1,89,339 votes as against 1,47,700 exhausted ballot papers, after all the candidates except her had been eliminated. Prior to that during the elimination rounds, 91 out of the total 93 candidates had been taken off the contest except Ms.Vani Devi and BJP candidate N. Ramachander Rao who remained in the fray. In the process of elimination, contestants with the lowest polled first preference votes were removed from the race, and their second preference votes were apportioned to the respective candidates. Congress candidate G. Chinna Reddy and Independent candidate K. Nageshwar too, were eliminated from the fourth and third positions as the elimination rounds progressed. In the final round, Ms. Vani Devi secured a majority of 11,703 votes over her nearest rival. Inclusive of the first and second preference ballots, she got a total of 1,49,269 votes, while Mr. Ramchander Rao trailed with 1,37,566. In order to win, any candidate had to secure at least one vote over and above the 50% mark of the total valid ballots polled. Considering the number of valid ballots at 3,37,039, the winner’s mark was fixed at 1,68,520 votes. During the elimination round of Mr. Ramchander Rao, the second preference votes polled for Ms.Vani Devi crossed 40,000, which made her eligible for a win. ‘Exhausted papers’ is the technical term to describe the total ballots where no second preference vote was given, and also the second preference votes garnered by the trailing candidate Mr. Ramchander Rao, which became invalid after his elimination, officials explained. The counting process began on March 17 at 7 a.m. at the Saroornagar Indoor Stadium, and continued without a break for almost four days. A statement from GHMC informed that the process continued for close to 90 hours, which is a record in itself, not only in Telangana but even taking into account the elections during joint state. A total of 50 senior officials, along with District Election Officer and GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar and Returning Officer and Additional Commissioner Priyanka Ala participated in the counting process. A total of 9,600 counting staff worked in three shifts, with 800 persons working in each shift.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-candidate-vani-devi-pulls-off-mlc-election/article34122355.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power outage claims life of critical COVID patient||A 40-year-old critical COVID-19 patient who was on mechanical ventilator support at MGM Hospital, Warangal, has died before he could be shifted to another ventilator after a power cut on Saturday. Officials from the government hospital said that though they had a generator, it developed technical slag, and the patient died within a span of a few minutes before they could provide him with another mechanical ventilator. The patient, identified as Gandhi, was admitted in the hospital on February 25. Hospital’s superintendent K. Nagarjuna Reddy said that Mr. Gandhi was provided with the ventilator support from March 6. “Despite keeping him on the ventilator and providing 100% oxygen, his saturation levels were 80-85. He was in critical condition and could not tolerate lack of the ventilator support even for a minute,” Dr. Nagarjuna said. There was power outage between 11 a.m. and 12 p.m. on Saturday. And the generator developed a technical problem which took around 15 minutes to 20 minutes to be fixed. The Hospital Superintendent said that every mechanical ventilator has power backup so that it functions despite power cuts. The ventilator Mr. Gandhi was provided too had a power back up. “We anticipated some delay in repairing the generator, and wondered if the back-up power in the ventilator would be sufficient. So we planned to shift him to a ventilator with better back up. The time taken was not even five minutes,” Dr. Nagarjuna said. The superintendent said that it took only two to three minutes to shift the patient to another ventilator during which period the patient died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-patient-dies-in-power-outage/article34122334.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS gets a Council booster dose||Shock defeat in Dubbak by-election and below par performance in the GHMC polls notwithstanding, the twin victories of its candidates in the just-concluded MLC elections have come as a much-needed boost for the ruling TRS ahead of the Nagarjunasagar by-poll slated next month. Almost on the backfoot since its defeat in Dubbak, Saturday’s win of Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao from Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahabubnagar Graduates’ constituency, and sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy from Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal seat, surely speaks volumes about the back-room strategy adopted by the TRS leadership in the run up to the March 14 election. Surprisingly, money seems to have influenced the elections as candidates unabashedly distributed cash to lure voters. Analysis of poll outcome clearly shows that the TRS leadership had learnt from the shortcomings of the two previous elections. With candidates failing to secure the winning 50%+1 vote mark, the election result is likely to teach a lesson or two for all the parties. Effective management on the poll day, appropriating PV’s image by fielding his daughter as the candidate, tackling the adverse campaign in the name of PRC report, unemployment issue that had become a poll plank for all the opposition parties and targeting the Central government on fuel price hike, have apparently helped the TRS to win the two seats. After the unexpected downside in the GHMC elections, where it failed to cross the half way mark, the TRS focused its energy on poll day management reportedly entrusting senior leaders with responsibility of bringing 50 graduate voters to the polling booth on that day. This was one aspect that was missing at the time of GHMC elections, party insiders say. The party’s vote share did not show any significant improvement in the two seats, but the division of the opposition vote helped the ruling party manage victories in both. Large number of candidates — Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar accounting for 93 and Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal 71 — saw to it that votes were split, benefiting the TRS. The election has lessons for the BJP, which was in aggressive posturing since its victory in the Dubbak by-poll and spectacular show in the GHMC elections. Its sitting MLC N. Ramachander Rao lost the election, albeit after putting up a spirited fight with counting spilling over to the third preference votes. G. Premender Reddy ended up poor fourth in the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. BJP leaders are now trying to pass the blame to others rather than introspecting the reasons behind the results. Split in the Brahmin vote after the entry of Vani Devi was seen as the main reason behind the defeat in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar seat while non-cooperation by a section of leaders, who reportedly supported another candidate Naveen alias Teenmaar Mallanna, was said to be the reason for the defeat in the other seat. Mr. Naveen’s impressive performance however, has to do something with his intensive campaign launched much before the announcement of the polls and candidates by other parties. The Congress’ bad luck continued in this election too, with its Hyderabad candidate G. Chinna Reddy coming fourth and Nalgonda’s Ramulu Naik ending fifth. The poll fever will continue till next month as the parties gear up for Nagarjunasagar by-election. The TRS cadres are sure to be emboldened by the success while the BJP has to sit down and redraw it campaign strategy. Congress will be forced to bank heavily on its senior Jana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-gets-a-council-booster-dose/article34122347.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||My loss an insult to graduates, says Ramchander Rao||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader N. Ramchander Rao described his loss an insult to the graduates and also a reflection of the growing resentment against the ruling the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS). At a press conference here, he said the votes secured by the BJP have given lot of confidence to the party as they were secured facing the money politics of the TRS. “This will only resolve our strength to fight against the TRS and win the 2024 elections,” he said speaking along with G. Premender Reddy, who contested the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduate MLC constituency. Mr. Rao said the Chief Minister was successful in dividing the Brahmin community but this won't last long. Voting has clearly shown that there is a strong anti-incumbency and anger against the government, he claimed. He said the Chief Minister violated all norms and meeting the employees was not only a poll code violation but also immoral. He said since the TRS has now won, it should be immediately fill up the vacancies and also provide unemployment allowance as promised. He said the Vaman Rao murder case should be handed over to the CBI to give confidence of justice to the family members. Mr. Premender Reddy said this loss was only a gap for the BJP from its winning streak from Dubbaka bypoll and the party would only emerge stronger from here. He also alleged that the TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy enrolled fake voters and also spent huge money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/my-loss-an-insult-to-graduates-says-ramchander-rao/article34122352.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ganta meets KTR, invites him to Vizag||Telugu Desam Party senior leader and MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao met TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao in the Assembly lobbies on Saturday and invited him to visit Visakhapatnam Steel Plant where the employees are protesting against privatisation of the steel plant. The meeting comes in the wake of Mr Rama Rao expressing his open support to the agitating employees during the MLC election campaign. He repeatedly targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying that it was working towards ‘Becho India’ and urged voters to reject the party. Mr. Srinivasa Rao, who had resigned from the Assembly in support of the employees and against the privatisation decision, is apparently here to garner support for the agitation from all parties. He met Mr Rama Rao and extended an invitation to him to visit Visakhapatnam. Later, Mr. Srinivasa Rao told reporters that the TRS working president had assured to visit along with a team of Ministers and extend support to the agitation. He said the Telangana leader’s visit would be a morale booster for the employees who are fighting against the Central government’s decision to sell 100% stake in the plant. Both leaders apparently discussed the latest political developments in Andhra Pradesh. People from Telangana have an emotional bond with the steel plant as it was started after an agitation across the combined Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganta-meets-ktr-invites-him-to-vizag/article34122368.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Parties urge govt. to issue new ration cards||Not only the legislators of opposition parties but those belonging to the ruling party also requested the government to issue new ration (food security) cards to eligible families, as a large number of applications are pending. The issue figured prominently during the Question Hour in the Assembly on Saturday. Members of TRS, MIM and BJP requested the government to restore the ration cards cancelled to families who migrated to their native places following the COVID lockdown. They returned to the city after ‘Unlock’ but are left with no ration cards. TRS members G. Vittal Reddy and Y. Anjaiah said applications for new ration cards were pending in their constituencies Mudhole and Shadnagar, respectively. They also wanted sanction of new fair price shops or relocation of a few existing ones as several new Gram Panchayats were formed. They suggested that issuing new ration cards would not be a burden as illegal ration cards were cancelled on 14 grounds. BJP member M. Raghunandan Rao from Dubbak also made the same request. Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala of MIM pointed out that families who left the city during the lockdown and returned later were shocked to find that their ration cards were cancelled and their attempts to get the cards restored were proving in vain. Minister for Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar, in his reply, said that the cards would automatically get cancelled if commodities were not taken for three months continuously, as is the provision. However, those who returned to the city could approach the officials concerned to get the cards restored or get sanctioned new ones. He explained that of the 9,41,641 applications received for new ration cards, 3,59,974 were already issued new cards between June 2014 and June 2019 and the processing of another 4,88,750 applications was under way. The remaining applications were rejected. He also stated that against the Centre’s sanction of 53.46 lakh food security cards to Telangana following bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh covering 1.91 crore population, the State government had issued 33.95 lakh more cards taking the population covered to 2.79 crore. In Hyderabad, 44,734 applicants were issued new cards and another 97,981 were pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parties-urge-govt-to-issue-new-ration-cards/article34122357.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong., BJP seek reality check on budget estimates||The Congress and BJP have suggested the government to do a reality check on the budget estimates presented to the Assembly earlier this week stating that they were unrealistic and far-fetched. Participating in the general discussion on budget on Saturday, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka observed that the priority sectors, which drive sustainable growth such as education, health, roads and buildings and rural development, were given a short shrift in the budget as the allocations made were not enough. Giving some examples of neglect of the priority sectors Mr. Vikramarka pointed out that against the national average of 15.9% allocation for education, the share proposed for the sector was only 6.8% in the present budget of Telangana. Health sector Similarly, health sector was given only 3% against the an average of 5.5% of the budget at national level in spite of the COVID pandemic. He stated that the raw deal was also given to roads and buildings – 2.6% in Telangana against national average of 4.3% -- and to rural development – 3.4% in the State against 6.1% at national level. The Congress leader also pointed out that unemployment was also on the sharp rise in the State as it was at 8.4% in Telangana compared 5.8% at national level, quoting the periodic labour force survey of 2019. Expressing concern at the unabated increase in the public debt outstanding the Congress member said it was Rs. 2,86,804 crore as mentioned in the budget documents and along with the State guaranteed loans of over Rs. 1.05 lakh crore it would be nearly Rs. 3.92 lakh crore. Rise in the public debt at an alarming level was expected to take it beyond Rs. 5 lakh crore in the next two years, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reality-check-on-budget-estimates-sought/article34122358.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vani Devi’s win a tribute to PV: TRS Ministers||State ministers termed the victory of S. Vani Devi as the Graduate MLC a gift of Telangana to the late Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao during his birth centenary, and also a reflection of the confidence of the educated segment in the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Ministers Mahmood Ali, Indrakaran Reddy, V. Srinivas Goud, Gangula Kamalakar, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, and Satyavathi Rathod were among those who extended greetings to Ms. Vani Devi. Mr. Dayakar Rao said that the opposition parties should realise at least now that people are voting for KCR and they should start respecting him, the Constitutional posts and democratic system. Mr. Mahmood Ali said her victory also reflects the confidence women have in this government and the schemes introduced for their welfare. He said despite a motivated campaign, graduates and employees reposed their faith in this government. Mr. Gangula Kamalakar said her victory was a tribute to P.V. Narasimha Rao in his birth centenary. Finance Minister Harish Rao tweeted, “Yet again citizens have proved that they stand by the leadership of Mr. KCR.” TRS MP Joginapally Santosh tweeted a picture of himself with Vani Devi, Minister Sabita Indra Reddy and MLC Kavita stating “Unstoppable when they are determined to do something. One more added to the mighty group of Ladies of our party as @SurabhiVaniDevi garu won the MLC elections. More power to you extraordinary ladies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vani-devis-win-is-a-tribute-to-pv-ministers/article34122349.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Committee discusses human-animal conflict||Minister for Forests and Environment A. Indrakaran Reddy said ecological balance is possible only through protection of wildlife. Addressing the meeting by the committee for resolution of human-animal conflict constituted by him, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy urged the committee members to make suggestions as soon as possible, and submit a comprehensive report within three months. Measures to prevent attacks by tigers, policy for prevention of human-animal conflict, fatal and non-fatal attacks by wild animals, and compensation for cattle and crop loss were some of the issues discussed during the meeting. The committee members sought to know the amount of compensation being paid in States such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra. The compensation amount needs to be amended based on the present circumstances, in view of the fact that for the past six years, the amount remained constant, they said. Further, to address human-animal conflict, the wild habitat and grasslands need to be revived and permanent measures should be taken to provide food and water to the wild animals throughout the year. Fire prevention measures should be taken during summers, and a three year action plan should be prepared for enhancing the prey base for tigers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/committee-discusses-human-animal-conflict/article34122339.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Property attachment order set aside||Justice G. Sri Devi of Telangana High Court had set aside an order issued by First Additional Special Judge for SPE and ACB cases attaching flat of a person whose father was facing a corruption case. A software engineer Vaidya Aditya, was the petitioner in the case. In 2018, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials registered a criminal case against his father V. Vara Prasad (who was additional district judge then) accusing him of acquiring assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. During further investigation, the ACB filed a petition seeking attachment of the properties belonging to Mr. Prasad’s family members. In 2020, the ACB special court judge passed an order attaching properties of the family members of the accused judicial officer. Among the attached assets was a flat in Kondapur. Mr. Prasad’s son Aditya moved an application before the special court judge claiming that the flat in Kondapur belonged to him and his father had not contributed in any manner to purchase it. The special court judge orally observed that such claims would be considered during course of the trial. Questioning the judge’s observation, Mr. Aditya filed the criminal appeal petition. The judge pronounced that documents furnished by the petitioner clearly showed that the flat was purchased by him with his own funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-attachment-order-set-aside/article34122360.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||World Sparrow Day celebrated at KBR park||Telangana State Forest Department, in partnership with Hyderabad Birding Pals, organised a special programme at KBR National Park on Saturday to mark World Sparrow Day. Students, nature lovers, walkers, policy makers, academicians, researchers, and members of the scientific community took part in the event and shared their views on saving sparrows and other birds, and protecting their habitats. Government chief whip Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar, who participated in the event as chief guest, promised to take up a ‘Gift A Nest’ campaign, to spread awareness about birds. The culture of gifting saplings and bird nests must be inculcated in all sections, he said. A nature trail and bird walk were organised, with experts briefing participants about identification of birds, trees and biodiversity. A photo gallery by the Hyderabad Birding Pals was the special attraction. Slogan writing and elocution competitions were organised and prizes distributed. Bird feeders, nests and other models for saving birds during summer were kept for sale at the venue. PCCF R.Sobha, senior forest officials and members of KBR Park Walkers’ Association participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/world-sparrow-day-celebrated-at-kbr-park/article34122369.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Surge in COVID cases continues||As days pass by, doubts about COVID-19 surge in Telangana are getting erased. The State recorded 364 cases and two patients died on Friday. While 313 people with coronavirus were detected on Thursday, it was 278 on Wednesday, which clearly indicates the spike. On Friday, 66,036 people were examined, which is the highest number of tests in a day from March-2020 when the first COVID-19 cases was detected in the State. The last time over 60,000 tests were conducted was from August 24 to September 11. The 66,036 tests includes 60,130 at government health facilities and 5,906 at private labs. Health officials said that they have been directed to increase number of tests. Health teams are conducting tests at random in schools, hostels, which is helping them to detect cluster of cases. The new 364 cases include 75 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 32 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 31 from Rangareddy, 28 from Jagtial, 16 from Sangareddy, 14 from Mahabubnagar. No cases were reported in Narayanpet and Mulugu. From March 2, 2020 to March 19 of this year, 95,48,685 samples were put to test and 3,02,724 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 2,607 were active cases, 2,98,451 have recovered, and 1,666 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surge-in-covid-19-cases-continues-in-state/article34122332.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dont restrict vaccines to identified groups’||The two vaccines for coronavirus — Covishield of Oxford University-AstraZeneca and made by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech — cleared by the regulatory authorities and the government should be made available, if sufficient stocks are at hand, to all those coming forward for the jab, suggests CSIR-CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra. “Already more than four crore people have taken the vaccine and if we can consider it to be a safety trial, it has been successful. We need to increase the timings and open up for allowing vaccinations outside the hospitals too,” he maintained in a recent exclusive interaction. In the first part of the interaction, which was published on March 18, Mr. Mishra explained how the surge in COVID-19 cases is due to social behaviour and not any new virus variant. “If the vaccines are available and the identified age groups are not coming forward, it is better to invite all those interested as it is not wise to waste doses and vials or delay for those willing to take,” he affirmed. Vaccine hesitancy and the ‘weird’ stories about dangers of vaccination coming even from the advanced nations is “deplorable”, he said. First, he advises that ‘politics’ of any hue should be shunned and people should be informed that there is evidence of antibodies against the virus lasting for several months as the number of reinfections have been negligible so far. “We can also be reasonably assured that the vaccine will give us a year’s protection or maybe more because the body’s memory cells are capable of fighting any intruder later on. So, there is no need to fret over whether we need another dose next year or if something will happen to the bodies five years later,” said Mr. Mishra. “While we cannot completely rule out that nothing will happen years later, we have to remember that these two vaccines have been made through time-tested reliable platforms that have been proven to be safe and effective in the past,” he explained. Taking the vaccine is “our social responsibility”, because otherwise, unwittingly and asymptomatically, one may spread the infection to someone more vulnerable. “The safety part has been proven, let’s not get into the nitty-gritty. If we do not take the vaccine and do not strictly follow disciplined ways of social vaccine, one more lockdown is looming over us which could cause more devastation,” warned the CCMB Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-vaccine-to-all-who-ask/article34122336.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor fire at TRS office||A minor fire broke out at the TRS office in Banjara Hills on Saturday when the party activists burst crackers to celebrate the win of S. Vani Devi, TRS candidate for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar Graduates’ MLC constituency. Sparks from the crackers fell on the plants on the portico resulting in fire and smoke billowing out of a part of the portico. However, party activists doused the fire even before the fire tender reached there. Police immediately stopped the cadre from further bursting the crackers and cleared the place. A fire tender was out on standby near the office as a measure of precaution. Party sources said that large number of cadre gathered at the office with crackers as soon as they received the news of Ms. Vani Devi emerging victorious defeating the BJP candidate and sitting MLC N. Ramchander Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-fire-at-trs-office/article34122351.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Budget allocation for city development not enough’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has requested the State government sanction more funds and projects for the development of Hyderabad, particularly the Old City and the allocations made in the budget are not sufficient. Participating in the general discussion on budget in the Assembly on Saturday, Mohd. Moazam Khan of MIM said the Charminar pedestrianisation had been going on for ages and it was the poor hawkers who bear the brunt most whenever the work was taken up in bits and pieces. He pointed out that no allocation was made for flood proofing and not all the flood-affected families were given the relief amount so far. Stating that funds allocated for development works in the GHMC area were insufficient, Mr. Khan said the government was talking about taking up new phases of Metro Rail without completing the MGBS-Falaknuma stretch of the first phase in spite of repeated requests from the legislators of Old City area. He sought to know from the government when the TRAM project between Mozamjahi Market and Charminar would be taken up. On the development of Musi River Front project, the MIM legislator said it was limited to only to talk for the last five years and in spite of allocation of funds in the every budget, no amount was spent on it so far. An amount of Rs. 200 crore was allocated in this budget too but he said he was not sure how much of it would be spent this time too. Mr. Khan further requested the government to construct camp offices for the City legislators. In spite of the availability of government land in several constituencies work on the offices was yet to be taken up. He also sought to know why the allocation for minorities development was not being spent completely every year. Peddi Sudarshan Reddy of TRS also participated in the general discussion on budget and complimented the government for presented a comprehensive budget aimed at growth of all sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/budget-allocation-for-city-development-not-enough/article34122359.ece
21 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP trying to turn country into a theocracy: Asad||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday alleged that the BJP was attempting to turn the country into a theocracy. Mr. Owaisi was speaking to the media at the party headquarters in Darussalaam, where he condemned the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s decision to order meat shops to remain closed on Tuesdays. “They are trying to destroy the pluralism of this country and turn it into a theocratic India,” Mr. Owaisi said even as he demanded that the BJP, which is in power in Haryana and at the Centre, to rescind the order.  The Hyderabad parliamentarian said that the decision was akin to imposing faith on people, which he said was against the Constitution of India. He demanded that the BJP govern the country on the basis of the Constitution and not faith. The AIMIM chief also criticised the Karnataka government’s decision to ban beef, and pointed out that around 1.5 people from the Qureshi community have lost their livelihoods. Mr. Owaisi evaded questions on his intentions to contest the upcoming West Bengal Assembly polls. Meanwhile, the MIM chief said Tamil Nadu has space for a third front, and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam’s TTV Dhinakaran can occupy it. The AIMIM is contesting three seats in Tamil Nadu. Mr Owaisi said that he would campaign with Mr Dhinakaran and hoped that Tamil Nadu electorate would ensure the party’s victory. Touching upon the party’s strategy in Uttar Pradesh, he said that the AIMIM is a part of Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. The AIMIM will fight the UP elections as part of this coalition. “We are preparing for this. On April 5 we will have a public meeting and will take part in the elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-trying-to-turn-country-into-a-theocracy-asad/article34122361.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man stabbed to death by brother-in-law||A 21-year-old man was stabbed to death by his brother-in-law at Malakpet here on Friday night. The victim, Syed Habeeb of Muktharwada, worked at a tent house in the area, while the accused, 40-year-old Syed Mosin and his other family members were seeking alms for livelihood. According to police, Habeeb’s sister Shenaz got married to Mosin, a beggar from Shankarnagar, 11 years ago and since then the former was harassing his wife. Vexed with his harassment, Ms. Shenaz along with her three children, left her husband’s house and came over to her maternal home last week. On Friday around 9.30 p.m., Mr. Mosin went to his in-laws house to get his wife and their kids back home. “His discussion with Shenaz’s mother and brother on the subject turned violent and soon he pulled out a knife, which he was carrying, and stabbed Habeeb, who suffered severe injuries and died on the spot,” police said, adding that the accused was arrested. Meanwhile, at Jagadgirigutta, one Nawab was stabbed to death by three persons over a previous enmity. Police said that on Friday evening, when Nawab came to the area, the accused Imran and two others, caught him, picked up an argument and stabbed him to death with a knife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-stabbed-to-death-by-sisters-husband/article34122337.ece
21 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two incidents of chain-snatching create panic||A bike-borne man snatched the gold chain of a 22-year-old woman at Srinagar Colony here on Saturday. While resisting the robbery, she fell and suffered minor injuries. Police said the accused, who was wearing a helmet, came on a Bajaj Pulsar behind her, and snatched her 30-gram gold chain. The woman works at Polimeraas vegetables and fruits market, and was returning home from work when the offence took place around 4.20 p.m. Police are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area to identify and nab the accused. Meanwhile, another incident of chain snatching took place on Saturday afternoon in which a woman was robbed of her 20-gram gold chain around 3.30 p.m. at Shivaji Nagar. Balamani, a maid servant, was going to Alwal to attend her daily duty, said Jawaharnagar police. “A man, probably in his mid-20s, was walking in the opposite direction, snatched her chain, and fled on his bike, which was parked a few metres away,” police said. She did not suffer any injuries. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and teams were formed to nab the accused. Police suspect the accused may have followed the woman for at least a few days to know her routine before committing the offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-chain-snatching-incidents-in-an-hour/article34122365.ece
21 March 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||BRF||A job mela will be organised at Manjeera ITC at 11 a.m. on March 23. According to district employment officer M. Vijaya Kumar, vacancies are for nurses, care givers, bedside assistants and cooks. Those interested may contact 8247656356/ 9396303633.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34122567.ece
21 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Palla Rajeshwar retains seat||Sitting TRS MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, whose term ends on March 31 that necessitated the current election, retained his seat in the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituency. He won by a majority of 12,806 votes over his immediate contender Teenmar Mallanna, in a four-day counting battle involving first preference votes, elimination of 69 other candidates and second preference votes. Returning Officer Prashant J Patil declared the result at around 11 p.m. on Saturday, after a nearly five-hour process to eliminate the 69th candidate Telangana Jana Samithi’s M. Kodandaram and apportioning his second preference votes to the last two continuing contestants. Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy had a head-start on the first day and went on to gather 1,10, 840 first preference votes in the seven batches of counting. His immediate contenders Mr. Mallanna (83,290) and TJS’ M. Kodandaram (70,072) although remained a threat all through the stages, the sitting MLC’s already established 27,550 vote majority gave him his cushion. While Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy’s margin largely remained unchanged, from the end of first preference votes till the 69th round of elimination and second preference vote counting, a 24,579-vote majority over his immediate runner, Mr. Mallanna and Mr. Kodandaram’s hopes soared rightly as they gathered 24,814 and 32,812 additional votes till the same stage. But the final and the 70th round ended the struggle. Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy gained 29,128 votes and Mr. Mallana secured 40,901 second preference votes from Mr. Kodandaram’s ballot papers. Mr. Mallanna’s tally stopped at 1,49,005 votes and the former emerged victorious with a total 1,61,811 votes. Even before the declaration of the result, Mr. Mallanna addressed a press conference at around 10 p.m., and said that the graduates in the composite constituency have done their job well, “but fake votes and spending Rs. 100 crore helped Palla Rajeshwar Reddy win the election.” While asserting that no political party was on the people’s side in Telangana, Mr. Mallanna also added that he along with his team would take up a 6,000-km padayatra across the State in the coming days. He quoted Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s words as the guiding mantra: “Political power is the master key (to open the doors of progress and self respect).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/palla-rajeshwar-retains-seat/article34122344.ece
21 March 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar oustees take a tour of R&R colony||Oustees from different villages that would be submerged by the Mallannasagar reservoir are gradually moving into their future homes. On Saturday, oustees from Vemulaghat, one of the villages that waged war with the government demanding implementation of Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013 (LA Act 2013), visited the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony being constructed in Mutrajpally on the outskirts of Gajwel Revenue Divisional Headquarters. It was learnt that people from the SC Community visited the colony and examined the houses that would be allotted to them. Works of power and water supply are nearing completion and drainage works are under way. Siddipet Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) K. Ananta Reddy accompanied the oustees and showed them the houses that would be allotted to them. The oustees expressed satisfaction over the construction. At the same time, they shared their fears over pending payments referring to the oustees of Erravalli, some of whom are yet to receive compensations. “The RDO said cheques for the amounts would be handed over to us the moment we vacate the houses. However, we brought up the case of some oustees from Erravalli for whom various compensations are pending. We have made it clear to the officials that we will not vacate our village till all payments are made. The RDO has accepted our demand,” said an oustee from Vemulaghat, adding that the Collector has promised to follow the judgment in the case of single women. Some single persons from the village approached the High Court seeking compensation while the government has rejected the same those above 65 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallannasagar-oustees-take-a-tour-of-rr-colony/article34122371.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Super spreader||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/super-spreader/article34122342.ece
21 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Congress to waive off debts of women and farmers, identify illegal immigrants||Waiving off the debts of farmers and beginning the process of identification of illegal immigrants topped the list of promises in the Congress manifesto that Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi released in Guwahati on Saturday. The party also promised to write off the debts of women who have taken loans from micro finance banks, provide free yarn, loom and other equipment to women and make their travel in State transport buses free. Assam Accord In its manifesto, the Congress pledged to take necessary steps to solve the problem of illegal immigrants based on the March 25, 1971 cut-off date as prescribed in the Assam Accord. The party said the process of identifying illegal immigrants would be according to the decision of the Supreme Court that had monitored the exercise of updating the National Register of Citizens of 1951 in Assam. “The number of NRC offices and recruitment of officials will be started. These offices will be made functional at the earliest so that people who have been left out of the NRC have the opportunity of redressing their grievances. It will be ensured that no Indian citizen is left out of the NRC,” the manifesto read. Mr. Gandhi said manifesto was prepared with inputs from all sections of the people. “The document contained the aspirations of people. The BJP and the RSS are attacking the diverse culture of the nation. They are attacking our language, history, ways of thinking and living. This manifesto is about protecting the idea of Assam, its culture and identity,” he said.  ‘5 guarantees’ The manifesto incorporated the ‘5 guarantees’ that were part of Congress campaign during the run-up to the polls. “The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which has endangered the language, culture and history of Assam, will not be implemented and rigorous attempts will be made by the Congress party to repeal this law that threatens to divide people,” the manifesto read. Congress promised to provide five lakh government jobs and 25 lakh jobs in the private sector, raise the daily wage of tea workers to Rs. 365, free electricity up to 200 units per household and Rs. 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. “A pension will be extended to the families of freedom fighters and martyrs of the Assam Agitation, language movement and the CAA movement. The landless inhabiting the State-owned land will be provided ‘land patta’. ST (Scheduled Tribe) status will be given to Tai-Ahom, Moran, Motok, Chutia, Tea-Tribes and Koch-Rajbongshi communities,” the manifesto reads.  Financial aid The Congress pledged that holy places such as ‘namghars’ (Vaishnavite prayer centres), temples, mosques, churches, etc, which have attained an age of 50 years, would be provided financial assistance. “Kerosene and sugar will be distributed publicly again at minimum price. Gaushalas will be built in each district. A corpus fund will be created for lawyers and Rs. 5 crore will be extended towards it. Mobile clinics will be set up in poverty-stricken regions of cities and villages,” reads the manifesto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-to-waive-off-debts-of-women-and-farmers-identify-illegal-immigrants/article34122237.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ashoka Univ. students to boycott classes||The students of Ashoka University plan to boycott classes on Monday and Tuesday to protest the exits of their professors Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian. They are demanding that Prof. Mehta be offered his job back with a public acknowledgement of the pressures behind his resignation, as well as a divestment of the trustees’ powers to the University staff, students and faculty. “If these demands are not met by Tuesday, we will be organising a separate movement demanding that the Vice-Chancellor resign,” said the statement issued by the student union on Saturday morning. “Not only have we lost intellectual giants and erudite academics whose scholarship we value deeply, but also our trust and faith in this administration to protect the students within this University from external political pressures - specifically, the Vice-Chancellor (Professor Malabika Sarkar), the Chancellor (Professor Rudrangshu Mukherjee), and the Founders of this University. This is a gross violation of academic freedoms and we strongly condemn it,” they said. They demanded an open meeting of the University’s founders with the student body. “We must create a body with both members of the faculty and student body to serve as a medium to discuss matters with the founders and the administration,” they added. On Friday, at least four of the trustees met with faculty to hear their concerns regarding recent developments. According to one faculty member, the trustees insisted that there had been no government pressure behind Prof. Mehta’s resignation, but admitted that “donors wanted it”. However, they insisted they had not asked him to resign. Several senior faculty also pushed strongly for the founders to “stay out” of University functioning in the future, said the faculty member. Rajan speaks out Criticism also came from outside Ashoka. Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan accused the University’s founders of bartering away its soul, in a post on Linkedin on Saturday. “The reality is that Professor Mehta is a thorn in the side of the establishment. He is no ordinary thorn because he skewers those in government and in high offices like the Supreme Court with vivid prose and thought-provoking arguments,” he wrote, calling Prof. Mehta an “equal opportunity critic” and “one of the leaders of intellectual liberalism in India”. “If Ashoka’s founders believe they have compromised with the powers that be in the greater interests of the University, they are wrong. Free speech is the soul of a great university. By compromising on it, the founders have bartered away its soul,” he added. More than 170 senior academics from top universities around the world, including Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, Yale and Columbia, signed an open letter in solidarity with Prof. Mehta, expressing their distress at his resignation under political pressure. “A prominent critic of the current Indian government and defender of academic freedom, he had become a target for his writings. It seems that Ashoka’s Trustees, who should have defended him as their institutional duty, forced his resignation,” said the letter, which was signed by distinguished scholars of political science, history, government, law and ethics. They contended that the values Prof. Mehta practised included free argument, tolerance, a democratic spirit of equal citizenship, free inquiry, candour, and a rigorous distinction between the demands of intellectual honesty and the pressure of politicians, funders, or ideological animus. “These values come under assault whenever a scholar is punished for the content of public speech. When that speech is in defense of precisely these values, the assault is especially shameful,” said the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ashoka-univ-students-to-boycott-classes/article34122239.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Raje govt. too tapped my phone, claims RLP leader||Former NDA ally and national convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party Hanuman Beniwal claimed that phone tapping by the Ashok Gehlot government was not a one-off incident as the previous BJP government headed by Vasundhara Raje had also done the same. Eight months after “leaked” phone conversations between a Union Minister and Congress leaders in Rajasthan pushed the ruling party on the verge of a split, the government confirmed that phones were indeed “intercepted”. The confirmation was posted on the website of the Rajasthan Assembly in reply to a question posed by a BJP MLA. ‘CM should resign’ “The Ashok Gehlot government should resign. There is a proper procedure in place for phone interception and there has to be a valid reason to do so. The Gehlot government had no reason to tap phones of legislators other than the hunger to hold on to power,” Mr. Beniwal told The Hindu . Mr. Beniwal made it clear that the BJP was also not “blemish-free”. “In the previous regime, when I was fighting all alone against the Vasundhra Raje government, they tapped my phone too. I had raised this issue in the Assembly earlier too. I demand that both the incidents be investigated.” Mr. Beniwal, who is elected from Nagaur, the lone Parliamentary constituency that the BJP conceded to the RLP in the 2019 general election, recently parted ways with the NDA in protest against the three farm laws. Political instability He said the Congress had to blame itself for political instability in the State. “Ashok Gehlot formed the government by buying legislators and playing divisive politics. He first broke the BSP in the State by poaching its six MLAs. All the communities in Rajasthan feel cheated because the Congress had claimed they will have a Gujjar CM to please the Gujjars, a Jat CM to please the Jats and a Dalit CM to please the SC community. They are just reaping what they sowed.” The Raje group within the BJP, Mr. Beniwal said, supported and propped the Gehlot government. “They are all working in cahoots with each other. In the end, the people of Rajasthan are suffering,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/raje-govt-too-tapped-my-phone-claims-rlp-leader/article34122235.ece
21 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. will retain Punjab: Ashwani||Senior Congress leader and former Union Law Minister Ashwani Kumar said the electoral arithmetic of Punjab leans heavily in favour of the Congress in the run-up to the Assembly polls, which are due early next year. “The people of Punjab will give a repeat mandate in favour of the Congress. Ensuring peace, harmony and stability in a turbulent State has been the most important achievement of the Congress government,” said Mr. Kumar. “The SAD and the BJP are discredited and AAP has still to establish its credentials as an all Punjab party,” he said. The challenge before the Congress is to ensure internal unity, he said. He added, “Initiatives of the CM and the State leaders in reaching out to dissatisfied party leaders are likely to bear fruit.” Mr. Kumar said, “The country is divided into two political poles – one represented by the BJP and the other by the Opposition, comprising the Congress and regional parties... The Congress has both the duty and an opportunity to unify the Opposition.” On party leadership, he said, “It is for Mr. Rahul Gandhi to decide, if he chooses not to take on the responsibility, even then the party will be able to throw a credible leadership.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-will-retain-punjab-ashwani/article34122244.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||‘Rs. 154 cr. plant will be set up to make vaccines’||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said a Rs. 154 crore plant will be set up to manufacture vaccines during a visit to Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited on Saturday. The announcement came days after Mr. Thackeray urged the Centre to grant permission to the State-owned institute to manufacture COVID-19 vaccines. Mr. Thackeray said the plant will be a joint venture between Haffkine and Bharat Biotech. He said, “Maharashtra is going to focus on vaccination in the coming days and therefore Haffkine should focus on establishing a biomedical research centre with the help of the Centre.” He said necessary follow-up will be done to ensure that more vaccination centres are set up and the process for Haffkine to secure permission to produce vaccines is speeded up. The Chief Minister said a detailed proposal would be sent to the Central government. “Haffkine can acquire the technology to manufacture vaccines through the Indian Council for Medical Research or it can be worked out on a fill and finish basis through which 126 lakh vaccines can be produced,” he said, adding that talks will also be held with other vaccine manufacturers. Under the first phase, Covaxin will undergo repacking and filling as per the requirement. The production will be then continued till the requirement of Covaxin is met and later the plant will be used for the production of rabies vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-154-cr-plant-will-be-set-up-to-make-vaccines/article34122242.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees new high with 27,126 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 27,126 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, said a health official. The previous highest figure was 25,833, reported on Thursday. The State’s tally has risen to 24,49,147, while 92 deaths took the toll to 53,300. A total of 13,588 were discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 22,03,553, while active cases stood at 1,91,006. Pune recorded 3,200 new cases, Mumbai 2,982 and Nagpur 2,873. Mumbai’s total case tally rose to 3,58,896, while seven deaths took the city’s toll to 11,576. Mumbai division reported 5,697 new cases and 15 deaths, taking the tally to 7,88,013 and death toll to 20,043. With 1,34,025 tests conducted during the day, the State has tested 1,82,18,001 samples so far. There are 9,18,408 people in home quarantine, while 7,953 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-sees-new-high-with-27126-cases/article34122243.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai,||Classes X, XII board exams to be held in offline mode||The Maharashtra Education Board exams for Classes X and XII will be held next month through offline mode only, State School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Saturday. “It means that students will have to physically go to the exam centres to appear for the written tests,” Ms. Gaikwad said. If any student fails to appear for a particular written paper or multiple papers due to COVID-19 or because any member of the family is infected or due to lockdown at the local level, then he or she will get a grace period of 15 days to give the test, the minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/classes-x-xii-board-exams-to-be-held-in-offline-mode/article34122240.ece
21 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Nisarga impact: shortfall in mangoes||This year, there is a shortfall in mangoes as farms in Ratnagiri and Raigad were destroyed in the impact of Cyclone Nisarga, which made landfall in Murud last year. “The quantity will be less and the price will stay high. Compared to last year, only 40% of mangoes are arriving,” Mahesh Gawde, a mango trader, said. On an average, 20,000 boxes, each with eight to four dozen mangoes, arrive in the market daily. While the wholesale rate is Rs. 400 to Rs. 900 per dozen, the price per box is Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 4,500. “Sindhudurg has more stock as it was not hit by the cyclone. In April, the price is expected to dip and stocks will rise, yet the shortfall will remain,” Sanjay Pansare, secretary, fruits market, said. From June, mangoes from Gujarat will arrive and stocks will last till the month-end. In April, during Ramzan, exports will rise, affecting the stocks in the city. Exports to Gulf countries and London have already begun, while consignments are set to be transported to Canada, Switzerland and Germany, Mr. Pansare said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nisarga-impact-shortfall-in-mangoes/article34122461.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Daily cases at 3-month high in Delhi, positivity rate crosses 1%||The surge in new COVID-19 cases continued in the city on Saturday with 813 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours — the highest so far this year. The case tally now stands at 6,47,161. Saturday's daily-case count is the highest in nearly three months. On December 24, 2020, 1,063 infections were reported.  Death toll nears 11,000 Two deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 10,955. Of the total cases, 6,32,797 people have recovered and there are now 3,409 active cases. The number of active cases has also been steadily rising for more than two weeks now.  As per the health bulletin on Saturday, a total of 75,888 tests were done in a day. The number of daily cases had dropped below 100 in January. It crossed the 200 mark in the last week of February and has been increasing since then. On January 16, the number of new cases was 94. It increased to 200 on February 24. The percentage of positive cases per 100 samples tested crossed the 1% mark and was 1.07% on Saturday. It has remained below the 1% mark for months now. The Delhi government has been maintaining that the positivity in Delhi is still less compared to other States. Experts attribute the current spike in cases to people not following social distancing measures and not wearing masks. Vaccination drive Meanwhile, a total of 46,769 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Saturday, and there were two minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 22,376 were people above the age of 60, and 4,794 people were between 45 and 59 years of age. The rest of the people vaccinated were healthcare workers and front-line workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/positivity-rate-crosses-1-daily-covid-cases-at-3-month-high/article34122233.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police bust govt. job fraud nexus||Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang that allegedly helped candidates for government jobs cheat in their examinations, and arrested four persons in connection with the crime. The accused posed as police officers and committed the crime in connivance with a private exam centre, they added. The gang has duped victims of around Rs. 20 lakhs till now. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said the accused — Vaishali (26), alleged mastermind, Rohit (23), Love Kumar (26) and Himanshu (23) — are all from Haryana. The police said they received information that illegal practices were taking place at Om and Chander Associates Examination Centre in Naraina Industrial Area in the ongoing examination for the post of Forest Guard. Next, the police conducted a raid at the centre on March 4. A “candidate” named Rohit was caught using a phone to solve the online paper. Rural areas When the phone was examined, evidence was recovered and the rest three persons were arrested from Delhi and Haryana, said an officer. The police said Vaishali along with her partner Anil Sharma — who is absconding — and other accomplices used to run the nexus in various States of north India and particularly in the rural areas to target unemployed youth. The accused asked the employees of the centre to provide phones to their candidates. The gang also used to send a dummy candidate, who would send the question paper to the kingpin. “Next, Vaishali would used experts to solve the paper and send answers to their candidates — sitting inside the centre with mobile phones,” Ms. Goel explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-bust-govt-job-fraud-nexus/article34122228.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmer injured as tent catches fire at Singhu||A farmer was injured when a fire broke out inside a tent near Singhu border on Saturday morning, said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). It also said the incident happened at 10 a.m. when a farmer switched on a cylinder to cook food. At the time of the incident, around 10 persons were inside the tent. “A farmer got injured while trying to douse the fire and other escaped unhurt,” the SKM said. Clothes, five mobile phones, 20 chairs and 20 mattresses, and food were destroyed in the fire. The fire department doused the flames within minutes. “Instead of crying over the loss, the protesters started cleaning the place within half an hour,” SKM added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-injured-as-tent-catches-fire-at-singhu/article34122230.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minor fire breaks out in duplex flat, none injured||A minor fire was reported from the fourth floor of a house in Central Delhi's Motia Khan, the police said on Saturday. No one was injured in the incident, they said, adding that it is suspected that fire was caused by a short circuit.  The Delhi Fire Service said three fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/minor-fire-breaks-out-in-duplex-flat-none-injured/article34122226.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for harassing teenager||A 29-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly sending nude photographs and videos to a minor girl and extorting Rs. 50,000 from her, the police said on Saturday. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the accused has been identified as Rajbir alias Deepak, a resident of Haryana’s Hisar. A complaint was received in Shadara’s Cyber Cell stating that a 13-year-old girl was stalked and sexually harassed online. A case was then registered and investigation taken up. The accused was then identified and traced to Haryana. “It has been found that the accused committed the same crime with other girls as well,” the DCP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-held-for-harassing-teenager/article34122227.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tihar starts physical meet of inmates||In a step to normalise routine, the Delhi Prisons Department on Saturday resumed the process of internal mulaqat (meetings)  of inmates inside the jail premises, said officials on Saturday. The meeting of female inmates of jail number 6 of Tihar and jail number 16 of Mandoli was facilitated with their male relatives, who are incarcerated in other jails here, said DG (Prisons) Sandeep Goel, adding: “Today, 128 male inmates met their relative female inmates for half an hour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tihar-resumes-internal-meet-for-inmates/article34122231.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Search on for man who supplied arms to gangs’||The police on Saturday said they are looking for a man, who is suspected of having provided arms and ammunition to several gangs operating in the Capital. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said members of two gangs have been arrested. During their interrogation, the name of one Aamir Saifi from Meerut came up. He allegedly supplied arms and ammunition to the gangs. Five members of the thak-thak gang identified as Mehfooz, Yusuf, Nasir, Shakeel and Mohammed Mehtab were arrested on Thursday and three countrymade pistols along with 18 high-end mobile phones were recovered from them. A few days ago, a man named Uvesh from Meerut, was arrested under the Arms Act. He also said he used to purchase weapons from Aamir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/search-on-for-man-who-supplied-arms-to-gangs/article34122225.ece
21 March 2021||Washington,||U.S.-China talks end on subdued note||The U.S.-China talks started with a bang but ended with a whimper as Chinese officials left the site of the talks in Anchorage without a press conference on Friday and the rancour and sparring evident in Thursday’s opening session did not have a sequel to match. While the Chinese delegation left without addressing the press, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan spoke to reporters, saying the two sides were “fundamentally at odds” on a number of issues but suggesting they would work together on others. Mr. Blinken listed Iran, North Korea, Afghanistan and climate change as areas of common interest. “And we certainly know and knew going in that there are a number of areas where we are fundamentally at odds, includinog China’s actions in Xinjiang, with regard to Hong Kong, Tibet, increasingly Taiwan, as well as actions that it’s taken in cyberspace,” Mr. Blinken said. The U.S. has determined that the Chinese government is engaged in a “genocide” on the Uighur Muslim minority in Xinjiang. Days before the talks, the State Department announced sanctions against Chinese and Hong Kong officials for increasing Beijing’s control over Hong Kong’s legislature. “And it’s no surprise that when we raised those issues clearly and directly, we got a defensive response,” Mr. Blinken said. “But we were also able to have a very candid conversation over these many hours on an expansive agenda. On Iran, on North Korea, on Afghanistan, on climate, our interests intersect,” he said. In matters of trade, technology and economic, Mr. Blinken said the U.S. told China that it is working with Congress and its allies and will move forward in a way that “fully protects and advances the interests of workers and our businesses”. In line with expectations that U.S. officials had attempted to set prior to the talks, there was neither a joint statement nor a clear identification of deliverables after the meetings. This, despite the U.S. and China (along with Russia and Pakistan) signing a joint statement on the Afghan peace settlement in Moscow. “We were clear-eyed coming in, we’re clear-eyed coming out, and we will go back to Washington to take stock of where we are,” Mr. Sullivan told reporters on Friday. “We’ll continue to consult with allies and partners on the way forward and, of course, on issues ranging from Iran to Afghanistan through the normal diplomatic channels. We’ll continue to work with China going forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-talks-end-on-subdued-note/article34121929.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Eye of the tiger||Regardless of who emerges on top following the March 18 talks between top U.S. and Chinese officials in Alaska — and whether the first engagement with China under the new Biden administration ends up being a significant milestone in the continuing power tussle between the world’s two biggest powers — there appears to be at least one “big winner”. “That is Politburo member Yang Jiechi,” wrote Dali Yang, University of Chicago political science professor and an expert on elite Chinese politics, referring to China’s top diplomat. “His lecturing of Americans has been a resounding success with the Chinese press and public,” he observed on Twitter, “and will continue to resonate” in China. Most people in China who follow the news were likely aware of who Yang Jiechi (pronounced Yaang Ji-ye Ch-uh) is. For several decades, he has been a fixture in China’s diplomacy. Yet if the name might have rung a bell, most would have been hard pressed to recall any details about Mr. Yang, who enjoyed the reputation, among his foreign peers, of being a somewhat colourless bureaucrat. That was until Friday. In response to the 2-minute opening remarks from his host Antony Blinken, the U.S. Secretary of State, Mr. Yang launched into an unexpected 16-minute speech, going beyond the usual customary short opening introductions made in the presence of the media. He said he had been “compelled” to respond to Mr. Blinken, who had raised concerns over Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan. “Well, isn’t this the intention of United States, judging from what — or the way that you have made your opening remarks — that it wants to speak to China in a condescending way from a position of strength?” he asked. “So was this carefully all planned and was it carefully orchestrated with all the preparations in place? Is that the way that you had hoped to conduct this dialogue? Well, I think we thought too highly of the United States. We thought that the U.S. side will follow the necessary diplomatic protocols. So for China, it was necessary that we made our position clear. So let me say here that, in front of the Chinese side, the United States does not have the qualification to say that it wants to speak to China from a position of strength.” These remarks went viral in China, and Mr. Yang was praised for his forthrightness. Some in the Chinese press were drawing comparisons to Mao Zedong’s famous declaration in 1949 that “the Chinese people have stood up”, viewing his comments as laying down a marker in China’s challenge of American dominance. ‘Centre of the stage’ Premature as that may perhaps be, the apparent transformation of Mr. Yang is reflective of the broader evolution of the Chinese foreign policy that he represents, from a cautious, emerging power that stressed a “peaceful rise” as its mantra, to one that believes it is now, as President Xi Jinping put it at the 2017 Communist Party congress, moving to the “centre of the world stage”. Born in Shanghai in 1950, Mr. Yang studied at Bath University and then the London School of Economics from 1973 to 1975, a time when many of his compatriots were still dealing with the Cultural Revolution (1966-76) and unable to go to university. After joining the foreign service, he spent much of his diplomatic career dealing with the U.S. where he served in the 1980s, according to his biography on China Vitae. In the late 1980s, he was back in the Foreign Ministry in Beijing, working in the translation and interpretation department. That was when he became a close friend of the family of George H.W. Bush, for whom he served as host and translator during a visit to Tibet and was given the nickname “Tiger”. “At several junctures over the past two decades, including the aftermath of China’s Tiananmen Square crackdown of 1989, the man they call Tiger has emerged as a hidden liaison between the Bushes and the Chinese leadership,” the Los Angeles Times reported in December 2000. In 1992, the senior Bush even “welcomed Yang in the White House residential quarters, to which few diplomats have entry,” the paper noted. He returned to the U.S. again in the 1990s and was appointed as China’s Ambassador to Washington in 2001. Rise to the top His vast experience in the U.S. paved the way for him to ascend to the top diplomatic posts in the Chinese government. He served as Foreign Minister from 2007 to 2013, followed by four-year term as State Councilor in the Cabinet, a broad equivalent to the National Security Adviser post in other countries. Among his duties as top diplomat was to engage with India as a Special Representative on the border talks, which, by most accounts, made little progress during his tenure. His career received an unexpected boost in 2017, when Mr. Yang was due to retire. At the Party Congress five years into Mr. Xi’s term, he was promoted to the elite 25-member Politburo, the first diplomat to be given that honour since the former Foreign Minister Qian Qichen 14 years earlier. “Tiger” Yang’s elevation in 2017 revealed two things: his long experience in dealing with the U.S. deemed him a valuable asset, and more tellingly, it showed he had the ear of Mr. Xi, who also appointed him as Director of a newly set-up Foreign Affairs Commission under the Party’s Central Committee. So even if Mr. Yang is receiving the plaudits in China for his sharp remarks in Alaska, it is clear they most certainly bore the stamp of Mr. Xi — and were a message he wanted to convey to the new administration in Washington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eye-of-the-tiger/article34121921.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The nifty bidder||On March 11, after selling an artwork for over $69 million to someone with the pseudonym Metakovan, auction house Christie’s noted that “this piece now ranks third amongst the most valuable artworks ever sold by a living artist”. No. 1 on that list is a stainless steel sculpture called Rabbit , the work of American artist Jeff Koons, which was sold for $91 million in 2019. And No. 2 is a 1972 painting, Portrait of an Artist , by British artist David Hockney that got sold for just over $90 million a year before Koons’ work bested it. The third, Everydays: the First 5000 Days , is neither a stainless steel sculpture nor a painting on a canvas. In fact, there is nothing physical about it. This work, by Mike Winkelmann, who is also known as Beeple, is essentially a collage of 5,000 digital images he created over the last 13 years. It is purely a digital creation. And on Christies.com, the final moments of bidding attracted 22 million viewers. Within days of the auction, India-born, Singapore-based, blockchain entrepreneur Vignesh Sundaresan revealed himself to be Metakovan. “The point was to show Indians and people of colour that they too could be patrons,” he wrote on this blog. What he ended up buying, spending record sums of over 42,329 Ether (native cryptocurrency on the Ethereum platform, and Bitcoin rival) in the process, is more than just a JPeg file. It’s an NFT, short for non-fungible token, and the most expensive one till date. When an item is non-fungible, it essentially means it has unique properties, from which it draws its value. So, it can’t be exchanged with another item, what with its value also being very subjective. A piece of art is an example of it. This contrasts with, say, currency, which is fungible as exchange based on value is easy. The distributed platform or the blockchain that forms the basis for the cryptocurrency Ethereum, in the process providing the verification layer for transactions, also supports NFTs. So a digital artwork that is an NFT is a unique piece of work where ownership is established. Entrepreneurial journey Mr. Sundaresan, who has a software background, got initiated into the world of cryptocurrencies, specifically Bitcoin, in early 2013. His entrepreneurial journey in this space began around that time. Not long after, he co-founded BitAccess, which was in the business of installing Bitcoin ATMs across the world. He left the company in 2016, and then made a “large sum of money” investing in Ethereum. This money, he says on his blog, has flown in new ideas, one of which is Metapurse, described as “a crypto-exclusive fund that specialises in identifying early-stage projects across blockchain infrastructure, finance, art, unique collectibles, and virtual estate”. Mr. Sundaresan runs Metapurse along with Anand Venkateswaran, known as Twobadour. In another Metapurse blog post, NFTs are described as “the centre of a renaissance — of finance, technology, creativity, collaboration, and culture itself.” Mr. Sundaresan’s big-ticket art purchase comes at a time when the world of NFTs seems more active than ever. Last month, a Nyan Cat meme NFT was sold for nearly $600,000 in an online auction. Just a few days prior to the sale of Everydays , Twitter founder Jack Dorsey offered to sell his first Tweet as an NFT. And just a few days prior to that, musician Claire Boucher, who is famous as Grimes, sold a collection of her work for almost $6 million. This ecosystem believes it has come a long way from what is described as the BC era, or the Birth of CryptoKitties, a project started in 2017 that generated a lot of buzz around the concept. It allowed players to purchase, breed, and sell virtual cats. Mr. Venkateswaran, Mr. Sundaresan’s associate, wrote about the CryptoKitties episode: “At a time when speculation and profit were the primary motives for people getting into the crypto space, NFTs infused an element of pure child-like joy into the system.” He further wrote: “Typical of crypto, the kitties bred not just other kitties, but other ideas in the NFT space.” Over the years, some of these ideas have been about marketplaces for NFTs, such as OpenSea. While there are question marks about whether NFTs are actually bubbles, a post on the Ethereum site explains why NFTs are important. It says, “As everything becomes more digital, there’s a need to replicate the properties of physical items like scarcity, uniqueness, and proof of ownership.” OpenSea, which calls itself the largest NFT marketplace, says in a post: “We have tons of digital stuff, we’ve just never really owned it.” The point it is making is that unlike in the physical world, ownership of digital assets is almost always in the context of specific platforms, and the ease of holding or transferring them is hardly there. NFTs are said to solve this issue. High-valued NFTs Not just this. There are also attempts to build solutions so that NFTs can validate ownership of physical items, such as cars or homes. But right now, the art world is seeing the effects of NFT in action. As Mr. Sundaresan, aka Metakovan, was quoted in the Christie’s release, “When you think of high-valued NFTs, this one is going to be pretty hard to beat. And here's why — it represents 13 years of everyday work. Techniques are replicable and skill is surpassable, but the only thing you can't hack digitally is time. This is the crown jewel, the most valuable piece of art for this generation. It is worth $1 billion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-nifty-bidder/article34121931.ece
21 March 2021||Atlanta,||Biden condemns violence against Asian-Americans||U.S. President Joe Biden on Friday denounced the upsurge of violence against Asian-Americans, telling a community plunged into grief after this week’s Atlanta murders that the nation must not be complicit in the face of racism and xenophobia. After meeting with leaders of Georgia’s Asian-American community, Mr. Biden delivered a brief speech at Atlanta’s Emory University, where he branded hate and racism “the ugly poison that’s long haunted our nation.” Such bigotry and violence has been “often met with silence” in the U.S., he said. “But that has to change because our silence is complicity. We cannot be complicit,” Mr. Biden stressed. “We have to speak out, we have to act,” he added, as he called on Americans to “combat this resurgence of xenophobia.” And he levelled a rebuke of previous President Donald Trump without mentioning his name, saying: “Words have consequences. It’s the coronavirus, full stop.” Mr. Trump faced severe blowback last year for repeatedly calling COVID-19 — which has now killed 5,40,000 people in the U.S. — the “China virus” as it was first detected in that country. Mr. Biden noted that attacks on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have been “skyrocketing”, a trend confirmed by the group Stop AAPI Hate, which says nearly 3,800 cases have been reported since last year, including verbal and physical assaults, discrimination and civil rights abuses. Three massage parlours around Atlanta were targeted on Tuesday, and a 21-year-old suspect, Robert Aaron Long, was arrested. Of the eight fatalities, six were women of Asian descent.  Long told police he was grappling with a sexual addiction and that he wanted to “eliminate” a temptation that put him in conflict with his strict religious beliefs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-condemns-violence-against-asian-americans/article34121925.ece
21 March 2021||Frankfurt,||‘AstraZeneca exports can be banned if EU not supplied first’||European Union chief Ursula von der Leyen threatened on Saturday to halt exports of AstraZeneca’s COVID-19 vaccines if the bloc did not receive its promised deliveries first, escalating a row that has fanned international tensions. “We have the option of banning a planned export. That’s the message to AstraZeneca: you fulfil your contract with Europe first before you start delivering to other countries,” Ms. von der Leyen told Germany’s Funke media group. The EU warning comes as the struggles to speed up its COVID-19 inoculation campaign, just as many member states are facing a third coronavirus wave and renewed curbs on public life. Ms. Von der Leyen said Anglo-Swedish pharma giant had delivered only 30% of the 90 million vaccine doses it had promised for the first quarter of the year. The company has blamed production delays at its EU plants, but European officials are furious that AstraZeneca has been able to deliver its U.K. contract while falling short on the continent. Emergency power The European Commission President had on Wednesday already threatened to invoke emergency powers to block European exports of COVID-19 vaccines to ensure “reciprocity” with other suppliers. In the interview with German newspapers, Ms. von der Leyen reiterated that the EU’s contract with AstraZeneca states that vaccines destined for the bloc would be produced in both EU and U.K. plants. “But we haven’t received anything from the Brits, although we are delivering to them,” she said, adding that the European Commission had sent a “formal letter” to the company to complain. EU-based manufacturers have shipped 41 million vaccine doses to 33 countries since early February, Ms. von der Leyen said, making the bloc one of the world’s biggest export regions for COVID-19 vaccines. “I can’t explain to European citizens why we are exporting millions of vaccine doses to countries that are producing vaccines themselves and aren’t sending us anything back,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/astrazeneca-exports-can-be-banned-if-eu-not-supplied-first/article34121923.ece
21 March 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. scribe shot dead at barber shop||Police were investigating the killing of a local journalist by an unknown gunman at a barber shop in Sindh province, officials said on Saturday. Ajay Lalwani, 31, a reporter for a local television station and an Urdu language newspaper, was shot multiple times while having his hair cut at a barber shop on Thursday. “It wasn’t immediately clear if he was killed because of his professional duties,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-scribe-shot-dead-at-barber-shop/article34121927.ece
21 March 2021||BEIJING,||China-US||China said on Saturday that it had agreed with the U.S. to take up climate change and a handful of other issues. The official Xinhua News Agency said that both sides have decided to set up a working group on climate change and hold talks “to facilitate activities of... diplomatic and consular missions” and on issues related to each other's journalists.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-us/article34121926.ece
21 March 2021||Chennai,||Enquiries at builders signalling demand pickup: Sundaram HF||The number of enquiries home builders are getting now compared with six months ago has gone up and is an indication of how demand is recovering, said D. Lakshminarayanan, MD, Sundaram Home Finance, the housing finance arm of Sundaram Finance. “Construction activity is a very important parameter [for tracking],” he said. “The number of new launches in recent months and the progress in construction of existing projects indicate that confidence is coming back .” Though the pandemic had suppressed new home project launches in the first half of the current fiscal, pent-up demand led to ‘a lot’ of the unsold inventory being absorbed, Mr. Lakshminarayanan said. “For the first time in the last two years, the number of new launches was less than the absorbed units in the top eight cities.” “Affordable housing was the first one to get off the block following the lockdown and the space is getting extended into areas beyond the metros. Encouragingly, the traders and the non-salaried segment seem to be leading the charge.” As to how his first year since taking over as MD now looked, he said, “I had a set of 6-7 things that I planned to do when I was to take over as MD from April 1 last year. I did none of those and have not revisited any during the year. This was not going to be a year when the focus was on growing business by 15-20%. Portfolio quality assumed a lot more significance and disbursements took a back seat in the initial phase. Focus on growth was to be dealt with later.” He said the profile of people coming for home loans too was returning, with the self-employed at about 55%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/enquiries-at-builders-signalling-demand-pickup-sundaram-hf/article34121882.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Our journey is high to higher’||EPL Ltd., formerly Essel Propack Ltd., is transforming from a family-run company into a professionally-managed global packaging giant under Blackstone, which took a controlling stake in 2019. MD & CEO Sudhanshu Vats speaks about the four pillars that will support the company’s growth plans. Excerpts:  How is EPL transforming under Blackstone? EPL is the largest specialised tube manufacturing company. We do about 8 billion tubes around the world in 20 plants located in 10 countries. It is the largest manufacturer of laminated tubes in the world. The transition from family ownership of Ashok Goel, who was the CMD of this company before, happened in 2019 when Blackstone acquired controlling shares in this listed company. In FY20 we delivered Rs. 2,748 crore in revenue, about Rs. 558 crore in EBITDA translating to 23% EBITDA margin, and about Rs. 250 crore in PAT. Even in a tough COVID year like this, we have been able to deliver in the first 9 months double-digit revenue growth [10%] and delivered an EBITDA growth of about 14% with an EBITDA margin of about 20.8% with an expansion of 60 bps in EBITDA margin. What are you doing to achieve the company’s sustainability goals? We, as a responsible packaging company, are totally committed to sustainability. We are looking at it from all the angles — the 3Rs — recycle, reuse and reduce. The work that we have done in recycle is to be able to deliver and build recyclable laminates. We do our own films. Now, we have come out with sustainable laminates under the brand name Platina. It now has a portfolio. We are continuously working in building 100% recyclable laminates. Towards reuse we started doing work on making tubes from recycled materials. Our first set of tubes have come out for two of our customers. As of now, we are 35-38% of recycled material in our recycled tubes. On reduce, we are doing a lot of work. We are reducing the amount of plastic that is needed. If earlier the tube was going with 500 micros, we are now being able to deliver the same experience with 300 to 350 microns. So, we are reducing the use of plastic. For the future, we are also looking at alternate materials, bio materials which may be called as bio plastics. What are the changes you have introduced since taking over? EPL was a very well-managed company in the past as well. Therefore, our journey is in some way high to higher. The work that we are doing is actually the digital transformation of the company. So, it is about bringing about digital processes and automation. We are getting into data analytics and using real time information to bring in transparency. In future, we are looking at Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. On the whole, our transformation journey will be run on four key pillars. It will be on sustainability, digital transformation, talent management programmes and innovations. What is your expansion plan? We look at the market in the 5/2 lens. Oral, Beauty & Cosmetics, Pharma, Food and Home. We have two types of customers. MNCs and local. Our framework has been designed for this. We will continue to work like that. We will continue to grow organically and inorganically. We have just made an acquisition in India. We will continue to look at acquisitions everywhere as long as they fit into getting new customers and helping us to get into new categories, new geographies or getting new technology. What is your investment plan? To achieve our goals we will be making capital expenditure of about Rs. 230-Rs. 240 crore a year which is exactly our depreciation number. What is your vision for the company? We want to lead the pack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/our-journey-is-high-to-higher/article34121875.ece
21 March 2021||Chennai,||Former SEBI chief Ramakrishna no more||G.V. Ramakrishna, 91, who was the first chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) after it became a statutorily empowered markets regulator, passed away on Saturday. Starting his career as a biochemist doing research in haematology, Ramakrishna joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1952 and served in Andhra Pradesh before rising to the post of Chief Secretary of the State. SEBI’s statutory birth An administrator renowned for his ‘unimpeachable integrity’ and no nonsense approach to addressing tasks, Ramakrishna was appointed in 1990 as the second chairman of the then two-year-old Securities and Exchange Board. During his tenure, he oversaw the transition of the Board into a legally empowered markets regulator following the enactment of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. Formally established under the Act in April 1992, Ramakrishna became SEBI’s first fully empowered chairman. In that role, through the sheer force of his reputation, he helped create the framework for a modern and vibrant securities market. In his vision for protecting investors’ interests, Ramakrishna was convinced that the way forward would be to set up systems and procedures to automatically take care of problems. To that end, he strove to get merchant bankers to ensure that the prospectus for any capital issue provided accurate and adequate information to investors. He also sought and pushed for increased transparency in the working of India’s stock exchanges. ‘Fewer powers’ “In the initial years, the SEBI Act had fewer powers, but SEBI was feared in the market place thanks to Mr. Ramakrishna’s reputation,” recalled K.E.C. Raja Kumar, CEO of Ascent Capital in Bengaluru, who as a young IRS official with the Income Tax department was taken on deputation by Ramakrishna as he built the regulator’s operations and enforcement cadre. “He was a great leader and man of impeccable integrity. The one lasting impact he had on me was that I learnt from him that ‘you’re fearless as an officer when you’re honest’ in the civil services,” added Mr. Kumar.  Disinvestment panel Ramakrishna, who served the government in several other capacities both at the Centre and abroad during his more than five-decade career in public service, was also the first chairman of the Disinvestment Commission and a member of the Planning Commission. He was also briefly posted as an Adviser to the Governor in Tamil Nadu, during a spell of President’s Rule in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/former-sebi-chief-ramakrishna-no-more/article34121878.ece
21 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Traditional firms lagging on cybersafety: experts||Following a recent spurt in cyberattacks, pharma majors, banking and insurance firms have started seeking cyberinsurance and crime insurance security cover, even as traditional and manufacturing companies have been lagging behind, said officials at a reinsurance brokerage. “There have been several instances of cyberattacks during the pandemic, related to data theft, fraudulent money transfers, securities or stocks,” said Vijay Thyagarajan, CEO, Bharat Re-Insurance Brokers Pvt. Ltd. “We have started talking to about 40 Indian firms to take both cyberinsurance and crime insurance cover, since cyberinsurance alone may not cover loss of money,” said T.L. Arunachalam, head, Cyber and Emerging Risks Practice at Bharat Re-Insurance. Traditional companies, Mr. Arunachalam said, were going slow on the issue, as they were giving priority to safeguarding physical assets against vulnerability, cargo in transit, employee safety and money in transit. “Whenever, there was a cyberattack, they simply changed the server and system and started operations using back-up data,” he said. “It is time cyberattacks are taken seriously,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/traditional-firms-lagging-on-cybersafety-experts/article34121871.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘20 States complete ease of doing business reforms’||As many as 20 States have successfully completed ease of doing business reforms, the Finance Ministry said on Saturday. States completing the reforms are eligible for additional borrowing of 0.25% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). “The number of States that have successfully completed the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ reforms has reached to 20. Five more States namely, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Meghalaya and Tripura have completed the ‘Ease of Doing Business’reforms stipulated by the Department of Expenditure,” the Ministry said in a statement. The Department of Expenditure has granted permission to these 20 States to raise additional financial resources of Rs. 39,521 crore through Open Market Borrowings. The ease of doing business is an important indicator of the investment friendly business climate in the country. Improvements in the ease of doing business will enable faster future growth of the state economy. Therefore, the government of India, had in May 2020, decided to link grant of additional borrowing permissions to States that undertook the reforms to facilitate ease of doing business, the Ministry added.  Goa, Tripura Arunachal, Chhattisgarh and Meghalaya are the latest to comply||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/20-states-complete-ease-of-doing-business-reforms/article34121872.ece
21 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Adani Green to buy 50 MW solar project||Adani Green Energy Ltd. (AGEL) has agreed to acquire a 100% stake in an SPV holding a 50 MW operating solar project of the Toronto-headquartered SkyPower Global. The project is located in Telangana and was commissioned in October 2017 and has a long-term Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana. On completion of the acquisition, AGEL will increase its operating renewable capacity of 3,395 MW with a total renewable portfolio of 14,865 MW. The closing of the transaction is subject to customary approvals and conditions, the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-green-to-buy-50-mw-solar-project/article34121873.ece
21 March 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Purchase cap on fertilisers to hit plantations’||The United Planters Association of Southern India (UPASI) has expressed concern over the proposal to implement a maximum limit for purchase of subsidised fertilisers for plantations. UPASI president Prashant Bhansali said in a release that the proposed limit is 200 bags a month per plantation. “This move will have severe implications in the plantation sector in South India, which employs 10.82 lakh workers in rural areas and is spread over 11.57 lakh hectares comprising 12.60 lakh holdings,” Mr. Bhansali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/purchase-cap-on-fertilisers-to-hit-plantations/article34121876.ece
21 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||India buries England under a mountain of runs||In the first four matches of the series, India tried three opening combinations with little success. In the decisive fifth T20I rubber here on Saturday, skipper Virat Kohli made yet another change, opting to take first strike himself. The move worked like a charm, as the home side rode on stellar knocks from Kohli (80 n.o., 52b, 7x4, 2x6) and his partner Rohit Sharma (64, 34b, 4x4, 5x6) to post a 36-run win over England. India racked up a mammoth 224 for two in 20 overs, leaving England with a mountain to climb. In reply, the visitors stayed in contention, thanks to a rapid 130-run second-wicket partnership between Dawid Malan (68, 46b, 9x4, 2x6) and Jos Buttler (52, 34b, 2x4, 4x6). Turning point The turning point came when Bhuvneshwar Kumar dismissed Buttler with a slower ball in the 13th over. England lost all momentum a couple of overs later, when Shardul Thakur foxed Jonny Bairstow and Malan with a cutter and knuckleball respectively. In conditions that favoured the batsmen, Bhuvneshwar’s spell of two for 15 in four overs was worth its weight in gold. Earlier, an aggressive Rohit got into the groove with two spanking straight drives off pacer Mark Wood. When Wood tried to bang it short, he was pulled for huge sixes by Rohit and Kohli. With Rohit going great guns, Kohli was happy to play second fiddle. It took a slower ball from Stokes to cut Rohit’s essay short. The openers had scored 94 runs in nine overs — the best first-wicket stand of the series. Next man Suryakumar Yadav, fresh from his exploits in the previous outing, started in typically blazing fashion. Facing his second ball, Suryakumar tonked leg-spinner Adil Rashid for a straight six, and off the next delivery, went inside out over extra-cover for another maximum. An exceptional catch by Chris Jordan brought an end to Suryakumar’s entertaining 17-ball 32. Jordan sprinted after a high ball from long-on towards mid-wicket, took the catch with his right hand, and lobbed it to Jason Roy before stepping over the fence. It was modern-day fielding gymnastics of the highest standard. Kohli, in the company of Hardik Pandya (39 n.o., 17b, 4x4, 2x6), lifted the scoring rate in the final overs. The captain finished with his highest score in eight appearances as a T20I opener, going past his previous best of 70 made against New Zealand in 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-buries-england-under-a-mountain-of-runs/article34121839.ece
21 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Cavallo Veloce for main event||South India challenger Cavallo Veloce, who hails from trainer B. Suresh’s yard, has an edge over his rivals in the Dr. S.C. Jain Sprinters’ Championship (Gr.2), the feature event of Sunday’s (Mar. 21) races here. Rails will be placed 6 metres from 1200m to 1000m and thereafter 9 metres wide from 800m upto the winning post.  FOREST FLAIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 2.30 p.m.: 1. Stars For You (8) Bhawani 59, 2. Tristar (1) Chouhan 58.5, 3. Michelangelo (6) T.S. Jodha 58, 4. Tough Cop (4) Ayyar 58, 5. Arrecife (2) A. Imran Khan 57.5, 6. Galloping Star (10) S. Amit 55.5, 7. Hollywood Park (9) N.B. Kuldeep 55.5, 8. Romanesque (11) Nazil 55.5, 9. Arabian Storm (5) J. Chinoy 55, 10. Honourable Eyes (3) Dashrath 53.5, 11. Primum Non Nocere (13) Kaviraj 52, 12. Gandalf (7) Peter 51.5 and 13. Cristo Boss (12) M. S. Deora 49.  1. STARS FOR YOU, 2. TRISTAR, 3. ARRECIFE  S A WAHID PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.00: 1. Iron Throne (15) T.S. Jodha 59, 2. Marrakesh (6) C.S. Jodha 58, 3. Hot To Trot (9) Dashrath 57, 4. Kamaria (8) Bhawani 57, 5. Princess Snow (2) J. Chinoy 57, 6. Kingsway (13) A. Imran Khan 56.5, 7. Marlboro Man (7) Shubham 56.5, 8. Blue Blood (3) Nirmal 56, 9. Circle Of Love (10) Trevor 56, 10. Smuggler’s Art (12) Kaviraj 56, 11. Patriots Day (4) Aniket 55, 12. Willows (5) Vishal Bunde 55, 13. Irish Eyes (14) Nazil 53, 14. Saddled The Wind (1) A. Prakash 53 and 15. Adonijah (11) Peter 52.  1. IRON THRONE, 2. MARRAKESH, 3. CIRCLE OF LOVE  MAYOR’S TROPHY (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 3.30: 1. Sergio (5) Sandesh 59, 2. C’est L’Amour (10) J.Chinoy 55, 3. Lady Lanette (8) M.S. Deora 54.5, 4. Superleggera (7) Zeeshan 54, 5. Stick To The Plan (11) P. Shinde 53.5, 6. Dilbar (6) Hanumant 52.5, 7. Sufiyah (1) Parmar 52.5, 8. Feel Lucky (2) S. Amit 52, 9. Hioctane (4) Kaviraj 52, 10. Sussing (9) Shubham 51 and 11. Sparkling Glory (3) Nazil 50.  1. HIOCTANE, 2. SERGIO, 3. LADY LANETTE  MAYOR’S TROPHY (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.00: 1. Birkin Blower (10) Aniket 61.5, 2. Pepper (11) A. Imran Khan 60, 3. Theodora (2) K. Bhagat 59, 4. Untitled (9) Shubham 58.5, 5. Bold Advance (7) Kaviraj 56.5, 6. Timeless Deeds (1) Dashrath 56, 7. Dharasana (8) Sandesh 55.5, 8. Percivale (12) Bhawani 55, 9. Flash Force (4) Peter 54.5, 10. Hayden (3) Merchant 54, 11. Lightningonmyfeet (5) C.S. Jodha 54 and 12. Shes The Queen (6) M.S. Deora 52.5.  1. BIRKIN BLOWER, 2. THEODORA, 3. DHARASANA  JAYARAMDAS PATEL GOLD TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.30: 1. Theon (Late Trimaran) (9) Chouhan 62, 2. Maplewood (8) C.S. Jodha 60, 3. Fanfare (10) Shubham 59.5, 4. Fleur De Lys (1) Dashrath 59.5, 5. La Teste (6) Zervan 58, 6. Magic In The Wind (3) Parmar 57.5, 7. Flaming Lamborgini (7) Srinath 56, 8. Rubik Star (2) Bhawani 55, 9. Fire N Ice (5) Neeraj 54.5 and 10. Cabo Da Roca (4) Sandesh 53.5.  1. FLAMING LAMBORGINI, 2. THEON, 3. LA TESTE  DR. S.C. JAIN SPRINTERS’ CHAMPIONSHIP (Gr. 2) (1,200m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over, 5.00: 1. Augustus Caesar (4) Neeraj 59, 2. Cavallo Veloce (7) A. Imran Khan 59, 3. Corfe Castle (1) Trevor 59, 4. Gazino (2) Nazil 59, 5. Iron Age (6) Srinath 59, 6. Kildare (3) Sandesh 59, 7. Leopard Rock (5) Chouhan 58 and 8. Smashing Blue (8) Zervan 56.5.  1. CAVALLO VELOCE, 2. KILDARE, 3. CORFE CASTLE  LT. COL. GOVIND SINGH (VRC) TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 5.30: 1. Euphoric (2) S. Amit 56, 2. Flying Scotsman (5) C.S. Jodha 56, 3. Johannesburg (8) Chouhan 56, 4. The President (6) T.S. Jodha 56, 5. Zuccarelli (4) Dashrath 56, 6. Aah Bella (9) Sandesh 54.5, 7. Arctic Bay (7) Santosh G 54.5, 8. Full Of Grace (11) Zervan 54.5, 9. Selena G (3) Parmar 54.5, 10. Southern Light (10) Trevor 54.5 and 11. Supreme Angel (1) Neeraj 54.5.  1. FLYING SCOTSMAN, 2. THE PRESIDENT, 3. FULL OF GRACE  FOREST FLAIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 6.00: 1. Pulverize (11) A. Prakash 60.5, 2. Safdar (6) Shahrukh 60.5, 3. Grand Architect (8) Ayyar 60, 4. Crosswinds (2) A. Gaikwad 59, 5. Istanbul (4) Merchant 58.5, 6. Luminosity (13) S. Amit 58.5, 7. On Va Danser (9) J. Chinoy 58.5, 8. Titanium (3) A. Imran Khan 58.5, 9. Gold Member (7) Dashrath 58, 10. Airmax (10) Santosh G 57.5, 11. Gold Magic (12) Neeraj 57.5, 12. Phoenix Spirit (1) Zeeshan 54.5 and 13. Sandra’s Secret (5) Peter 54.5.  1. PULVERIZE, 2. TITANIUM, 3. SAFDAR  Day’s best: FLAMING LAMBORGINI  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble (i): 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7; Tanala: All races; Super Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cavallo-veloce-for-main-event/article34122105.ece
21 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||South Africa proves too good for India||A change of format could not bring a change in fortune for India. The poor run continued for the Women in Blue against a confident, efficient South Africa. After being outplayed in the ODI series 4-1, the host was outplayed in the first T20I, going down by eight wickets at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Stadium here on Saturday. It was another ruthless performance from the visiting side. Sune Luus' team went past India's modest score of 130 for six with ease. The chase was led by opener Anneke Bosch with a fine 66 not out (48b, 9x4, 1x6). Her second-wicket partnership of 90 with Luus (43, 49b, 5x4, 1x6) dashed the hopes of Smriti Mandhana’s side. Earlier, Bosch had had a good time in the field too, as she took a fine catch and picked up two important wickets — Harleen Deol (52, 47b, 6x4) and Jemimah Rodrigues (30, 27b, 3x4), the top two scorers in the Indian innings. The early loss of Smriti, who looked in good touch as she hit two successive fours in the opening over, meant that the hosts began on the wrong foot. The left-hander's uppish shot over mid-off, off seamer Shabnim Ismail, was well taken by Bosch.  Harleen, promoted up the order, joined Shafali Verma (23, 22b) and added 45 for the second wicket. Though Harleen went on on to score her maiden international fifty, her effort was overshadowed by South Africa’s all-round show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-proves-too-good-for-india/article34121849.ece
21 March 2021||Panaji,||Glad to end Vijender’s record: Lopsan||Russian boxer Artysh Lopsan, who ended star pugilist Vijender Singh's unbeaten run in the professional circuit, said he was glad to become the first person to stop the Indian's juggernaut. In a major anti-climax, the 26-year-old six feet four inches tall pugilist out-slugged Vijender in the ‘Battle on Ship’ here on Friday evening and the bout was decided in the fifth round itself, ending in a knockout. “My strategy worked against Vijender, he is a good fighter. I want to thank everyone who arranged this bout, it was a wonderful experience. I’m glad to become the first one to break the unbeaten record of Vijender Singh,” Lopsan said after the fight. Though dejected, Vijender put up a brace face, saying he would come back stronger. “It was a good fight. He is a young and strong fighter,” said Vijender, a 2008 Beijing Olympics bronze medallist. “But I will surely come back stronger and beat him in Moscow,” the boxer from Bhiwani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/glad-to-end-vijenders-record-lopsan/article34121842.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yashaswini clinches India’s only gold||Yashaswini Singh Deswal delivered India’s only gold medal in women’s air pistol on the second day of the shooting World Cup at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Saturday. Qualifying on top with 579 and winning the gold medal with a 2.1 point margin over compatriot Manu Bhaker, Yashaswini said that the competition was “only with the self”. Saurabh Chaudhary was beaten on the last shot to the gold medal in men’s air pistol by Javad Foroughi of Iran.  The results: Men: Air rifle: 1. Lucas Kozeniesky (US) 249.8 (628.8); 2. Istvan Peni (Hun) 249.7 (629.6); 3. Divyansh Singh Panwar 228.1 (629.1); 5. Arjun Babuta 185.5 (631.8). MQS: Aishwary Pratap Singh 632.4; Pankaj Kumar 627.1   Air pistol: 1. Javad Foroughi (Iri) 243.6 (583); 2. Saurabh Chaudhary 243.2 (587); 3. Abhishek Verma 221.8 (583); 5. Shahzar Rizvi 177.1 (580).   Women: Air rifle: 1. Mary Carolynn Tucker (US) 251.5 (629.1); 2. Alison Marie Weisz (US) 250.4 (628.4); 3. Eszter Denes (Hun) 230.2 (629.8); 5. Anjum moudgil 187.8 (629.6); 12. Elavenil Valarivan 626.7; 26. Apurvi Chandela 622.8. MQS: Nisha Kanwar 629.4; Shriyanka Sadangi 626.4.   Air pistol: 1. Yashaswini Singh Deswal 238.8 (579); 2. Manu Bhaker 236.7 (577); 3. Viktoria Chaika (Blr) 215.9 (571); 4. P. Shri Nivetha 193.5 (575). MQS: Shweta Singh 573; Esha Singh 567.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashaswini-clinches-indias-only-gold/article34121880.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Cuban Pete claims feature event||BENGALURU: S. Attaollahi-trained Cuban Pete (Zervan up) won the Brigadier Gerard Plate, the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (March 20). The winner is owned by Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt Ltd & Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs.  Leading Individual Owner: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni (prize money of Rs. 42,43,806).  Leading Joint Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni, Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy and Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd. (prize money of Rs. 94,77,970).  Champion trainer: S. Attaollahi (with 23 wins).  Champion jockey: Trevor (with 29 wins). Champion Indian jockey claiming allowance: J.H. Arul (with 6 wins).  Leading Stud Farm: Dashmesh (Bred 14 wins).  Horse of the season: Cosmos (3 starts/3 wins), (prize money of Rs. 19,47,230).  Champion horse: Lagarde (prize money of Rs. 95,40,795).  1. SALUTE HER PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): IMPERIAL BLUE (Akshay K) 1, Muirfield (Trevor) 2, Southern Dynasty (Neeraj) 3 and Sir Phoenix (Srinath) 4. Not run: Devils Magic. 3-1/2, 1-1/4 and Nose. 1m 13.84s. Rs. 19 (w), 15, 13 and 25 (p), SHP: 42, THP: 50, FP: 101, Q: 65, Trinella: 550 and 259, Exacta: 2,166 and 825. Favourite: Imperial Blue. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  2. WORLD SPARROW DAY PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over: ALTAIR (Sai Kiran) 1, Jai Vikram (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Fierce Fighter (H.M Akshay) 3 and Reverence (J.H. Arul) 4. 3/4, 1-1/4 and 4-1/2. 1m 15.51s. Rs. 58 (w), 19, 42 and 44 (p), SHP: 90, THP: 102, FP: 319, Q: 396, Trinella: 31,663 and 6,784, Exacta: 28,564 and 6,120. Favourite: Reverence. Owners: Mr. Divya Chawcharia, Mr. Sharat Kumar & Mr. K. Santhosh Kumar. Trainer: Sharat Kumar.  3. DIVINE LIGHT PLATE (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o & over: FOUR WHEEL DRIVE (Akshay K) 1, Chisox (Trevor) 2, Blazing Gold (Arvind K) 3 and Golden Memory (H.M. Akshay) 4. 1-1/4, 2 and 1. 1m 27.04s. Rs. 96 (w), 19, 15 and 24 (p), SHP: 34, THP: 51, FP: 381, Q: 129, Trinella: 1,863 and 848, Exacta: 3,141 and 921. Favourite: Golden Memory. Owners: Mr. Akshay Karan, Mr. Syed Nawaz Hussain & Mr. V. Krishna Das. Trainer: S. Dominic.  4. SET ALIGHT PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: CAMELEONS IMAGE (Chethan G) 1, Commandpost (Angad) 2, Ozark (R. Manish) 3 and Chul Bul Rani (Ankit Yadav) 4. Not run: Gold Gray. 3, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m 14.38s. Rs. 30 (w), 18, 16 and 26 (p), SHP: 47, THP: 68, FP: 252, Q: 74, Trinella: 481 and 705, Exacta: 49,561 (carried over). Favourite: Ultimate Striker. Owner and trainer: Mr. Neil Darashah.  5. STAR CONTENDER PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50: WATCHMYSTARS (Trevor) 1, Stone House (Akshay K) 2, Casey (Darshan) 3 and Gerontocrat (R. Manish) 4. 1-1/2, 4-1/2 and 1. 1m 12.89s. Rs. 14 (w), 15, 15 and 107 (p), SHP: 42, THP: 220, FP: 49, Q: 43, Trinella: 948 and 647, Exacta: 23,487 and 5,033. Favourite: Watchmystars. Owners: Hyperion Bloodstock Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Zaheer F. Rattonsey, Mr. Ramesh Chandra Mehta & Mr. R. Shiva Shankar. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  6. SERJEANT AT ARMS PLATE (1,800m), rated 45 to 65: GREEN CHANNEL (J.H. Arul) 1, Speedster (Darshan) 2, Mountain Lion (Srinath) 3 and Three Wishes (H.M. Akshay) 4. 1-1/2, Snk and 1-1/2. 1m 52.23s. Rs. 83 (w), 21, 17 and 14 (p), SHP: 44, THP: 80, FP: 475, Q: 205, Trinella: 1,132 and 385, Exacta: 41,412 and 17,748. Favourite: Mountain Lion. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  7. BRIGADIER GERARD PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 & above: CUBAN PETE (Zervan) 1, Galvarino (J.H. Arul) 2, Set To Win (Sai Kumar) 3 and Silver Dew (Neeraj) 4. Not run: Psychic Warrior and Manchester. 1, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m 13.36s. Rs. 36 (w), 16, 13 and 34 (p), SHP: 44, THP: 68, FP: 119, Q: 59, Trinella: 725 and 319, Exacta: 1,789 and 625. Favourite: Galvarino. Owners: Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt Ltd & Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  8. SET ALIGHT PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: DEFINITIVE (Sai Kiran) 1, Star And Garter (S. John) 2, Habanero (J.H. Arul) 3 Iconic Princess (Akshay K) 4. Lnk, Lnk and 1-3/4. 1m 15.09s. Rs. 319 (w), 40, 12 and 63 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 158, FP: 957, Q: 294, Trinella: 8,259 and 4,720, Exacta: 45,584 and 9,768. Favourite: Star And Garter. Owners: Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas, Mr. Dean Stephens & Mr. Martin Alan Wheeler. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  9. WORLD SPARROW DAY PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over: NOSTRADAMUS (J.H. Arul) 1, Gazebo Talk (S. Shareef) 2, Legend Is Back (Sai Vamshi) 3 and Star Citizen (Chethan G) 4. Not run: Lifeisamiracle. 2-3/4, 2-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 14.43s. Rs. 28 (w), 16, 21 and 14 (p), SHP: 65, THP: 47, FP: 184, Q: 129, Trinella: 663 and 435, Exacta: 2,388 and 1,620. Favourite: Nostradamus. Owner: Mr. N. Venkataswamy. Trainer: V. Dheeraj. Jackpot: Rs. 52,444 (eight tkt); Runner up: 14,984 (12 tkts); Treble (i): 1,081 (six tkt); (ii): 511 (15 tkts); (iii): 4,196 (four tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cuban-pete-claims-feature-event/article34121883.ece
21 March 2021||Birmingham,||Sindhu falters at the semifinal stage again||Reigning world champion P.V. Sindhu suffered yet another semifinal defeat at the prestigious All England Championships as she went down tamely in straight games to Pornpawee Chochuwong of Thailand in the women's singles here on Saturday. Sindhu, the Olympic silver medallist, couldn't match the pace, power and precision of her World No. 11 rival and lost 21-17, 21-9 in a match that lasted 43 minutes. The World No. 7 Indian had lost at the semifinal at the 2018 edition as well. Sindhu came into the semifinal contest with an overwhelming 4-1 head-to-head lead over 23-year-old Chochuwong, whom she had beaten at the HSBC BWF World Tour Finals in January. But all that statistics didn't matter as Chochowong showed immaculate defence and played at a searing pace to outclass the Indian. On Friday night, Sindhu, seeded fifth, had defeated Japan's third seed Akane Yamaguchi 16-21, 21-16, 21-19 in an intriguing quarterfinal match to make it to the last-eight stage. Sindhu had battled for an hour and 16 minutes to eke out her first win over world number five Yamaguchi in last four meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-falters-at-the-semifinal-stage-again/article34121841.ece
21 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Sharath-Manika pair makes it to Tokyo Games||Indian table tennis contingent’s Olympic qualification campaign saw a fitting end on Saturday with A. Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra stunning the World No. 5 Korean pair of Sang-Su Lee and Jihee Jeon in Doha, Qatar, to seal the mixed doubles spot at Tokyo. Sharath and Manika, who had qualified for singles earlier in the week, along with G. Sathiyan and Sutirtha Mukherjee, came back after losing the first two games against the Koreans to script a hard-fought 8-11, 6-11, 11-5, 11-6, 13-11, 11-8 win in 56 minutes in the final of the mixed doubles event. Only the winning pair was to qualify for the Olympic.  “Yes, now we have proven that we are right up there among the top pairs in the world, but honestly, it was an extremely difficult task to overcome the Korean pair,” an elated Sharath told The Hindu after the match. “I was watching their videos and just couldn’t figure out how to plan. In the morning, all I told Manika was to enter with an open mind and see how it goes.” Manika credited “Sharath bhaiya ” for “grooming her into confidence” and also underlined her training regime in Pune over the last few months. “I had worked really hard in Pune. All of it could be brought to table and [it] helped me keep calm when we were down (0-2) and elevate my game for the occasion,” Manika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-manika-pair-makes-it-to-tokyo-olympics/article34121865.ece
21 March 2021||Berlin,||Bayern blanks Stuttgart||Bayern Munich made light of the 12th minute sending off of Alphonse Davies to outplay Stuttgart 4-0 with Robert Lewandowski leading the line with a first-half hat-trick in the Bundesliga. Erling Braut Haaland’s 90th minute strike salvaged a 2-2 draw for Borussia Dortmund at Cologne. Earlier on Friday, Marcel Sabitzer’s goal was enough for Leipzig to beat Arminia Bielefeld 1-0 away. Eight rounds remain after this weekend. Leipzig next hosts Bayern on April 3 after the international break. Emil Forsberg, Dani Olmo and Christopher Nkunku had Leipzig’s best chances in the first half, only to see their efforts foiled each time by Bielefeld goalkeeper Stefan Ortega, the home side’s best player. Ortega was remonstrating with his teammates right after the break, however, when Sabitzer scored in the 47th minute. Lukas Klostermann and Dani Olmo won the ball, and the latter played a one-two with Nkunku before squaring it to give Sabitzer a tap-in.  The results:   Bundesliga: Werder 1 (Mohwald 45) lost to Wolfsburg 2 (Sargent 8-og, Weghorst 42); Cologne 2 (Duda 35-pen, Jakobs 65) drew with Dortmund 2 (Haaland 3, 90); Bayern Munich 4 (Lewandowski 17, 23, 39, Gnabry 22) bt Stuttgart 0; Eintracht Frankfurt 5 (Andre Silva 2, 41, Andrich 35-og, Kostic 39, Chandler 90+2) bt Union Berlin 2 (Kruse 7, 45+3).   LaLiga: Athletic Bilbao 1 (Berchiche 9) drew with Eibar 1 (Kike 17). Serie A: Crotone 2 (Messias 33, Simy 41-pen) lost to Bologna 3 (Soumaoro 62, Schouten 70, Skov Olsen 84).   Friday: Premier League: Fulham 1 (Andersen 38) lost to Leeds 2 (Bamford 29, Raphinha 58).   LaLiga: Real Betis 2 (Fekir 70, Juanmi 75) bt Levante 0.   Serie A: Parma 1 (Pelle 16) lost to Genoa 2 (Scamacca 50, 69).   Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld 0 lost to RB Leipzig 1 (Sabitzer 46).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-blanks-stuttgart/article34121869.ece
21 March 2021||Bengaluru:,||Tyagi reigns||Karnataka’s Krish Tyagi beat top seed Rethin Pranav of Tamil Nadu 6-4, 7-6(5) in the final to win the National U-14 championship held at the MSLTA Courts in Mumbai on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tyagi-reigns/article34122026.ece
21 March 2021||KOCHI:,||Golden Threads blanks Kovalam||Golden Threads FC defeated Kovalam FC 2-0 for its first win in the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football here on Saturday. Navin M. Raghu (24th minute) and P.C. Anurag (66th) scored the goals. Meanwhile, in Thrissur, Saliou Guindo fired in four goals as Gokulam Kerala FC defeated thrashed FC Kerala 5-2 in a Group ‘A’ match.  The result:   Group B (at Kochi): Golden Threads 2 (Navin M. Raghu 24, P.C. Anurag 66) bt Kovalam 0.   Group A (at Thrissur): Gokulam Kerala 5 (Saliou Guindo 8, 26, 53, 83; Fasalu Rahman 90+1) bt FC Kerala 2 (C. Asif 51, S. Abhishek 80).    Akshay Manohar struck an unbeaten 70 off just 39 balls to lead Lions to a five-wicket win over Tuskers in the Kodak KCA President's Cup T20 league here on Saturday. Later Eagles routed Royals by 72 runs, riding on a splendid all-round show by J.R. Sreeraj (37 n.o. & 3/13).  The scores:   Tuskers 156/7 in 20 overs (Vathsal Govind 64, K. Monish 29, Abhishek Mohan 3/20) lost to Lions 161/5 in 19.4 overs (Salman Nizar 35, Akshay Manohar 70 n.o., M.D. Nidheesh 2/34).   Royals 163/6 in 20 overs (Krishna Prasad 49, Jaffar Jamal 27, Athul Diamond 28, J.R. Sreeraj 37 n.o., N.P. Basil 2/31, Sharafudheen 3/29) bt Royals 91/9 in 20 overs (Manu Krishnan 3/10, J.R. Sreeraj 3/13).     Host Good Shepherd English Medium School completed a double by winning the junior and youth girls’ titles in the Pathanamthitta district junior basketball championships here on Saturday. Thomas HSS (Kozhencherry) and Bethany Academy won the junior and youth boys titles respectively.  The results (finals):   Juniors, boys: St. Thomas HSS, Kozhencherry bt TBC, Thiruvalla 24-14; Girls: Good Shepherd EMS, Kurianoor 20 (Aswathy 14) bt MTHS, Kurianoor 18 (Aprna 13).   Youth, boys: Bethany Academy, Vennikulam 18 (Jerry 10) bt MTHS, Kurianoor 2; Girls: Good Shephered EMS, Kurianoor 18 (Aarya 11) bt MTHS, Kurianoor 13 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/golden-threads-blanks-kovalam/article34122392.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, IV div., relegation playoff, Vigneswara CC vs Fox Trotters (MIT); V div., championship match, Kumbhat CC vs Venkat CC (Omega College), 9.30 a.m.   Thiruvallur DCA league, I div., Standard CC vs Fine Star (Gojan), 9.30 a.m.; II div, Sundar CC vs Wheels Ind RC (Hindu ‘A’), 8 a.m.; Pattabiram CA vs Thiruthani CC (OCF ground), 1 p.m.   KDCA league, II div., Central Bank vs Gurunak Combines (7.30 a.m.); Spring Field CC vs Asiatic CA (12.30 p.m.), Dhanish Engg. College.   Prof. Bennet Albert teaching staff tournament, semifinals. MCC, 9 a.m. & 12.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34122106.ece
21 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Vanlalremdika brace sinks Chennai City||Brandon Vanlalremdika’s brace guided Aizawl FC to a 3-1 victory over Chennai City FC in a relegation round match of the Hero I-League at the Kalyani Sta«dium here on Saturday. Aizawl FC collected 21 points to retain the top spot, while CCFC was third with 12 points after 13 outings.  The results:   Aizawl FC 3 (Brandon Vanlalremdika 21, 47; David Lalhlansanga 36) bt Chennai City FC 1 (Iqbal Hussain 90).   Sudeva Delhi FC 1 (Shubho Paul 40) bt Indian Arrows 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vanlalremdika-brace-sinks-chennai-city/article34121851.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SCOREBOARD||INDIA   Rohit Sharma b Stokes 64 (34b, 4x4, 5x6), Virat Kohli (not out) 80 (52b, 7x4, 2x6), Suryakumar Yadav c Roy b Rashid 32 (17b, 3x4, 2x6), Hardik Pandya (not out) 39 (17b, 4x4, 2x6); Extras (lb-3, w-6): 9; Total (for two wkts. in 20 overs): 224.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-94 (Rohit, 8.6 overs), 2-143 (Suryakumar, 13.2).   ENGLAND BOWLING   Rashid 4-0-31-1, Archer 4-0-43-0, Wood 4-0-53-0, Jordan 4-0-57-0, Curran 1-0-11-0, Stokes 3-0-26-1.   ENGLAND   Jason Roy b Bhuvneshwar 0 (2b), Jos Buttler c Hardik b Bhuvneshwar 52 (34b, 2x4, 4x6), Dawid Malan b Shardul 68 (46b, 9x4, 2x6), Jonny Bairstow c Suryakumar b Shardul 7 (7b, 1x4), Eoin Morgan c sub (Rahul) b Hardik 1 (4b), Ben Stokes c Pant b Natarajan 14 (12b, 2x4), Chris Jordan c Suryakumar b Shardul 11 (10b, 1x6), Jofra Archer run out 1 (2b), Sam Curran (not out) 14 (3b, 2x6), Adil Rashid (not out) 0 (0b); Extras (lb-9, w-11): 20; Total (for eight wkts. in 20 overs): 188.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-0 (Roy, 0.2), 2-130 (Buttler, 12.5), 3-140 (Bairstow, 14.3), 4-142 (Malan, 14.6), 5-142 (Morgan, 15.3), 6-165 (Stokes, 18.3), 7-168 (Archer, 18.6), 8-174 (Jordan, 19.3).     INDIA BOWLING   Bhuvneshwar 4-0-15-2, Hardik 4-0-34-1, Washington 1-0-13-0, Shardul 4-0-45-3, Natarajan 4-0-39-1, Rahul Chahar 3-0-33-0.   Toss: England. MoM: Bhuvneshwar. MoS: Kohli.   India won by 36 runs to clinch the series 3-2.   First ODI: March 23, Pune, 1.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scoreboard/article34121855.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 08:13 IST,||Sudoku — March 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-21-2021/article34122627.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||An influential matter||In 2017, two social scientists from Stanford University, Lauren Howe and Benoit Monin, wanted to find out how to make health messages from physicians more effective. For decades, marketing firms have relied on the popular idea that medical experts are the most influential people for spreading health-and-lifestyle changes. If a physician wants you to try a new diet, they would be most convincing if they were to model that behaviour themselves. But for an obese patient, a healthy physician who advertises the merits of exercise by discussing their personal routine is not in fact likely to be an effective source of influence. In fact, this role-model strategy can backfire: Howe and Monin found that less healthy patients feel judged — even devalued — by physicians who advertise their own healthy lifestyles. The unintended effect is to make patients less receptive to medical advice regarding changes to their diets and exercise habits. When people need to be convinced that a new behaviour or technology will be useful for them, the most influential contacts are typically people who resemble them. In the diet-diary study, for example, obese participants were far more likely to adopt the innovation when they learned about it from similarly overweight peers. For them, less healthy people were more relevant sources of influence than highly fit ones. I once attended a lecture by a world expert on the topic of obesity. He presented a chart of height-to-weight ratios and asked the audience to find themselves on that chart. He then proceeded to lecture them on the problem of obesity in the United States, and the changes that most Americans needed to make to their diets. Afterward, my colleagues and I stood silently in the lobby. Finally, someone spoke. “I have never felt so defensive in my entire life,” he said. “All I could think about was how skinny that lecturer was.” We burst into a chorus of agreement. My colleagues and I were all recent PhDs. All of us were young, athletic, and fit. In fact, my colleague who spoke up was a runner who had been a competitive athlete all through college and graduate school. It didn’t matter. Nor did it matter that we were all working on health-policy research at the time; somehow the lecturer had made us all feel self-consciously different from him. None of us could even remember the main points of the lecture. All we could think about was how offensive it was. (And how much we suddenly felt a craving for junk food.) So how can physicians more successfully influence their patients? Their ability to persuade their patients to try something new may come not from their medical authority but from their perceived similarities with the patients. For instance, paediatricians are often more influential in giving advice to parents when they supplement medical information with anecdotes about their experiences with their own children. Their influence comes as much from being parents as from being doctors. A particularly well-known example in the medical community is vaccination. For new parents trying to determine the credibility and safety of vaccines, the opinions of other parents are often seen as more relevant than the opinions of expert epidemiologists. It is not surprising that physicians’ advice about vaccination is often more influential when they share stories about vaccinating their own children. The same principle powers the success of the online patient community Patients Like Me. People with rare illnesses are receptive to advice coming from others who have the same condition. For patients considering the use of a new medical device or weighing whether to join a randomized controlled trial, advice from peers who have faced similar challenges is often viewed as more credible than advice from medical professionals.  Excerpted with permission from Change: How To Make Big Things Happen by Damon Centola, published by John Murray/ Hachette India   Doctors’ ability to persuade their patients to try something new may come not from their medical authority but from their perceived similarities with the patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/an-influential-matter/article34122443.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Swim season is here||Pools are opening up across the country, and while many doctors say they are best avoided because of crowds and the looming second wave of infections, it is not the water itself that is the problem. The US’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that it “is not aware of any scientific reports of the virus that causes COVID-19 spreading to people through the water in pools…” However, it is best to be cautious, check pool protocol, and always maintain physical distance in the water, on the deck, and in changing rooms. Swimming facilities and trainers are putting some precautions in place. Check for these at your local pool. Know that you may experience reduced use of changing facilities, more physical health checks, and depleted access with advance booking of time slots, restricted numbers, and fewer pools reopening.  Overall ill health  Manisha Khungar, a swim coach in Gurugram is waiting until April, when summer is fully here, to begin coaching. She wants to wait out the change-of-weather period of “cough-cold symptoms that overlap with COVID-19 ones”. In order to make sure people do not show up at the pool sick, even if it is a regular flu, pools are now offering add-on periods, so people own up to their sickness and not forgo using the facility. “Earlier we would say no to make-up classes; now we would rather people stay away for those two or three weeks and take the classes at a later date,” says Nisha Millet, who runs training in 11 centres across Bengaluru. Fitso centres in Delhi-NCR offer this extension too. Nisha’s academy has two-week training classes in addition to month-long ones, because of the overall uncertainty. Most pools will ask for a health declaration.  In the water  Pick a pool that does not allow walk-ins and restricts entry to only a few, so you will need to book a time slot that is fixed. Now, lanes are designated, with one person per lane only, for a metre long physical distancing to be maintained. If there is no lane divide, avoid crowding or standing in groups. With events having begun, amateur athletes are often in a hurry to get back to training. “Take it slow, and don’t judge yourself,” says Manisha, of the loss of pace and form. “A well conditioned swimmer won’t take more than four swims to get back to pre-pandemic levels.” She says others may take up to eight weeks. “Stick with the drills, look at stroke and technique correction. Be regular and consistent.” Pooja Zeuch, an aqua aerobics teacher at the Conrad in Bengaluru says her batches have just six people, where earlier there were 15. She now does three sessions rather than one. “I have created stations so that there is social distancing,” she says, adding that people would earlier exchange equipment in a circuit, which is not done any longer. “Earlier, if the next batch came in early, I would tell them to get in the pool to wait; now that is not done.” Manisha says many people are opting to get trainers to condominium pools so they are aware of medical history. For tweaks to technique, she has found that she can coach from outside of the water. Nisha says her instructors have been taught to hold the kickboard at one end while the child holds the other, to be as distant as possible.  Before and after a swim  Masks, temperature checks, sanitisation are all a part of on-ground protocol. In addition, make sure you are not touching other people’s towels or clothes. If possible, shower in an outdoor area before you plunge into the pool. You could opt not to enter the changing room after, dry off in the sun, and head home to bathe and change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/swim-season-is-here/article34122437.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The importance of being clear||I have just negotiated sale of a personal asset and while I assumed all was clear when we spoke, several unspoken issues seemed to have remained dormant and not talked through. Consequently after the deal was done, both the purchaser and I have been left with a feeling of being short-changed. Our inability to confront what we believe or imagine is ‘ugly and comfortable’ and not address it when it must, results in, as I have just experienced, souring of what may have been a fruitful association and leads to immense trust deficit. In the process I have been told that I tend to get personal, impatient, and unavailable to reason. My submission to those like I who have suffered owing to our inability or unwillingness to dialogue, results in such messy situations. In human interaction ‘conflict’ or disagreement may arise, yet as was said to me by an eminent businessman, “We can disagree yet we need not become disagreeable.” The former may leave both, the other and I perhaps only misunderstood, but the latter will surely reveal us to be intolerant and even obnoxious. The writer is an organisational and behavioural consultant. He can be contacted at ttsrinath@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-importance-of-being-clear/article34122439.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Clean teeth||The FDI World Dental Federation tells us that 2.3 billion people across the world suffer from tooth caries of permanent teeth. “One of the most important reasons for this is not cleaning our teeth properly. This can lead to the formation of a sticky layer called plaque in which bacteria called Streptococcus mutansproliferate. It produces an acid that demineralises our teeth, which in turn leads to cavities, gum problems, and eventually loss of teeth,” explains Dr K Abhirami, orthodontist and associate pProfessor, Department of Dental Surgery, PSGIMSR, Coimbatore. When should we clean our teeth? We should brush our teeth twice daily: in the morning when we wake up and at night before sleep. “As the natural cleansing action happening in our teeth is minimum at night, it is important to clean and remove any of the residual food particles from our teeth before we go to sleep. Make sure not to eat anything post this. Also, brush your teeth in the morning to clean any of the bacterial build-up at night,” says Dr Mathew Baby, public health dentist, Tooth Fairy Dental Clinic, Ernakulam. The process While children can use brushes specifically designed for their age, adults can choose a soft or medium bristled toothbrush. The brush should be replaced once in three months. For toothpaste, any brand which contains fluoride can be used. “It protects teeth from cavities and the optimum level of fluoride is between 1,350ppm and 1,500ppm,” explains Dr Abhirami. Brush for two minutes with a pea-size amount of toothpaste. The angle of the bristles should be such that it reaches the gum line. “Brush in a small circular massage-like motion and cover the entire surface of your teeth. Do not be too harsh. Also, avoid a horizontal motion as that can be abrasive,” explains Dr Mathew. Air-dry the brush after each use and store each one’s separately, or, “It can cause bacterial transfer,” says Dr Abhirami. She also recommends using dental floss and mouthwash once every day. “Floss helps to clean in between the teeth. Do not use anything else like toothpicks or pins to clean these areas. Also, most of the commercially available mouth washes tend to be strong and cause a mild burning sensation. To avoid this, dilute it with water in a 1:1 ratio before using,” she adds. For children Cleaning of teeth should begin as soon as the first teeth appear, usually when a child is around six months old. One can begin by wiping the teeth with a wet washcloth or a soft silicone brush. As your child is around one, introduce a small-sized, soft-bristled brush. Dr Gopika Sharma, consultant paediatric and preventive dentist, Phoenix Hospital, New Delhi, explains, “Initially just wet it to make it soft before using it. Later, introduce a grain size amount of fluoride toothpaste. After brushing, keep rinsing to a minimum to benefit from the fluoride in the paste. After three years of age, toothpaste can be a pea-size amount.” In this column, we introduce you to or remind you of basic wellness hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/clean-teeth/article34122452.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back to the New Normal||Withthe novel Coronavirus racking up the numbers again, Resident Welfare Associations want to play the tough cop. They have however become two sizes too thin for their ‘gendarmerie rags’. It is a ‘uniform’ that fit them perfectly, around this time last year. And they wore it with dramatic effect. With a chilling fear of the unknown, the overall sentiment then was one of caution, which gave the RWAs solid ground to peg their strictures on. The world has since become as unlocked as a claw-hairclip with a non-functional clasp — so, getting residents to be on the guard again may be hard work. “No matter how much we notify people about wearing masks while they move around the premises, the indifference continues.” That is Manikandan Venkataraman (secretary of the residents association at Appaswamy Orchards, a gated community in Vadapalani) for you. “For our part, we keep at it, sensitising residents by using every opportunity to do so.” Not to mention, opportunities that are created. “We have asked the sanitary inspector to make surprise visits to our GC, and impose a fine on those found without a mask in common areas,” says Manikandan. “He has agreed to do that.” (A few days ago, in Tamil Nadu, district collectors were directed to galvanise official machineries into enforcing COVID-19 safety guidelines, including the levy of a fine for not wearing a mask in public.)  A common problem Manikandan and his fellow team-members at the Executive Committee are not battling a singular situation. Gated communities in Chennai that can together populate The Antipodes are dealing with “maskless” residents. Over a couple of weeks, residents are being reminded that when they cross the jambs of their main door, even by a hair’s breath, they are occupying public space. The caution does not always stem entirely from galloping Coronavirus cases across Chennai. Sometimes, it is also based on the situation at home. After going without a case for three to four months, the community is now on the COVID-19 map. “Three cases in a span of two weeks,” discloses Manikandan. As on March 18, “there are two active cases, with one resident having completed his quarantine.” Refreshing initiatives At the time of this article going to print — March 20 — Ceebros Belvedere, a gated community in Sholinganallur, Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) issued a circular, exhorting residents to realign their lifestyle with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on COVID-19 prevention. “The meeting seeks to implement all the protocols — except for two — that we framed and introduced during the corresponding period last year,” says Girish Narayanan, president, Ceebros Belvedere Owners Association (CBOA). CBOA has also called for an Extraordinary General Body Meeting (EGM) on April 11, 2021, ensuring the 21-day notice period for such meetings. Girish explains the EGM would focus on improving the community’s response to the unfolding situation. Through such exercises, gated communities are reviewing their positions, and assessing how much of a return to the new normal is warranted.  Calculated return From March 18, vendors have ceased to leave their pugmarks around Orchards. Parked at the gate, four steel benches — named after the blocks; Apple, Mango, Orange and Peach — now wait to receive the deliveries. “From March 17, temperature checks are being carried out at the gate,” says Manikandan. A majority of the communities have put first-line defence of this kind in place. They also hint at systemic changes — if the situation warrants it — after ensuring buy-in from residents. That is the operative word: Buy-in. Even when the numbers hit an encouraging low, Aashiana Apartments on Second Cross Street in Venus Colony, Alwarpet, took a cautious approach to opening up, partly due to its “sizeable population of seniors and super-seniors”. From time to time, Aashiana would conduct a survey to feel residents’ pulse about rolling back pandemic restrictions. “In a survey in December, a majority favoured staggered relaxation of rules, and that has worked for us,” says Anita Hedge, office-bearer at the gated community’s executive committee. “Last month, we thought of opening up the community significantly. In line with this thinking, we launched a survey about it sometime ago. Three days ago, we decided that irrespective of the findings, we have to tighten the seatbelt,” says Usha Manoj, another office-bearer. Besides surveys, a proactive mindset in avoiding conflict is always a reliable ally, says Usha. Safety measures have to skirt around points of conflict, if that can be helped. “While running on the premises for exercise, people cannot be asked to wear masks. So, regulate when they run — only early in the morning or pretty late in the evening — so they do not come within sniffing distance of other residents.” Suresh Dhayaalan, secretary, Victoria Towers Owners Association (VTOA) subscribes to the notion that restrictive safety measures at a gated community appear palatable if they are in step with what prevails outside. In the current context, with government’s SOPs on containment. To illustrate, he points out the state government’s fresh emphasis on mask-wearing would help enforce it at the gated community, once again. Suresh reveals that VTOA’s executive committee would wait for more directions from the government on a variety of protocols in the following days, and frame a comprehensive, revised SOPs for residents of Victoria Towers, in Kazhipattur, OMR. The comfort factor Safetytrumps all other considerations. However, these considerations cannot be wiped off the table disdainfully. Residents’ comfort, convenience and even choices have to be factored into the decision-making process. “People have got used to functioning with the support of e-commerce professionals and domestic help and so we want to take decisions in these matters after a careful evaluation,” says Girish. “Domestic help now go through temperature checks. Depending on the Coronavirus situation, we might even decide to stagger the arrival of domestic help, with some allowed to come in the morning, some in the afternoon and others in the evening.” Anita reveals that never having taken the foot off the pedal is making the ‘relearning’ process easier. Because, there is only a bit-sized aspect of the process to be re-adopted or given up. Besides, a process well thought through at the initialisation stage, can be reworked anytime to suit an evolving situation. Aashiana Apartments and Victoria Towers believe their goods-delivery system is cast in this mould. “The security personnel have been given a list of e-commerce companies whose delivery personnel cannot step inside and should drop the orders at the gate. These are deliveries, including food, that are frequent. Grocery delivery persons are allowed inside because their visits are not that frequent. Last year, at the height of the pandemic, even grocery deliveries inside were stopped. We have opened up a little, but we may roll back on groceries being delivered inside as well, but we are not sure yet about it,” says Anita. Suresh Dhayaalan, secretary, Victoria Towers Owners Association (VTOA), believes not revoking the delivery-at-gate system when Coronavirus cases dipped is helping matters now. It now takes only tweaks to bring the system up to date. On February 21, a minor change was incorporated in the system. Says Suresh, “Both perishables and non-perishables are delivered at the gate. While residents are expected to collect the perishables, the security personnel drop the non-perishable items at residents’ doorstep. For large items such as furniture and electronic goods that require installation, we allow vendors to come into the community, but only after making sure they follow all safety protocols.” If they had dispensed with the system, without foresightedness, at any point of time, says Suresh, restarting it now would have been something of a challenge.  Residents are being reminded that when they cross the jambs of their main door, even by a hair’s breath, they are occupying public space   Where gated communities did not take the foot off the pedal, the ‘relearning’ process is now easier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/going-back-to-the-new-normal/article34121682.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Terns in Chennai||Terns are not difficult to track. With a roosting pattern that ticks to the tidal clock, they may however come across as putting in a slightly irregular appearance. So, here is a tern-watching tip: Follow the low tide, find the tern. It is a tip Chennai nature lovers would do well to remember: Around a dozen tern species hit its coast during the migratory season. Ornithologist V. Santharam unravels this pattern. “People tend to see these birds (terns) more when they go on pelagic trips, or in coastal areas where these birds come to roost. During low tide, terns roost on the sand banks and when the water level rises, they fly away. They may go out in the night, depending on the tidal movement. They are not strictly diurnal, and their movements are based on the ebb and flow of tides.” While conceding that waders also sync their roosting behaviour with the tidal movement, Santharam spells out the difference: “Usually, terns roost on the mudflats during low tide, and waders during high tide. Waders usually need shallow open mudflats to feed on, and so with high tide, the entire area being covered with water and only small parts staying uncovered, these birds are left with little opportunity to feed. So, waders would rather go and ‘rest the high tide’ out. In contrast, terns roost when there is low tide, as it gives them enough place to park themselves on; and they go into the sea during high tide. As with many other things about terns, even this one has to be studied.” The high flier Among the striking physical features of terns is how they look aerodynamically-enhanced. Comparisons are indeed odious. But they are also the best bet in bringing uniqueness into the light of unmistakable knowledge. Standing, a gull may appear heavier; and a tern, better stream-lined. The latter is something of a Polaris Slingshot. A three-wheeled motorcycle, the Slingshot tapers off finely, as does a tern. Parked, it looks ready for take-off. Santharam underlines how terns are built for long-distance flying. One of the easily-recalled faces of long-distance migration is that of a tern. The Arctic Tern does an impossible Arctic-to-Antarctic annual “flyathon”. The Caspian Tern seen around Chennai’s coastal sections during the migratory season is also an icon of long-distance migratory flying. Once here, the migratory Caspian Tern knows how to make itself at home, even found a bit inland in coastal marshlands. Birdwatchers in these parts would not be surprised to come upon congregations of Caspian Terns in the Perumbakkam wetland. “Perumbakkam can be considered part of the coastal marshlands. ‘Coastal’ would include waterbodies that are within three to four kilometres from the seashore. But, during the migratory season, finding them in waterbodies far from the coast may be difficult,” points out Santharam. The appointed time The White-winged Tern is among the relatively rarer migratory terns to sight around the Chennai coast. “The White-winged tern is a passage migrant. It comes around this time — March and April, on reverse migration, when one can find it along the Chennai coast, on coastal sections like Sholinganallur. It comes only for a short period. In the non-breeding season, it can be confused with the Whiskered Tern. During the breeding season, its plumage with its white wing makes it strikingly distinct. The next two weeks is the time to look for them,” says Santharam, adding that during this narrow window, large numbers of White-winged Terns can be sighted. So, a White-winged Tern sighting is bound to happen in Chennai if you know the when of it. To illustrate, birder Sundaravel Palanivelu is accustomed to meeting up with hordes of White-winged Terns in March-April around Sholinganallur-Perumbakkam area. On the morning of March 20, Sundaravelu Palanivelu witnessed “a murmuration of around 200 White-winged Terns, flying over the Perumbakkam Wetland.” Possible discoveries The terns seen around Chennai are visiting migrants. Santharam however underlines that some species could be breeding around Sri Lanka and in places on the South Indian Coast. “The Greater Crested Tern (a winter migrant in Chennai) breeds around Sri Lanka and probably even around Rameswaram. They are also known to be breeding off the West Coast. I have seen Greater Crested Terns in Lakshwadeep, but not breeding,” he says. “During the migratory season, Point Calimere would be the place to spot both Greater and Lesser Crested Terns, as also Caspian Terns.” Amidst abounding knowledge about bird distribution and behaviour due to technology and citizens’ science, birds still manage to fly under the radar, keeping parts of their lives couched in a mystery. “Sometimes, I have seen Caspian Terns around the Chennai Coast after April and May and they probably breed off the Sri Lankan coast.” And on the Common Tern, Santharam makes this observation: “The Common Tern is known to breed on the coast of Sri Lanka, but in Chennai it is a winter migrant. It is possible that it is breeding in undisturbed places along South Tamil Nadu, probably around Mandapam.” On how birds seldom cease to spring a surprise, he points out that Common Tern breeding has been reported from Ladakh. More studies required Santharam highlights the fact that terns could be better studied, and existing studies, especially of wintering terns, are thin on the ground. He draws attention to neighbouring Sri Lanka: Exemplary efforts over the last decade spotlighting terns in Sri Lanka have shown these birds to be breeding in greater numbers than previously believed. “Around a dozen species of terns come to Chennai during the migratoey season. Regular monitoring can throw up interesting discoveries about their habits and habitat requirements.” ( ‘Migrant Watch’ is a weekly column about birds seen in Chennai during the migratory season)  The White-winged tern is a passage migrant. It comes around this time — March and April, on reverse migration, when one can find it along the Chennai coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/terns-in-chennai/article34121692.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking out of the dashboard and tackling a parking problem||Visitors to Livia Spaces, a 12-flat residential complex at busy Luz Church Road, do not go to the trouble of finding parking space outside the building. The vehicles are treated as “guests” and invited into the complex. This magnanimity is made possible by a mechanical system that enables cars to be stacked in the basement. It allows every family to park an additional three to four cars. There is a dedicated parking area for visitors with a capacity to take in 10 to 12 cars. So, even if a family has a group of guests, none of these visiting cars have to stay on the road. “Once we had 24 guests for a get-together and all the guests’ cars could be accommodated inside as we coordinated with other residents and found parking slots for them,” says Rajeev Mecheri, a resident of Livia Spaces. Finding parking space is going to get only more challenging in the future. Thinking out-of-the-dashboard with parking solutions is the only way out for roads congested with unauthorised parking. Rajeev says there are only two options: “Stop buying more cars or move to buildings that have a facility to accommodate more cars.” Thinking along the same lines, the Gorantla brothers residing at 13th Main Road in Anna Nagar have invested in a stack parking arrangement at their two-storey building. “We had a facility to park six cars but we wanted additional space and at the same time we were clear we did not want to occupy the road, so we got this facility built,” says Rajasekar Gorantla. At Livia Spaces, this feature was incorporated at the development stage. Multi-tier parking facilities may not be common yet among residential spaces, but they are expected to emerge as an attractive business opportunity for many engineering and urban infrastructure companies. Many developers are said to be exploring such an arrangement in their upcoming projects. A CMDA official points out that the department encourages it as it addresses the issue of on-street parking. “Besides new projects with such features, we have come across existing buildings that have incorporated it,” says the official. “Today most customers want additional car parking area and unless you offer such a facility that can accommodate multiple cars it is difficult to sell a project,” says S. Sridharan, chairman, CREDAI – Tamil Nadu. In Chennai, he says, there are two types of parking systems that residential segments are adopting – multi-level parking at the upper level (above the stilt) and mechanical parking, also known as stalker parking, usually at the basement. There are at least four engineering and urban infrastructure companies that are involved in the design and marketing of such parking facilities in Chennai. “The dimensions of the driveway, stall size and foundation where the facility needs to be built are factors we consider before taking up a project,” says Micky John, engineer with Wohr Parking Systems, which has done four residential projects in Chennai. Experts point out that maintenance is an additional factor one must take note of. “Besides power consumption which is a small element, an annual maintenance contract and capex are costs that the residents’ association needs to bear in mind,” says Rajeev. As most of these facilities are kept in the basement, water logging, if not managed properly, can be an issue. We have a system of pumping water into our rainwater harvesting sump as well as into the external stormwater drain, says Rajeev. Getting permission Multiple stakeholders are involved in its implementation. The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services has to sanction an NOC for the apartment, certifying it for electrical and mechanical compliance. “CMDA gives the planning permission after getting the NOC and also looks into the completion certificate after the work. The local body takes care of the licensing,” says a planning engineer with CMDA. Can multi-tier parking be implemented for an apartment of eight to 10 years? Here is the answer from an official: “You cannot go by the book for this system, but a few factors that would determine permission include stability of the building, fire safety measures that are in place and the height of the basement.”  We had a facility to park six cars but we wanted additional space and at the same time we were clear we did not want to occupy the road, so we got this facility built||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thinking-out-of-the-dashboard-and-tackling-a-parking-problem/article34121694.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||TNSCB tenement in Besant Nagar in need of renovation||Weeks ago, the floor of a unit at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenement at Kakkan Colony in Besant Nagar caved in. Fortunately, the ground-floor residents including a toddler escaped unhurt. The TNSCB tenement is more than four decades old. Cracks along the walls betray the need for renovation. Because of the tenement’s condition, residents dread rains and storms. During rains, water seeps through the ceilings and walls. Further, the electricity meter and the junction boxes causes shocks during rains. Though repair works are carried out from time to time, residents seek a long-term solution to the problem. They want the whole tenement to be renovated “Over the years, there have been instances of a balcony and a facade caving in,” says P. Velusamy, a long-time resident of the tenement. This TNSCB tenement was constructed in the year 1980. According to a government order (GO) dated February 19, 2019, the lifetime of a TNSCB tenement is 70 years. But due to the absence of periodical maintenance and repair works, the tenement becomes dilapidated in less than 30 years and warrants a reconstruction. The occupants generally get the sale deed for their tenement after 20 years, after which the allottees have to form societies and maintain the tenement. But this does not happen. “A few residents have carried out repair works at their own cost,” says S. Saravanan, another long-time resident. The GO further states that the board cannot abdicate its responsibility for maintenance as it may lead to dilapidation of the tenements and cause consequential accidents. Hence, TNSCB maintains its tenements. The tenements, to be upgraded across the State, are mentioned in a list. Kakkan Colony tenement figures in this list. But the renovation works has not started till date, say residents. “When officials came to visit the caved-in floor, we took up the issue of renovation. We have also sent petitions in this regard, including a signature petition, by residents, to the authorities concerned, but no action has been taken till date,” adds Saravanan. Besides, the residents have requested the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to install new water pumps in the colony. According to residents, there were around six water pumps, and they were removed all of a sudden. When sought the reason for this action, the staff did not give us any reply, say residents.  Due to the lack of periodical maintenance, the tenement becomes dilapidated in less than 30 years and warrants a reconstruction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tnscb-tenement-in-besant-nagar-in-need-of-renovation/article34121672.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Children spread a safety message on Corporation’s behalf||Two children hogged the limelight at a silambam performance, conducted by Division 96 of Greater Chennai Corporation to create awareness about getting vaccinated and COVID-19, near the Corporation School at Ayanavaram market on March 19. Dressed in black and with masks, S. Krithika Shri and Yalini, both 10 years old, were part of a five-member team that has been reinforcing the public health message on behalf of the Corporation. In the last one year, many children like her got an opportunity to be a part of road shows, thanks to Neelam Foundation, one of the partner NGOs working with GCC to create awareness about COVID-19. Children from underprivileged communities learn a new art — including silambattam and oyilattam — and also become active campaigners in this fight against COVID. “Of the 550 students in the 10 Neelam Educational Centres that we have been running in the city, 200 are being trained in silambam. Theatre and sports are also part of the curriculum,” says Muthamizh Kalai, CEO and founder of the Foundation. For instance, Saga Silambam Team has been training these children, aged between five and 15 years, during weekends in silambam. “During the lockdown, they had online classes in silambam that kept them in touch with the art form,” says Santha Lakshmi, Krithika’s mother. Her daughter has been learning the martial art for the last three years and has also participated in district-level competitions. “The main aim of offering such life skills to these children is to develop their creativity, remove stage fear and also to give them an opportunity,” says Muthamizh. Karthick Raja, martial arts trainer, says his students are helping keep this art form alive. “Anybody can pick up this skill and what we have seen is that it increases the practitioner’s confidence level,” says Raja. The pandemic was an opportunity for many of them to showcase their skills. “In the last one year, we would have done at least 50 road shows in different parts of the city and each time we ensured participation from a different set of students,” says Muthamizh. But is not there risk in exposing children to such awareness programmes in these times? Muthamizh says children give more power to a campaign. “We have seen that people sit up and take note when children speak or perform. These are not closed-door events but we try to draw peoples’ attention at public places. Besides, we make sure all the safety protocols are being followed by children,” says Muthamizh. By involving children in the fight against COVID, they help take the message to their communities. “All my friends in the neighbourhood know that my silambam classes are helping support a good cause, by showing why we need to take heed to messages on social distancing and regular hand-washing,” says Krithika, a Class IV student of Cambridge Nursery and Primary School. Muthamizh dwells on the example of the rap team that has been doing commendable work in Ayanavaram. “These children have created a team that goes to shops in their locality to abide to following SOPs and to create awareness about the COVID-19 prevention.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/children-spread-a-safety-message-on-corporations-behalf/article34121687.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||College students promote green practices through mural painting||With plant ecology and biodiversity as the theme, the Department of Fine Arts, Stella Maris College has completed another set of mural paintings on walls of its campus. The 25 panels across the campus walls celebrate the world of plants, ranging from lush forests and fertile farmlands to verdant cityscapes, says a press release. A team of faculty and students, both from undergraduate and postgraduate courses, worked on them. Conceptualised in a folk style, taking as reference Gond art, the murals explore diverse themes that reiterate the need for sustainable and green practices, the release says. In the release, Sumithra Dawson, head, Department of Fine Arts, Stella Maris College, says the narrative commences with the symbolic tree of life and forests that turn into marshlands and fields. Plants as sources of medicine and food are abstracted into decorative compositions. Plant nutrients, aquaponics, terrace and vertical gardens echo global concerns to maximise the benefit of plants for a healthy planet. The College’s green campus features prominently in one of the panels. Chennai is referenced with imagery evoking the Pallikaranai Marsh, the vertical gardens on its flyovers and the great banyan tree. Standard operating procedures were followed at all times and students’ safety was monitored, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/college-students-promote-green-practices-through-mural-painting/article34121637.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||An obstacle course in Perungudi||With work on installing drinking water pipes at the intersection of Corporation Road and Panchayat Main Road in Perungudi progressing at a tardy pace, motorists’ patience is beginning to wear thin. The work is being carried out by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to supply drinking water to residents of Kottivakkam, Palavakkam and Perungudi. In 2013, the roads at the intersection was dug up to lay the pipes. However, the work has not been completed till date, say members of Federation of Old Mahabalipuram Road Residents’ Association (FOMRRA). This traffic volume at this intersection is high, as many use this intersection to avoid toll booths on Pallavaram–Thoraipakkam 200-Feet Radial Road and Rajiv Gandhi Salai, add FOMRRA members. Due to the work, the road at the intersection is severely battered and stones can be found protruding, which poses a threat to the safety of motorcycists. Pedestrians also find it difficult to walk on the road. CMWSSB should take steps to complete the work at the earliest and following which Greater Chennai Corporation should relay the roads, say residents. To avoid the battered sections, motorists including those operating tanker lorries swerve left and right and come close to the road margins posing a threat to pedestrians’ safety. An official of Zone 14 of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) says that once CMWSSB completes its work, GCC will relay the roads without much delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-obstacle-course-in-perungudi/article34121650.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Increase frequency of bus services’||Residents of Nanganallur and Pazhavanthangal have requested the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to increase the frequency of services plying through Southern Sector Inner Ring Road and Grand Southern Trunk Road. Currently, due to inadequate services from Nanganallur, Keezhkattalai, Moovarasampet and Medavakkam Koot Road bus terminuses via Southern Sector Inner Ring Road, Nanganallur Road and Alandur Metro terminals, commuters are forced to depend on private transport. Commuters say due to poor patronage, a few services have also been discontinued. “Route numbers 52P (Moovarasampet – Broadway) and 18R (Nanganallur – Broadway) ply once in 90 minutes,” says A. Raghavan, a long-time resident of Nanganallur. Similarly, the frequency of M18C, plying between Keezhkattalai and T. Nagar, has been reduced drastically, he says. Route number 76 plying between Medavakkam Koot Road bus terminus and Koyambedu through Southern Sector Inner Ring Road and Grand Southern Trunk Road can be spotted once every hour on certain days. Some commuters are of the opinion that cut services can be operated till the Saidapet bus terminus. “Route number 18D (Keezhkattalai to Broadway) and 14M (Medavakkam Koot Road to NGO Colony bus terminus) can be diverted through Southern Sector Inner Ring Road and Grand Southern Trunk Road till Saidapet bus terminus,” says Raghavan. CMRL and MTC can operate feeder services from the terminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/increase-frequency-of-bus-services/article34121654.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Kovilambakkam residents seek creation of two bus stops||Residents of Eechangadu and Kovilambakkam have sought a bus-stop at Keezhkattalai intersection. That would be between two bus-stops on Medavakkam Main Road — One at Keezhkattalai signal and the other at MGR Nagar. At present, residents have to alight at one of these stops and have to walk down a distance of two kilometres or hire an auto-rickshaw. A bus-stop at Keezhkattalai intersection will spare them this trouble. L. Muralidharan, president, Tranquil Acres Owners Association, Phase One, says “Many petitions in this regard have been submitted to the Metropolitan Transport Corporation. But of no avail. Further, there is no dedicated footpath and the road is not well-lit and hence not safe to take, at night. A bus-stop should therefore be established at the Keezhkattalai intersection.” Likewise, there is no bus-stop between Periya Kovilambakkam and Eechangadu on Pallavaram – Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road. Residents want to have a bus stop at Kovilambakkam, as it is a residential locality with a gated-community. MTC routes 91, V51, 76, and 14M ply through Pallavaram – Thoraipakkam 200 Feet Radial Road and Medavakkam Main Road. Commuters request the MTC drivers to stop at the aforementioned proposed stops. An MTC official has assured that necessary measures would be taken to address the issue, after conducting a viability study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kovilambakkam-residents-seek-creation-of-two-bus-stops/article34121659.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘MTC’s 6D skips Malar Hospital stop’||I request the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to ensure 6D halts at Fortis Malar Hospital bus-stop (towards Mandaveli). Years ago, 6D buses used to halt at the stop. But gradually, 6D buses started skipping this stop. Hence, commuters who used the Malar hospital stop would either wait at Avvai Home School stop or Sathya Studios stop. The 6D service plies between Thiruvanmiyur and Toll Gate via Royapuram, New Washermanpet, and Tondiarpet S. Sekar is a resident of Adyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtcs-6d-skips-malar-hospital-stop/article34121663.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||IT firm donates gloves to GH||In view of COVID-19, Olam Information Service Pvt Limited, Ascendas IT Park, CSIR Road, Taramani, donated surgical gloves and masks to Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital, Omandurar Government Estate. According to a press release, the hospital thanked the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/it-firm-donates-gloves-to-gh/article34121641.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Resident wants to donate books||N.S.Venkataraman, a resident of Adyar, wants to give away a few books from his collection. “We have 25 books related to chemistry and chemical technology and we are interested in donating these books. Most of the books are in good condition,” says Venkataraman. Any student or educational institution can collect the books from New No.4, Old No.7, 3rd Street, Venkateswara Nagar, Adyar. For details, call 43540719 / 43511945 / 24916037||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/resident-wants-to-donate-books/article34121675.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bonsai workshop||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre, Guindy, is conducting a workshop on bonsai making on March 24. Another session on mushroom cultivation will be held on March 26. The session will be held on the centre’s premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 - 2250 1960 / 2225 0511||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bonsai-workshop/article34121677.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sale of silk saris||In view of Ugadhi, a sale of handicrafts and handloom products, is being held at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Called Hastashilpi, the sale will end on March 28. Saris and dress materials are available in variety of silks. They include Tassar, Eri, Mulberry, Muga, Arini, Crepe, Georgette, Chiffon, Kanjeevaram, Darmavaram, Dhaka, Uppada, Gadwal, Paithani, Mangalagiri, Maheswari, Chanderi, Baluchari, Banaras Jamdani and Pochampalli. For details, call 96293 74196 / 86398 04198||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sale-of-silk-saris/article34121678.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A wait and watch approach||In the light of increasing Coronavirus cases, apartment associations in Chennai are trying to get their residents to revisit the basics. Over the last one week, the 66-unit Ceebros Palms in Egmore has been reiterating three rules in its internal communication — mask up in common areas, sanitise your hands and maintain social distancing. But the residents’ association concedes that even this response would be inadequate. “We have to agree that complacency has set in,” says Niraj Patel, president of Ceebros Palms Residents Association. “Many have become careless in the way they wear their masks and we are again insisting that they wear it correctly while they move around the apartment premises and outside.” Previously, the security guards were instructed to be strict with those entering the community without masks. “Now, we see that the vendors are not wearing masks,” says Patel. The community started rolling back some of the key restrictions in January. “Our gym has opened up for residents but we allow only one person at a time. Also, the air-conditioner is not turned on,” says Patel. The Association plans to have a committee member make surprise checks, and call those seen without masks into account. They are also planning to ask the guests to stop coming to the society in large groups. TVH Lumbini Square in Purasawalkam had a Corporation team come down on March 18 to conduct a fever camp. Health officials have also been in touch with the Apartment association to enforce old rules. “COVID-19 positive cases are again on the rise but the question is: What new things can we do? We are planning to have a meeting of management committee members to discuss new measures,” says Dinesh D. Bajaj, secretary of the Association. Swagath Apartment at Velachery reintroduced the old rule of asking food delivery vendors to leave residents’ orders at the gate, and is planning a few other measures to ensure rules are complied with. BBC City Paark Apartment in Porur is waiting for announcements from the State Government/ Greater Chennai Corporation based on which they would frame rules for the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-wait-and-watch-approach/article34121683.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Widened footpaths misused by shops’||Wide roads are a feature of Kasturba Nagar in Adyar. But as part of Smart City projects, the footpaths were widened, leading to narrow roads. Parking of vehicles further eats into the available space. The widened walkways have come in handy for commercial establishments to showcase their products. Both motorists and pedestrians are put to inconvenience. We request Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai Traffic Police look into this issue. R S Narayanan is a resident of Adyar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/widened-footpaths-misused-by-shops/article34121656.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Shotgun competition ends||Nilaa Rajaa Baalu and Suryaa Rajaa Baalu won the gold medal in the junior double trap and trap event category at the 46th Tamil Nadu State Championship in Shotgun competition held at the Chennai Rifle Club, Red Hills. Former IAS officer Karpura Sundarapandian; TNSA vice-president Rajagopal Thondaiman and Chennai Rifle Club secretary Rajasekar Karpura Sundarapandian were present on the occasion. The six-day shooting competition featured events like Skeet, Trap and Double Trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shotgun-competition-ends/article34121648.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Where bollards keep pedestrians away from the footpath||The footpath on Tiger Varadachari Road at Kalakshetra Colony in Besant Nagar is wide, but residents cannot take a walk down the facility without encountering hindrances along the way. Because, the bollards are not adequately spaced, at many places. The distance between two bollards should be a minimum of 3 feet to allow pedestrians, especially elders to walk along with attendants and for wheelchair access. Further, the distance should be such that motorists cannot be driven through them. Now, at these points, the distance between two bollards is so narrow that even pedestrians cannot walk freely, say members of Kalakshetra Colony Welfare Association (KCWA). In other parts of the city, there is a huge gap among the bollards paving way for two-wheelers to enter the footpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/where-bollards-keep-pedestrians-away-from-the-footpath/article34121674.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Election campaigns should be better aligned with COVID-19 safety norms’||The recent surge in COVID-19 cases is a matter of serious concern. The lack of social distancing that marks political rallies is disappointing. At these meetings, precautionary measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 are thrown to the wind. People are not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. The economy is already suffering and another spike in cases would be bad news. Political parties should therefore ensure COVID-19 norms are followed at their rallies and meetings. Taking COVID-19 into account, the Election Commission should come up with some stringent measures. Likewise, those who have been vaccinated should not see it as a licence to roam freely. Further, more awareness programmes on vaccination should be organised. M.B. Madhusudanan is a resident of Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/election-campaigns-should-be-better-aligned-with-covid-19-safety-norms/article34121657.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Inform us about scheduled power shutdowns’||I request the Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to provide residents with information about scheduled shutdowns of power supply for maintenance work, well in advance. Doing so will help the public to make their plans accordingly. Earlier, people were informed through SMS on their phones. Now, this practice has been completely stopped. But, we receive SMS on electricity bills and the due date to pay the amount. I request Tangedco to look into this issue at the earliest C. Namachivayam is secretary of The Federation of Adyar Residents’ Associations’ (FEDERA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inform-us-about-scheduled-power-shutdowns/article34121665.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Pond in Sholinganulur restored||Rotary Club of Chennai Thiruvanmiyur along with Environmental Foundation of India (EFI) has restored a pond in Sholinganulur. The exercise was carried out before the onset of north-east monsoon in 2020, says a press release. The pond was overrun with vegetation and non-decomposable waste was being thrown into it. All of these were removed and the pond was deepened. Further it was also fenced. Local residents were invited to plant tree saplings, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/pond-in-sholinganulur-restored/article34121667.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Blood donation camp in Saidapet||A blood donation camp will be held at Annai Veilankanni’s College for Women in Saidapet and at Annai Veilankanni’s College of Engineering & Nursing in Nedungundram on March 23. Time: At 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/blood-donation-camp-in-saidapet/article34121639.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sale of eco-friendly Holi colours||Purasawalkam resident Archana C. Shah is selling a range of eco-friendly Holi colours. She says the colours are made from dry flowers and cereals. “Flowers like hibiscus, rose petals, butterfly pea flower and organic turmeric is used for making different colours,” she says. They are available in 100 grams pack. The colours can be bought from Pamal Court, No 8, Raja Anamalai Road, Purasawalkam. For home delivery and other details, call Archana at 9381202785.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sale-of-eco-friendly-holi-colours/article34121646.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Rotary Club from Velachery gives vocational excellence awards||Rotary Club of Chennai Velachery gave vocational excellence awards recently. According to a press release, the recipients of the award are “Kalaimamani” Parvathy Balasubramanian (Bharatanatyam); “Padma Shri” Anitha Pauldurai (basketball); Annadorai Kannadhasan (actor, writer and director); Anuradha Babu (psychotherapist); R.B. Sakthi (of Erai Sakthi Social Welfare Trust); T.S. Vasanthy Nair (entrepreneur) and A. Padmavathi Narendran (medical doctor who rendered exemplary service in COVID-19 care). Rotary district governor elect Rtn. J. Sridhar gave away the awards, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rotary-club-from-velachery-gives-vocational-excellence-awards/article34121642.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34121655.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||NCC celebration at Karapakkam school||Hindustan International School, Karapakam, celebrated six decades of NCC’s naval unit recently. Further, the school’s naval unit was inaugurated. According to a press release, Captain AK Sharma Commanding Officer, 1(TN) Naval Unit NCC was the chief guest. He was highly appreciative of the efforts taken by the school. In his address, Johnson Mathew, dean - academics, spoke about how he benefited from NCC. On the occasion, 25 students were inducted as cadets, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ncc-celebration-at-karapakkam-school/article34121669.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a parking problem||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tackling-a-parking-problem/article34121652.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||a MESSage in colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-message-in-colours/article34121644.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back to the New Normal||Withthe novel Coronavirus racking up the numbers again, Resident Welfare Associations want to play the tough cop. They have however become two sizes too thin for their ‘gendarmerie rags’. It is a ‘uniform’ that fit them perfectly, around this time last year. And they wore it with dramatic effect. With a chilling fear of the unknown, the overall sentiment then was one of caution, which gave the RWAs solid ground to peg their strictures on. The world has since become as unlocked as a claw-hairclip with a non-functional clasp — so, getting residents to be on the guard again may be hard work. “No matter how much we notify people about wearing masks while they move around the premises, the indifference continues.” That is Manikandan Venkataraman (secretary of the residents association at Appaswamy Orchards, a gated community in Vadapalani) for you. “For our part, we keep at it, sensitising residents by using every opportunity to do so.” Not to mention, opportunities that are created. “We have asked the sanitary inspector to make surprise visits to our GC, and impose a fine on those found without a mask in common areas,” says Manikandan. “He has agreed to do that.” (A few days ago, in Tamil Nadu, district collectors were directed to galvanise official machineries into enforcing COVID-19 safety guidelines, including the levy of a fine for not wearing a mask in public.)  A common problem Manikandan and his fellow team-members at the Executive Committee are not battling a singular situation. Gated communities in Chennai that can together populate The Antipodes are dealing with “maskless” residents. Over a couple of weeks, residents are being reminded that when they cross the jambs of their main door, even by a hair’s breath, they are occupying public space. The caution does not always stem entirely from galloping Coronavirus cases across Chennai. Sometimes, it is also based on the situation at home. After going without a case for three to four months, the community is now on the COVID-19 map. “Three cases in a span of two weeks,” discloses Manikandan. As on March 18, “there are two active cases, with one resident having completed his quarantine.” Refreshing initiatives At the time of this article going to print — March 20 — Ceebros Belvedere, a gated community in Sholinganallur, Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) issued a circular, exhorting residents to realign their lifestyle with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on COVID-19 prevention. “The meeting seeks to implement all the protocols — except for two — that we framed and introduced during the corresponding period last year,” says Girish Narayanan, president, Ceebros Belvedere Owners Association (CBOA). CBOA has also called for an Extraordinary General Body Meeting (EGM) on April 11, 2021, ensuring the 21-day notice period for such meetings. Girish explains the EGM would focus on improving the community’s response to the unfolding situation. Through such exercises, gated communities are reviewing their positions, and assessing how much of a return to the new normal is warranted.  Calculated return From March 18, vendors have ceased to leave their pugmarks around Orchards. Parked at the gate, four steel benches — named after the blocks; Apple, Mango, Orange and Peach — now wait to receive the deliveries. “From March 17, temperature checks are being carried out at the gate,” says Manikandan. A majority of the communities have put first-line defence of this kind in place. They also hint at systemic changes — if the situation warrants it — after ensuring buy-in from residents. That is the operative word: Buy-in. Even when the numbers hit an encouraging low, Aashiana Apartments on Second Cross Street in Venus Colony, Alwarpet, took a cautious approach to opening up, partly due to its “sizeable population of seniors and super-seniors”. From time to time, Aashiana would conduct a survey to feel residents’ pulse about rolling back pandemic restrictions. “In a survey in December, a majority favoured staggered relaxation of rules, and that has worked for us,” says Anita Hedge, office-bearer at the gated community’s executive committee. “Last month, we thought of opening up the community significantly. In line with this thinking, we launched a survey about it sometime ago. Three days ago, we decided that irrespective of the findings, we have to tighten the seatbelt,” says Usha Manoj, another office-bearer. Besides surveys, a proactive mindset in avoiding conflict is always a reliable ally, says Usha. Safety measures have to skirt around points of conflict, if that can be helped. “While running on the premises for exercise, people cannot be asked to wear masks. So, regulate when they run — only early in the morning or pretty late in the evening — so they do not come within sniffing distance of other residents.” Suresh Dhayaalan, secretary, Victoria Towers Owners Association (VTOA) subscribes to the notion that restrictive safety measures at a gated community appear palatable if they are in step with what prevails outside. In the current context, with government’s SOPs on containment. To illustrate, he points out the state government’s fresh emphasis on mask-wearing would help enforce it at the gated community, once again. Suresh reveals that VTOA’s executive committee would wait for more directions from the government on a variety of protocols in the following days, and frame a comprehensive, revised SOPs for residents of Victoria Towers, in Kazhipattur, OMR. The comfort factor Safetytrumps all other considerations. However, these considerations cannot be wiped off the table disdainfully. Residents’ comfort, convenience and even choices have to be factored into the decision-making process. “People have got used to functioning with the support of e-commerce professionals and domestic help and so we want to take decisions in these matters after a careful evaluation,” says Girish. “Domestic help now go through temperature checks. Depending on the Coronavirus situation, we might even decide to stagger the arrival of domestic help, with some allowed to come in the morning, some in the afternoon and others in the evening.” Anita reveals that never having taken the foot off the pedal is making the ‘relearning’ process easier. Because, there is only a bit-sized aspect of the process to be re-adopted or given up. Besides, a process well thought through at the initialisation stage, can be reworked anytime to suit an evolving situation. Aashiana Apartments and Victoria Towers believe their goods-delivery system is cast in this mould. “The security personnel have been given a list of e-commerce companies whose delivery personnel cannot step inside and should drop the orders at the gate. These are deliveries, including food, that are frequent. Grocery delivery persons are allowed inside because their visits are not that frequent. Last year, at the height of the pandemic, even grocery deliveries inside were stopped. We have opened up a little, but we may roll back on groceries being delivered inside as well, but we are not sure yet about it,” says Anita. Suresh Dhayaalan, secretary, Victoria Towers Owners Association (VTOA), believes not revoking the delivery-at-gate system when Coronavirus cases dipped is helping matters now. It now takes only tweaks to bring the system up to date. On February 21, a minor change was incorporated in the system. Says Suresh, “Both perishables and non-perishables are delivered at the gate. While residents are expected to collect the perishables, the security personnel drop the non-perishable items at residents’ doorstep. For large items such as furniture and electronic goods that require installation, we allow vendors to come into the community, but only after making sure they follow all safety protocols.” If they had dispensed with the system, without foresightedness, at any point of time, says Suresh, restarting it now would have been something of a challenge.  Residents are being reminded that when they cross the jambs of their main door, even by a hair’s breath, they are occupying public space   Where gated communities did not take the foot off the pedal, the ‘relearning’ process is now easier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/going-back-to-the-new-normal/article34121713.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Terns in Chennai||Terns are not difficult to track. With a roosting pattern that ticks to the tidal clock, they may however come across as putting in a slightly irregular appearance. So, here is a tern-watching tip: Follow the low tide, find the tern. It is a tip Chennai nature lovers would do well to remember: Around a dozen tern species hit its coast during the migratory season. Ornithologist V. Santharam unravels this pattern. “People tend to see these birds (terns) more when they go on pelagic trips, or in coastal areas where these birds come to roost. During low tide, terns roost on the sand banks and when the water level rises, they fly away. They may go out in the night, depending on the tidal movement. They are not strictly diurnal, and their movements are based on the ebb and flow of tides.” While conceding that waders also sync their roosting behaviour with the tidal movement, Santharam spells out the difference: “Usually, terns roost on the mudflats during low tide, and waders during high tide. Waders usually need shallow open mudflats to feed on, and so with high tide, the entire area being covered with water and only small parts staying uncovered, these birds are left with little opportunity to feed. So, waders would rather go and ‘rest the high tide’ out. In contrast, terns roost when there is low tide, as it gives them enough place to park themselves on; and they go into the sea during high tide. As with many other things about terns, even this one has to be studied.” The high flier Among the striking physical features of terns is how they look aerodynamically-enhanced. Comparisons are indeed odious. But they are also the best bet in bringing uniqueness into the light of unmistakable knowledge. Standing, a gull may appear heavier; and a tern, better stream-lined. The latter is something of a Polaris Slingshot. A three-wheeled motorcycle, the Slingshot tapers off finely, as does a tern. Parked, it looks ready for take-off. Santharam underlines how terns are built for long-distance flying. One of the easily-recalled faces of long-distance migration is that of a tern. The Arctic Tern does an impossible Arctic-to-Antarctic annual “flyathon”. The Caspian Tern seen around Chennai’s coastal sections during the migratory season is also an icon of long-distance migratory flying. Once here, the migratory Caspian Tern knows how to make itself at home, even found a bit inland in coastal marshlands. Birdwatchers in these parts would not be surprised to come upon congregations of Caspian Terns in the Perumbakkam wetland. “Perumbakkam can be considered part of the coastal marshlands. ‘Coastal’ would include waterbodies that are within three to four kilometres from the seashore. But, during the migratory season, finding them in waterbodies far from the coast may be difficult,” points out Santharam. The appointed time The White-winged Tern is among the relatively rarer migratory terns to sight around the Chennai coast. “The White-winged tern is a passage migrant. It comes around this time — March and April, on reverse migration, when one can find it along the Chennai coast, on coastal sections like Sholinganallur. It comes only for a short period. In the non-breeding season, it can be confused with the Whiskered Tern. During the breeding season, its plumage with its white wing makes it strikingly distinct. The next two weeks is the time to look for them,” says Santharam, adding that during this narrow window, large numbers of White-winged Terns can be sighted. So, a White-winged Tern sighting is bound to happen in Chennai if you know the when of it. To illustrate, birder Sundaravel Palanivelu is accustomed to meeting up with hordes of White-winged Terns in March-April around Sholinganallur-Perumbakkam area. On the morning of March 20, Sundaravelu Palanivelu witnessed “a murmuration of around 200 White-winged Terns, flying over the Perumbakkam Wetland.” Possible discoveries The terns seen around Chennai are visiting migrants. Santharam however underlines that some species could be breeding around Sri Lanka and in places on the South Indian Coast. “The Greater Crested Tern (a winter migrant in Chennai) breeds around Sri Lanka and probably even around Rameswaram. They are also known to be breeding off the West Coast. I have seen Greater Crested Terns in Lakshwadeep, but not breeding,” he says. “During the migratory season, Point Calimere would be the place to spot both Greater and Lesser Crested Terns, as also Caspian Terns.” Amidst abounding knowledge about bird distribution and behaviour due to technology and citizens’ science, birds still manage to fly under the radar, keeping parts of their lives couched in a mystery. “Sometimes, I have seen Caspian Terns around the Chennai Coast after April and May and they probably breed off the Sri Lankan coast.” And on the Common Tern, Santharam makes this observation: “The Common Tern is known to breed on the coast of Sri Lanka, but in Chennai it is a winter migrant. It is possible that it is breeding in undisturbed places along South Tamil Nadu, probably around Mandapam.” On how birds seldom cease to spring a surprise, he points out that Common Tern breeding has been reported from Ladakh. More studies required Santharam highlights the fact that terns could be better studied, and existing studies, especially of wintering terns, are thin on the ground. He draws attention to neighbouring Sri Lanka: Exemplary efforts over the last decade spotlighting terns in Sri Lanka have shown these birds to be breeding in greater numbers than previously believed. “Around a dozen species of terns come to Chennai during the migratoey season. Regular monitoring can throw up interesting discoveries about their habits and habitat requirements.” ( ‘Migrant Watch’ is a weekly column about birds seen in Chennai during the migratory season)  The White-winged tern is a passage migrant. It comes around this time — March and April, on reverse migration, when one can find it along the Chennai coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/terns-in-chennai/article34121716.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking out of the dashboard and tackling a parking problem||Visitors to Livia Spaces, a 12-flat residential complex at busy Luz Church Road, do not go to the trouble of finding parking space outside the building. The vehicles are treated as “guests” and invited into the complex. This magnanimity is made possible by a mechanical system that enables cars to be stacked in the basement. It allows every family to park an additional three to four cars. There is a dedicated parking area for visitors with a capacity to take in 10 to 12 cars. So, even if a family has a group of guests, none of these visiting cars have to stay on the road. “Once we had 24 guests for a get-together and all the guests’ cars could be accommodated inside as we coordinated with other residents and found parking slots for them,” says Rajeev Mecheri, a resident of Livia Spaces. Finding parking space is going to get only more challenging in the future. Thinking out-of-the-dashboard with parking solutions is the only way out for roads congested with unauthorised parking. Rajeev says there are only two options: “Stop buying more cars or move to buildings that have a facility to accommodate more cars.” Thinking along the same lines, the Gorantla brothers residing at 13th Main Road in Anna Nagar have invested in a stack parking arrangement at their two-storey building. “We had a facility to park six cars but we wanted additional space and at the same time we were clear we did not want to occupy the road, so we got this facility built,” says Rajasekar Gorantla. At Livia Spaces, this feature was incorporated at the development stage. Multi-tier parking facilities may not be common yet among residential spaces, but they are expected to emerge as an attractive business opportunity for many engineering and urban infrastructure companies. Many developers are said to be exploring such an arrangement in their upcoming projects. A CMDA official points out that the department encourages it as it addresses the issue of on-street parking. “Besides new projects with such features, we have come across existing buildings that have incorporated it,” says the official. “Today most customers want additional car parking area and unless you offer such a facility that can accommodate multiple cars it is difficult to sell a project,” says S. Sridharan, chairman, CREDAI – Tamil Nadu. In Chennai, he says, there are two types of parking systems that residential segments are adopting – multi-level parking at the upper level (above the stilt) and mechanical parking, also known as stalker parking, usually at the basement. There are at least four engineering and urban infrastructure companies that are involved in the design and marketing of such parking facilities in Chennai. “The dimensions of the driveway, stall size and foundation where the facility needs to be built are factors we consider before taking up a project,” says Micky John, engineer with Wohr Parking Systems, which has done four residential projects in Chennai. Experts point out that maintenance is an additional factor one must take note of. “Besides power consumption which is a small element, an annual maintenance contract and capex are costs that the residents’ association needs to bear in mind,” says Rajeev. As most of these facilities are kept in the basement, water logging, if not managed properly, can be an issue. We have a system of pumping water into our rainwater harvesting sump as well as into the external stormwater drain, says Rajeev. Getting permission Multiple stakeholders are involved in its implementation. The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services has to sanction an NOC for the apartment, certifying it for electrical and mechanical compliance. “CMDA gives the planning permission after getting the NOC and also looks into the completion certificate after the work. The local body takes care of the licensing,” says a planning engineer with CMDA. Can multi-tier parking be implemented for an apartment of eight to 10 years? Here is the answer from an official: “You cannot go by the book for this system, but a few factors that would determine permission include stability of the building, fire safety measures that are in place and the height of the basement.”  We had a facility to park six cars but we wanted additional space and at the same time we were clear we did not want to occupy the road, so we got this facility built||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thinking-out-of-the-dashboard-and-tackling-a-parking-problem/article34121717.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Culvert work inches along, slows down traffic on GNT Road||With culvert work on the 60-feet Grand Northern Trunk (GNT) Road in Madhavaram inching along, motorists’ patience is beginning to wear thin. Traffic blocks are a common feature on the one-kilometre-long stretch between Madhavaram Roundtana and Moolakadai intersection. For the last two months, State Highways Department is undertaking the work of connecting both sides of GNT Road to discharge excess rainwater. The culvert is six feet wide and twelve feet deep and built across the stretch. As the stretch has the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Madhavaram Range; a women’s college, a bus depot and a few container lorries depots, the volume of traffic is high. Besides the road is part of a key route for many MTC buses. “No warning signboards and reflectors have been placed near the under-construction culvert area, which places at high risk for accidents, especially at night. Further, the carriageway around the work area is also uneven,” says N. Venketash, a motorist from Madhavaram. Between Madhavaram and Moolakadai, there are six vehicular crossings, facilitating access to establishments and institutions. They include a women’s arts and science college, a petrol pump, the Madhavaram police station, container freight depots and a police checkpoint on the stretch. Except for the vehicular crossings at Madhavaram police station and women’s college, the rest of the crossings are narrow. Motorists say most of the vehicular crossings on the stretch are turning accident-prone. Container lorries find it difficult to take a ‘U’ turn at the crossings. “Steps will be taken to complete the culvert work on the stretch soon,” says a State Highways official.  Most of the vehicular crossings on the stretch have become accident-prone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/culvert-work-inches-along-slows-down-traffic-on-gnt-road/article34121709.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Motorists out on a limb at Retteri junction||Traffic seems to be going haywire near the wide space around the Retteri junction on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai as police personnel have been withdrawn from there. The modern digital traffic signals, which were working prior to the opening of the flyover, are also defunct, making the stretch accident-prone with vehicles zipping away in four directions. The second arm of the Retteri flyover, which was opened recently, is 1.32-km-long and built at a cost of Rs 41.07 crore. Many motorists use the space below the flyover at the intersection to reach neighbourhoods like Retteri, Kolathur, Sembium, Villivakkam and ICF. “It is common to see motorists and pedestrians coming from four directions trying to cross the intersection at Retteri at the same time, putting the other road users and themselves in jeopardy. At night, we are unable to see pedestrians due to the poor lighting facilities at the intersection,” says B. Ramesh Babu, a motorist from Kolathur. At present, motorists coming from Anna Nagar can proceed straight towards Madhavaram junction by using the first arm of the flyover that was opened in 2016. Motorists from Anna Nagar, who have to take right or left turn to go to Kolathur and Surapet, have to go below the flyover at Retteri junction. All motorists coming from Madhavaram can use the newly-opened second arm of the flyover to reach Anna Nagar. “Steps will be taken to regulate traffic at the intersection soon,” say police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/motorists-out-on-a-limb-at-retteri-junction/article34121705.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Finally, East Avenue Road is all set to sport a new look||Finally, East Avenue Road in Korattur is all set to sport a new look. Civic officials of Zone — 8 of Greater Chennai Corporation have started taking up improvement works on this road after almost two years — relaying the stretch with a fresh coat of bitumen, building a median and installing reflectors and warning signboards. Overgrown trees on both sides of 40-feet-Road, which connects big neighbourhoods with CTH Road, were pruned; this exercise would ensure motorists and pedestrians enjoy the full benefits of having LED street lamps. These improvements mark a big relief to residents and motorists as East Avenue Road connects Chennai Bypass with the Jawaharlal Nehru (JN) Main Road via CTH Road. In mid-2019, the stretch was dug by Chennai Metrowater to lay water pipelines in the neighbourhood. A year later, the civic body temporary levelled the stretch with blue metal due to rise in the volume of vehicles. However, the levelled portion of the stretch dropped a few feet below the existing road level due to last year’s heavy rains. “Motoring on the stretch was fraught with risk, especially after the monsoon, as much of the carriageway had turned into sandy pathway,” says V. Sivakumar, a motorist from Korattur. “The facelift exercise including the construction of the median on the stretch will be completed soon,” says a Corporation official.  Motoring on the stretch used to be fraught with high risk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/finally-east-avenue-road-is-all-set-to-sport-a-new-look/article34121702.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Children spread a safety message on Corporation’s behalf||Two children hogged the limelight at a silambam performance, conducted by Division 96 of Greater Chennai Corporation to create awareness about getting vaccinated and COVID-19, near the Corporation School at Ayanavaram market on March 19. Dressed in black and with masks, S. Krithika Shri and Yalini, both 10 years old, were part of a five-member team that has been reinforcing the public health message on behalf of the Corporation. In the last one year, many children like her got an opportunity to be a part of road shows, thanks to Neelam Foundation, one of the partner NGOs working with GCC to create awareness about COVID-19. Children from underprivileged communities learn a new art — including silambattam and oyilattam — and also become active campaigners in this fight against COVID. “Of the 550 students in the 10 Neelam Educational Centres that we have been running in the city, 200 are being trained in silambam. Theatre and sports are also part of the curriculum,” says Muthamizh Kalai, CEO and founder of the Foundation. For instance, Saga Silambam Team has been training these children, aged between five and 15 years, during weekends in silambam. “During the lockdown, they had online classes in silambam that kept them in touch with the art form,” says Santha Lakshmi, Krithika’s mother. Her daughter has been learning the martial art for the last three years and has also participated in district-level competitions. “The main aim of offering such life skills to these children is to develop their creativity, remove stage fear and also to give them an opportunity,” says Muthamizh. Karthick Raja, martial arts trainer, says his students are helping keep this art form alive. “Anybody can pick up this skill and what we have seen is that it increases the practitioner’s confidence level,” says Raja. The pandemic was an opportunity for many of them to showcase their skills. “In the last one year, we would have done at least 50 road shows in different parts of the city and each time we ensured participation from a different set of students,” says Muthamizh. But is not there risk in exposing children to such awareness programmes in these times? Muthamizh says children give more power to a campaign. “We have seen that people sit up and take note when children speak or perform. These are not closed-door events but we try to draw peoples’ attention at public places. Besides, we make sure all the safety protocols are being followed by children,” says Muthamizh. By involving children in the fight against COVID, they help take the message to their communities. “All my friends in the neighbourhood know that my silambam classes are helping support a good cause, by showing why we need to take heed to messages on social distancing and regular hand-washing,” says Krithika, a Class IV student of Cambridge Nursery and Primary School. Muthamizh dwells on the example of the rap team that has been doing commendable work in Ayanavaram. “These children have created a team that goes to shops in their locality to abide to following SOPs and to create awareness about the COVID-19 prevention.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/children-spread-a-safety-message-on-corporations-behalf/article34121715.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Shotgun competition ends||Nilaa Rajaa Baalu and Suryaa Rajaa Baalu won the gold medal in the junior double trap and trap event category at the 46th Tamil Nadu State Championship in Shotgun competition held at the Chennai Rifle Club, Red Hills. Former IAS officer Karpura Sundarapandian; TNSA vice-president Rajagopal Thondaiman and Chennai Rifle Club secretary Rajasekar Karpura Sundarapandian were present on the occasion. The six-day shooting competition featured events like Skeet, Trap and Double Trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shotgun-competition-ends/article34121696.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A wait and watch approach||In the light of increasing Coronavirus cases, apartment associations in Chennai are trying to get their residents to revisit the basics. Over the last one week, the 66-unit Ceebros Palms in Egmore has been reiterating three rules in its internal communication — mask up in common areas, sanitise your hands and maintain social distancing. But the residents’ association concedes that even this response would be inadequate. “We have to agree that complacency has set in,” says Niraj Patel, president of Ceebros Palms Residents Association. “Many have become careless in the way they wear their masks and we are again insisting that they wear it correctly while they move around the apartment premises and outside.” Previously, the security guards were instructed to be strict with those entering the community without masks. “Now, we see that the vendors are not wearing masks,” says Patel. The community started rolling back some of the key restrictions in January. “Our gym has opened up for residents but we allow only one person at a time. Also, the air-conditioner is not turned on,” says Patel. The Association plans to have a committee member make surprise checks, and call those seen without masks into account. They are also planning to ask the guests to stop coming to the society in large groups. TVH Lumbini Square in Purasawalkam had a Corporation team come down on March 18 to conduct a fever camp. Health officials have also been in touch with the Apartment association to enforce old rules. “COVID-19 positive cases are again on the rise but the question is: What new things can we do? We are planning to have a meeting of management committee members to discuss new measures,” says Dinesh D. Bajaj, secretary of the Association. Swagath Apartment at Velachery reintroduced the old rule of asking food delivery vendors to leave residents’ orders at the gate, and is planning a few other measures to ensure rules are complied with. BBC City Paark Apartment in Porur is waiting for announcements from the State Government/ Greater Chennai Corporation based on which they would frame rules for the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-wait-and-watch-approach/article34121714.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Find a solution to haphazard parking on 18th Main Road’||A major road connecting Padi and Villivakam — 18th Main Road in Anna Nagar West — can be called ‘a haphazard parking zone’. There are no parking systems in place and authorities. Many shops do not have parking space inside their premises and often use the pavement for parking. Due to encroachments, the 48 feet road has narrowed at many points to just 15 feet. Traffic from Villivakkam and Padi causes frequent traffic jams at the junction of 13th and 18th Main Roads, and visitors to 18th Main Road often park their vehicles on the side roads which include 13th Main Road North. I have written to many departments, including a complaint to the CM’s Cell, but have received no response so far. I request the authorities concerned to find a solution to the problem on 18th Main Road.  (Anand J is a resident of 13th Main Road North, Anna Nagar West)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/find-a-solution-to-haphazard-parking-on-18th-main-road/article34121699.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Purasawalkam resident makes Holi colours from dry flowers||Purasawalkam resident Archana C. Shah is selling a range of eco-friendly Holi colours. She says the colours are made from dry flowers and cereals. “Flowers like hibiscus, rose petals, butterfly pea flower and organic turmeric are used for making different colours,” she says. They are available in a 100-grams pack. The colours can be bought from Pamal Court, No 8, Raja Anamalai Road, Purasawalkam. For home delivery and other details, call Archana at 9381202785.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/purasawalkam-resident-makes-holi-colours-from-dry-flowers/article34121695.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sale of silk saris||In view of Ugadhi, a sale of handicrafts and handloom products, is being held at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Called Hastashilpi, the sale will end on March 28. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. Saris and dress materials are available in a variety of silks, including Tassar, Eri, Mulberry, Muga, Arini, Crepe, Kanjeevaram, Darmavaram, Uppada, Gadwal, Paithani, Mangalagiri, Maheswari, Chanderi, Baluchari, Banaras Jamdani and Pochampalli. For details, call 96293 74196 / 86398 04198||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sale-of-silk-saris/article34121697.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34121700.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A free vision care centre at Ambattur||Rotary International District 3232 with Rotary Club of Chennai Thiruvanmiyur, Rotary Club of Glenhaven, Australia along with Pammal Sankara Eye Hospital inaugurated the Rotary Orange Vision Centre at Ambattur recently. District governor Muthupalaniappan and Club president Sarada Ramani inaugurated the centre. According to a release, Orange Vision centre will cater to the underprivileged people in the locality. This is part of the four vision centres planned to be established by the Club at a project cost of Rs. 46 lakh. The other centres would be coming up soon at Thiruvallur, Kannammal Chaitram and Pallipuattu, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-free-vision-care-centre-at-ambattur/article34121710.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a parking problem||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tackling-a-parking-problem/article34121711.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back to the New Normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/going-back-to-the-new-normal/article34121712.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Speed breakers painted near hospital zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/speed-breakers-painted-near-hospital-zone/article34121707.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back to the New Normal||Withthe novel Coronavirus racking up the numbers again, Resident Welfare Associations want to play the tough cop. They have however become two sizes too thin for their ‘gendarmerie rags’. It is a ‘uniform’ that fit them perfectly, around this time last year. And they wore it with dramatic effect. With a chilling fear of the unknown, the overall sentiment then was one of caution, which gave the RWAs solid ground to peg their strictures on. The world has since become as unlocked as a claw-hairclip with a non-functional clasp — so, getting residents to be on the guard again may be hard work. “No matter how much we notify people about wearing masks while they move around the premises, the indifference continues.” That is Manikandan Venkataraman (secretary of the residents association at Appaswamy Orchards, a gated community in Vadapalani) for you. “For our part, we keep at it, sensitising residents by using every opportunity to do so.” Not to mention, opportunities that are created. “We have asked the sanitary inspector to make surprise visits to our GC, and impose a fine on those found without a mask in common areas,” says Manikandan. “He has agreed to do that.” (A few days ago, in Tamil Nadu, district collectors were directed to galvanise official machineries into enforcing COVID-19 safety guidelines, including the levy of a fine for not wearing a mask in public.)  A common problem Manikandan and his fellow team-members at the Executive Committee are not battling a singular situation. Gated communities in Chennai that can together populate The Antipodes are dealing with “maskless” residents. Over a couple of weeks, residents are being reminded that when they cross the jambs of their main door, even by a hair’s breath, they are occupying public space. The caution does not always stem entirely from galloping Coronavirus cases across Chennai. Sometimes, it is also based on the situation at home. After going without a case for three to four months, the community is now on the COVID-19 map. “Three cases in a span of two weeks,” discloses Manikandan. As on March 18, “there are two active cases, with one resident having completed his quarantine.” Refreshing initiatives At the time of this article going to print — March 20 — Ceebros Belvedere, a gated community in Sholinganallur, Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) issued a circular, exhorting residents to realign their lifestyle with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on COVID-19 prevention. “The meeting seeks to implement all the protocols — except for two — that we framed and introduced during the corresponding period last year,” says Girish Narayanan, president, Ceebros Belvedere Owners Association (CBOA). CBOA has also called for an Extraordinary General Body Meeting (EGM) on April 11, 2021, ensuring the 21-day notice period for such meetings. Girish explains the EGM would focus on improving the community’s response to the unfolding situation. Through such exercises, gated communities are reviewing their positions, and assessing how much of a return to the new normal is warranted.  Calculated return From March 18, vendors have ceased to leave their pugmarks around Orchards. Parked at the gate, four steel benches — named after the blocks; Apple, Mango, Orange and Peach — now wait to receive the deliveries. “From March 17, temperature checks are being carried out at the gate,” says Manikandan. A majority of the communities have put first-line defence of this kind in place. They also hint at systemic changes — if the situation warrants it — after ensuring buy-in from residents. That is the operative word: Buy-in. Even when the numbers hit an encouraging low, Aashiana Apartments on Second Cross Street in Venus Colony, Alwarpet, took a cautious approach to opening up, partly due to its “sizeable population of seniors and super-seniors”. From time to time, Aashiana would conduct a survey to feel residents’ pulse about rolling back pandemic restrictions. “In a survey in December, a majority favoured staggered relaxation of rules, and that has worked for us,” says Anita Hedge, office-bearer at the gated community’s executive committee. “Last month, we thought of opening up the community significantly. In line with this thinking, we launched a survey about it sometime ago. Three days ago, we decided that irrespective of the findings, we have to tighten the seatbelt,” says Usha Manoj, another office-bearer. Besides surveys, a proactive mindset in avoiding conflict is always a reliable ally, says Usha. Safety measures have to skirt around points of conflict, if that can be helped. “While running on the premises for exercise, people cannot be asked to wear masks. So, regulate when they run — only early in the morning or pretty late in the evening — so they do not come within sniffing distance of other residents.” Suresh Dhayaalan, secretary, Victoria Towers Owners Association (VTOA) subscribes to the notion that restrictive safety measures at a gated community appear palatable if they are in step with what prevails outside. In the current context, with government’s SOPs on containment. To illustrate, he points out the state government’s fresh emphasis on mask-wearing would help enforce it at the gated community, once again. Suresh reveals that VTOA’s executive committee would wait for more directions from the government on a variety of protocols in the following days, and frame a comprehensive, revised SOPs for residents of Victoria Towers, in Kazhipattur, OMR. The comfort factor Safetytrumps all other considerations. However, these considerations cannot be wiped off the table disdainfully. Residents’ comfort, convenience and even choices have to be factored into the decision-making process. “People have got used to functioning with the support of e-commerce professionals and domestic help and so we want to take decisions in these matters after a careful evaluation,” says Girish. “Domestic help now go through temperature checks. Depending on the Coronavirus situation, we might even decide to stagger the arrival of domestic help, with some allowed to come in the morning, some in the afternoon and others in the evening.” Anita reveals that never having taken the foot off the pedal is making the ‘relearning’ process easier. Because, there is only a bit-sized aspect of the process to be re-adopted or given up. Besides, a process well thought through at the initialisation stage, can be reworked anytime to suit an evolving situation. Aashiana Apartments and Victoria Towers believe their goods-delivery system is cast in this mould. “The security personnel have been given a list of e-commerce companies whose delivery personnel cannot step inside and should drop the orders at the gate. These are deliveries, including food, that are frequent. Grocery delivery persons are allowed inside because their visits are not that frequent. Last year, at the height of the pandemic, even grocery deliveries inside were stopped. We have opened up a little, but we may roll back on groceries being delivered inside as well, but we are not sure yet about it,” says Anita. Suresh Dhayaalan, secretary, Victoria Towers Owners Association (VTOA), believes not revoking the delivery-at-gate system when Coronavirus cases dipped is helping matters now. It now takes only tweaks to bring the system up to date. On February 21, a minor change was incorporated in the system. Says Suresh, “Both perishables and non-perishables are delivered at the gate. While residents are expected to collect the perishables, the security personnel drop the non-perishable items at residents’ doorstep. For large items such as furniture and electronic goods that require installation, we allow vendors to come into the community, but only after making sure they follow all safety protocols.” If they had dispensed with the system, without foresightedness, at any point of time, says Suresh, restarting it now would have been something of a challenge.  Residents are being reminded that when they cross the jambs of their main door, even by a hair’s breath, they are occupying public space   Where gated communities did not take the foot off the pedal, the ‘relearning’ process is now easier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/going-back-to-the-new-normal/article34121749.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A stubborn problem in Lambert Nagar||On the evening of March 17, stagnant sewage was pumped out from the intersection of First Main Road and First Cross Street at Lambert Nagar in Virugambakkam by Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). The next morning, with sewage overflowing again, the exercise was repeated. According to Freddy R Jayapalan, president, Lambert Nagar Residents Welfare Association, sometimes, in a day, the residents would have to call CMWSSB three to four times to attend to sewage overflows. The intersection at Lambert Nagar is hit by this issue, since the November 2020 rains. With the rains in January, it worsened, adds Jayapalan. Residents and office-bearers of the Association say CMWSSB quick-fixes would not do. “CMWSSB workers clear the overflowing water, but the problem seems to do with a clog. It needs to be identified and cleared,” says Jayapalan. Lambert Nagar sewage pipes are connected to the two sewage pumping stations of CMWSSB — at Nesapakkam and Koyambedu. Association office-bearers suspect a problem at the pumping stations could be causing the sewage overflow. “Providing a lasting solution may entail cutting the busy Arcot Road and Vembuli Amman Kovil and so, CMSWBB may be resorting to stopgap arrangements,” says Commander P.V. Francis (retd), joint secretary of the Association. The Association points out that a few neighbouring localities — Munuswamy Salai in K.K.Nagar, Loganathan Street and Vembuli Amman Kovil Street in Virugambakkam — are also plagued by this issue, and that could be contributing to the overflow in Lambert Nagar “It is not helping us even when overflowing sewage is pumped out. Within a few hours, we have to again call CMWSSB. Because, stagnant sewage from another locality flows into Lambert Nagar. Likewise, when sewage is pumped out at any of our neighbouring localities, sewage stagnant in Lambert Nagar and other localities flow into this locality. So, we badly need a lasting solution benefitting residents of our neighbouring colonies as well,” says Jayapalan. The recent problem also exposed the need for replacing the sewage pipes with new ones. “The existing sewage pipes were laid in early 1990s, when the colony was newly formed. Then there were around 70 independent houses. With many apartments having come up over the years, the population has increased multifold. And the existing sewage pipes are unable to take the current load,” says Francis. In some houses, sewage entered the closets in washrooms causing residents to move to top floors and some shifted to their relatives’ place. Due to this issue, senior citizens have to endure much inconvenience. “In January, the problem was terrible and I moved to my daughter’s house in Anna Nagar,” says S. Manonmani, a senior citizen. Anjana Vyas.H who has aged parents at home says they are unable to sit in the balcony and enjoy their leisure hours, due to the stench. Another senior citizen, Suresh Kumar.B, says he is unable to go for his morning walks The Association also pointed out that their groundwater has got contaminated and wells in some houses bore evidence of this. “The sewage has entered my well. Once a lasting solution is found for the problem, I will clean the well, an additional expenditure. Another proof for groundwater pollution is a waterbody in our locality: It is contaminated with sewage,” says Jayapalan. Residents keep lodging complaints about this with the CMWSSB’s online grievance redress cell. “However, CMWSSB keeps closing the complaint stating that it has been attended to once the stagnant sewage is pumped out from the intersection. But within a few hours, sewage begins to overflow again and we again register a fresh complaint,” says Uma Jayaraman. The Association also wants the Greater Chennai Corporation to look into this issue because CMWSSB is letting out the stagnant sewage into stormwater drains. In this respect, a CMWSSB official agrees that the department has been receiving complaints from Lambert Nagar residents. “The problem is to do with a clog. We are attending to it. It will be solved soon,” says the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-stubborn-problem-in-lambert-nagar/article34121746.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Terns in Chennai||Terns are not difficult to track. With a roosting pattern that ticks to the tidal clock, they may however come across as putting in a slightly irregular appearance. So, here is a tern-watching tip: Follow the low tide, find the tern. It is a tip Chennai nature lovers would do well to remember: Around a dozen tern species hit its coast during the migratory season. Ornithologist V. Santharam unravels this pattern. “People tend to see these birds (terns) more when they go on pelagic trips, or in coastal areas where these birds come to roost. During low tide, terns roost on the sand banks and when the water level rises, they fly away. They may go out in the night, depending on the tidal movement. They are not strictly diurnal, and their movements are based on the ebb and flow of tides.” While conceding that waders also sync their roosting behaviour with the tidal movement, Santharam spells out the difference: “Usually, terns roost on the mudflats during low tide, and waders during high tide. Waders usually need shallow open mudflats to feed on, and so with high tide, the entire area being covered with water and only small parts staying uncovered, these birds are left with little opportunity to feed. So, waders would rather go and ‘rest the high tide’ out. In contrast, terns roost when there is low tide, as it gives them enough place to park themselves on; and they go into the sea during high tide. As with many other things about terns, even this one has to be studied.” The high flier Among the striking physical features of terns is how they look aerodynamically-enhanced. Comparisons are indeed odious. But they are also the best bet in bringing uniqueness into the light of unmistakable knowledge. Standing, a gull may appear heavier; and a tern, better stream-lined. The latter is something of a Polaris Slingshot. A three-wheeled motorcycle, the Slingshot tapers off finely, as does a tern. Parked, it looks ready for take-off. Santharam underlines how terns are built for long-distance flying. One of the easily-recalled faces of long-distance migration is that of a tern. The Arctic Tern does an impossible Arctic-to-Antarctic annual “flyathon”. The Caspian Tern seen around Chennai’s coastal sections during the migratory season is also an icon of long-distance migratory flying. Once here, the migratory Caspian Tern knows how to make itself at home, even found a bit inland in coastal marshlands. Birdwatchers in these parts would not be surprised to come upon congregations of Caspian Terns in the Perumbakkam wetland. “Perumbakkam can be considered part of the coastal marshlands. ‘Coastal’ would include waterbodies that are within three to four kilometres from the seashore. But, during the migratory season, finding them in waterbodies far from the coast may be difficult,” points out Santharam. The appointed time The White-winged Tern is among the relatively rarer migratory terns to sight around the Chennai coast. “The White-winged tern is a passage migrant. It comes around this time — March and April, on reverse migration, when one can find it along the Chennai coast, on coastal sections like Sholinganallur. It comes only for a short period. In the non-breeding season, it can be confused with the Whiskered Tern. During the breeding season, its plumage with its white wing makes it strikingly distinct. The next two weeks is the time to look for them,” says Santharam, adding that during this narrow window, large numbers of White-winged Terns can be sighted. So, a White-winged Tern sighting is bound to happen in Chennai if you know the when of it. To illustrate, birder Sundaravel Palanivelu is accustomed to meeting up with hordes of White-winged Terns in March-April around Sholinganallur-Perumbakkam area. On the morning of March 20, Sundaravelu Palanivelu witnessed “a murmuration of around 200 White-winged Terns, flying over the Perumbakkam Wetland.” Possible discoveries The terns seen around Chennai are visiting migrants. Santharam however underlines that some species could be breeding around Sri Lanka and in places on the South Indian Coast. “The Greater Crested Tern (a winter migrant in Chennai) breeds around Sri Lanka and probably even around Rameswaram. They are also known to be breeding off the West Coast. I have seen Greater Crested Terns in Lakshwadeep, but not breeding,” he says. “During the migratory season, Point Calimere would be the place to spot both Greater and Lesser Crested Terns, as also Caspian Terns.” Amidst abounding knowledge about bird distribution and behaviour due to technology and citizens’ science, birds still manage to fly under the radar, keeping parts of their lives couched in a mystery. “Sometimes, I have seen Caspian Terns around the Chennai Coast after April and May and they probably breed off the Sri Lankan coast.” And on the Common Tern, Santharam makes this observation: “The Common Tern is known to breed on the coast of Sri Lanka, but in Chennai it is a winter migrant. It is possible that it is breeding in undisturbed places along South Tamil Nadu, probably around Mandapam.” On how birds seldom cease to spring a surprise, he points out that Common Tern breeding has been reported from Ladakh. More studies required Santharam highlights the fact that terns could be better studied, and existing studies, especially of wintering terns, are thin on the ground. He draws attention to neighbouring Sri Lanka: Exemplary efforts over the last decade spotlighting terns in Sri Lanka have shown these birds to be breeding in greater numbers than previously believed. “Around a dozen species of terns come to Chennai during the migratoey season. Regular monitoring can throw up interesting discoveries about their habits and habitat requirements.” ( ‘Migrant Watch’ is a weekly column about birds seen in Chennai during the migratory season)  The White-winged tern is a passage migrant. It comes around this time — March and April, on reverse migration, when one can find it along the Chennai coast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/terns-in-chennai/article34121752.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Thinking out of the dashboard and tackling a parking problem||Visitors to Livia Spaces, a 12-flat residential complex at busy Luz Church Road, do not go to the trouble of finding parking space outside the building. The vehicles are treated as “guests” and invited into the complex. This magnanimity is made possible by a mechanical system that enables cars to be stacked in the basement. It allows every family to park an additional three to four cars. There is a dedicated parking area for visitors with a capacity to take in 10 to 12 cars. So, even if a family has a group of guests, none of these visiting cars have to stay on the road. “Once we had 24 guests for a get-together and all the guests’ cars could be accommodated inside as we coordinated with other residents and found parking slots for them,” says Rajeev Mecheri, a resident of Livia Spaces. Finding parking space is going to get only more challenging in the future. Thinking out-of-the-dashboard with parking solutions is the only way out for roads congested with unauthorised parking. Rajeev says there are only two options: “Stop buying more cars or move to buildings that have a facility to accommodate more cars.” Thinking along the same lines, the Gorantla brothers residing at 13th Main Road in Anna Nagar have invested in a stack parking arrangement at their two-storey building. “We had a facility to park six cars but we wanted additional space and at the same time we were clear we did not want to occupy the road, so we got this facility built,” says Rajasekar Gorantla. At Livia Spaces, this feature was incorporated at the development stage. Multi-tier parking facilities may not be common yet among residential spaces, but they are expected to emerge as an attractive business opportunity for many engineering and urban infrastructure companies. Many developers are said to be exploring such an arrangement in their upcoming projects. A CMDA official points out that the department encourages it as it addresses the issue of on-street parking. “Besides new projects with such features, we have come across existing buildings that have incorporated it,” says the official. “Today most customers want additional car parking area and unless you offer such a facility that can accommodate multiple cars it is difficult to sell a project,” says S. Sridharan, chairman, CREDAI – Tamil Nadu. In Chennai, he says, there are two types of parking systems that residential segments are adopting – multi-level parking at the upper level (above the stilt) and mechanical parking, also known as stalker parking, usually at the basement. There are at least four engineering and urban infrastructure companies that are involved in the design and marketing of such parking facilities in Chennai. “The dimensions of the driveway, stall size and foundation where the facility needs to be built are factors we consider before taking up a project,” says Micky John, engineer with Wohr Parking Systems, which has done four residential projects in Chennai. Experts point out that maintenance is an additional factor one must take note of. “Besides power consumption which is a small element, an annual maintenance contract and capex are costs that the residents’ association needs to bear in mind,” says Rajeev. As most of these facilities are kept in the basement, water logging, if not managed properly, can be an issue. We have a system of pumping water into our rainwater harvesting sump as well as into the external stormwater drain, says Rajeev. Getting permission Multiple stakeholders are involved in its implementation. The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services has to sanction an NOC for the apartment, certifying it for electrical and mechanical compliance. “CMDA gives the planning permission after getting the NOC and also looks into the completion certificate after the work. The local body takes care of the licensing,” says a planning engineer with CMDA. Can multi-tier parking be implemented for an apartment of eight to 10 years? Here is the answer from an official: “You cannot go by the book for this system, but a few factors that would determine permission include stability of the building, fire safety measures that are in place and the height of the basement.”  We had a facility to park six cars but we wanted additional space and at the same time we were clear we did not want to occupy the road, so we got this facility built||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/thinking-out-of-the-dashboard-and-tackling-a-parking-problem/article34121753.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Children spread a safety message on Corporation’s behalf||Two children hogged the limelight at a silambam performance, conducted by Division 96 of Greater Chennai Corporation to create awareness about getting vaccinated and COVID-19, near the Corporation School at Ayanavaram market on March 19. Dressed in black and with masks, S. Krithika Shri and Yalini, both 10 years old, were part of a five-member team that has been reinforcing the public health message on behalf of the Corporation. In the last one year, many children like her got an opportunity to be a part of road shows, thanks to Neelam Foundation, one of the partner NGOs working with GCC to create awareness about COVID-19. Children from underprivileged communities learn a new art — including silambattam and oyilattam — and also become active campaigners in this fight against COVID. “Of the 550 students in the 10 Neelam Educational Centres that we have been running in the city, 200 are being trained in silambam. Theatre and sports are also part of the curriculum,” says Muthamizh Kalai, CEO and founder of the Foundation. For instance, Saga Silambam Team has been training these children, aged between five and 15 years, during weekends in silambam. “During the lockdown, they had online classes in silambam that kept them in touch with the art form,” says Santha Lakshmi, Krithika’s mother. Her daughter has been learning the martial art for the last three years and has also participated in district-level competitions. “The main aim of offering such life skills to these children is to develop their creativity, remove stage fear and also to give them an opportunity,” says Muthamizh. Karthick Raja, martial arts trainer, says his students are helping keep this art form alive. “Anybody can pick up this skill and what we have seen is that it increases the practitioner’s confidence level,” says Raja. The pandemic was an opportunity for many of them to showcase their skills. “In the last one year, we would have done at least 50 road shows in different parts of the city and each time we ensured participation from a different set of students,” says Muthamizh. But is not there risk in exposing children to such awareness programmes in these times? Muthamizh says children give more power to a campaign. “We have seen that people sit up and take note when children speak or perform. These are not closed-door events but we try to draw peoples’ attention at public places. Besides, we make sure all the safety protocols are being followed by children,” says Muthamizh. By involving children in the fight against COVID, they help take the message to their communities. “All my friends in the neighbourhood know that my silambam classes are helping support a good cause, by showing why we need to take heed to messages on social distancing and regular hand-washing,” says Krithika, a Class IV student of Cambridge Nursery and Primary School. Muthamizh dwells on the example of the rap team that has been doing commendable work in Ayanavaram. “These children have created a team that goes to shops in their locality to abide to following SOPs and to create awareness about the COVID-19 prevention.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/children-spread-a-safety-message-on-corporations-behalf/article34121751.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tank in Valasaravakkam gets a facelift||Total redemption seems nigh at hand for a tank in Valasaravakkam, near the Kesavardhini bus-stop. Zone 11 of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is restoring it for a month now, and a GCC official says the work would be completed in another two months. The tank, found near a temple, is now being deepened up to 20 feet. The existing stormwater drains of the tank will give way to bigger drains, four feet wide and eight feet deep. Rainwater is expected to flow via a key water channel on Alwarthirunagar Main Road and enter the tank. Further, the side wall of the tank will be strengthened. A tiled walkway will also be built around it. The waterbody will have a steel three-metre-high fence to prevent visitors, especially children, from falling into it. LED lights and concrete seating arrangements are also part of the project. Staircases will be rebuilt. “Once the tank is restored, it will be new place of leisure for residents,” says V. Shanmugam, a resident of Valasaravakkam. The 40-feet deep rain-fed tank is said to have been built a century ago along with the temple. The tank has select entrances meant for the performance of rituals. Prior to the commencement of the restoration work, the tank was a haven for miscreants. It was also misused for dumping garbage. Further, it was overrun with vegetation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tank-in-valasaravakkam-gets-a-facelift/article34121727.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||College students promote green practices through mural painting||With plant ecology and biodiversity as the theme, the Department of Fine Arts, Stella Maris College has completed another set of mural paintings on walls of its campus. The 25 panels across the campus walls celebrate the world of plants, ranging from lush forests and fertile farmlands to verdant cityscapes, says a press release. A team of faculty and students, both from undergraduate and postgraduate courses, worked on them. Conceptualised in a folk style, taking as reference Gond art, the murals explore diverse themes that reiterate the need for sustainable and green practices, the release says. In the release, Sumithra Dawson, head, Department of Fine Arts, Stella Maris College, says the narrative commences with the symbolic tree of life and forests that turn into marshlands and fields. Plants as sources of medicine and food are abstracted into decorative compositions. Plant nutrients, aquaponics, terrace and vertical gardens echo global concerns to maximise the benefit of plants for a healthy planet. The College’s green campus features prominently in one of the panels. Chennai is referenced with imagery evoking the Pallikaranai Marsh, the vertical gardens on its flyovers and the great banyan tree. Standard operating procedures were followed at all times and students’ safety was monitored, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/college-students-promote-green-practices-through-mural-painting/article34121723.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Commuters complain of a leaning electricity pole||A precariously leaning Tangedco electricity pole does not do much for the safety of commuters at a bus-shelter on Mount-Poonamallee Main Road. Besides, it comes in the way of these commuters boarding buses with ease. Built three months ago at a cost of Rs. 6.5 lakh under Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development scheme, the bus-shelter is being maintained by the Iyyappanthangal Village Panchayat that comes under the Kundrathur Panchayat Union of the Kancheepuram district. All buses heading towards the bus terminus in Poonamallee and Kundrathur halt at this stop. “The electricty pole needs to relocated to a safer spot,” says B. Pavithra, a resident of Iyyapanthangal. Mount - Poonamallee Main Road has been widened between St. Thomas Mount and Sri Ramachandra Medical College cum Hospital (SRMC) in Porur where the Greater Chennai Corporation limits ends. However, the stretch between Iyyappanthangal and Poonamallee, a distance of around 4 km, has not been widened due to land acquisition problems. Hence this section of the road witnesses traffic congestion, especially during rush hour. The problem is compounded by unauthorised parking of vehicles including private buses, which further eats into the road space. The leaning electricity pole is a new safety hazard on the road. A Tangedco official says,“The electricity pole will be relocated at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/commuters-complain-of-a-leaning-electricity-pole/article34121733.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Garbage burning on key road crops up again||Last year, at the height of the lockdown, open plots on Link Road (towards Mangadu) in Poonamallee was litter-free. It also seemed to have been freed of a long-afflicting bane — garbage burning. However, following lockdown relaxations, these problems cropped up again. Under the purview of the State Highways Department, the road was chosen for the “Adopt A Road” programme, a Greater Chennai Police initiative started in October 2020. As a result, the road has received many safety features which include installation of signboards, reflectors, steel barricades and zebra-crossing markings. The removal of encroachments such as eateries on the road has also improved user experience on this road. “Poonamallee Municipality and the traffic police should ensure waste is not dumped on these plots,” says K. Murugan, a resident of Poonamallee. Link Road is a lifeline for residents in villages like Kollachery, Arambedu, Erumaiyur, Gerugambakkam, Kavanoor, Kolambakkam and Poonthandalam. Also, people from Nazarathpet, Sennerkuppam, Chembarambakkam, Mangadu, Kattupakkam, Maduravoyal and Vaanagaram also use the stretch to reach other parts of the city. Those travelling to Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Bengaluru also use this road. Further, it is lined with commercial establishments. It is indeed odd that such a busy stretch is not well-lit. Frequent accidents on the stretch have been reported, say police sources. “Necessary steps will be taken to prevent garbage dumping and burning on Link Road soon,” says a State Highways official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/garbage-burning-on-key-road-crops-up-again/article34121735.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Painting classes||Kani Arts is conducting a workshop on Gondu Painting, Tanjore paintings and Keral mural painting at Flat AS4 Ragamalika Apartments, 26, Kumaran Colony Main Road, Vadapalani. The session will end on March 25. Time: From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m and From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. For details, call 9381157831||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/painting-classes/article34121737.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpath on Burkit Road usurped||A section of a footpath on Burkit Road in T. Nagar is out of bounds for pedestrians. The space meant for pedestrians is being misused for parking share-autorickshaws, consuming liquor, and dumping garbage. Further, some relieve themselves on the footpath. All of these things force pedestrians to walk on the carriageway. A section of Burkit Road, that is from its intersection with South Usman Road to its intersection with South Dandapani Street, is a one-way. So, motorists come at a breakneck speed. At times, motorists drive on the wrong side of the road. Further, an eatery is located on the footpath. Its customers park their vehicles haphazardly, hindering the pedestrians’ movement. It is a busy road as a few educational institutions and a railway station are located in the vicinity. Further, it is frequented by Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses. Hence, residents feel Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai City Traffic Police should take necessary steps to restore the footpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-on-burkit-road-usurped/article34121743.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SWD work on Duraiswamy Road inches along||The work on widening the stormwater drains on Duraiswamy Road in T. Nagar is moving at tardy pace. Due to the work, the usable portion of the carriageway is down to a width of 20 feet. With Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses plying on this road, this reduced dimensions often make for sluggish movement of vehicles. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) started the work a fortnight ago. “With the road habing narrowed considerably due to the drain work, there is an element of risk for pedestrians when they take this road. An early completion of the drain work would bring immense relief to road users,” says K. Satish, a resident of West Mambalam. Residents have also pointed out that at night, the work site is poorly lit. Further, there are no reflectors and signboards to warn road users about the dug-up sections of the road. A GCC official says “Steps will be taken to complete the work at the earliest and the road will be relaid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/swd-work-on-duraiswamy-road-inches-along/article34121731.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A wait and watch approach||In the light of increasing Coronavirus cases, apartment associations in Chennai are trying to get their residents to revisit the basics. Over the last one week, the 66-unit Ceebros Palms in Egmore has been reiterating three rules in its internal communication — mask up in common areas, sanitise your hands and maintain social distancing. But the residents’ association concedes that even this response would be inadequate. “We have to agree that complacency has set in,” says Niraj Patel, president of Ceebros Palms Residents Association. “Many have become careless in the way they wear their masks and we are again insisting that they wear it correctly while they move around the apartment premises and outside.” Previously, the security guards were instructed to be strict with those entering the community without masks. “Now, we see that the vendors are not wearing masks,” says Patel. The community started rolling back some of the key restrictions in January. “Our gym has opened up for residents but we allow only one person at a time. Also, the air-conditioner is not turned on,” says Patel. The Association plans to have a committee member make surprise checks, and call those seen without masks into account. They are also planning to ask the guests to stop coming to the society in large groups. TVH Lumbini Square in Purasawalkam had a Corporation team come down on March 18 to conduct a fever camp. Health officials have also been in touch with the Apartment association to enforce old rules. “COVID-19 positive cases are again on the rise but the question is: What new things can we do? We are planning to have a meeting of management committee members to discuss new measures,” says Dinesh D. Bajaj, secretary of the Association. Swagath Apartment at Velachery reintroduced the old rule of asking food delivery vendors to leave residents’ orders at the gate, and is planning a few other measures to ensure rules are complied with. BBC City Paark Apartment in Porur is waiting for announcements from the State Government/ Greater Chennai Corporation based on which they would frame rules for the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-wait-and-watch-approach/article34121750.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Bonsai workshop at Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre, Guindy, is conducting a workshop on bonsai making on March 24. Another session on mushroom cultivation will be held on March 26. The session will be held on the centre’s premises in Guindy. For details, call 044 - 2250 1960 / 2225 0511||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bonsai-workshop-at-guindy/article34121738.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||No space for pedestrians||A section of the footpath on Sivasankaran Road in Teynampet, where traffic flow is towards Gopalapuram, is as good as non-existent. A number of eateries operate from the footpath, with food being cooked and vessels washed there. Further, construction debris can be found dumped on it. Pedestrians have no other option but to walk on the carriageway. All of these factors cause traffic congestion. It is a busy road as it provides quick access to Avvai Shanmugam Salai in Gopalapuram and Royapettah. The situation worsens significantly during the evening rush hour. It is difficult to walk on the road, say a group of college students. To add to pedestrians’ woes, certain sections of the road are damaged. Further, the road is poorly-lit. Residents of Chokkalingam Nagar, Teynampet want Greater Chennai Corporation and Greater Chennai City Traffic Police to remove the encroachments and take measures to prevent unauthorised parking of vehicles. Further, Sivasankaran Road’s footpath near the entrance of Health & Family Welfare Department, Directorate of Medical and Rural Services, is littered with all kinds of waste. In this respect, a Greater Chennai Corporation Official says necessary action will be taken at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-space-for-pedestrians/article34121748.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Karayanchavadi bus stops wait for shelters’||There is no shelter at Karayanchavadi bus-stop. As the height of summer is not too far away, passengers will find it difficult to wait for buses. The same condition prevails at four other bus-stops in Karayanchavadi. Hence, it is suggested that the Metropolitan Transport Corporation and the other authorities concerned do the needful. Sundari Ghandhi is a resident of Poonamallee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/karayanchavadi-bus-stops-wait-for-shelters/article34121719.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34121720.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Park in Porur is uninviting’||The Greater Chennai Corporation’s park at Ponni Amman Kovil Street in Porur is in a state of neglect. Badly damaged, the exercise and play equipment need to be replaced. If this park is well-maintained it would benefit residents greatly. Fathima K N is a resident of Porur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/park-in-porur-is-uninviting/article34121725.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Silk saris sale at Nungambakkam||In view of Ugadhi, a sale of handicrafts and handloom products, is being held at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Called Hastashilpi, the sale will end on March 28. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. Saris and dress materials are available in variety of silks. They include Tassar, Eri, Mulberry, Muga, Arini, Crepe, Georgette, Chiffon, Kanjeevaram, Darmavaram, Dhaka, Uppada, Gadwal, Paithani, Mangalagiri, Maheswari, Chanderi, Baluchari, Banaras Jamdani and Pochampalli. Also, available are stoles and shawls, adds the press release. For details, call 96293 74196 / 86398 04198||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/silk-saris-sale-at-nungambakkam/article34121740.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Organic snacks||The Organic Store at Mahalingapuram has stocked a range of items sourced from farmers. They include traditional rice varieties, millets, pulses, cold pressed oil, sweetners and vegetables. The store has also introduced organic snacks made using cold pressed oil, said a release. The store is at 90, Kamdar Nagar, 3rd Street, Mahalingapuram, Nungambakkam. Contact: 9840077105||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/organic-snacks/article34121741.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling a parking problem||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tackling-a-parking-problem/article34121728.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back to the New Normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/going-back-to-the-new-normal/article34121729.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Inferno||You wouldn’t expect a whirlwind to leave someone with burn injuries. But that is what happened to Sasmita Naik of Raipada village in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district. On March 1, an autorickshaw she was travelling in was passing a burning forest patch when it collided with a car that had got caught in a raging whirlwind. Sasmita was thrown out of the auto and landed right in the fire. Some 10 km from Raipada, in Baring village, Minati Mohanta had to literally walk through a fire to reach the local market. These two villages are located in Thakurmunda block, a part of Similipal, a UNESCO-designated biosphere and one of the country’s largest natural heritage sites. The first half of March saw vast forest fires sweeping through Similipal. Was it climate change playing out? Did the State forest department’s protocol to tackle this annual phenomenon fall short? Or was there more to it this year? This fire, as the many that Odisha is vulnerable to each year, might have gone unnoticed. Officials downplayed it as an annual phenomenon until dramatic photographs and videos of flames engulfing different parts of the forests, especially around Similipal, went viral on social media. Soon, the forest department had to launch the biggest fire-fighting exercise in the State’s history. Rich biodiversity Similipal — once a hunting ground for royals and declared a national park in the 80s — stands out for its ecological diversity, Some 1,078 species of plants, including 94 species of orchids, are found here. The forest is known for its tigers and elephants, among 55 species of mammals, 304 species of birds, 60 reptiles and 164 butterfly species. The reserve’s two exquisite waterfalls, Joranda and Barehipani, attract thousands of tourists every year. Twelve rivers, including Burhabalanga, Palpala, Bhandan, Salandi, Kahairi and Deo, flow through Similipal, and it also boasts of the twin peaks of Khairiburu and Meghashini. The Similipal biosphere is one of the most protected forests in the State, managed by at least six senior officers of the Indian Forest Service. Yet, at one point this year, Similipal was burning in at least 300 places. This is attributed in part to the extreme dry weather. “There was no rain between November and March. Leaf litter and twigs on the forest floor became more combustible than ever before. Small ignitions led to major fires,” says Jitendra Kumar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF). While everyone agrees that the weather fanned the flames this year, they also say it could have been checked as the majority of forest fires are manmade. “True, forest fires are not new,” says Biswajit Mohanty, a conservationist. “The forest department has had a plan to tackle them since the British era. But the involvement of the local community was central to fighting the fires; in drawing fire-lines, for instance. Now, we believe that the level of community participation has come down.” There should be continuous interaction, says Mohanty, since Odisha’s forests are very prone to fires. “The forest is so vast that a handful of forest department personnel and volunteers cannot reach every spot where fires ignite.” PCCF Kumar, meanwhile, says that mohua collection is also a major culprit. Villagers collect the blooms to make the local liquor. The practice is to burn the dry leaves below the trees to make it easier to pick the fallen flowers beneath, and officials say these small fires are often not put out fully, thus spreading to other areas. “In some forest divisions such as Baliguda, Phulbani and Rayagada, the forest department has geo-tagged mohua trees and carried out controlled fires. That proved very helpful and the fires did not spread. We have asked other divisional forest officers to follow the practice,” says Kumar. But the allegations against the forest department are that they did not follow standard procedures and did not conduct adequate awareness programmes in the villages before the fire season began. “We did not have a single awareness programme on forest fires this year. Only when forests outside Similipal started to burn was a football match organised on February 23, during which people were urged to stay vigilant about the fires,” says Mataram Ho, sarpanch of Guruguria Panchayat in Similipal. The forest department, however, says it conducted over 600 awareness camps. When we undertook a 15 km drive through Similipal on March 8, we did not see a single fire-line. These are typically created by scraping away leaf litter, twigs and vegetation to create natural barriers that can break the spreading flames. The forest department, however, says that 19,500 km of fire-lines were created this season. Mohanty accuses the government of taking the fire too lightly. For instance, the Odisha government came up with a toll-free number for forest fires three years ago, but the number has not been publicised, defeating the very purpose of the exercise. Forest wisdom Activists also rue that the forest department does not recognise the forest dwellers’ traditional wisdom in detecting forest fires. For ages, people have followed a thumb rule: Dina re dhuan aau ratire nian (smoke during daytime means flames by night). The forest department has instead emphasised detection through satellite imagery. This cannot always be the sole medium of fire management, points out Hemant Kumar Sahoo, an ecologist who has worked extensively in Similipal. “The information does not automatically trickle down to villagers. There is an administrative hierarchy that the information passes through.” This delays the process because it’s ultimately the villagers who have to put out the fires before they get out of control. Indeed, the fires were found to be less intense and better controlled wherever villagers had been given community forest rights under the Forest Rights Act (FRA). For instance, villagers in Kolha, inside Similipal, got their act together and immediately stopped a fire on March 10. “When forest rights are given, people start to get a sense of ownership of the forest. The forest department is deliberately not acknowledging these efforts. They think the empowerment of people will shift the balance of power from the forest department to villagers,” says Sahoo. Under the FRA, the community prepares plans for conservation. “This makes them owners of a forest patch. The true spirit of the Act requires the forest department to take the community into confidence in all forest protection activities and ensure their involvement,” he adds. Two leading people’s representatives — Mohanty Birua, sarpanch of Astakuan, and Jujhar Bansingh, sarpanch of Barehipani — tell us that the forest department has systematically distanced itself from local people. “We are not made partners in development work or provided wage employment,” they allege. Says Birua, “Field-level forest functionaries have become civil contractors who execute various small projects while they have forgotten basic forestry work.” Interestingly, both forest officials and villagers seem to see this year’s fires as a reflection of the growing animosity between the forest department and the local people. Not just tigers Similipal was not the only forest in Odisha to suffer. From November last year — the start of the fire season — to March 10 this year, Odisha saw a stunning 29,580 fires, followed by Madhya Pradesh with 11,129, as per the Forest Survey of India. Facing heavy criticism, the State government soon deployed a task force under the chairmanship of Sandeep Tripathi, former PCCF of Odisha. After its first assessment, the task force said there was no damage to wildlife or big trees and that people were safe. This sets a dangerous precedent, explains Akshita Bhanj Deo, scion of the erstwhile royal family of Mayurbhanj, whose tweets first drew attention to the issue this year. “Only big trees and megafauna cannot be given attention. The forest does not consist of only woody species. The ratio between saplings and smaller trees and bigger trees becomes greatly imbalanced during fires. It creates a fragile ecosystem.” And neither is the forest only about tigers, elephants and big mammals, she adds. Major fires destroy a generation of pollinators such as birds and insects. And fire service personnel have come across hundreds of eggs of birds and reptiles destroyed in these fires. It also means a loss of habitat for many fauna. In some places, spotted deer were seen running into villages for shelter. Loss of livelihood Forest fires are not just an ecological disaster. They also present a livelihood crisis for indigenous communities. An astronomical 1,200 villages are located in the transition area of Similipal, housing a population of whom 73.44% are people drawn from tribes such as the Bhumij, Bathudi, Kolha, Ganda, Santhal, Khadia and Mankadia. “The forest fire is a direct threat to our livelihood. We lose siali fibre,” says Brahmananda Mankidia of Dengam village. The Khadias harvest wild honey. This makes the Mankidias and Khadias more than eager to help in fire management. There are also the people who have lost grazing ground for domestic animals. In some places, villagers stayed awake nights to prevent their homes and cattle sheds from burning down. Then, on March 10, everyone’s prayers were answered. Similipal had its first spell of rain. Meanwhile, the task force has recommended giving incentives of Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 5,000 to villages on the forest fringe to win their trust and cooperation. The forest department is also set to acquire 700 fire blowers in addition to the existing 750. Conservationists, however, argue that the government must set aside substantial funding for the annual fire crisis since it threatens forest wealth worth billions. Above all, they insist that the local community be made the fulcrum of any future strategy.  Officials downplayed the fire as an annual phenomenon until dramatic photographs and videos of flames engulfing different parts of the forests, especially around Similipal, went viral on social media||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inferno/article34121787.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Art from the cryptic realm||A JPEG file went under the hammer at Christie’s on March 11 and was sold for $69.3 million (roughly Rs. 504 crore), which was paid in cryptocurrency. The world — including the work’s creator, digital artist Beeple — watched in disbelief. Everydays: the First 5,000 Days , a collage of 5,000 images created over 13 years, was the first ever non-fungible token (NFT) to be sold by the auction house. In another first, Christie’s accepted payment in Ether (ETH), the native cryptocurrency of Ethereum, one of the most popular blockchain networks. The transaction put the spotlight firmly on cryptoart, a zone that Indian artists have also been exploring. First, let’s get our basics clear. What’s an NFT? It’s a unique token attached to a digital work of art that proves the work’s authenticity. It gives ownership to the buyer, who gains the right to trade the piece. The tokens are ‘minted’ or generated on blockchain, making their ownership and original creator clear and traceable. To mint an NFT, you have to cough up a gas fee, a payment for the computing energy used in Ethereum transactions. This exclusivity, traceability and authenticity make NFT artworks scarce and thus valuable. Artists can sell these works on exclusive platforms such as NiftyGateway, OpenSea, SuperRare, Foundation; other marketplaces like Rarible are open to all. In 2020, the NFT market grew by 299% to reach a total value of more than $250 million according to the NFT Report 2020, published by L’Atelier BNP Paribas and Nonfungible.com.  In February 2021, Delhi-based animator and art director Amrit Pal Singh sold two pieces on Foundation for 15 ETH (roughly Rs. 18 lakh). These were toy face renditions of Daft Punk, the French electronic music duo who split up recently. It’s part of a whole series of toy faces — Frida Kahlo, Vincent van Gogh, Sherlock Holmes, Malala Yousafzai — that he has sold, and he’s now working on more. In a nine-year career, Singh has launched mobile apps, a merchandise store, card games and a directory platform, but nothing has succeeded like the toy face NFTs. “Sure, NFTs are a craze today, but it’s not as easy as it’s made out to be. You need to be aware of the collector community, you need recognition,” he says. He benefited from his active social media presence and awareness about his work amongst his clients. “As a digital artist, my source of income was through clients’ work, commissions by different companies like Samsung, Google, Snapchat. My initial bidders were some of my clients,” he adds. Empowering artists Chennai-based Siraj Hassan has sold 27 works from his Caged series — miniatures trees, human figures encased in glass bell cloches. Created over the lockdown, these pieces reflect on isolation and mental health. “NFTs allow digital artists to sell their work as a product rather than as a service, so you can quote a better price. They help you build social clout, which again helps you monetarily. They also allow an artist to earn royalty on his or her art every time a work is sold,” he says. Adhiraj Singh, a Delhi-based 3D artist who owns a sustainable digi-fashion brand, LOTA Design, has also forayed into the world of NFTs. He is about to auction some works, including a ‘selfie’ of a digital model and influencer. “The ‘selfie’ is one of a kind, and will be priced between one and two ETH. From my own practice, I am auctioning some of my favourite pieces including a jewellery piece that I designed for Roma Narsinghani as part of Helsinki Fashion Week 2020,” he says. Berlin-based Khyati Trehan, who is a senior designer with global design firm Ideo and an independent artist, has sold five works on Foundation for prices ranging from 0.006 ETH to 2.8601 ETH. She explains how NFT has empowered digital artists: “The promise of the metaverse is that it allows artists to take control of the value of their work within a version of the Internet that’s owned and operated collectively and independent of corporate control. Art in the form of NFTs opens up the creative potential for monetising a digital work’s virality, which right now exists merely in metrics of likes, shares and views. ” Ecological dangers The artist duo Thukral and Tagra, who work with a wide range of media including interactive games and videos, are currently researching the medium. They’re confronted by questions and doubts. “The rise of digital currency and its effects are not hidden from anyone. It’s actually jaw-dropping,” they say. Crypto mining, the process of creating cryptocurrency, involves a network of machines that release CO2, putting it at the heart of the ecological debate. According to Digiconomist, a platform that reflects on digital trends from an economic point of view, bitcoin mining generates 38 million tonnes of CO2 per year — comparable to the carbon footprint of Ireland. On March 10, the online art platform ArtStation had to cancel its NFT drops (timed online sales) after it drew ire from social media users regarding cryptoart’s ecological impact. Trehan, however, is waiting for more comprehensive reports. “Mining economics is complex, and for every article dissecting blockchain’s unsustainability, there’s an article discounting it as ‘grossly miscalculated’. NFTs are taking all the heat for crypto mining lately and many people have formed polarised perspectives on its carbon footprint. I’m really looking forward to a more comprehensive, peer-reviewed study of this topic in the near future.” The writer is a journalist with interest in art and culture.  According to Digiconomist, a platform that reflects on digital trends from an economic point of view, bitcoin mining generates 38 million tonnes of CO2 per year — comparable to the carbon footprint of Ireland||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/art-from-the-cryptic-realm/article34121824.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The autumn of 8 2||In the latter half of 1982, when my father was living in the copper factory township of Moubhandar (about 5 km from Ghatsila in Jharkhand) and my mother was pregnant, my father took her and my pishi (aunt) on his Lambretta scooter (which he, like many others, called Lambi) to watch a film. They went to a cinema hall in Mosaboni, where the copper company had its mines and which was about 13 km from Moubhandar. It was a different time, the 1980s. Even simple TV sets were a luxury for many. Small, quaint industrial townships — tucked away in the hinterland, surrounded by hills and forests, with a river or two running through — had a charm of their own. The bustle and twinkling glamour of the small bazaars of Moubhandar and Mosaboni outshone the fact that the road between the two townships was totally dark and practically deserted after sundown. My film-buff father The four places my father frequented for his filmy fix were the workers’ cinema club in Mosaboni, for the highbrow stuff; the cinema hall in Mosaboni and one on the outskirts of Moubhandar for regular Hindi and Bengali movies; and the open-air shows organised for workers in a community space in Moubhandar. There was one cinema hall in the Ghatsila area which, after staying closed for a long time, reopened in 1995 with shows of the Govinda-Karisma starrer Coolie No.1. But I don’t remember my father ever going there to watch a film, although he was invited to the reopening. My father attended the event but left before Coolie No. 1 began. Four years later, after my Class X boards, I went to that flea pit to watch Titanic , a year after its release in India. I want to but won’t write about the all-male audience’s reaction to Rose and Jack’s jalopy rendezvous. The film was in English, neither dubbed nor subtitled, and yet the hall was packed. It was not unusual for my film-buff father to travel 13 kilometres just to watch a film he really wanted to see. He would take either the company shuttle to the cinema club or ride his Lambi or Yezdi to the cinema halls. None of those halls survives now, nor do the cinema club or open-air film shows. Silent fourth When I was almost in my teens, during one of our random conversations, my pishi told me: “Your father took your mother and me to watch a film in Mosaboni. Your mother was pregnant with you at that time.” It was just a small anecdote and I could have easily forgotten it. But perhaps because it was also about me (I was in my mother’s womb as she watched the film) and because I eventually came to love films so much, my instant reaction was curiosity. Which film was it?  I wondered how my father had managed to carry himself, his pregnant wife and his sister on a Lambi and ride 13 km and back for a film. My family, however, had quite forgotten the movie in question. The only thing they remembered was that it had starred Amitabh Bachchan and Parveen Babi. So, I googled ‘amitabh bachchan parveen babi film 1982’. Three results came up: Desh Premee , Namak Halaal and Khud-Daar . I used logic. In Desh Premee and Namak Halaal , Bachchan was paired opposite Hema Malini (also Sharmila Tagore) and Smita Patil, so they were out. In Desh Premee , since Babi only played Bachchan’s daughter and sister, respectively, I decided my family would more likely have remembered Hema Malini who played the heroine than Babi. In Namak Halaal , Smita Patil was Bachchan’s heroine while Babi was paired opposite Shashi Kapoor, so that was ruled out too. I concluded that it was most likely Khud-Daar that my family had watched with me the silent fourth. Those days, it took films at least a month, sometimes more, to reach a small town like ours. Titanic took more than a year to come to our Ghatsila cinema hall. The movie would play on for a month or more in the same hall depending on the response. And when a film ran houseful, benches would be brought in hurriedly to accommodate the last-minute buyers of fought-over tickets. I saw Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge (DDLJ) and Raja Hindustani (RH) on makeshift seats in the hall on the outskirts of Moubhandar.  Parveen nasha To the 38-year-old me today, making so much effort to watch a movie seems excessive, but to the 12- or 13-year-old me, it was pure thrill. In 1997, Uphaar Cinema caught fire, but the movie-going experience in rural and semi-rural areas did not change. In 2000, I was returning home from Physics tuition when I encountered, outside the same cinema hall where I had watched DDLJ and RH , maybe a hundred people walking towards me and an almost equal number going in the other direction. Most of them on foot, many on bicycles, a fair number on motorcycles, all looking visibly happy and excited. They were exiting the hall after catching the matinee show of Kaho Naa… Pyaar Hai . In those days, when a Hindi film ran for 25 weeks, it made to the front page of local newspapers. We read about Maine Pyar Kiya’s silver  jubilee run on the first page of a Hindi daily. Conversely, films that flopped were pulled out in less than a week. Wikipedia tells me Khud-Daar was released on July 30, 1982. I am guessing it might have reached Mosaboni a month or so later. Somehow, the name Parveen Babi struck a chord with me right from childhood. I was already a fan of her seductive ‘Oho’ from the ‘ Jawaani Jaaneman’ song in Namak Halaal since I had first heard it on a T-Series audio cassette titled Disco Nasha when I was 5 or 6. And then when I discovered that it was a Parveen Babi film that my family and I, indirectly, had gone to watch, it added to the fascination the ‘Oho’ had generated. There is one more reason. Again from childhood. When I recently read Karishma Upadhyay’s biography, Parveen Babi: A Life , I learnt that the actor had quit working in films by 1990-91. I must have been around 8 or 9 at the time. I had encountered a comic strip in one of the many Hindi humour magazines that used to be published in the 90s. It showed a reporter trying to interview Babi. Her caricature wore a long, white, full-sleeved dress (which seems to have become one of Babi’s most recognisable outfits) with her hair loose (as in her films and popular memory). She was depicted angrily chasing the reporter away through a forest with a gun in her hands. Beautifully honest A particular word was used to describe Babi — I am not sure whether I encountered it in that particular magazine or somewhere else — neem paagal — suggesting a crackpot, an eccentric. As I grew older and watched many of Babi’s films, even Khud-Daar , I wondered what she had done to deserve that epithet. For years, I was disturbed by that derisive word used to describe her. Then Upadhyay’s book came along and in it the actor comes across as an intelligent and sensitive person. Upadhyay has put together the pieces of Babi’s life from various reports, interviews, and a long piece that Babi wrote about herself. At one place, Upadhyay mentions Babi telling Stardust magazine: “Look, there’s no shame in poverty. If I had been down and out, why would I deny it?” It broke my heart a little. Babi’s statement is so beautifully honest even by today’s standards. I found the parts about Babi’s reconciliation with her mother towards the end of their lives particularly poignant. “They had no choice [except being “politely indifferent to each other”]; they had no one else in their lives,” Upadhyay writes. Despite all the differences a child might have with their parents, there comes a time, usually after the death of one parent, when they yearn to return to the surviving parent, who seems to accept them just as they are. This is not just true of a star but of everyone. Coming home Babi went into self-exile in the U.S. in the late 1980s. Back home in Junagadh, Gujarat, her mother, her only surviving parent, had had no news of her for three years and “had almost begun to believe that her daughter was dead.” “[Babi’s mother’s] first reaction was that of relief” when they met again. Even as I tried imagining the mother’s joy, I felt something crumbling inside me. How easy or difficult is it for a person to leave everything and just disappear? Especially when that person is meticulous and successful, like Babi was. Where do they go and what do they do? What if they want to return? Would I be able to leave, dropping everything, if I chose to? What happens if leaving does not give me what I had expected to find? What would I do then? Would returning be easy? A lot of whats . Leaving is a matter of thousands of questions and doubts that perhaps don’t have any answers. A friend once said: “How sad to die all alone, like Parveen Babi.” There are so many people who live and die alone. Why did my friend think of Babi? Was it because she was a public figure whose lonely death had received much media attention? I felt that it was not just a lonely death my friend was wary of. It was loneliness itself. Reading Upadhyay’s book on Babi was like having layers of mist cleared from my mind. If only someone would go back in time and replace the word neem paagal with something kinder. Something that implies acceptance of difference, of people not like us. A phrase that would tell them they can stay even if they are different; that they will be safe. Something that would welcome them when they return. The writer’s last book wasSumi Budhi and Sugi, with illustrations by Joanna Mendes.  I went to that flea pit to watchTitanic, a year after its release in India. I want to but won’t write about the all-male audience’s reaction to Rose and Jack’s jalopy rendezvous||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-autumn-of-8-2/article34121763.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||When music became portable||It was 1969 when the future arrived in my father’s suitcase when he came back from his first trip abroad. I was nine and my father had brought me all sorts of goodies, so at first I didn’t pay much attention to the brick-sized box with the funny buttons in front. I knew what tape-recorders were: these cumbersome machines with two spinning wheels that recorded sound and played it back. How this little box could also be the same thing baffled me a bit, but it wasn’t important. In a year or so, I began to pay more attention to the machine, mainly because I’d become adept at setting it up to record stuff my parents wanted. At the core of the machine were these small plastic cassettes, with sides A and B, and I enjoyed snapping them in and out of the chamber, as I did pressing down the little red button on the left while pushing the main button to ‘play’, which was how you started to record sound (of course after having attached the twin microphone jacks into a maze of asymmetrical holes). The brick had a name, Norelco . Cassettes were not easy to find in Calcutta and they had this ‘Compact Cassette’ logo on every label, whether the cassette was made by Philips, BASF or these new Japanese companies called Hitachi and Sony. The early cassettes also said ‘C-30’ on the label, meaning you could record a total of 30 minutes, that is 15 minutes on each side. I still remember the excitement when I first saw a tape with ‘C-60’ on the label — the size of the little plastic biscuit was the same but they had doubled the recording time! Ear worms For music listening, we chiefly depended on the radio and a gramophone, combined together as a radiogram, and it took a while for the cassette-rec to be used for the purpose. Some American parental friends sent me pre-recorded cassettes; so on the gramophone I would listen to LPs of Usha Iyer, Engelbert Humperdinck and The Rolling Stones, while the cassettes wormed into my ear recordings of Roberta Flack and Curtis Mayfield and Bob Dylan’s Greatest Hits, Vol. 2. Soon, I found an older friend who seemed to know everything about rock and jazz. AL was four years older than me and his father went to America every year to teach at a college. Every year, the Professor would come back carrying cartons of cassettes onto which students had transferred whole tranches of music. It took me a few years to realise how lucky I was to have stumbled upon one of the best collections of rock music in imported-record-starved India. AL had a few vinyl albums, of course, with all the magic of the cover art and the fold-outs of double albums, but most of the treasure was contained in these neatly labelled cassettes — C-90s — which could usually take a whole album. When I left for boarding school at 13, I was in a quandary: I had a slightly better cassette-player by now but there were only so many tapes I could take with me. AL, with extreme kindness heavily camouflaged by irritation, used two of his recorders to make me a few cassettes with assorted tracks from different bands, and these saw me through the rough and tumble of school on the other side of the country. Great revolutions Cassettes accompanied people like me for over 20 years across the formative period of our lives. The basic cassette and recorder designed by Dutchman Lou Ottens in the early 60s set in motion a huge upheaval that in turn generated other great revolutions. By the late 70s, different levels of cassettes were available, with the 3.81mm-wide tape now made from various cutting-edge materials to improve the sound. The little tape-recorders had now become massive tape- decks and the top-end ones really looked as though they could control intergalactic spaceships. As the studio decks became bigger and more elaborate, what you used in daily life became smaller with the arrival of the Walkman, on which you could only listen but not record. Looking back, one realises that the mix-tape cassette was the first step in being able to make your own entertainment choices in a compact, portable and affordable way; the ability to reproduce and edit what you listened to was then combined with the portability of the Walkman and, for the first time in history, cheap headphones began to rule our lives. By the mid-90s, cassettes were obsolete, not least because of the CD, which was also invented by Ottens. The Dutchman, who passed away earlier this month, lived to see his first little invention eventually spawn the iPod and, in many crucial functionalities, the smartphones that rule our lives today. While he pooh-pooed the nostalgia for cassettes, pointing out that the CD was much better sound-wise, what Ottens couldn’t improve on was the peculiar act of friendship or love that was the ritual of putting together a mix-tape.  The basic cassette and recorder designed by Dutchman Lou Ottens set in motion a huge upheaval that in turn generated other revolutions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-music-became-portable/article34121818.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Modern day journeys into the past||Indians: A Brief History of A Civilization — mind you, Indians , not India — appears at first to be a fool’s errand, but that is only till you jump on, dig in and take the full ride. Namit Arora started thinking about a large canvas of a book like this 17 years ago while ruminating about how cities just disappear — Machu Pichhu, Memphis, Mohenjo-daro among others. His bid to reflect on all that is lost but also that which remains, waiting to be rediscovered and unpacked, led to this book. The author’s skills and the choice of technique allow such a mega-ambitious project to take shape and flow. There are chapters on six places: Dholavira (2600-1900 BCE), Nagarjunakonda (220-320 CE), Nalanda (425-1350 CE), Khajuraho (950-1250 CE), Hampi (1336-1565 CE) and Varanasi (from 800 BCE), and five chapters on travellers: Megasthenes, Faxian, Xuanzang and Yijing, Alberuni, Marco Polo and Francois Bernier — all fitting in to convey the broader picture of the way Indians lived, ate, loved, built, fought, were governed and made sense of the material, rational and the spiritual down the ages. Visible coexistence It’s a technique surprisingly used less by writers of popular Indian history. India does lend itself to it, the history and the present coexist very visibly, even if uneasily sometimes and often hiding in plain sight. A travelogue could easily involve not just visiting them as they stand, but connect the places with the people who live there and travel across time through them. It is something Michael Wood deploys very successfully in his eminently readable (and watchable) The Story of India , or John Keay in his masterful work on India. Arora similarly makes his modern-day journeys central to the history story. Sometimes the past lingers in stories he hears and in practices that persist, but more often, in the sheer contrast with the past, as in Dholavira where Harappan forefathers did more to worry about water conservation than the present-day inhabitants. The book’s treatment of Khajuraho’s erotic sculptures, the fusing of erotic with the religious and the snapping of the link later, typifies his style which makes this a comprehensive, informative and engaging account about India in just 258 pages. He tackles the philosophical questions posed between different schools of thought, those that emphasised the renunciatory and others that saw “spiritual growth as compatible and intertwined with success in love rather than opposites.” He draws in philosophy, competing themes and ideas making the book as much about beads, pottery and food as it is about how Indians might have thought in times past. This ability to compress a complex discussion on people, places, things across thousands of years and yet never let the reader once think of it as a shallow journey is a hallmark of the book. Arora’s work assumes added significance as it comes at a time when so much about India’s present, politics and everyday conversations is an angry shouting match about its history. It is more important when so much attention of mass-media and the state is about identifying all those it does not belong to. At a time like this, just sweeping in all and being attentive to all manners of Indians today is an act of defiance. The author is clearly not shy of discussing contentious issues. Complex shades His work gets right into the heart of many flaming debates. He examines if Aryans are home-grown (no, he concludes citing new research in genetics, science and languages), on differing ideas which had play here, of many forms of contemplation down the ages, of times when dark skin was sought after and even why modern India ended up building Nagarjuna Sagar over the ruins of Nagarjunakonda. Observations by Chinese travellers and others from West Asia and Europe leaven the text, and they enhance the ‘arc of the story’. The sense of wonder that was India (to steal from Basham) is a balm to those of us living in 2021 as it drives home all that we could be . “The lives of our ancestors”, the book surmises, “were far more varied than what their material remains indicate”, and that “history belongs to those whose creative works survive and vibrate in the minds of later historians.” Among the things that this book accomplishes is to drag the reader out of ancient, medieval and modern silos, and keep her away from just talk of conquests and invasions. All in all, Indians manages to escape what historian Johan Elverskog (quoted in the book) has termed the seduction of “a clear-cut narrative with good guys and bad”, which “avoids entirely the complex shades of grey that most often colour the messy fabric of history.” On the contrary, the book goes straight for the messiness and is able to arrange it in all its splendour and “complex shades” which are far from “grey”.    Only one thing rankles — why did Arora not pick a place with a distinctly Muslim or Christian imprint? Perhaps the reason is that there is no exclusive Muslim or Christian town that makes the point of the book, but the way the conversation is framed these days, and also in official commentary, priorities and new NCERT books, by picking Agra or travelling to Kodungallur, to the site of South Asia’s first mosque, the author could have tackled the trickiest bone of contention amongst readers of India’s history, and its present, head on.    The reviewer is a writer-journalist based in New Delhi.  Indians: A Brief History of a Civilization Namit Arora Penguin Random House  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/modern-day-journeys-into-the-past/article34121808.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunshine and sausages||I like this season when it’s neither too cold nor too hot. Around this time every year we would gather at a friend’s farmhouse in Haryana for a day-long picnic. The fun was in planning out the menu, and I was usually given the job of preparing a chicken dish with rosemary. Sandwiches and cold cuts figured prominently in the list of finger food, as did kachoris and aloo sabzi . The adults lounged around; the kids — who’d never seen vegetables grow — dug out carrots and radishes, and everyone had a good time. The friend is no more, the kids have grown up and order their kale online. But picnics haven’t lost their magic. And that is why, while reading a delightful little book called I’ll Be With You in the Squeezing of a Lemon by Elizabeth David last week, I zeroed in on a chapter called Picnics, and read it a second time just to get the flavour of all the food she mentions. David, a British cookery writer, has good advice for all those planning a picnic. No foie gras or lobster patties, she says; stick to sausages, fresh cheese, black olives and French bread. She likes sandwiches, but for those who don’t, she suggests thin slices of ham rolled around frankfurters or frankfurters split in half and stuffed with Gruyère cheese. “Some people like a rich moist fruit cake for a picnic, but I prefer a slab of the driest, bitterest chocolate available... to be eaten in alternate mouthfuls with Marie biscuit.” Droolworthy hamper I suppose most of us were drawn into British picnics as readers of Enid Blyton’s adventure books. The Famous Five had some great picnics, possibly because George lived by the sea. They ate potted meat (something that never failed to intrigue me), tinned sardines and pineapples, boiled eggs and chunks of chocolate. On an interesting website dedicated to Blyton, I found a droolworthy description of a hamper being readied for a picnic. There would be (she’d written) sandwiches, a fruit cake, Swiss jam-rolls, biscuits and lemonade. But by far the nicest picnic story is the one by Gerald Durrell, figuring in The Picnic and Suchlike Pandemonium . Gerry’s brother Larry is coming home after 10 years, and their mother has a plan in mind. “I’ve thought of a wonderful way of welcoming Larry back,” she says one morning at breakfast (“Who wants to welcome him?” asks Leslie, helping himself liberally to marmalade). Mother plans a picnic. “As usual, the quantity of food she prepared for the day would have been sufficient to victual Napoleon’s army during its retreat from Moscow. There were curry-puffs and Cornish pasties, raised ham pies and a large game pie, three roast chickens, two large loaves of home-made bread, a treacle tart, brandy snaps and some meringues; to say nothing of three kinds of home-made chutney and jams, as well as biscuits, a fruit cake, and a sponge.” If you know Durrell, a lot happened: the picnic got waylaid by a moody car, inclement weather and a dead horse — “an extremely dead horse,” as Larry put it. All cooked up There are people who plan a picnic to such an extent that it’s not really a picnic but an elaborate meal eaten outside. David recalls a picnic in Marseille with some Americans. She and her friends went around buying all they thought would be just right for al fresco eating — olives, anchovies, sausages, bread, smoked fish, fruit and cheese. Their friends, they discovered at the picnic, had different ideas altogether. They started unloading their car and out came a hatchet and down went several olive branches. Soon there was a blazing fire. Out of their baskets came cutlets, potatoes, bacon, skewers, frying pans, jars of ice, butter, table cloths and all the trappings of a minor barbecue. “Since those days,” she writes, “I have had a good many opportunities of evolving a picnic technique on the lines laid down by Henry James, ‘not so good as to fail of an amusing disorder, nor yet so bad as to defeat the proper function of repasts.’” The weather is still fairly pleasant and I could do with a well-packed picnic hamper, a mat and a book. With, if possible, a red gingham table cover.  They started unloading their car and out came a hatchet and down went several olive branches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunshine-and-sausages/article34121791.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Rama of Adam’s family||What a pleasure it is to read the Ramayana’s Malay version, Hikayat Seri Rama , in this new translation by Harry Aveling. His translation makes the text elegant and accessible, but the story of Rama in the Malay region is truly a wonder. For those of us who know the story already, the Hikayat is full of surprises. At the same time, it offers the comfort of well-loved characters and familiar episodes. Like the many Indian Ramayanas that come after the so-called original Sanskrit version, the Hikayat Seri Rama too is not a translation of Valmiki’s text. It is its own full-blooded narrative. It builds upon the Indian story, of course, but it confidently exploits the Thai, Cambodian and Javanese tellings. And although the Southeast Asian versions undoubtedly have their roots in the period between the 7th and 13th centuries when Hinduism had a strong influence in the Malacca Straits, the Malay version of the Hikayat that has most fully survived was finalised well after Islam was firmly established in the region, most specifically in Indonesia and Malaysia. Many-splendoured The stories of Rama that arose from this diverse and polyglot region comfortably hold many religions and cultural traditions within themselves. In the Laotian Phra Lak Phra Ram , although Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva are present in the story, Phra Ram is a Boddhisattva and so, the story becomes a Jataka tale in that it deals with a previous life of Gautama Buddha. In the Hikayat , the triad of Hinduism’s great gods exists side by side with Allah and each divine being appears or is referred to in the story as needed. When Rawana is performing austerities and chopping off his heads, for example, it is the Islamic prophet Adam who comes and asks him what he wants. Rawana asks for four kingdoms and Adam promises to intervene with Allah on his behalf, provided Rawana stays on the path of virtue and goodness. Later, we find that Seri Rama’s mother is Vishnu’s daughter and his father, Dasaratha, is descended from Adam himself. While ethical behaviour in the story of Seri Rama points away from more widely held Hindu beliefs about moral action, the narrative tension in the Hikayat remains that between right and wrong, between good people and bad. So, although dharma is not the ethical principal around which actions revolve and against which they are judged, there is a definite sense that one must be good. This is expressed several times as “keeping one’s good name”. Rawana falls from grace and is killed because he betrayed the promise he had made to be always virtuous and honourable. Despite the many episodes in Seri Rama’s life and his search for Sita Dewi that are unfamiliar to Indian readers of this text, the characters we know remain much the same. Rather, they remain fundamentally in the same relationships with each other and embody the same virtues and failings. A.K. Ramanujan argued, long ago, in his seminal essay, ‘Three Hundred Ramayanas,’ that it is internal structures like these that place stories such as the Hikayat within a universe of Ramayanas and within a larger, dynamic Ramayana tradition. Although Seri Rama is a mischievous child, he grows into the epitome of goodness and is loved and respected by all who know him. Lakshmana is as loyal as ever, Sita as devoted and chaste, and Hanuman as magnificently magical as he has ever been imagined. But there are interesting variations in incidents we know. Of happy endings Belia Raja warns Seri Rama that his brother Sugriwa is not entirely trustworthy — surely he is speaking the mind of so many of us who have felt that Sugriva was indeed an unworthy companion to Rama. Belia Raja then ensures the success of Seri Rama’s enterprise by sending his own nephew, Hanuman, to be Seri Rama’s most trusted factotum. Seri Rama’s story has a happier ending than the one we are used to — Seri Rama does send Sita Dewi away because he suspects she has been attracted to Ravana. Sita Dewi goes into the forest, where she gives birth to one son. Another son is miraculously given to her when the boy is thought to be drowned. Eventually, Seri Rama regrets his actions and calls Sita Dewi back and the royal couple grow old together in the presence of their children and grandchildren. On the Indian subcontinent, we find similar versions outside the canonical Ramayanas , in folktales and in the many plays the epic has spawned. The Hikayat ends with this gentle advice: “This concludes the story of Seri Rama, a brave and heroic king, unequalled in all the world. His greatness was a gift from God, who wants all his servants to be happy and free from danger. God, All-Glorious and All-Mighty, generously gives us many gifts. When you read this hikayat, I ask you not to be too harsh. Mankind is full of mistakes and prone to forgetfulness. There is only One who never makes any mistakes.” The reviewer works with myth, epic and the story traditions of the subcontinent.    TheHikayat is not a translation of Valmiki’s text. It is its own full-blooded narrative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rama-of-adams-family/article34121793.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on March 21, 1916, this gentleman is responsible for elevating a folk wind instrument to the global stage. The instrument is made of wood with a double reed at one end and a metal flared bell at the other. The characteristic sound of this instrument is widely heard at auspicious occasions in temples and marriages. The instrument is thought to have evolved from the Pungi which was used for snake charming. What instrument is this and which Bharat Ratna awardee is responsible for bringing it to the limelight? 2Born on March 21, 1960, this Brazilian race car driver is one of the greatest exponents in his field of all time. His methodical, philosophical approach to the sport of Formula 1 racing made him a champion racer who till this day is the most successful driver at Monaco, the most challenging circuit. Who was this driver who in 2020 — 26 years after his death — was calculated to be the fastest driver ever by a machine-learning algorithm? 3March 21, 1844, is the first day of the first year of the calendar of a religious faith which celebrates the day as 'Náw-Rúz'. First practiced in Persia in the 19th century it now has more than five million adherents around the world, with the largest community in India. Their house of worship, which is in the shape of a white lotus, is open to all, and is a prominent attraction in Delhi. Which faith is this? 4Chartered on March 21, 1859, this was the first zoo in the United States. Established on the west bank of the Schuylkill River, it’s renowned for its conservation efforts. The first cheetah born in a zoo and the first parent-reared Guam Kingfisher were both here. Of the 1,300 animals, many are rare and endangered. Which city known as the city of ‘brotherly love’ is this zoo situated in? 5On March 21, 1871, Journalist Henry Morton Stanley began an expedition to the depths of Africa. Earlier, he had fought for the Confederate army in the American civil war, then joined the Union Army and eventually worked with the U.S. Navy. His expedition was funded by the New York Herald and finally, after seven months of searching, he achieved his goal near Lake Tanganyika in Tanzania. On achieving his goal, he’s supposed to have asked a question that has been immortalised in history. To whom did Stanley pose a question? 6On March 21, 1935, the monarch Reza Shah Pahlavi formally asked the international community to call his country by its native name. The native name is derived from a word meaning ‘Aryan’, first recorded in the Avesta, the primary collection of religious texts in Zoroastrianism. The name it replaced comes from a particular ancient province in this country. The Greeks used the latter to refer to Cyrus the Great’s empire, and it is even mentioned in the Bible as ‘Paras’. The Latin version later became popular as the country’s international name. Which country is this and what was this old international name? 7On March 21, 1952, American radio jockey Alan Freed organised the Moondog Coronation Ball at old Cleveland Arena. Around 25,000 people attended this concert to see musicians such as Paul Williams, Tiny Grimes and The Dominoes. Although Freed himself referred to the event as a ‘ball’ or ‘dance’, it has gone down in history as the first ever concert of a certain genre of music. What’s the name — popularised by Freed through his radio show — of this genre? 8On March 21, 1975, this country finally abolished its monarchy after 3,000 years. Known as the King of Kings, the first emperor, according to legend, was Menelik I in 980 BC and the final monarch to reign was Haile Selassie. Menelik’s claim to the throne was based on the fact that he was the son of King Solomon and Makeda, Queen of Sheba. Known as the Solomonic dynasty, which country in North-Eastern Africa did they rule over? 9On March 21, 1990, this country became independent of South Africa. It is home to the oldest desert in the world, which has sand dunes that rise 325 metres above sea level. The country also has extensive rock art, which confirms that hunter-gatherers have been residing in the area continuously for more than 6,000 years. Found on the south-west of Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean, which country is this that gets its name from the desert it contains? 10Theatre artist Javad Zolfaghari from Iran proposed this idea at the Congress of the Union Internationale de la Marionnette. Since 2003 it has been observed every year to celebrate the art of manipulation of inanimate objects in storytelling. This traditional style of storytelling is found in almost all cultures and has complexities ranging from simple use of socks to giant versions operated by people inside. March 21 is celebrated as what day by the people practising this art form? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34121834.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Agreeing to disagree||Throw three, sometimes four, extremely articulate women into a studio, hand them mikes and an edgy and topical theme, and ask them what they think. The opinions come pouring out thick and fast, occasionally peppered with quips from significant others, parents and children. This past week, they’re taking on the question: are royal families relevant anymore? Karla, one of the four, offers a perspective on why her children love princesses — “Because they’re the rulers of everything, and they get to do what they want!” There is much laughter, point and counterpoint, buttressed by references to research and popular culture, as the four debate different sides of the issue, reconsider their positions and sometimes even do an about turn. All this is happening on Respectfully Disagree , a podcast series from The Swaddle, a digital platform that focuses on issues of health, gender, family and culture. Originally conceived in 2015 as a women’s health resource by entrepreneur Karla Bookman, the platform now produces a range of multimedia content distributed across social media, including a video series called Overthinking it , audio docuseries, interviews and podcasts. Focus areas The conversations — or debates — on Respectfully Disagree have revolved around topics relating to the four broad focus areas mentioned above, in ways that draw from the experiences of millennials and GenZ and reflect what the host Srishti describes as issues they “passionately differ on”. These can range — like the relevance of royalty — from what’s trending in popular culture, to the more personal, such as “How okay is it to date someone much younger?” or “Do friendships require emotional boundaries” or even the kind of burning ethical question that can drive a wedge between the best of friends: “Is eating meat ethical?” Civil dialogue Okay, maybe not questions of life and death, but things we all talk about, all the time, over cups of chai in college canteens, around the dining table at home, furiously texting back and forth in our online groups. Rude things can be said, tempers can flare, and people can leave in a huff, be unfriended, over unpalatable points of view. In the 30 minutes or so of these conversations, Srishti and her small crowd — Rajvi, Aditi, Karla, and sometimes Pallavi — model what it might look like to engage in a civil dialogue across different points of view. Each episode begins with a very brief background to the question. So, with “What does it mean to be anti-national?” Srishti offers a one-minute introduction to the farmers’ protests over the proposed bills, and the use of the term within this context. The others then chime in with their views of the role of dissent and the meaning of patriotism, and as they wind their way through the subject, exploring its different angles, we get to listen to them thinking aloud, each weighing her original position against the evidence presented by the other. While the conversations are entertaining, even informative, one can’t help feel that the opinions range along a rather narrow spectrum. It’s not difficult to be respectful of differences when you’ve already agreed on the larger things. All the participants in these conversations speak with a similar cadence, reflecting a specific socio-economic and cultural demographic, and it seems, have the same politics. Would it actually be possible to have equally civil conversations with those who are truly different from us? What might that conversation sound like? Could we find respectful ways to disagree across such divides? That’s something I’d love to hear. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/agreeing-to-disagree/article34121836.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Slogans that catch on||Heated campaigns are on for the latest round of Assembly elections. And a catchy slogan is a must for any campaign. India has always had a special relation with slogans. The iconic slogan “Quit India” united the people and gave the fight for Independence an impetus. It is only fitting that in the largest democracy in the world, many parties have won elections riding on the success of their creative slogans, while others have lost when their catchphrases fell flat. Slogans are important to marshal the energies of the activists, create team spirit and introduce the candidates and their platforms to the electorate. Indian politics has a rich history of slogans, providing the humour, interest and enthusiasm needed to engage voters. Some of the most memorable slogans include Indira Gandhi’s Garibi Hatao and Lal Bahadur Shastri’s Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan . Capturing the mood In election campaigns, slogans can be crucial if they capture the mood of the country or a quality of the candidate or a promise to the electorate. It doesn’t often happen but when it does, the slogan becomes the shorthand for the entire campaign. One of the more recent instances of this is Narendra Modi’s 2014 campaign slogan Abki Baar, Modi Sarkar . It became an instant hit. It became so popular that Donald Trump used it to appeal to the Indian-American community by saying Abki Baar, Trump Sarkar . Mr. Trump had another slogan, “Make America great again”, four words that became the bedrock of his presidential campaign. Indian politics has a history of election slogans that have been funny and an instant hit with the masses. Some of the most amusing campaign slogans include Ek Sherni, Sau Langur [one lioness, 100 langurs] Chikmagalur bhai Chikmagalur , coined by the Congress for Indira Gandhi during the 1978 byelection, and Jab tak rahega samose mein aaloo, tab tak rahega Bihar mein Lalu [As long as samosas have potato filling, Lalu Prasad will remain in power in Bihar]. But not all slogans are successful. There are some that have failed to resonate with the public such as the BJP’s 2004 slogan “India Shining” and Jeb Bush’s 2016 Republican Primary war cry “Jeb can fix it”. Hillary Clinton’s “I’m with her” for the 2016 presidential election didn’t evoke a positive response but Donald Trump’s reply “I’m with you” did. Just one word made a huge difference. chaitanyaiyer01@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/slogans-that-catch-on/article34121779.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A mother’s quest to understand her son’s complex world||“I realize what a radical political act it seems to be to believe that Ben isn’t the issue, the world around him is.” This line summarises Jessica Moxham’s deeply personal book, The Cracks That Let the Light In , best. The book runs along multiple tracks – being 10-year-old Ben’s mother and being Ben’s advocate, and in the process making sense of parenting, a society that is exclusionary to needs that are not ‘normal’, and attempting to understand the politics around inclusion or lack of it.  Let’s first get out of the way the things in the books that could have been improved or included. The lengthy streams of consciousness often make for difficult reading. That these portions are always sandwiched between something funny, insightful, something so mundane, it immediately brings the reader back to the central theme. For those not familiar with the U.K. and the NHS there remain unanswered questions on the processes and policies that decided the care Ben would receive, and how much of it depends on the parent’s knowledge of the issue and sheer willpower. Reading this: “There isn’t an option to not be politically engaged, and often angry, because Ben relies on the support that the state provides,” the immediate reaction is, tell us more. But as the title says, the book is about what Moxham learnt from her son Ben, she is not particularly setting out to educate the world. She does a fine job of it all the same. The siblings So onwards to all the things that are brilliant about the book. We are told of Ben’s medical issues, the hundreds of consultations he has required over the years, the 26 carers he has had in the last 10 years, the challenges of feeding and that of mobility. But the image of Ben that endures is the big brother indulgent of his younger siblings, tolerant while they distracted him from his books, amused by their childishly crass humour, and enamoured by performing arts of all kinds. Moxham chooses to use the term disabled, because “they [activists] have self-defined as being disabled by the world around them not letting them participate in the way they would like.” In writing about how her younger children see Ben and his disability, she comments on the idealist acceptance of children. Be it her second child Max’s ‘relaxed attitude to disability’ or little Molly’s casual mention that her ‘brudder is bisabled.’ This attitude would be more common “if we came across more disabled people at school and work,” she says. Hazy boundaries And just like that, it hits you. In India, why aren’t we seeing more people with disabilities in public spaces? How inaccessible are these spaces? It is difficult not to compare the U.K. with India – “if only we had half of that” – and immediately fall into the trap of wanting to make small allowances for the disabled, to seek inclusion in degrees. As the book highlights, “I realize the boundary between non-disabled and disabled is hazier than I had thought. […] When does the exclusion begin? Everyone is on sliding scales of skills, impairments and needs which shift and often defy categorization.” As Ben grows older, Moxham is fairly confident that they can help him with his physical difficulties (they have “made a house in which Ben is least disabled”), but the greatest challenge would be people’s attitude. “I think that much of people’s discomfort with disability, and their inability to talk about or to disabled people in a way that isn’t rude, patronizing or dismissive, is because they don’t have the language.”  The reviewer is a journalist and human rights advocate, focussing on labour migrants in the GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council).  The Cracks That Let the Light In: What I Learned from my Disabled Son Jessica Moxham Octopus Publishing Group  Rs. 734 (Kindle edition)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-mothers-quest-to-understand-her-sons-complex-world/article34121805.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Law taught me that each word has an impact’||Close to her 30th birthday, Abigail Dean, a lawyer, was having an “awful time” at work. So she quit her job and decided to take three months off. In this break, she plugged away, and Girl A began to take shape. A year later, she had the finished manuscript of her debut novel and a job as a lawyer with Google in London. Published in the U.K. in January 2021, Girl A was an instant bestseller and Dean was hailed as the “biggest literary fiction voice of 2021”. A thriller that doesn’t indulge the prying reader with excessive details, Girl A is not about the who and how of a crime, but about its aftermath. The suspense lies in peeling the layers of trauma and facades to understand who coped and who failed. It’s a story of the Gracie siblings’ survival as adults despite a childhood of isolation and abuse by their parents in their ‘House of Horrors’. The book revels in the dynamics of the seven Gracie siblings, delightfully capturing their rivalries, alliances and grudges. “I am interested in big families because mine was small. I wanted to create a big, memorable family. One of the joys of writing Girl A was developing the relationships between the Gracie children. Despite extraordinary circumstances, they are just ordinary siblings. It also allowed for more perspectives and added ambiguities about what happened at the House,” Dean says in a Zoom interview. Dean grew up in the Peak District of rural England, in a house that loved reading and debating books. She wrote stories about animals and soft toys, which her parents, both English teachers, gave feedback on. “I took their critique very seriously,” Dean laughs. Being myself Why did she return to working as a lawyer? “I am used to spending time alone because I am an only child. Being by myself is calming. And yet, in the three months’ break, when I was writing through the day, the process was very isolating. At the end of the day, I was looking forward to returning to the land of the living. You become obsessed with the characters. It’s great for the novel and the writing, but I’d miss human contact. So, I’m not sure I want to take to full-time writing,” she says. While Kazuo Ishiguro’s subdued and mysterious narrators were Dean’s “big source of inspiration” while crafting the voice of Lex, Girl A ’s narrator, she swears by authors like Gillian Flynn, Cormac McCarthy and William Faulkner. Her legal practice informs her writing. In legal drafting, one excess word can have huge repercussions. “Law taught me that each word has an impact. It helped cut the faff from the prose,” she says. The constant self-editing means her prose is razor-sharp, and all the more effective for being so. Dean is “overwhelmed” by the novel’s commercial success. The Guardian reported that it sold for a “major six-figure sum” in a nine-way auction in the U.K. It has since been acquired in over 20 territories worldwide  and its screen rights have gone to Sony. “The contrast is strange, because, for years and years, you write without any expectations,” she says. Staring into space Dean is currently working on her second novel, The Conspiracies, which follows two characters in the wake of an attack resulting in loss and creating twisted psychologies. “It’s a strange book to write, especially in the middle of a pandemic,” she says. But the pandemic also gave her precious time for writing. “In terms of purely having time, the pandemic has been morbidly useful because you’re not visiting family and friends. But the quality of time has felt rather odd. There’s an undercurrent of worry which is very distracting and uncomfortable.” Working on Google Docs files, Dean plans as she writes. “I add to it as and when I remember. That way, there’s always something underneath and it takes away the fear of an empty page,” she says. Getting to the end of the day’s writing is her favourite part of the process. “The actual writing process can be frustrating. There’s a lot of staring into space. What you put down on paper is never the magnificent-perfect that you envisaged in your head. So, just having words on paper and seeing the story come together is the best part.” Does she have any advice for new writers? “My advice is very mundane and boring. It’s to just keep going. When you start writing, there’s a temptation to give up or to switch to another idea. But, keep going, try to get the words down.”  I am interested in big families because mine was small... One of the joys of writingGirl Awas developing the relationships between the Gracie children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/law-taught-me-that-each-word-has-an-impact/article34121795.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t bless the guess||At the end of a wild competitive auction, South, who was one of the world’ s great players, had to decide whether to defend the opponents’ slam or sacrifice in six spades. He chose to “take out insurance” and took the save. West accurately led a heart – the contract might have made on any other lead. East won the first three heart tricks and continued with a fourth round of hearts. South ruffed with the queen of spades, ruffed a club in dummy, and led a spade to his jack. When that held the trick, he ruffed his last club in dummy and led a spade to the king and ace. A winning diamond finesse let him escape for down two. This might have been a good result except for one thing. The opponents’ slam had no play! They were off two cashing aces. How could South have known to defend on this deal? He couldn’t, but there is a good rule of thumb. When the opponents have a careful auction to slam, they are probably on solid ground and you should consider a sacrifice. Should they leap to slam, or get pushed there, perhaps against their will, they are always guessing, at least a little bit. Don’t “bless the guess” by taking a sacrifice. You will often have a fair chance on defence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dont-bless-the-guess/article34121827.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Couscous is cooking||Dear AA,  I am getting a bit of an inferiority complex. My classmates and neighbours are all posting pictures on Facebook of the exotic dishes they seem to be cooking all the time. They are making Bolognese and caprese salad, they are baking focaccia and sourdough bread, they add red wine in their recipes and eat only wild rice. It is making me feel a little left out. We are a family of simple eaters. My husband, my two kids and I love dal rice and curd rice and alu paratha and rava dosa. None of it looks exotic. Moreover, I am a working mother. How to get time to bake-shake and all? I am worried. Am I a culinary failure? Rice and Roti Etc.   Dear RARE,  Firstly, you’re approaching this all wrong. The main thing in social media cuisine is to get the descriptions and photos right. For the rest, you can eat leftover rice every day and nobody will know. Let me give you one example. Last Sunday, I felt a cold coming on, so I made jeera rasam and paruppu thogayal. I mashed it up with hot rice and ghee and what a meal it was. Oh, I also roasted an appalam or three. That very evening who should call but Shalini. Have I told you about her? After graduation she demanded that her parents find her an NRI husband and has since been living in the U.S. of A with husband, son and two microwave ovens (one for pure foods, one for impure foods). Along with inner peace, she has also discovered Masterchef. Her FB page is filled with pictures of Vegan Chickpea Omelette and Avocado-Basil Brown Toast. So, when this womanasks me for my menu, how to let the homeside down? I said I’d made a wholesome Cumin Consommé on a bed of hot rice with Spicy Lentil Mash and Browned Rice Crisps. She is still asking for recipe. Use vocabulary. For what purpose you learnt English? Have you heard the half-baked experts on Zoom seminars these days? It’s almost as if during the lockdown, a thousand Ph.D.s bloomed! But in reality? ‘It’s only words…’, as good ol’ BeeGees sang. (I hope you listen to BeeGees? Lots of good stuff if you ignore the shrieky bits.) Second, get phone with good camera. When you make alu paratha, even if you’re dying of hunger, show some self-control. Put one paratha on plate, place 1-2 coriander leaves, draw patterns with sauce and mint chutney. Take photo. Use edit app to remove dirty tablecloth and tawa from backdrop. Post on FB. Caption must be: ‘So tired after work peeps! Could only manage potato flatbread for dinner. Served it with chilled Greek yoghurt.’ It’s ok, you can thank me afterwards by sending 2-3 parathas. Remember, never say keerai or saag. Always say ‘greens’ and always throw in a line or two about locals. For example, post one photo of Siru Keerai bunch and write below: ‘Picked up native greens from local farmer! So fresh & vibrant! Can’t wait to sauté it with a pod of crushed garlic and a dash of paprika!’ Fresh, local, cherry tomato, sautéed, salad, couscous, avocado, whole, brown — these are all useful words and can be used interchangeably regardless of what you are cooking. You can also post heartrending photos of the farmer crisis while you’re at it. It subtly indicates that your very act of making marinated cottage cheese roundels in tangy tomato sauce is filled with pathos. - AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/couscous-is-cooking/article34121832.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||In the mountains, feeling free||There is a pleasure in the pathless woods, there is a rapture on the lonely shore, there is society where none intrudes, by the sea and music in its roar: I love not man less, but nature more   — Lord Byron   The icy landscape of winter, giving off mist as the snow thawed and froze gradually, took a turn to days of warm sunshine. I began to think that it would not be a bad idea to begin living here in my cottage in a remote village, surrounded by deep valleys and snow-capped peaks that radiantly begin to glow as the first rays of the sun appear in my bedroom window. I take quiet walks on cloudy days or when the days warm up through thick weeds in the wild and empty valleys and dark forests that enfold me. I lead a pastoral life, eating vegetables and homegrown apples and apricots or sometimes baking a bread, leaving my experiments to the whims of the unpredictable yeast and the intensity of the fire that will dictate the quality of my baking. The hot oven incarcerates me in full attention on a cold winter day when it is not possible to stir out. Though I have now left behind the institutions of higher learning, history, classical philosophy, political theory and fine arts are my only refuge. My essential loyalty to taking all serious and light reading as a commitment to leisure has been a gratifying experience in times when leisure seems so rare. Sitting on the stump of a fallen tree on one of our excursions into the wilderness and surrounded by a cluster of pines, I began to deliberate on how humans think they are outside nature, perpetually driven towards an intellectual life to keep up with the ways of the world. I realised that the environment in which I received my upbringing drove me towards the life of the mind, to arts and literature, to the study of ancient drama and the joy of classical music. Not for a moment did my parents show concern for what benefit a poem or a painting would have in enabling me to find my way in life. But my father made sure to tell me of how as a professor he would constantly inform his students that when they come to his class they need to be prepared to purge themselves of their prejudices and inflexible postulations, thereby discarding the Cartesian position of a blinkered or an insulated life cut off from the outside world. I loved the school I was sent to, its wooded surroundings, the green playing fields and the open-ended discussions in the class overriding the prescribed texts or curriculum; we freely answered and tossed issues, questioning each other or the teacher who appreciated the standpoints that we adamantly took as if they were deeply profound. We were often avidly stirred on in discussions meandering in and out and times reaching no ending. But sometimes a light shown on some revelation which left us euphoric till the next day class. There was no air of intellectual condescension, no discomfort at asking a silly questions, no way we could mortify ourselves. The very openness of the debate was as innocent and stimulating as the softly flowing brook nearby and the generous blue expanse above. A sudden gust of cool breeze jerks me back to my surroundings and the joy of hidden pleasures in all their varied memories and spasms of cheerful nostalgia for those carefree days full of passion and longing. Spring is almost here and I must hurry with my everyday occupation of planting, weeding, and gathering what little I succeed in growing. It is a deep camaraderie with nature, creative and provocative, and yet compelling. shelleywalia@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-the-mountains-feeling-free/article34121781.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading nature||Nature chronicles can waver between two schools of writing. Gushing prose about surreal landscapes forms one end of the spectrum. At the opposite corner stand those dirges about the vanishing of species while the world accepts pollution as the inevitable stain in our lungs. To celebrate nature’s beauty and to also highlight the trauma that we Homo sapiens are inflicting on animals and birds, is a requisite attribute for those who pen about the natural world. To do this with an equitable sense of wonder, grief and balance needs a special skill and Neha Sinha ticks those boxes in her splendid book Wild and Wilfil.  Stellar cast In her introduction, Sinha punctures our presumption about owning the globe while merely paying lip-service to animals, birds, insects and marine life. She writes: “A wild animal requires acceptance for what it is, not enslavement for what we want it to be. This is part of the most profound truth of the wild, and the world at large – that we are a part of it, not its owners.” It is this logic that permeates the book written with flourish and feeling. This is an author, who loves nature, keeps an eye -- a sharp one on policy decisions and a moist one while sighting our distant cousins split by a millennia of evolutionary somersaults. The style is warm, anecdotal and at times reminiscent of Ruskin Bond while also doing a hat-tip to Gabriel Garcia Marquez as evident in a chapter titled ‘Love in the Times of COVID-19’. Sinha does 11 chapters about animals and birds that blend profiles and pithy observations, joy and irony, and unerringly lets us know what we are doing to the environment. She starts with the leopard and goes all the way to starlings while dwelling upon the tiger, Amur falcon, cobra, elephant and many more in a stellar cast that reveals nature’s breath-taking variety, a trait that is turning feeble as mankind is blinkered to expressways and factories. Nagas as conservators She also points out the caste-system even in nature-conservation efforts, about how the tiger holds apex position while a leopard or a butterfly never raises equal angst. “The wildness of the Leopard is a sheath, an armour and a curse,” Sinha writes, and there are many terrific lines that portray the animal in focus. The writer points out how overhead wires pose a threat to the Great Indian Bustard, an endangered bird, and is perceptive about the reverence-abhorrence pattern that defines our equations with monkeys or cobras. A golf-course that affects the migratory paths of elephants finds a mention and the resultant wall leading to a calf’s death leaves the writer in tears and as a reader you have a lump in your throat. But there is hope too as the Naga tribes discard their hunting instinct and turn conservators for Amur falcons and one member tells her: “The entire flock, together, is writing a message for us. We just need to read it.” Neha also reveals the different shades of love as a man, who lost his arm to a crocodile, nurtures the reptiles without regrets. This is a book that would make you peer outside your window, to observe nature with renewed interest and empathy. An author couldn’t have asked for more.   Wild and Wilful Neha Sinha HarperCollins India  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reading-nature/article34121803.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Hot Seat||Jeff Immelt  Hodder & Stoughton/ Hachette  Rs. 699 The former CEO of General Electric offers a rigorous, candid interrogation of himself and his tenure, detailing his proudest moments and the biggest mistakes. The most crucial component of leadership, he writes, is the willingness to make decisions, which is easier said than done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hot-seat/article34121810.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A Pandemic and the Politics of Life||Ranabir Samaddar  Women Unlimited  Rs. 450 This book unravels the specifics of the Indian experience of battling COVID-19, analysing the public health emergency, the response by the state, and the production of an unanticipated politics of life. Samaddar studies the crisis by focusing on the outbreak and the humanitarian crisis that unfolded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-pandemic-and-the-politics-of-life/article34121812.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Hooghly: The Global History of a River||Robert Ivermee  Hurst Publishers  Rs. 383 (Kindle edition) The Hooghly river once had global significance, attracting merchants, missionaries, statesmen and labourers from Europe, Asia and beyond. Travelling up and down the river, Ivermee explores themes of migration and its role in the modern world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hooghly-the-global-history-of-a-river/article34121814.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Royals and Rebels: The Rise and Fall of the Sikh Empire||Priya Atwal  HarperCollins  Rs. 799 A historian shines a light on the Sikh empire, looking beyond its founding father, Maharajah Ranjit Singh. She brings to life a self-made ruling family in late 18th century India, which succumbed to family politics, leading to the fall of the empire to the British.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/royals-and-rebels-the-rise-and-fall-of-the-sikh-empire/article34121816.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3142||Across  1 Crows behind the writer’s disturbed rest, taking year to produce book (6,7) 8 A Campbell ... and where he might live (4) 9 Evenly fold material ... becoming this? (6-4) 10 Rib leading to human, oddly; ousted in Bible book (6) 11 Harshly disciplined, ignoring corrupt ICI? Excellent! (8) 12 Friend, not at home among clerical profession, finding form of divination (9) 14 Head of state (& historically, Arabic honcho)? (4) 15 For you and me, time’s called (4) 16 Lost, alone, after pub crawl’s initiation in the City (9) 20 Another way to see romp around sordid flat? Windows, perhaps (8) 21 I regularly told fiancée to obtain antiseptic (6) 23 Clothes shop helper not, on the face of it, a kind of servant (10) 24 Speaker’s helper to be found before November (4) 25 ‘Milord? Graham’s performing something in the bog’ (5,8)  Down  1 Starter of mayonnaise and stale eggs in European country (7) 2 There’s a place for cattle in Lutheran Church (5) 3 Catches half-decent hip-hop performances (7) 4 Maid Marian meets unfortunate town crier’s descendents (10,5) 5 Pistol fired, expecting your attention (6) 6 Most of lamb the men cooked with cheese (9) 7 Work in the home, coming up with meal: some tongue (7) 13 When embracing a king, Everyman’s reportedly gnawed on a royal personage (4,5) 15 Drunken Milo embraces mate (it’s a tree) (3,4) 17 Red couch I ‘antiqued’ to some extent (7) 18 Kind of sole you shouldn’t find on a slipper? (3-4) 19 Half of spuds hidden by second-hand agricultural compound (6) 22 Old boy with gossip about ‘remarkable elephant’ (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3142/article34121830.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Oscar nods||The nominations for the 93rd Academy Awards, to be held on April 25, were announced, with David Fincher’sManktopping the list with 10 nominations, including Best Picture. For the first time, two women — Chloé Zhao forNomadlandand Emerald Fennell forPromising Young Woman— were nominated for Best Director.The White Tiger, Ramin Bahrani’s adaptation of Aravind Adiga’s novel, was nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oscar-nods/article34121769.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||World’s most polluted||No less than 22 of the world’s 30 most polluted cities are in India, said IQAir, an air quality report released by a Swiss organisation based on PM 2.5 data from 106 countries. After Hotan in China, the second most polluted city in the world is Ghaziabad, in the national capital region. Bulandshahr and Bisrakh Jalalpur are third and fourth, while Delhi is number 10 — first among capital cities — although its air quality improved by 15% from 2019 to 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/worlds-most-polluted/article34121773.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||One String Attached||Pankaj Dubey  Penguin Random House Rs. 199 In Ayodhya, two lovers of different faiths, Shivam and Aaina, come together briefly only to be torn apart by riots. Embittered, Shivam shifts to Delhi to lose himself in its bustle. When he gets to know later that Aaina is alive, he undertakes a long journey in search of her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/one-string-attached/article34121789.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Playing Nice||J.P. Delaney  Quercus Rs. 499 In this psychological thriller, two babies are switched at birth but the parents decide to find a more flexible way to share their children’s lives. How far do they want this arrangement to go? How much can the real and adoptive parents be trusted with the children?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/playing-nice/article34121797.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Where Hope Comes From||Nikita Gill  Trapeze Rs. 499 Written against the backdrop of the global pandemic, the poems in the collection chart a journey from grief to hope through the lifecycle of a star. Featuring the British-Indian writer’s popular poems, ‘Love in the Time of Coronavirus’ and ‘How to be Strong’, alongside watercolour illustrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/where-hope-comes-from/article34121799.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Ichi Tree Monkey: New and Selected Stories by Bama||Trs N. Ravi Shanker  Speaking Tiger Rs. 299 A collection of 15 stories of Dalit experience in rural Tamil Nadu documenting small acts of rebellion. Pachayamma in ‘Chilli Powder’ laughs in the face of blustering policemen. Young Ammasi leaves a landlord fuming by calling him his brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-ichi-tree-monkey-new-and-selected-stories-by-bama/article34121801.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Should Covaxin trial continue till 130 cases are recorded?||Bharat Biotech began the phase-3 trial of Covaxin on November 11, 2020 and completed the enrolment of all 25,800 volunteers on January 7, 2021. The last of the phase-3 trial participants received the second dose in the third week of February. The company had planned to continue the phase-3 trial until 130 study participants developed the disease. The first and second interim analyses of phase-3 trial are planned to be conducted when 43 and 87 cases get reported. On March 3, Bharat Biotech announced the interim analysis of 43 cases; the vaccine was found to have an 80.6% point estimate of vaccine efficacy. High efficacy There are a fairly large number of participants in each group — 12,900 people in each arm — and as against 36 cases in the placebo group, there were just seven cases in the vaccine arm. “This is an unambiguous reflection of high vaccine efficacy, calculated as 80.6%. We will have to wait for the announcement of the 95% confidence range, but eyeball assessment is that it has to be fairly narrow on account of the huge denominator,” says virologist Dr. Jacob John, formerly with CMC Vellore. The next interim analysis will be carried out when the total number of symptomatic COVID-19 cases reach 87. With the phase-3 trial beginning only on November 11, nearly two months after the pandemic had reached a peak in India, it took nearly four months for the first 43 cases to accrue. “The total number of cases in the 25,800 study participants happened to be only 43 after nearly four months, which is a reflection of the relatively low prevalence of infection in the country during the trial period. The original expectation was that there would be 130 cases by end-February,” says Dr. John. Though an uptick in daily cases has been reported from 21 States, 10 States are witnessing a surge. “There is a sustained and steady increase in cases in these 10 States, making it clear that the second wave has set in,” says Dr. Rijo John, Health Economist and Consultant based in Kochi. The seven-day average of daily cases has more than doubled from 10,986 on February 8 to 29,334 on March 18, a 167% increase; the test positivity rate has doubled from 1.6 to 3.2% during the same period. There is a good possibility that the spike in cases in a handful of States would get reflected in the infection/disease frequency in the trial sites and trial participants. Though Bharat Biotech has 25 trial sites spread across 11 States, there are no trial sites in Punjab, Chandigarh and Kerala, which is still reporting high numbers. The company has five trial sites in Maharashtra (two in Mumbai alone), two sites in Tamil Nadu (including one in Chennai), Karnataka (Bengaluru being one), and Haryana but just one trial site in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. Impending surge With daily cases increasing spiking in many States, Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist at PHFI, Bengaluru feels that many more States might witness a surge. How much the increase would be in each State would depend on numerous factors including daily testing rate, adherence to COVID-19 precautions and vaccination rate. It would have probably taken four-six months for another 43 cases to accrue, but due to the spike currently seen in 10 States that endpoint would be reached earlier. According to reliable sources in Bharat Biotech, the company is expecting to reach 87 symptomatic cases end point earliest by April or latest by June. Dr. Babu thinks the final target of 130 cases too can be reached soon, considering the way the cases are spiking in many States. Considering that recruitment and complete vaccination of all trial participants has been achieved, the drug regulator has to take a decision on the number of cases required for licensing. It could be either currently available cases, second endpoint of 87 cases or 130 cases as originally planned, for which the trial will have to continue for a longer time. The challenge The challenge will be in continuing the trial with the original number of participants when there is a surge in many States. Four priority groups are already eligible for vaccination. “It will be unethical to withhold information from participants about the priority groups that are eligible for vaccination. The participants falling in the priority groups can be requested to continue in the study for the successful completion of the trial but participants should be free to withdraw at any point of time,” says Dr. Anant Bhan, global health and bioethics researcher based in Bhopal. Besides healthcare workers, over 2,400 participants over 60 years and 4,500 people with comorbidities have been included in the trial. “The vaccine was approved for restricted emergency use under a ‘clinical trial mode’ even when no efficacy data was available. When the first interim analysis of 43 cases showed nearly 81% efficacy, the ‘clinical trial mode’ was removed. Since the vaccine is already rolled out to the priority groups, efficacy data from 87 or 130 cases is only of academic interest. It doesn’t make any difference on the ground,” says virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “It will be unethical to deny the vaccine to those participants in the placebo group who fall under any of the priority groups and thus eligible to receive the vaccine.” Dr. Babu too feels it will be unethical to deny the vaccine to trial participants who are eligible to receive the vaccine, particularly when many States are reporting a spike in daily cases. Second endpoint Dr. V. Ravi, neurovirologist formerly with NIMHANS says the second wave has already begun in India. He therefore expects another 43 symptomatic cases among the trial participants to show up by end-April. “We should wait for the second endpoint — 87 cases — before unblinding the trial,” he says. “Waiting for 130 cases, especially when cases are surging in many States, will unnecessarily put the trial participants who have received a placebo at great risk. It is unethical.” “For feeling confident about high vaccine efficacy (80.6%), the available data are sufficient, but whether DCGI will feel confident to license the vaccine or not is a call the drug regulator alone can make,” says Dr. Jacob John.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/should-covaxin-trial-continue-till-130-cases-are-recorded/article34121985.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The emerging crisis of obtaining helium in India||Helium is colourless, odourless, tasteless, inert and a noble gas. Yet, it finds many applications, mainly in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, in rockets and in nuclear reactors. India imports helium for its needs, and with the U.S. appearing set to cut off exports of helium since 2021, Indian industry stands to lose out heavily. What is the solution? Can India become self-reliant towards its needs of helium gas? Helium on Earth Dutch physicist Kamerlingh Onnes liquefied Helium by cooling the gas to -270 degrees Celsius. It is known that Kamerlingh Onnes collected helium gas from the springs of Bath in Baden Baden, Germany for his liquefaction experiment. Some scientists and geologists started looking for helium underground – they guessed it may be present there by analysing debris from volcanic eruptions. From the oil drilling operation in Dexter, Kansas, in the U.S., chemists Hamilton Cady and David McFarland discovered the presence of helium in natural gas. They further went on to discover that despite its overall rarity, helium was concentrated in large quantities under the American Great Plains. The U.S. became the most important exporter of helium across the world. It was soon realised that U.S. was also the biggest store house of helium. The U.S., now, is planning to switch off export of helium from 2021. Qatar is a possible exporter but acute political and diplomatic wrangles have made Qatar unreliable. Every year, India imports helium worth Rs 55,000 crores from the U.S. to meet its needs.  Around 1956, as vice chancellor of Viswabharati University, Professor Satyendranath Bose once visited a village called Bakreswar (near Santiniketan) where he found water boiling naturally in a small tank. Satyen Bose was keen to analyse the natural gas that came out of the tank. Satyen Bose asked his student Shyamadas Chatterjee to look into this. What Shyamadas Chatterjee found out was stunning: 1.8% of the natural gas emanating from the boiling water was helium. After further experiments, this result was established. Shyamadas Chatterjee’s hunch was that the area called Rajmahal volcanic basin around Bakreswar and nearby Tantloi, now in Jharkhand, were floating on an ocean of helium. He and his student Debasis Ghose started exploring Tantloi, which is populated by tribal people. The village is situated next to a stream, with naturally hot water with natural gas emanating from it. Preliminary investigations of the stream indicated there was around 1.6% of helium in the emanating gas, a little less than that in Bakreswar. This was around (1965-66). Emerging project Homi Sethna, then the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission arranged for the project to be part of the newly started Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre (VECC) project of Kolkata. When I came over to Kolkata around 1984 to VECC from BARC, Bombay the helium project did not show much activity. The adventure of it all attracted me. I persuaded Dr. Divatia then the director of VECC to take a trip to Bakreswar along with Professor Chatterjee and Dr. Ghose. It should be mentioned that Bhabha Atomic Research Centre under the leadership of R. K. Garg, head of the Chemical and Engineering Division, in the 1970s made an effort to extract helium from monazite sand. Unfortunately, this project was doomed, and BARC did not push it any further. When we took over the project in late 1980s we got very busy with other research and development projects. We all thought collection of helium on a large scale is a semi-commercial operation and nothing very much to do with research or development. Besides which, we just did not have the adequate man power. So, this vast reservoir of helium in the Rajmahal volcanic belt remained untapped. Scientific fraternity Extracting helium on a large scale did not seem to be of great importance to our scientific fraternity. After I stepped down from my official job in 2009, the possibility of helium extraction looked even more bleak. Then, I found a very understanding and enthusiastic person in the present chairman of Atomic Energy Commission, Dr. K. N. Vyas, who readily agreed to give the project a push with all the might of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE). Work has started in right earnest in collaboration with Atomic Mineral Division of DAE. Preliminary measurements and survey have already started. Our target is to at least meet India’s requirement of helium. India consumes about 70 million cubic metres per year. But the reserve of helium by far exceeds this. So, this effort although somewhat late is not too late yet! India’s Rajmahal volcanic basin is the store house of helium trapped for billions years, since the very birth of our Earth from the Sun. At present, we are mapping the Rajmahal basin extensively for future exploration and harnessing of helium. In conclusion, helium is not just for ballons but it is the key ingredient for India’s high technology and the most sophisticated medical diagnosis.  (Dr Bikash Sinha is an   INSA senior scientist and former director of Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics and Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre, Kolkata)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-emerging-crisis-of-obtaining-helium-in-india/article34121980.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian monsoon 25 million years ago resembled present day Australia’s||About 180 million years ago, India separated from the supercontinent Gondwana and took a long northward journey of about 9,000 km to join Eurasia. The subcontinent moved from the southern hemisphere, crossed the Equator to reach its current position. Due to these changing latitudes, it experienced different climatic conditions, and a new study has now tried to map these variations using leaf fossils. “The evolution of the monsoonal climate in India is still debatable and not fully understood. Though recent data indicates that the monsoon system we experience now dates back to about 25 million years, it is still unclear how the climate was during its long voyage,” says Gaurav Srivastava from Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow, corresponding author of the paper published in Gondwana Research . The team analysed the morphological characters of fossil leaves collected from Deccan Volcanic Province, East Garo Hills of Meghalaya, Gurha mine in Rajasthan and Makum Coalfield in Assam. The four fossil assemblages were found to be from different geological ages and helped to study the climate during 65, 57, 54, and 25 million years ago. “It has been observed from across the globe that plant leaf morphological characters such as apex, base and shape are ecologically tuned with the prevailing climatic conditions to adapt for all the seasons throughout the year. We applied this model to characterise the past monsoon from fossil leaves,” explains Dr. Srivastava. Fossil truths The results indicated that the fossil leaves from India were adapted to an Australian type of monsoon and not the current Indian monsoon system during its voyage. The reconstructed temperature data show that the climate was warm (tropical to subtropical) at all the studied fossil sites with temperatures varying from 16.3–21.3 degrees C. All the fossil sites experienced high rainfall, which varied from 191.6 cm to 232 cm. Dr. Srivastava explains that since India was the only subcontinent to have crossed from the southern hemisphere to the northern hemisphere, it is a laboratory to study biogeo changes and understand how the flora and fauna changed accordingly. “Our future plan is to better understand the evolutionary history of Indian monsoon and its role in the evolution of biodiversity hot spots in South and Southeast Asia. This will help in the conservation of modern biodiversity hot spots. Understanding the past dynamics of Indian monsoon will also help in climate modelling for future monsoon prediction,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/indian-monsoon-25-million-years-ago-resembled-present-day-australias/article34121977.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Detecting the unified call of black holes||Since the first detection of the merger of black holes dated September 14, 2014, by the two gravitational wave detectors at LIGO in the U.S., the field has witnessed important developments. The LIGO detectors have been joined in their search for gravitational waves from various sources by the VIRGO detector in Italy and the KAGRA detector in Japan. The Indian detector LIGO India is being developed and is expected to join these in their search. In the meantime, Indian scientists have been involved in many aspects of the research and data analysis, especially in gravitational wave radiometry, which is a way to measure gravitational waves from hitherto unknown sources and detect their presence in the sky. Background hum Until now, the number of mergers detected by LIGO, VIRGO and KAGRA detectors is minuscule compared with the number of mergers actually taking place in the sky. The idea that the gravitational waves arising from the collection of all these mergers should be present like a background signal has been around for some time. As suggested by Sanjit Mitra of IUCAA Pune, who has worked in this area, take the analogy of people watching a football game: When you observe individual members among the spectators, you can see their actions, hear their comments etc. But when you look at the crowd as a whole, you may observe the roaring sound of the applause and the cheering which is quite different from observing individuals. The background gravitational waves are like watching the stadium from far, while detections made by the detectors so far has been like observing individuals. Dr. Mitra and a team of researchers have contributed significantly to building up an algorithm that is geared to detect such a so called stochastic gravitational wave background. Their recent work has been published in Physical Review D.  Just as studying the cosmic microwave background tells us about the early universe, its formation, the stochastic gravitational wave background would reveal the structure of the universe around us. Detections till now have been of events that were relatively close to us. Distant binary coalescences, milli-second pulsars, etc are expected to produce a background, and detecting any of this would be a great breakthrough. Radiometer algorithm The radiometer algorithm which Indian researchers played a key role in developing, comes in useful as a tool for detecting hitherto unknown sources: with recent algorithms developed in India, the radiometer analysis has been made hundreds of times faster and they are now being used by the international collaboration for the official analysis. The gravitational wave background consists of an isotropic component and an anisotropic component. The isotropic component is constant when you look in different directions and the anisotropic component depends on the direction. The present results are not that the isotropic component has been detected, we are still far from that, but that the group has successfully shown that it must be below a certain level as otherwise it would have been detected. Future improved versions of the detectors will have to work below this level to detect the background. “If the gravitational wave background is discovered, it will be a major discovery in astronomy, probably one of the most celebrated ones,” says Dr.Mitra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/detecting-the-unified-call-of-black-holes/article34121984.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The hum of the hummingbird||Why are hummingbirds called so? Do they hum?  The hummingbird gets its name from the sound it makes when it hovers in front of flowers to feed. The humming sound is generated by the bird's wings. A new study (published in eLife ) noted that the wings beat rapidly at 40 beats per second. The hum originated from the pressure difference between the topside and underside of the wings. Unlike other species of birds, the hummingbird’s wing was found to generate a strong upward aerodynamic force during both the upward and downward wing stroke. The researchers explained that most birds are relatively quiet because they generate most of the lift only once during the wingbeat at the downstroke. Hummingbirds and insects are noisier because they do so twice per wingbeat. Using high-speed cameras and over 2,000 microphones, the team from the Netherlands, studied the hummingbirds drinking sugar water from a fake flower in a special chamber. They precisely recorded each wing-beat while the bird hovered in front of the flower and found that the wings generated sounds in a fashion similar to how insects do. Understanding the hum of the hummingbirds may also help engineer new devices and also improve aircraft and drone rotors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-hum-of-the-hummingbird/article34121983.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Ration delivery scheme will be nameless: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme would now be nameless in the wake of the Centre red-flagging the use of ‘Mukhya Mantri’. The Delhi Cabinet would meet on Monday to formally drop the reference to the Chief Minister from the ‘Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna’, scheduled to begin from March 25, Mr. Kejriwal said. The Delhi government would accept “all conditions” required by the Centre but wouldn’t allow any obstruction in the implementation of the scheme, he said. “On March 25, 2021, the Delhi government was supposed to begin the revolutionary flagship project — the Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana. Every State government provides ration to its poor. All ration shops are supposed to open every day but generally open only two or three days, making it very difficult to get ration. Many dealers mix unhealthy materials in the ration and charge extra money from the poor,” Mr. Kejriwal told a digital briefing. It was due to this situation, he said, that the Delhi government came up with the idea of home delivery of ration. Under the scheme, a pack comprising atta, rice and other ingredients would be delivered to individuals by the government. “We were all set to launch this scheme on March 25, but yesterday we received a letter from the Central government, whereby it directed us not to implement the scheme,” he said. ‘Not seeking credit’ “It looks like they [the Centre] have some issues with the use of the word ‘Mukhya Mantri’. We are not coming up with this scheme to publicise our name. The Centre has written that the name of the scheme will make it look like a State government scheme. I want to make it very clear that we did not plan this scheme to get any credit,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said, a meeting with all the officials concerned was held on Saturday where he had issued directions to do away with the name of the scheme. Making the scheme nameless, Mr. Kejriwal said, he was hopeful that the Central government would allow the Delhi government to implement it. Ration mafia It was very important to defeat ration mafia and to ensure that every poor person gets ration at their doorstep, he said. This was also, according to the Chief Minister, a personal battle for him. “That was when I learnt how the residents of Delhi struggle to get ration. During the course of our work, we found how the ration mafia worked. I’ve been fighting the ration mafia for several years to implement this scheme. Now it was all set and I was confident that our dream of 22 years will become a reality,” he said. “But we will not allow any barriers to stop us and have decided to accept all the directions and clauses proposed by the Central government. We will follow all the directions. Our only aim is to send the ration to the residents of Delhi. We just want Delhi’s poor to get clean ration without any difficulty,” he said.  It looks like they [the Centre] have some issues with the use of the word ‘Mukhya Mantri’. We are not coming up with this scheme to publicise our name  Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ration-delivery-scheme-will-be-nameless-cm/article34122214.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The debate around the Places of Worship Act||The story so far: Earlier this month, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to respond to a petition that challenges the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991. The law was enacted to freeze the status of all places of worship in the country as on August 15, 1947. An exception was made to keep the Babri Masjid-Ramjanmabhoomi dispute out of its ambit as the structure was then the subject of litigation. The dispute ended after the court ruled that the land on which the Masjid stood should be handed over to the Hindu community for the construction of a Ram temple. The challenge to the Act questions the legality of the prohibition it imposes on any community laying claim to the places of worship of another. What does the 1991 Act say? The Act says that no person shall convert any place of worship of any religious denomination into one of a different denomination or section. It contains a declaration that a place of worship shall continue to be as it was on August 15, 1947. Significantly, it prohibits any legal proceedings from being instituted regarding the character of a place of worship, and declares that all suits and appeals pending before any court or authority on the cut-off date regarding the conversion of the character of a place of worship shall abate. In other words, all pending cases will come to an end, and no further proceedings can be filed. However, any suit or proceedings relating to any conversion of status that happened after the cut-off date can continue. The 1991 Act will not apply in some cases. It will not apply to ancient and historical monuments and archaeological sites and remains that are covered by the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958. It will also not apply to any suit that has been finally settled or disposed of, any dispute that has been settled by the parties before the 1991 Act came into force, or to the conversion of any place that took place by acquiescence. The Act specifically exempted from its purview the place of worship commonly referred to as Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid in Ayodhya. It was done to allow the pending litigation to continue as well as to preserve the scope for a negotiated settlement. Anyone contravening the prohibition on converting the status of a place of worship is liable to be imprisoned for up to three years, and a fine. Those abetting or participating in a criminal conspiracy to commit this offence will also get the same punishment. What are the grounds of challenge? The petitioner, Ashwini Upadhyay of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), argues that the Act takes away the rights of communities such as Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains to reclaim the sites of their places of worship through legal proceedings. It amounts to taking away the right of the people to seek justice through the courts and obtain a judicial remedy. He also contends that the cut-off date of August 15, 1947, is arbitrary and irrational. The petition contends that the legislation legalises the actions of invaders in the past who demolished places of worship. It wonders how the law could exempt the birthplace of Ram, but not that of Krishna. It is also said the law violates the right to practise and propagate religion, as well as the right to manage and administer places of worship. Further, it goes against the principle of secularism and the state’s duty to preserve and protect religious and cultural heritage. What has the SC said on the status freeze? In its final verdict on the Ayodhya dispute, the Supreme Court had observed that the Act “imposes a non-derogable obligation towards enforcing our commitment to secularism”. The court went on to say: “Non-retrogression is a foundational feature of the fundamental constitutional principles, of which secularism is a core component.” The court described the law as one that preserved secularism by not permitting the status of a place of worship to be altered after Independence. In words of caution against further attempts to change the character of a place of worship, the five-judge Bench said, “Historical wrongs cannot be remedied by the people taking the law in their own hands. In preserving the character of places of public worship, Parliament has mandated in no uncertain terms that history and its wrongs shall not be used as instruments to oppress the present and the future.” What are the implications of the case? Some Hindu organisations have been laying claim to the Gyanvapi mosque in Varanasi and the Shahi Idgah in Mathura. Civil suits have been filed in a Mathura court seeking the shifting of the 17th-century mosque from the spot that some claim is the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Any order that strikes down or dilutes the 1991 law on the status of places of worship is likely to influence the outcome of such proceedings.  The petitioner argues that the Act takes away the rights of Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains to reclaim the sites of their places of worship through legal proceedings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-debate-around-the-places-of-worship-act/article34121915.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Soothing fears about the AstraZeneca vaccine||The story so far: Safety concerns around the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine led several European countries to temporarily stop administering the shot last week. On Thursday, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) cleared the vaccine as safe for use for mass administration, saying the “benefits” of the vaccine in combating COVID-19 “continue to outweigh the risk of side effects”. What were the concerns in Europe? Starting with Denmark, sporadic reports started to emerge of blood clots in a small number of recipients of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. The vaccine is a recombinant one, i.e., it is formed by mixing genetic material from different organisms — in this case from an adenovirus that causes common colds and affects chimpanzees and the spike protein from the coronavirus. It was expected that some recipients of the vaccines would experience side effects such as rashes, swellings and flu-like symptoms. During the trials, some had experienced even serious reactions such as transverse myelitis, or an inflammation of the spinal cord. However, the decision to roll out a vaccine was premised on the overall benefits. Germany, too, reported such “thrombotic events” and experts noted that some clots were of a very rare kind, located in the brain’s veins that prevented efficient draining of the blood. Some were accompanied by a deficiency of blood platelets. How many such cases were observed? AstraZeneca said as of March 8, it had received reports of 37 instances of blood clots after 17 million inoculations across the EU and the U.K. This was well below the number of cases of blood clots — 1,000 to 2,000 — reported every day in the general population, as per studies based on the U.S. population. It was also unclear whether it was the vaccine itself that caused the clots.  What was the final verdict after the investigation? After investigation, the EMA reported that the “vaccine is not associated with an increase in the overall risk of blood clots (thromboembolic events) in those who receive it”. It said there was no evidence of problems related to specific batches of the vaccine or particular manufacturing sites. However, the EMA said the vaccine “may be associated with very rare cases of blood clots associated with thrombocytopenia, i.e., low levels of blood platelets (elements in the blood that help it to clot) with or without bleeding, including rare cases of clots in the vessels draining blood from the brain”. Even before its report, the EMA and the World Health Organization (WHO) had not called for a halt to vaccination.   On Thursday, the EMA said it had concluded its investigation and declared the vaccine safe. “This vaccine is safe and effective in preventing COVID-19, and its benefits continue to be far greater than its risks,” said Dr. Sabine Straus of the EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee. Dr. Straus said because the vaccine is effective in preventing COVID-19, which in itself is a cause of blood clots, vaccination likely reduces the risk of thrombotic events overall. While the EMA ruled that vaccination did not increase the overall risk of clots, there were “uncertainties”. Some very rare case reports described “specific, unusual events” of a combination of blood clots, low blood platelet levels, and bleeding. There were also instances of tiny clots developing in multiple blood vessels in the first 7-14 days after vaccination. So, some “association” between vaccines and clots could not be entirely ruled out. In the end, the very small risk of clots far outweighed the threat from COVID-19. However, the risk must be conveyed in factsheets accompanying the vials of the vaccine and those getting vaccinated must be told to seek medical care if they fall ill after vaccination.  How does this affect India? Covishield, which is based on the AstraZeneca vaccine, constitutes almost 90% of the over 4 crore doses so far administered in India. Trials on safety and efficacy of the vaccine are based entirely on data from the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil. Bridging studies (to show that a vaccine performs equivalently on Indians) have been announced but no results have been made public or are available in scientific literature. Events as rare as vaccine-linked clots in the brain are one in a million, meaning that it requires millions to be vaccinated for them to be detected, if at all. India’s ‘Adverse Event Following Immunization’ panel has not reported adverse events of this kind. Thrombotic events following vaccination have been reported in India but they were said to be unrelated to vaccination.  Dr. Sabine Straus of the European Medicines Agency said because the AstraZeneca vaccine is effective in preventing COVID-19, which in itself is a cause of blood clots, vaccination likely reduces the risk of thrombotic events overall||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/soothing-fears-about-the-astrazeneca-vaccine/article34121919.ece
21 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Mining threat looms over Aravalis in Haryana||Around two years after the Haryana Assembly passed the Punjab Land Preservation (Haryana Amendment) Bill, 2019, amid opposition by the environmentalists and the Gurugram residents, the State government’s recent move to seek permission from the Supreme Court to begin mining in the Aravalis in Gurugram, Faridabad and Nuh is being viewed as another threat to one of the oldest mountain ranges with adverse impacts to the environment in the region. Strongly opposed to legalising mining in the Aravalis in the National Capital Region, the environmentalists argue that this could cause colossal damage to the environment, especially when the region is already grappling with poor air quality and fast depleting groundwater level. Worst air quality Faridabad has the worst air quality in Haryana and figures among the most polluted cities in the world. Gurugram, too, had topped the list of most polluted cities in the world in 2018. It is also argued that Gurugram and Faridabad have a high population density, but low per capita forest cover. “With the ban on mining in Gurugram and Faridabad, there has been a significant improvement in the forest cover. The wildlife surveys show that Gurugram and Faridabad hills act as a significant wildlife habitat and corridor, especially for the leopards. There is also movement from and into the Asola wildlife sanctuary. The resumption of mining here will be disastrous for the wildlife, air quality and health of the residents,” said an environment analyst not willing to be named.  He added that mining should be confined to isolated hillocks in distant areas with minimal impact on wildlife corridors and air quality. “Mining should not be done in NCR districts adjacent to Delhi which are important wildlife habitats and corridors, have poor air quality and high population,” the analyst said. He also questioned the rationale behind opening new mines when mining was already booming in Haryana. As per the Economic Survey of Haryana 2020-21, the collection from mining for 2020-21 till January is Rs. 770.00 crore, the highest since 2005-06. Mines allocated Besides, as many as 58 mines of the total 119 in the State have already been allocated. More than 26,000 cases of illegal mining, including 1,358 till September 2020 for the current financial year have been reported. Mining is banned in Gurugram and adjoining districts for more than a decade now as per the Supreme Court orders. R.P. Balwan, former conservator of forests, said that mining, when earlier allowed, was carried out in a haphazard manner without adhering to the norms causing huge damage to the environment and the wildlife. “Mining should not be allowed in thick forest areas such as Mangar. The need for construction material can also be met by mining at isolated hills causing minimum damage to environment to ensure sustainable development,” said Mr. Balwan. Residents’ demands In an email campaign to the Chief Justice of India, the residents have been demanding that no mining and real estate be allowed in the Aravalis. Instead, the government should come up with a three-year road map to take the legal native forest cover in the State to 20% as per the Haryana Forest Department policy target and an all-India average. The other demands include demolition of illegal construction in Aravalis, planting of saplings, notify 50,000 acre of Aravalis as deemed forest and to retain all Aravalis in south Haryana as natural conservation zone. The residents, in the email, argued that destruction of the Aravalis would worsen the NCR air pollution situation and the mountain range is the only natural barrier against desertification. The Aravalis with their natural cracks and fissures have the potential to accommodate two million litres of water per hectare in the ground every year. Besides, the mountain range is a biodiversity hotspot with 400-odd species of trees, shrubs and herbs; 200-odd native and migratory bird species;100-odd butterfly species; 20-odd reptile species and 20-odd mammal species, including leopards, says the email. Anil Kumar, Gurugram mining officer, said that mining in this region would not just help meet the demand for construction material but also generate employment. He argued that mining was also allowed in the Aravalis in neighbouring Rajasthan. “Mining will be done in areas with minimum harm to the environment. A survey has also been done in this connection to identify the possible areas for mining. Though there are few areas available for mining in Gurugram, there is a large scope for mining in neighbouring Nuh,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mining-threat-looms-over-aravalis-in-haryana/article34122211.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The row over Myanmar refugees in Mizoram||The story so far: With the February 1 military coup in Myanmar, Mizoram is caught between a humanitarian urge and India’s policy on refugees. At least 1,000 people from the adjoining Chin State of Myanmar are said to have crossed over to Mizoram, fearing a military crackdown. The Mizoram government favours providing refuge to the Chins, who are ethnically related to the majority Mizos in the State, but the Ministry of Home Affairs has made it clear that “India is not a signatory to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol theron”. When did the refugees start arriving? Mizoram began feeling the heat a month after the military coup when three police personnel crossed over to Lungkawlh village in Serchhip district. Within weeks, the number increased to almost 400. According to the State Home Department, a majority of those who sought asylum were deserters from Myanmar’s police and fire services department. They had to flee after joining the civil resistance movement. The influx of Myanmar nationals was reported from Hnahthial, Champhai, Saitual and Serchhip districts. Most of the refugees waded across the Tiau River that runs along much of Mizoram’s 510-km border with Myanmar. Is this the first time this has happened? Extremism, counter-insurgency and sectarian violence have driven people out of Myanmar into India in the past as well. More than 1,200 Buddhists and Christians from Myanmar’s Arakan State had taken refuge in Mizoram’s Lawngtlai district in 2017. They fled their homes after the Myanmar Army clashed with the extremist Arakan Army. The refugees stayed back for more than a year. Thousands of Chins are said to be living in Mizoram for more than 40 years now. There have been other such instances, though not on this scale. Manipur, too, has been dealing with the influx issue, although on a smaller scale, for a long time. The villages of the Kuki-Zomi have often had people crossing over from Myanmar. How porous is the border? Unlike India’s border with Pakistan and Bangladesh, much of the border with Myanmar is without any fence. The Assam Rifles personnel guard the border but a tough terrain comes in the way of maintaining airtight vigil. There have been calls to fence the border. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Arunachal Pradesh, Tapir Gao, said fencing the border would also help in checking the movement of extremist groups to and from Myanmar. Some are against the idea, insisting that a fence would make “free movement” of border residents into each other’s country difficult. The two countries had in2018 agreed to streamline the movement of people within 16 km of the border on either side. There are more than 250 villages with about 3,00,000 people living within 10 km of the India-Myanmar border. Where do the Centre and Mizoram stand now? As a humanitarian gesture, the Mizoram government on February 26 issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to Deputy Commissioners of border districts to facilitate the entry of refugees and migrants. The SOP stated that all Myanmar nationals entering Mizoram in connection with the political developments in the country shall be properly identified. The government said those facing a threat to their lives should be treated as refugees, given medical care, relief and rehabilitation and security. But the SOP was revoked on March 6 after the Centre conveyed its displeasure to the State over the development. On March 10, the North East Division of the Ministry of Home Affairs issued a letter to chief secretaries of Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Director General of Assam Rifles, directing them not to allow refugees from Myanmar and take appropriate action as per law. The Ministry pointed out that State governments have no powers to grant “refugee status to any foreigner”. Mizoram is not happy about this. “They are like family ... we share ethnic ties with them,” said Rajya Sabha member from Mizoram K. Vanlalvena. “We do not want the Indian government to offer them full-time citizenship or employment. The only thing we ask is to let these refugees stay until their country returns to normalcy.”  The influx of Myanmar nationals was reported from Hnahthial, Champhai, Saitual and Serchhip districts. Most of the refugees waded across the Tiau River that runs along much of Mizoram’s 510 km border with Myanmar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-row-over-myanmar-refugees-in-mizoram/article34121917.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Schools release first list for nursery admissions||Schools in the national capital on Saturday notified their respective first lists for admission to nursery classes which began in February after a two-month delay. The schools have put out their first list using the point-based criteria announced by them earlier. The Directorate of Education (DoE) has said that the private unaided recognised schools shall develop and adopt criteria for admission which shall be fair, reasonable, well-defined, equitable, non-discriminatory, unambiguous and transparent. The process for nursery admissions in over 1,700 schools in Delhi began from February 18, bringing respite for anxious parents who have been waiting for the notification for over two months. “The first list of selected children has been displayed today and will be followed by second list on March 25 and subsequent list for admission, if any, on March 27. The entire admission process will conclude on March 31,” a senior DoE official said. The DoE has also directed that since schools are closed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and physical class room learning is not going on for entry level classes at present, no fee except prescribed registration fee, admission fee, caution fee (if school already charges) and tuition fee, shall be charged at the time of admission by the schools and thereafter only tuition fee shall be charged from the students till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-release-first-list-for-nursery-admissions/article34122221.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Green tribunal orders DPCC to review Rs. 5-lakh fine||Following an appeal against an order of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), which imposed a fine of Rs. 5 lakh for carrying out industrial activities in non-conforming areas, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the body to review the matter. It also asked the DPCC to take into account the appellant’s stand that only trade activities were being carried out in those areas. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “Since, admittedly, the reply of the appellant has not been dealt with, we have no option but to require a fresh order to be passed in accordance with the law.” It also said: “Without expressing any opinion on merits, we direct the DPCC to pass a further order dealing with the objection of the appellant in the reply within one month from today and till fresh order is passed, the impugned order will be treated as tentative and not given effect to as final order.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing an appeal moved by appellant Rishab Kumar Jain who challenged the DPCC order stating that his response had not been taken into account. “The impugned order does not consider the reply dated December 2019, whereby the appellant specifically took a stand that no industrial activity was being carried out and only trading activity was being carried out, under a valid trade license,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/green-tribunal-orders-dpcc-to-review-rs-5-lakh-fine/article34122219.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Governing Delhi||The story so far: The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced by the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Bill states clarification of the expression “Government” and addressing “ambiguities” in legislative provisions as its core objectives. Underlining Delhi’s status as a Union Territory, modifications have been proposed to four sections of its three-decade-old predecessor, the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991. The legislation was enacted to supplement constitutional provisions for the Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers for the NCT of Delhi in 1992. What are the changes sought? The amendments seek to promote “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive” and provide for rules made by the Legislative Assembly of Delhi to be “consistent with the rules of the House of the People” or the Lok Sabha. The Bill also seeks to define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor along  the constitutional scheme of governance of the NCT interpreted by the Supreme Court in recent judgments regarding the division of powers between the two entities. The amendments also propose to ensure that the Lieutenant Governor is “necessarily granted an opportunity” to exercise powers entrusted to him under proviso to Clause (4) of Article 239AA of the Constitution. The clause provides for a Council of Ministers headed by a Chief Minister for the NCT to “aid and advise the Lieutenant Governor” in the exercise of his functions for matters in which the Legislative Assembly has the power to make laws. How did it come about? The genesis of the Bill lies in the administrative tug of war between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government and then Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Najeeb Jung, immediately after the former came to power for the second time in 2015. The L-G refused to send files regarding three reserved subjects — land, police and public order — to the Chief Minister’s office. Between early 2015 and mid-August 2016, several orders issued by the Delhi government related to matters such as transfer of bureaucrats, setting up of Commissions of Inquiry and the administration of the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB), were either declared void or reversed by the L-G citing procedural lacunae ranging from lack of approval from his office to not being constitutionally empowered to take such decisions. The issue of which entity was “the competent authority” was taken by the Delhi government to the Delhi High Court which, in August 2016, held that the L-G had “complete control” of matters related to the NCT and “nothing will happen without the concurrence of the L-G”. However, the judgment held that the L-G was bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers in some matters. The Delhi government then moved the Supreme Court. On July 4, 2018,  a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court held that the “real authority to take decisions lies in the elected government”. The NCT’s government, it also ruled, needed only to inform the L-G of its “well-deliberated” decisions instead of obtaining his “concurrence” in every issue of day-to-day governance. On February 14, 2019, a two-judge bench hearing the issue of Services — the transfer and posting of bureaucrats — and power over the ACB delivered a split verdict. This verdict stated that while the L-G was free to form an opinion on any matter, “any” did not mean in every “trifling matter” and the L-G should not intervene routinely but only in matters fundamental to Delhi. Two years later, on February 3, 2021, the Union Cabinet approved the Bill for introduction in Parliament during the Budget Session. Why does it matter? Some experts believe that the amendments will turn the administrative clock of the Capital back by several decades and take it to the era of the Delhi Metropolitan Council, which was considered a mere municipal body, and “snatch” the right of the city’s citizens to vote for those they deem fit to administer them. Other experts argue that the elected government of Delhi had always been a local administrative body to be headed by the L-G as an administrator. Experts on both sides of the argument agree that the proposed amendment has put paid to the question of statehood for Delhi, which had been demanded by major political players in the capital, including the AAP, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. The immediate impact of the Bill will be to render void several committees created in the Delhi Legislative Assembly on administrative issues over the last six years allowing direct communication between MLAs and bureaucrats. What lies ahead? Terming the Bill as an instrument of the BJP-led Centre to curtail the Delhi government’s powers, the AAP has hit the streets to demand its withdrawal. It may challenge the Bill in court, according to party insiders. However, the opposition BJP has welcomed the Bill saying the AAP government had been functioning in “unconstitutional ways”.  Some experts believe the amendments will turn the administrative clock of the National Capital Territory back to the era of the Delhi Metropolitan Council, which was considered a mere municipal body||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/governing-delhi/article34121909.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Railway Ministry, others told to finalise parameters for locomotive engines||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Environment Ministry, Railway Ministry and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to finalise and approve parameters for locomotive engines. ‘Finalise at the earliest’ Taking note of a report filed by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “Since the issue has been pending for over three years, we direct that the same be finalised at the earliest.” In its report dated February 4, the Environment Ministry had said the draft standard was submitted by the CPCB on June 2, 2020. It also said following meetings, the proposal would be worked out in consultation with the Railways with clarity on the implementing agency, monitoring protocol and reporting mechanism on compliance. “It is prayed that in order to delineate the appropriate provision for effective compliance of the NGT’s order six months is required, which includes four months for wide circulation of draft notification for inviting comments and two months for incorporation of comments, finalisation of notification and obtaining approval from the Ministry of Law and Justice,” the report read. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner S.K. Goyal seeking execution of a 2017 order of the NGT where it was directed that guidelines containing locomotive standards be put up on the CPCB website and expeditious efforts made by all stakeholders, including the MoEF&CC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/railway-ministry-others-told-to-finalise-parameters-for-locomotive-engines/article34122222.ece
21 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for molesting woman, robbing driver||Three persons have been arrested for allegedly molesting a 25-year-old woman and later robbing a truck driver, the police said on Saturday. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said the accused — Yogesh, Naveen Lohmod and Baljeet — are all residents of Aya Nagar. On the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, a PCR call was received from a woman stating that she was molested by three to four men in their car, and they tried to rape her, an officer said. She told the police that the three persons committed the crime when she tried to intervene in a fight they were having with her brother. A case was then registered. The police said another PCR call was received stating that three persons in a car had beaten the caller and robbed him of Rs. 30,000 in Aya Nagar. A truck driver, Shahjad, told the police that he was unloading bricks when the accused came to the spot, started abusing him, and then robbed him. During the investigation, it was revealed that the same accused were involved in both incidents. They were nabbed following a tip-off, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-held-for-molesting-woman-robbing-driver/article34122223.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||Mentoring programme for girls launched||The Delhi government on Saturday launched the ‘Education Mentoring Programme’ through its ‘Youth for Education’ initiative, which focuses on mentoring girls studying in Classes 9 to 12 in government schools. “Students of Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University of Women will mentor these students. The mentors will encourage girls to actively participate in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and support them to clear entrance exams for higher education,” said Education Minister Manish Sisodia. The mentors will guide them in choosing appropriate careers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mentoring-programme-for-girls-launched/article34122215.ece
21 March 2021||March 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Season of change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/season-of-change/article34122217.ece
21 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘AAP govt. stalling Centre’s ration scheme’||The Opposition BJP on Saturday alleged that the Delhi government was stalling the implementation of the Centre’s ‘One Nation, One Ration’ card scheme for political gain at a time when all State governments were in the process of implementing it. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said, “The AAP yesterday indulged in a dramatic campaign that the Central government was stopping the Delhi government’s Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Yojna but today they announced they were removing the name mukhya mantri from this scheme.” “The way they are doing this shows as if they were making a sacrifice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-govt-stalling-centres-ration-scheme/article34122212.ece
