28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal, Assam record high turnout in first phase of polls||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday said the first phase of polling in West Bengal and Assam went off peacefully, with 79.79% and 76.89% turnout respectively, as of 5 p.m. Voting was carried out at 21,825 polling stations in a total of 77 Assembly constituencies in the two States. A total of 73 lakh voters across 30 Assembly constituencies were entitled to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 191 candidates in West Bengal. In Assam, 81 lakh voters in 47 constituencies across 12 districts in eastern and a part of central Assam were to decide the fate of 264 candidates, including 23 women. Stray violence  There were stray incidents of violence and allegations of electoral malpractice in West Bengal. The ECI deployed 732 companies of Central forces in Bengal on Saturday. In Assam, a total of 11,537 polling booths had been set up and more than 30,000 paramilitary personnel deployed. The ECI said in a statement that electronic voting machines (EVM) and voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) used for the Phase 1 polls malfunctioned less than in previous polls. “Non-functioning rate during the poll is lesser than experienced in the last few polls,” the EC said. The EC added that live monitoring and webcasting was carried out for over 50% of the polling stations, including critical and vulnerable booths. The EC said COVID-19 safety protocols like sanitising all polling stations a day before voting, thermal scanning, and hand sanitisers and face masks were made available at the locations. The ECI added that it had already made “record seizure of Rs. 281.28 crore”, including cash, liquor and narcotics, in the two States. This amount was over four times higher than the combined seizures of Rs. 60.91 crore in the 2016 election. During the day, the ECI’s CVigil app received 167 complaints of model code of conduct violations in West Bengal, of which 111 were disposed of as of 4.30 p.m., and 582 cases in Assam, out of which 423 were disposed of till 4.30 p.m. While Assam has two more phases of polling to go, West Bengal has seven phases left. Results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-assam-record-high-turnout-in-first-phase-of-polls/article34181168.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 50% don’t wear masks, finds govt. survey||Almost 90% of the COVID-19 deaths in India continue to be in the category of those aged above 45. Internal surveys showed that while 90% people were aware of the importance of masks, only 44% actually wore them, a statement from the Health Ministry said on Saturday, reflecting “laxity” in adhering to strictures, such as wearing masks and avoiding crowding. These concerns rose to the fore at a meeting chaired by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan with key officials from 12 States and Union Territories (UTs) as well as Municipal Commissioners and District Collectors of 46 districts that are the most affected by rising cases and mortality. The States and UTs are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Bihar. India has seen the sharpest rise in weekly COVID-19 cases and fatalities since May 2020 (7.7% and 5.1% respectively) and 46 districts contributed 71% of the cases and 69% of the deaths this month. India registered 62,258 new cases over the 24 hours to 8 a.m. on Saturday. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 36,902. It is followed by Punjab with 3,122 while Chhattisgarh reported 2,665 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-50-dont-wear-masks-finds-govt-survey/article34181158.ece
28 March 2021||Haridwar,||COVID-19 casts a shadow over Haridwar Kumbh Mela||Holding a pitcher in hand, Aniruddh Pandey, a priest at the Ganga temple at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar, put his finger on one-third of the vessel’s body. “This is the size of the Kumbh Mela and our work this year. It is only about sipahi (security staff), safai karmachari (sanitary worker) and sadhu (hermit),” he said, sheepishly bringing out a mask from his pocket when its absence is pointed out. A few metres away, barbers shave the heads of the bereaved with not even one gaz (yard) of doori (distance). “What to do, we have to make ends meet?” said Tushar Thakur. “During the lockdown, we decided that only 10 younger barbers would sit at Har Ki Pauri and they share their income with the rest of the community,” he said. “Is the virus not spreading from rallies in Bengal?” asked one of the panda s (priests), who records devotees’ visits to Haridwar. “We have installed a sanitiser machine where yajmaan s (patrons) are asked to take a bath but there are few takers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-casts-a-shadow-over-haridwar-kumbh-mela/article34181156.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Nearly 1,000 COVID infections reported in State again||The State has again reported close to a thousand new infections. In the 24 hours ending Saturday morning, 947 infections were reported as four districts saw more than 100 infections each. No death was reported during the past day. The cumulative tally increased to 8,97,810 as the toll remains at 7,203.  The number of active cases jumped to 4,715 as only 377 patients recovered in the past day. The recoveries increased to  8,85,892. The tests per million ratio crossed 2.80 lakh and the overall positivity rate of 1.495 crore samples tested was at 6%. In the past day, 42,696 samples were tested. More than 60% of the new infections were from four districts of Chittoor (180), Visakhapatnam (156), Guntur (145) and Krishna (113). They were followed by Kurnool (61), East Godavari (58), Srikakulam (56), Nellore (43), Kadapa (40), Anantapur (35), Prakasam (23), Vizianagaram (19) and West Godavari (18). Chittoor has 874 active cases, the highest among the districts, while Visakhapatnam has 623 cases, Krishna has 604 cases and East Godavari 599 cases. They comprise 57% of the total active cases in the State. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,25,228), West Godavari (94,484), Chittoor (89,142), Guntur (76,895), Anantapur (68,214), Nellore (62,837), Prakasam (62,404), Kurnool (61,362), Visakhapatnam (61,035), Kadapa (55,672), Krishna (49,800), Srikakulam (46,546) and Vizianagaram (41,296).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-1000-covid-infections-reported-in-state-again/article34181160.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Millions depend on Teesta, Hasina tells Modi||Bangladesh on Saturday reiterated that the livelihood of “millions” of its citizens depended on Teesta river and the country should receive a proper share of its waters. The forceful message on the issue was conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina during bilateral talks at the end of a two-day visit by the Indian PM. “Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina reiterated Bangladesh’s long-pending request for concluding the interim agreement on the sharing of the waters of Teesta river. She underscored that to alleviate the sufferings and save the livelihoods of millions of people dependent on the Teesta river basin, it is necessary that Bangladesh receives its fair share of the waters, the draft agreement of which has already been agreed upon by both governments in January 2011,” declared a joint statement issued at the end of bilateral discussions between the two delegations. The two leaders also instructed their Ministries of Water Resources to firm up the Framework of Interim Agreement over the six common rivers — Monu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dharla and Dudhkumar. Sharing of water resources has been a contentious issue between the two neighbours because of the number of stakeholders. The two Prime Ministers also agreed that the incidents of killings along the settled Indo-Bangladesh borders is a matter of concern and instructed their respective border guards to initiate “people-oriented” border management. The Joint Statement said the leaders have expressed their desire to bring the number of such incidents involving civilians to ‘zero’. The killing of citizens of Bangladesh along the borders has been in the centre of bilateral ties over the last decade. India reiterated its demand for completion of the border fencing by Bangladesh “at the earliest”. Bangladesh has called upon India to revive the jute sector with investment and through public private partnership. In this regard, Dhaka urged Delhi to withdraw the duties that were imposed on jute products of Bangladesh since 2017. Both sides reviewed a slew of measures that have been under way over the last several years that will ease connectivity between the northeastern States of India and West Bengal. The two Prime Ministers on Saturday inaugurated the Mitali Express, a new AC train that will connect Jalpaiguri with Dhaka. Bangladesh also offered the airports of Sylhet and Chittagong for the passengers of the Northeastern States, especially of Tripura saying these airports will help in improving connectivity in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/millions-depend-on-teesta-hasina-tells-modi/article34181166.ece
28 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam Kerala lifts I-League||Gokulam Kerala on Saturday became the first team from the State to win football’s I-League. For a State that has produced many finest footballers in India, it was the end of a long wait when Gokulam defeated TRAU (Imphal) 4-1 at the Kishore Bharati Krirangan ground in Kolkata. Founded in 2007, I-League is India’s first national football league (it was earlier called the National Football League). Till the advent of the more glamorous Indian Super League (ISL) in 2014, it was the country’s most prestigious football competition. State’s representation The State is represented by Kerala Blasters in the ISL, but the Kochi team’s best performance has been the second place in 2014 and 2016. That makes the achievement of Gokulam even more significant. The team needed to win on Saturday; a draw would not have been enough, as the final round of matches had begun with Churchill Brothers — which was playing RoundGlass Punjab elsewhere in Kolkata — and TRAU also very much in contention for the title. And with just 20 minutes remaining, the Kozhikode-based team was trailing by a goal. Gokulam upped its game when it mattered as it pumped in four goals to win the title in great style. Two of those goals were netted by players from Kerala – Wayanad to be precise – Emil Benny and Muhammed Rashid. Gokulam is indeed more of a homegrown club, unlike Kerala Blasters. The club is owned by entrepreneur Gokulam Gopalan. The failures of FC Kochin and Viva Kerala have proved that a professional football club could be sustained only with deep pockets. Passion alone will not be enough. Gokulam Kerala came into being largely because of the passion of the club’s president V.C. Praveen for football. He convinced his father-in-law Gokulam Gopalan to form the team. Gokulam’s victory is no doubt a short in the arm for Kerala football.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gokulam-kerala-lifts-i-league/article34181434.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||No possibility of lockdown in Delhi, says Health Minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the government is not thinking about imposing a lockdown and urged the people to celebrate Holi inside their homes. “As of now there is no possibility of another lockdown. We had tried it earlier with not much success. Experts had said that due to its 14-day cycle [of the infection], a 21-day lockdown would stop the spread of the virus but that did not happen. So for me, lockdown is no solution,” he said. The Delhi government on Saturday capped the gatherings at open wedding venues at 200 and at 100 in case of closed spaces; only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals till April 30 given the recent surge in COVID-19 cases, according to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). For the third consecutive day on Saturday, Delhi witnessed more than 1,500 COVID-19 cases. A total of 1,558 new cases were reported over 24 hours — the highest in more than 100 days — taking the tally to 6,55,834, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The last time more number of cases were reported in a day was on December 15, when the Capital witnessed 1,617 cases. Ten more deaths Ten deaths were reported over 24 hours, pushing the tally to 10,997. A total of 91,703 tests were conducted in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 6,38,212 people have recovered and there are 6,625 active cases. The positivity rate was 1.7% on Saturday and the overall positivity till now has been 4.58%, stated the bulletin. “We have increased the rate of testing with around 85,000-90,000 tests being conducted each day. This is five times more than the country’s average testing. Isolation and contact tracing is also being done i.e. 30-40 people being traced for each COVID-positive patient in order to contain it as fast as possible,” Mr. Jain said, adding that around 80% of beds in hospitals are vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-possibility-of-lockdown-in-delhi-says-health-minister/article34181573.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,||195 new COVID-19 cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Udupi and Dakshina Kannada reported 195 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Of them 126 were in the Manipal Institute of Technology campus from where new cases have been reported from about two weeks. The campus is a containment zone now. Of the total 156 new cases in Udupi district, 26 were symptomatic and 130 were symptomatic. As many as 151 patients were suggested to be in home isolation and five were admitted in the designated COVID-19 hospital. The active cases in Udupi district rose to 737. There were 39 new cases in Dakshina Kannada. With 79 patients being discharged the active cases in the district stood at 556. Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary on Saturday appealed to the people to wear masks and follow social distance, maintain cleanliness to help controlling the spread of the infection. Referring to the vaccination, Mr. Poojary said that the Government Wenlock Hospital gave it for free from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. from Monday to Saturday. On Sunday the vaccination is being given from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. All taluk hospitals and six community health centres in the district administered it freely on six days in a week except on Sundays. The vaccination is being administered freely in 78 primary health centres, including in the urban limits, on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. All those aged above 45 years will be administered the vaccine in all government and private health institutions from April 1 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/195-new-covid-19-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article34181844.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||Case against HDIL promoters for hospital fire||While the fire at a Bhandup mall which claimed the lives of nine COVID-19 patients admitted at the hospital in the same building was finally doused on Saturday, a case of culpable homicide has been registered against HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan and five others. The blaze, which broke out early Friday morning at Dreams Mall in Bhandup and spread to Sunrise Hospital on its top floor, was doused completely after 40 hours, according to a fire department official. Bhandup police has registered a case in connection with the incident against six persons including Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd promoter Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang who are, allegedly, directors of the mall. No arrest has been made so far. “Rakesh Wadhawan, Nikita Amit Singh Trehan, Sarang Wadhawan and Deepak Shirke, who are directors of the mall, and Amit Singh Trehan and Sweety Jain, who are directors of the hospital are named in the FIR. Nikita Trehan is also a director of the hospital,” said a police official. IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (common intention) have been invoked, he added. The Wadhawans had been earlier booked in the Punjab & Maharashtra Corporation Bank fraud case. “During the probe so far we found several lapses. There was mismanagement in terms of security and the fire safety equipment was not checked regularly,” the official said. The four-storey (ground plus three) mall houses as many as 1,108 shops, but 40% of them are closed, he said. Sunrise Hospital was converted into a Covid Care Centre in January. The fire broke out in a shop shortly after Thursday midnight and spread to the hospital on the top floor. Nine COVID-19 patients died due to suffocation as a result of the fire, while two other patients had already died due to coronavirus just before the fire broke out, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Altogether 78 patients were being treated at the 107-bed hospital at the time of the incident, the BMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/case-against-hdil-promoters-for-hospital-fire/article34181866.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Masks to be a must in Telangana||In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases across the State, the Telangana government has decided to enforce wearing of masks to prevent the spread of the infectious virus/disease besides imposing restrictions on public gatherings. In the orders issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday, the government has reiterated that wearing of masks in all public places, work spaces and public means of transport is mandatory across the State. Any deviation shall attract prosecution under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 188 of the IPC as well as other applicable laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/masks-to-be-a-must-in-telangana/article34181809.ece
28 March 2021||YANGON,||Over 90 protesters killed in Myanmar||As Myanmar’s military celebrated the annual Armed Forces Day holiday with a parade on Saturday in the country’s capital, soldiers and police elsewhere reportedly killed dozens of people as they suppressed protests in the deadliest bloodletting since last month’s coup. A count issued by an independent researcher in Yangon, who has been compiling near-real time death tolls, put the total as darkness fell at 93, spread over more than two dozen cities and towns. The online news siteMyanmar Nowsaid the death toll had reached 91. Both numbers are higher than all estimates for the previous high on March 14, which ranged in counts from 74 to 90. The Associated Press is unable to independently confirm the death toll. The killings drew international condemnation, with multiple diplomatic missions to Myanmar releasing statements that mentioned the killing of civilians on Saturday, including children. “This 76th Myanmar armed forces day will stay engraved as a day of terror and dishonour,” the European Union’s delegation to Myanmar said on Twitter. “The killing of unarmed civilians, including children, are indefensible acts,” it added. The toll in Myanmar has been rising as authorities grow more forceful with their suppression of opposition to the February 1 coup that ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi. The coup reversed years of progress toward democracy after five decades of military rule. Up through Friday, the Association of Political Prisoners had verified 328 people killed in the post-coup crackdown. Junta chief Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing did not directly refer to the protest movement when he gave his nationally televised Armed Forces Day speech before thousands of soldiers in Naypyitaw. He referred only to “terrorism which can be harmful to state tranquillity and social security,” and called it unacceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-90-protesters-killed-in-myanmar/article34181154.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP Budget: Public health infrastructure takes a back seat||With the pandemic casting its shadow over the year and the number of COVID-19 cases going up , the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s 2021-22 budget remains largely silent on improving public health infrastructure. The surplus Budget with an outlay of Rs. 9,291.33 crore was presented by BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Finance) Tulasi Madineni and approved by Administrator Gaurav Gupta, in the absence of an elected Council, on Saturday. The Budget’s major focus was on decentralisation and bringing in fiscal discipline, but has no mention of new schemes or projects. A slew of measures have been announced towards decentralisation, including devolution of Rs. 2,000 crore to the zonal level. Decentralisation Mr. Gupta said, “The new BBMP Act gives new direction to decentralisation of powers and finances. The Budget, in the first phase, envisages decentralisation to the zonal level.” Towards fiscal discipline, two major steps have been proposed – revamping the job code system and physical inspection of all works by the Technical Vigilance Cell under Commissioner (TVCC). The lack of allocations to boost public health infrastructure has been criticised by experts who said it shows no long-term commitment. The health department will get Rs. 337 crore towards medical expenses under public health and clinical wings. During the spread of COVID-19 last year, the government had allocated Rs. 300 crore, and the civic body had spent Rs. 90 crore from its own resources. Sylvia Karpagam, public health expert, said that with inadequate public health infrastructure, services not related to COVID-19 were affected. All public health facilities are focussing on COVID-19 related activities, such as testing, treatment and vaccination. “The learning should have been to improve existing health facilities to handle such outbreaks without compromising on other public health requirements. This is absent in the Budget, which shows no real long-term planning for improving critical health infrastructure,” she said, and pointed out that the previous Budget had also faulted on the same lines. The Budget attempts to address the most common problem faced by the civic body – of contractors complaining about delayed payment of bills. Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad said the civic body had pending bills amounting to Rs. 3,000 crore and ongoing works amounting to Rs. 7,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-budget-public-health-infrastructure-takes-a-back-seat/article34181198.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||AU engg. college declared as containment zone||A day after 66 students tested COVID-19 positive at the hostels in the Andhra University College of Engineering (AUCoE), the district administration has declared the entire area as a containment zone. Barricades have been set up and adequate police force deployed to maintain the sanctity of the zone. However, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, after reviewing the situation, said there was no need to panic, as AU was a stray single incident and does not have the indication of the much talked of ‘second wave’. He also confirmed that all the cases were asymptomatic. AUCoE has around 1,300 hostellers and 900 were tested till Saturday morning and 66 had tested positive. There are eight hostel blocks assigned for boys and out of that three have been declared as isolation wards, and the students who have tested positive are being housed there. “Each block has about 100 rooms, we have accommodated all the 66 in one block, by assigning one room per head, and two blocks have been kept as reserve,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. The remaining five have been declared as a quarantine facility and all those who have tested negative or are yet to be tested have been quarantined in those blocks. “They will go through the mandatory 14-day quarantine period and will undergo the two required tests and only then they will be discharged,” he said. A 24/7 medical camp with four doctors and 30 ANMs has been established and the students are being given special diet and home isolations kits with basic immune boosting medicines. The affected students are being monitored regularly with a pulse oximeter to check their blood saturation levels. “In case there is a drop, they will be moved to a hospital,” he said. Keeping the surge in cases in the last few days in view, the district administration has readied 1,000 beds in the CSR block of KGH and at VIMS. The AUCoE also has a girls’ hostel with four blocks. While one has been declared as an isolation ward, the other three will act as a quarantine facility. “But fortunately, till Saturday afternoon, none of the girls tested positive,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. Meanwhile, the AU officials, under instructions from the district administration, have begun contacting the 4,000-odd day students in the engineering college. Mr. Vinay Chand told The Hindu that the next focus will be on science and humanities hostels, which have already been barricaded. Testing will be completed in a day or two and similar steps will be taken, if required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/au-engg-college-declared-as-containment-zone/article34181162.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: ‘I am being intimidated’||On a day of swift developments in the sex abuse case involving BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, the woman in question filed a second complaint with the Bengaluru police, through a lawyer, on Saturday stating that she was being intimidated by the leader, while her parents appeared before the SIT and accused KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar of using the woman for political gains. Soon after, Mr. Jarkiholi appeared before the media to say that what the parents had said was proof of his innocence. He also threatened to file a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Mr. Shivakumar. Before the end of the day, the woman released a video in which she claimed that her parents were unaware of the facts of the case and were making statements under duress. She sought the help of the ruling party and Opposition leaders so that she could pick up the courage to make a statement before a judicial magistrate. Meanwhile, Mr. Shivakumar, who is campaigning in Tamil Nadu, sought to distance himself from the controversy, saying the law would take its own course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cd-scandal-im-being-intimidated-says-woman/article34181389.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||166 COVID-19 deaths on a single day; fresh curbs in Maharashtra||Struggling to arrest the fresh surge in COVID-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Saturday announced a ban on all types of gatherings, including political and religious, a day before new curbs on assembly of more than five persons in night will come into force. The government also ordered that restaurants, gardens and malls will remain shut between 8 p.m. and 7 a.m. from Saturday night. People will also not be allowed to visit beaches during this time, according to an official order. Meanwhile, 166 coronavirus-related deaths, the highest this year, was reported in the State on Saturday besides 35,726 new cases, a health official said. Mumbai reported 6,130 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in the Maximum City since the pandemic began. The daily death figure in the State is also the highest since October 23 when 184 fatalities were recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/166-covid-19-deaths-on-a-single-day-fresh-curbs-in-maharashtra/article34181864.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,||‘India has emerged stronger post-lockdown’||Retired IAS officer Shakti Sinha, who was private secretary to then Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee, on Saturday said post the COVID-19 lockdown India has moved from taker to giver, overcoming the challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-has-emerged-stronger-post-lockdown/article34181391.ece
28 March 2021||Hubballi,||Hubballi-Bengaluru superfast train proposed||Travel to the State capital from Hubballi might take less time as a superfast train to Bengaluru has been proposed and it has also received in-principle approval from the Railway Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hubballi-bengaluru-superfast-train-proposed/article34181392.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Second wave: Rate of spread is a worry||While some argue that second wave in Karnataka will not be as severe as the first outbreak, epidemiologists say that the second wave, on the contrary, could be worse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-wave-rate-of-spread-is-a-worry/article34181393.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. issues SOP to protect interfaith couples||The Delhi government has issued a standard operating procedure for the protection of interfaith and inter-caste couples from possible harassment.The SOP, issued by the Social Welfare Department, includes setting up of ‘special cells’ by DCPs of respective districts, round-the-clock helpline to assist such couples and safe houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-issues-sops-to-protect-interfaith-couples/article34181575.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||President to undergo bypass surgery at AIIMS||President Ram Nath Kovind will undergo a ‘planned’ heart bypass procedure on Tuesday, according to a statement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mr. Kovind, 75, was shifted to AIIMS, Delhi, on Saturday afternoon. Post-investiga-tions, doctors advised him to undergo the procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/president-to-undergo-bypass-surgery-at-aiims/article34181576.ece
28 March 2021||Nagercoil,||We will not allow new container terminal: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said the Kanniyakumari International Container Transhipment Terminal, proposed by the Centre, will not be allowed as the people are against the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-will-not-allow-new-container-terminal-cm/article34181244.ece
28 March 2021||Chennai,||2,089 COVID-19 cases recorded in State||After over four months, fresh coronavirus infections touched 2,089 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. This takes the overall tally of cases to 8,77,279. Chennai reported 775 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2089-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-state/article34181243.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Movies on OTT platforms might require censorship’||Chairman of Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy Suneel Puranik said on Saturday that if the contents of cinema being streamed via OTT platforms went unchecked it might require invoking the provisions of censorship on such movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/movies-on-ott-platforms-might-require-censorship/article34181846.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||Why reluctance to probe Param Bir Singh: Cong.||The Maharashtra Congress on Saturday questioned the reluctance of the National Investigation Agency to interrogate former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-reluctance-to-probe-param-bir-singh-cong/article34181867.ece
28 March 2021||Ghoramara,||Amphan impact looms over remote Ghoramara||Life on the island of Ghoramara revolves around the motorboat, the only link to the mainland. From 8 a.m. to 4.30 p.m., villagers shuttle between 4-Point and Ghoramara for all their needs. Ghoramara lies near Sagar Island, which has a population of two lakh people and is the biggest island of the Sunderban archipelago. Sagar also hosts the annual Gangasagar pilgrimage. Located 150 km south of Kolkata and spread over a shrinking 4.8 sq.km. of land, Ghoramara falls under the Sagar Assembly constituency in South 24-Parganas which goes to the polls on April 1. Election issues on this sinking and isolated island usually revolve around climate change. But this year, corruption in relief efforts post Cyclone Amphan is the major issue for the residents. Ghoramara bore the brunt of the cyclone which battered south Bengal on May 20 last year. The impact of the devastating cyclone is still visible on the island located where the Hooghly river meets the Bay of Bengal. Uprooted trees lie uncleared and several homes lie in ruins while the hungry waters have claimed more land. The local primary school stands dangerously close to the edge of an eroding bank. On election eve, the villagers wondered how many more years Ghoramara would be able to stay afloat. “Rehabilitation is the only solution,” they said. Discontent over relief Though most of the villagers said they had received the Rs. 20,000 offered as a one-time relief by the State government to rebuild homes, some claimed they were yet to get assistance. Other relief promised by the government, including money for their destroyed betel leaf plantations or work under MGNREGA, did not reach the island, they said. There are 1,200 families on the island, and a voters’ list of about 3,500-3,800, said Sareja Bibi, the only BJP gram panchayat member in the four-member panchayat. She is among those who did not get any Amphan relief except for a tarpaulin sheet. But Ms. Sareja is slightly better off than many other villagers, and managed to replace the tiles on her roof that were blown off by the cyclone, and has also replanted her betel leaf plantation. She says the voter list has shrunk because many of the men of the island were away on work, mostly heading to Thrissur in Kerala. “We get Rs. 700 a day for a nine-to-five job in construction,” said Sheikh Noor Islam, who returned home when special trains were run during the lockdown last year and is actively involved in the election. “We have to work outside because the sale of betel leaves gives us only Rs. 15,000 a month, excluding the expenses required to nurture it. If we have to build homes elsewhere, where will the money come from?” he added. Every house has men who have migrated to other States for work leaving behind the women to take care of children, the betel leaf vines and the paddy crop. Three sons of Sheikh Abdul Rauf, who has a tailoring job in Kolkata, are in Kerala. “There are no jobs here. We live at the mercy of nature — cyclones, high tides, monsoons,” said Mr. Rauf. The island is not connected to the electricity grid and several homes have installed solar panels. The primary health centre functions between 11.30 a.m. and 4 p.m. with staff coming to the island via the ferry. Due to the pandemic, schools have been shut but children shoulder their backpacks and keep up with their lessons by taking classes with the few teachers on the island. But it is not all gloom in Ghoramara. Rojina Khatun, 26, who is part of a self-help group which gives loans to women, said many had benefited from the welfare schemes of the Trinamool Congress government. Ms. Khatun said, “Some have started a poultry business, others cultivate betel leaves, send children for higher studies or spend for their marriage.” Divisive campaign The Trinamool candidate in Ghoramara is three-time MLA Bankim Chandra Hazra who won the 2016 election by a little over 8,000 votes. The BJP, which had polled only 3,193 votes in 2016, is putting up a fight with its candidate Bikash Chandra Kamila drumming up support among both former CPI(M) and Trinamool followers. But anger against the administration and a divisive campaign has taken a toll. “We have been voting for Trinamool all along,” said Sheikh Basar, who lives at Bamankhali in Sagar and was in Ghoramara to sell locally prepared ointments. “Instead of giving Rs. 20,000 to some, Didi should have given Rs. 1,000 to all… there would not be any discontent.” Upset with the religious divide being created not only in the southernmost tip of Bengal but across the State, he lamented, “Can you look at my face and tell whether I am a Muslim or a Hindu? Why are political parties doing this? Why are people falling for it?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amphan-impact-looms-over-remote-ghoramara/article34181062.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Telangana wants jab for all public service staff||Telangana has requested the Central government to allow COVID-19 vaccination for all those who have high exposure to the public, such as teachers, bus and cab drivers, bank staff and employees of commercial establishments. The State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao also cited street vendors, shopkeepers, and others as facing risk. The official said that a response to the request was expected in a few days. For a few months now, private companies had come with requests to vaccinate all their employees regardless of age group. On Saturday, COVID-19 incidence remained high in southern States. Kerala added 2,055 cases, after testing 52,288 samples. A.P. reported 947 infections. In Karnataka, Bengaluru Urban district, with 1,820 cases, was identified as one of the 46 high burden districts in the country while the State total stood at 2,886. Telangana added 495 cases on Friday. In Kerala, the addition of 14 deaths which took place over the past few days raised cumulative fatalities to 4,553. In Andhra Pradesh, a day after 66 students tested positive at the hostels of Andhra University College of Engineering, the district administration declared the area a containment zone. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said there was no need to panic, as AU was not an indication of a second wave. He said all the cases in the institution were asymptomatic. In the past day, 42,696 samples were tested and 2.22% returned positive. More than 60% of new infections were from four districts of Chittoor (180), Visakhapatnam (156), Guntur (145) and Krishna (113). ICU admissions in Telangana increased from around 350-370 patients a day from March 1 to 14, to over 600 patients a day now. On Friday, 58,029 samples were tested and results of 984 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients died. The 495 new cases included 142 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday chaired a meeting with Principal Secretaries and officials of 12 States, along with Municipal Commissioners and District Collectors of 46 worst-hit districts. These districts from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Bihar, had higher mortality. Karnataka Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra said the State had been advised to strictly enforce COVID-appropriate behaviour. With 13 deaths, the toll rose to 12,484 in the State. Also, 16,74,453 senior citizens in Karnataka got a vaccine since March 1 as well as 4,98,294 persons above 45 years with comorbidities. After over four months, fresh coronavirus infections exceeded 2,000 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. A total of 2,089 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the overall tally of cases to 8,77,279. November 12, 2020 was the last time the State recorded over 2,000 cases (2,112). This new high since then pushed the active cases to 12,157, of which Chennai accounted for a major chunk as 4,785 persons were under treatment followed by Chengalpattu (1,254) and Coimbatore (1,092). Chennai reported 775 new cases, while Chengalpattu and Coimbatore had 186 and 185 cases respectively.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-wants-jab-for-all-public-service-staff/article34181104.ece
28 March 2021||Kolkata/Guwahati,||Largely peaceful start to polls in Bengal, Assam||Amid stray incidents of violence and allegations of electoral malpractices, West Bengal recorded a high voting of 79.79% on average in the 30 constituencies that went to the polls in the first phase of Assembly election in the State on Saturday. As much as 76.89% of the 81,09,815 voters turned out in the first phase of polling that covered 47 Assembly constituencies across 12 districts in eastern and a part of central Assam on Saturday. The highest voting of about 82.51% in West Bengal’s first phase was recorded in Purba Medinipur; Paschim Medinipur recorded 80.12%; Jhargram 80.55% and Bankura 79.9%. Purulia recorded the lowest at 77.07%. Aariz Aftab, the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of West Bengal, said that voting was expected to be higher when the final count of votes was ascertained. There were tensions in the Keshriary constituency of Paschim Medinipur district from early morning, after a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, Mangal Soren, was found dead.. CPI(M) candidate from Salboni, Sushanta Ghosh, was heckled in Salboni when he visited a booth. The vehicle of BJP leader Soumendu Adhikari, brother of Suvendu Adhikari, was attacked at Salajpur in Kanthi. At a polling booth in the Majra High Madrasha area of Kanthi, Trinamool supporters alleged that even after pressing the EVM buttons in favour of the party candidate, the VVPAT slips showed votes for the BJP. The CEO said the error was addressed and voting was resumed at the booth. Assam votes Tea plantation workers are a deciding factor in 38 of the 47 seats that went to the polls in Assam on Saturday. The BJP and its ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) had in 2016 won 35 of these first phase constituencies. The Congress had won the remaining nine seats. In Assam, a few electronic voting machines (EVMs) malfunctioned but they were taken care of, officials said. “Every voter was given a glove to avoid direct contact with the EVMs. Voters were also provided masks and were sanitised before entering the polling stations,” Assam’s CEO Nitin Khade said. The number of voters for every booth was also brought down to a maximum of 1,000 to avoid crowding, he added. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who is contesting in the Majuli Assembly constituency, cast his vote in his home district of Dibrugarh. Among the other key candidates in the first phase are AGP president Atul Bora (Bokakhat), State Congress president and Rajya Sabha member Ripun Bora (Gohpur), his Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal counterparts Lurinjyoti Gogoi (Duliajan and Naharkatiya) and Akhil Gogoi (Sibsagar) respectively. One of the most prestigious first phase seats for the BJP is Batadrava, central to its campaign against ‘land jihad’ A sentimental first phase seat for the Congress is Titabar that former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi represented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/largely-peaceful-start-to-polls-in-bengal-assam/article34181112.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Amid surge in COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra bans gatherings||Amid a rapid surge in fresh COVID-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Saturday issued guidelines extending the lockdown in the State till April 15. The government also imposed restrictions on the gathering of five or more people in public places from the midnight of March 27. The State on Saturday reported 35,726 new cases and 166 deaths, the highest this year. Under the rules, cinema halls, malls, auditoriums and restaurants will remain shut between 8 p.m and 7 a.m. People will also not be allowed in gardens and on beaches during this period. However, the government has exempted delivery of food and takeaways in the night hours. No social, political, cultural and religious gatherings will be allowed. No more than 50 people can attend a wedding, while no more than 20 people can attend a funeral. Any person found without a mask will be fined Rs. 500, while those found spitting in public will be fined Rs. 1,000. In case of home isolation, local authorities should be informed about it, along with the information of the medical professional who is treating the patient. A board should be put up on the door for 14 days indicating home isolation. The home quarantine seal should be affixed on the hand. Other home members should avoid going out. 50% strength All private offices, except medical and essential services, will function at 50% capacity. The manufacturing sector can run on full capacity but by following all health safety norms on the production floor. In order to reduce overcrowding at government offices, except for elected representatives, no one else will be allowed. Special passes will be issued in case of meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-bans-gatherings/article34181117.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,||Central Kerala takes centre stage in polls||How central Kerala votes, it is believed, is going to be the centrepiece of the Assembly election outcome in Kerala. There has been a political and social realignment of influential forces in areas in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and parts of Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Idukki districts considered to be a stronghold of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in the past few years. The split in the Kerala Congress (Mani) and the subsequent alignment of the official faction led by Jose K. Mani with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), in which CPI(M) is the lead partner, yielded rich dividends for the grouping in Kottayam and Ernakulam districts in the local body polls held in December last year. The KC(M) is the front’s trump card as it seeks to return to power. The CPI(M) went to the extent of annoying its own cadres by allocating the new entrant 13 seats, including some sitting CPI(M) seats where the KC(M) is not numerically strong. When protests erupted in Kuttiady in the north, for instance, Mr. Mani leveraged it to prove his worth as an ‘accommodative partner’ by returning the seat to the CPI(M). But the partnership came at a cost, though minor, as per the LDF’s assessment, as it caused a split in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), an ally. The decision to allow the KC(M) to field its candidate form Pala, a seat held by the late K.M. Mani for half-a-century, disenchanted the NCP’s Mani C. Kappan, who had created history by wresting the seat from the KC(M) for the Left Front in the byelection held in 2019. In a reversal of roles, Mr. Kappan, now with the UDF, is taking on the Left’s Jose K. Mani in Pala. The ongoing strife between the Jacobite and Orthodox factions of the Malankara Syrian Church is also expected to have its echoes in the poll outcome. Church feud The tussle came to a head following a verdict by the Supreme Court in 2017 over control of parish churches in favour of the Orthodox group. When the Jacobite Syrians, traditionally Left-leaning, were denied burial rights on church burial grounds, the State intervened with an Ordinance restoring that right. “We are grateful to the government for that gesture, but are disappointed that a similar Ordinance was not promulgated to help us retain our churches,” says Kuriakose Mor Theophilose Metropolitan, spokesperson of the Jacobite Church. In the wake of a controversy over land sale by the Syro Malabar Church headquartered in Ernakulam in which a section of the laity and priests went up in arms against Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the church, several BJP leaders were spotted paying repeated visits to leaders of the church. Along with the Catholic Church’s controversial position on ‘interfaith’ (involving Muslim) marriages, this was widely read as a pro-BJP stance. Sabarimala verdict Leaders of the Mar Thoma Church headquartered in Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district (where Sabarimala is situated) were also flayed for cosying up to the BJP. Both the BJP and the Congress are trying to capitalise on the Sabarimala verdict of 2018. But the recent attack by Sangh Parivar organisations on a group of nuns in Jhansi has put the BJP on the back foot. The Left is banking on the fresh tranche of votes brought by the KC(M) to recompense the potential erosion of a section of Hindu and Christian votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-kerala-takes-centre-stage-in-polls/article34181058.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Rahman dons a new hat for 99 Songs||“I usually get great tasks from amazing filmmakers I’ve worked with, who helped me shape my musicality. But there are certain things I’ve wanted to do as a musician and give to the people,” said music maestro A.R. Rahman, on how being a writer for the upcoming film 99 Songs helped him push boundaries as a musician. After nearly two decades as music composer, 99 Songs is the Academy Award winner’s maiden film as a producer and a writer. The musical-romance, which is set to release on April 16 in Hindi and has been dubbed in Telugu and Tamil, stars newcomers Ehan Bhat and Edilsy Vargas and is directed by Vishwesh Krishnamoorthy. “I feel that when I push myself to do interesting work, people also learn with me. There are certain situations which I created to challenge myself and while they were easy on paper, it did take time for me to execute those ideas musically,” said the composer. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Rahman said the film isn’t reflective of his experiences as a musician and that there’s certain universal wisdom which is imbibed in the script. “We’ve had a culture and history — our epics for instance, which have had an important place for music. It is just that these stories haven’t been taken to the next level and instead, we’ve chosen to shoot songs in foreign locales. In a way, opting to make a musical film was to bring back glory to the genre for both our audiences and international sensibilities,” said the composer, when asked if musical films as a genre need to be explored in a bigger way by local filmmakers. ‘Universal subject’ “I think it is important to tell stories in a big way and this is a step in that direction. I want people to see this Indian movie, relate to the characters and empathise with the story since music is a very universal subject,” said Mr. Rahman, calling the film an audience-friendly one. Recalling how as a composer, he used to wonder whether his songs would be picturised well, Mr. Rahman said his needs were simple before. “However, as a producer and writer now, I’m thinking about many more aspects of the filmmaking process,” he said. In preparation for his role, Ehan Bhat, the lead, learnt to play the piano at the composer’s K.M. Music Conservatory in Chennai for a year. “People are a lot more musically aware now and this challenges filmmakers to be more authentic. Every choice we made for 99 Songs , be it casting, or the set design or the direction — were all pointed at us having a unique voice and it transcends onscreen,” he said. In January this year, Mr. Rahman launched Majja, a tech-platform to promote and help independent musicians and their first release,Enjaai Enjaami, has been making waves across the country. “All credit for this goes to Arivu, Dhee, music composer Santhosh Narayanan and director Amith Krishnan who made the video. The whole world is evolving into something fair and if people are empowered, they will go on to do great things. My only thing here is to set the platform; the musicians can then take over and rule,” he said. Learning process When asked about how he has dabbled in several new ventures and has been experimenting with his work for a while now, Mr. Rahman said the last decade has been one dedicated to learning. “There have been fewer movies, but more learning,” he said. “Philosophy, mysticism, filmmaking, writing, studying stories — I even attended a course at MIT about Imaging,” he explained. Mr. Rahman also pointed to social media, and said he is happy to see artists flourishing, and that he often engages with them about their work. What’s next for the maestro? Mr. Rahman has already dabbled in filmmaking through his project Le Musk , an Indian virtual reality film. “The film will come out sometime this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahman-dons-a-new-hat-for-99-songs/article34181093.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Trolling of judges is unfair: Prasad||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday flagged the government’s concern over “social media campaigns” conducted against judges for their judicial opinions and judgments. The Minister, who is also in charge of the Information Technology, Electronics and Communications portfolios, criticised “some people” who file PILs in court, campaign on social media for a particular judgment, and later troll judges when the verdict does not meet their expectations. He termed it “campaign justice”. Judiciary should be free to work in accordance with the rule of law, Mr. Prasad said. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said judges had become quite used to the PIL route being used for filing frivolous petitions. “The administration of justice is often tried to be made difficult by some vested interests. But that is something we as judges have got used to,” CJI Bobde said. They were speaking in Goa at the inaugural function of the new building of the Bombay High Court. “I am a great supporter of social media. It is empowering. Social media enables people to ask questions, to criticise the Prime Minister, us and all. That is part of a healthy democracy. Therefore, we all encourage that,” Mr. Prasad said. But he said there was a “disturbing trend” on the rise. “Some people file PILs, then they start a campaign on social media ‘that only this type of judgment is possible in this case’. And, if the judgment does not come in accord with what they perceive to be their right, then they start not only criticising the judges but also trolling judges... You can always criticise a judgment, that’s your right, but if you start campaigning against a judge on social media, it is plainly not fair,” Mr. Prasad said The Law Minister said the smooth transition of the courts to the virtual mode during the pandemic was a “remarkable achievement”. Over 82 lakh cases were heard through video conference. Chief Justice Bobde said courtrooms would surely shrink in the future with the e-filing of cases. “Though building more courtrooms is necessary and important, there was very little emphasis on modernising the existing courtrooms. Though the pandemic has posed a lot of problems to access to justice, it has paved the way for modernising the courtroom,” he said. The CJI said he had spent so much time on the Bench in Goa that he is often referred to as a “Goa judge”. He drew attention to the fact that Goa is the only the State that implements the Uniform Civil Code as envisaged by the framers of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trolling-of-judges-is-unfair-prasad/article34181128.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||India sends 2 lakh doses of vaccine to UNPKF||India on Saturday delivered on its promise of 2,00,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines for the United Nations Peacekeeping Force (UNPKF) worldwide, sending a shipment bound for Copenhagen. The cargo of AstraZeneca Covishield vaccines produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune was sent despite the government’s decision to reduce exports in view of the need for vaccines domestically, honouring a commitment made by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar at a UNSC meeting in February. Officials said that the Indian donation, combined with a Chinese commitment for 3,00,000 doses of vaccines would ensure that the entire force of more than two lakh soldiers, which comprises about 91,000 active personnel and 1,11,512 uniformed personnel, receives the requisite two doses each. ‘Steadfast supporter’ “India is a long-standing and steadfast supporter of peacekeeping and I want to thank the Government and people of India, who have generously donated COVID-19 vaccines to benefit our peacekeeping personnel and enable them to continue their life-saving work in a safe manner,” Jean-Pierre Lacroix, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations, said in a statement from New York, thanking the government. This week, government sources said India would be considering how to “calibrate” its exports, given the vaccine roll-out domestically amid a sudden surge in cases of COVID-19. In a letter accessed by The Hindu , sent in early March, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla informed several countries that there had been several “obstacles” in expanding production, including a fire at their facilities, and he could not guarantee supplies. A statement from the GAVI global alliance for vaccines, which is purchasing doses for lower income countries under the COVAX initiative, also confirmed that supplies from India in March and April were uncertain, and that they had thus far received only about a third of the 90 million due by May. UNICEF also predicted delays from India, citing “export controls”, although the government has denied banning vaccine exports. Speaking at the UNGA on Friday, India’s Deputy Permanent Representative Nagaraj Naidu expressed concern about a global vaccine shortage, especially for poorer countries. “Lack of global cooperation and disparity in the accessibility of vaccines will affect the poorest nations the most,” Mr. Naidu said, adding that India had thus far “supplied more vaccines globally than have vaccinated our own people”. India has exported 62 million doses of vaccines, while it has vaccinated about 55 million people, many of whom have taken only the first dose. India’s donation to the UNPKF will also benefit Indian soldiers, who make up one of the largest contingents of peacekeeping troops and police, with more than 5,000 men and women deployed in the Congo, South Sudan and Lebanon, among other countries. “[India’s] important donation will allow us to ensure that UN peacekeepers are able to remain healthy and deliver in some of the most difficult environments in the world without relying on already stretched national health systems or ongoing COVAX efforts,” Under Secretary General for Operations Atul Khare said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sends-2-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-to-unpkf/article34181132.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We are seeking a complete isolation of communal forces’||Defeating the BJP and its allies is the objective of the CPI(M) and the Left parties in the elections in four States and the Union Territory of Puducherry, says CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury , who is campaigning in Kerala for the Left Democratic Front led by his party which is seeking the mandate to retain power. Edited excerpts:  The BJP is flaying the Left for feigning a fight with the Congress in Kerala and aligning with it elsewhere. Isn’t that a contradictory stance? It is different from State to State as to how you achieve the objective of defeating the BJP. There’s no contradiction in it. In 2004, for instance, the Left won 61 members to the Lok Sabha and 57 of them had defeated Congress candidates and we supported the Manmohan Singh government. The people of Kerala had given us 18 of the 20 MPs from the State knowing full well that after the elections we will support any secular alternative to stop the BJP and the communal forces from forming the government. The government of Kerala acted in the interests of the State and the people amidst adverse circumstances and its work has been appreciated. We are therefore not only seeking a comeback, but a complete isolation of the communal forces and the BJP. But hasn’t a series of allegations put the government on the back foot? On the contrary, all these things have remained allegations for months on end. If there was any merit in them, it would have been established by now. But the fact that these continue to be allegations and that they are still thrown around despite the clarifications made and facts shown and proven by the Chief Minister’s Office makes it clear that on the issue of people’s welfare, on the question of an alternative policy approach, the Opposition is bankrupt. They require such issues to divert people’s attention. They are desperate to try and create an issue on which they can mislead people. The Opposition leader in Kerala has now approached the High Court alleging fraud in the voters’ list The voters’ list is prepared by the Election Commission of India and there’s a laid down procedure for it. A date is announced by which time anybody who wants to include his/her name on the list should do so. There’s a date for raising objection against the inclusion of anyone and once a decision on this is taken, the final list is published. While that’s the case, why did the Congress not raise the objection then? The State administration has nothing to do with the process. The BJP and the Congress are seeking to rally the people around Sabarimala. As I said, they are bereft of actual issues. What’s there to be a controversy on Sabarimala now. The initial verdict has now been referred to a larger bench whose remit includes many larger issues. Until the Supreme Court pronounces an opinion on that, nothing can be done. If your stated aim is to defeat the BJP, isn’t the three-cornered fight leading to a split in anti-BJP votes in West Bengal? In West Bengal, the BJP registered a big gain in the last Lok Sabha elections. Anti-incumbency votes and people’s anger against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government went in favour of the BJP. So, the tactics we adopted in West Bengal are to defeat the BJP and also defeat the TMC so that the anti-incumbency vote does not go to the BJP.  But is the alliance with the ISF secular? They say the ISF leader is a so-called fundamentalist. Here’s a person who formed a party known as the Indian Secular Front. The president of the party is an adivasi. The candidates given by the party include high caste Hindu Brahmins, Dalits, LGBT people and he made the people take a pledge at the mammoth brigade rally sating ‘We are Indians, neither Christians, Hindus or Muslims’. We go by the public position adopted by a party, not by a private individual’s faith. Separation of your religion or your faith from politics and government, that’s the yardstick of secularism. Why isn’t the same yardstick applicable to the BJP and other parties? The Union Home Minister tells in Assam that they will not implement the CAA. But says in West Bengal and Kerala that they will implement it. Till date, his own Ministry has not framed the rules. The CAA is not a law for them. It is an instrument for deepening communal polarisation. Their political fortunes are tied up with the consolidation of the Hindtuva communal vote bank.  (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/YechuryInterview)    Separation of your religion or your faith from politics and government, that’s the yardstick of secularism||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-seeking-a-complete-isolation-of-communal-forces/article34181064.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Cautious Congress rejigs campaign||As Assam and Bengal voted in the first phase of the Assembly election on Saturday, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi asked people to vote against “divisive forces”. “To strengthen democracy, cast your vote against the divisive forces,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted as he hit the campaign trail in Kerala's Pathanamthitta district. Irrespective of the outcome, the Congress is fighting the current round of Assembly elections differently after having learnt its lessons in the last round of elections. Unlike Bihar, ticket distribution has been a largely a smooth affair except in Kerala where factionalism has come out in the open, post distribution. Personal popularity To paper over such factionalism, Mr. Gandhi, a Lok Sabha member from the State, is using his personal popularity in the State to attract young voters to the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). The party believes Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s charm has helped in attracting the women tea workers in the tea belt of Upper Assam. To counter the BJP’s allegation of resorting to minority appeasement by aligning with Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Ms. Vadra started her Assam campaign with visits to the Kamakhya shrine and the birthplace of the 15th century Srimanta Sankaradeva. Of the five States, the Congress is the principal challenger in Kerala and Assam. While leaders from neighbouring coastal Karnataka have pitched to take the campaign door-to-door in Kerala, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has been a key person in Assam to provide resources for the party’s campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cautious-congress-rejigs-campaign/article34181107.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid Bangladesh liberation anniversary, role of India, U.S. in 1971 in spotlight||“To all hands, don’t squeeze Yahya at this time,” wrote the then U.S. President Richard Nixon in his own hand in a memo that crystallised Washington’s policy during Bangladesh’s liberation war. The memo, dated April 28, 1971, came a month after Pakistani troops had launched Operation Searchlight that targeted Bangladeshi freedom fighters, the minority Hindu population, teachers, students, and activists brutally, with millions of casualties. As Bangladesh commemorates 50 years of its Liberation movement, that began with the declaration of Independence by the Mukti Bahini (Freedom Fighters) led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on March 26, 1971, the spotlight also turns to events at the time in India and the United States, that were recounted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka, and through a special remembrance in the U.S. Congress last week. A few days after the Mujib declaration, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi moved a resolution in Parliament condemning the Pakistani crackdown as “genocide”. On April 3, she met with the Tajuddin Ahmed, Mujib’s nominee for PM of the provisional government, and promised support, including an office in Calcutta that belonged to the RAW intelligence agency. Mrs. Gandhi insisted on secrecy, however, until she was able to garner international support for the cause. While the U.S. was deadset against India’s stand, Mrs. Gandhi found some support in Moscow, and the Indo-Soviet treaty of Peace and Cooperation was signed in August 1971. During his visit to Dhaka, Mr. Modi described opposition protests that he had taken part in — against the Soviet treaty and demanding that India recognise Bangladesh immediately. “I must have been 20 to 22 years old when my colleagues and I did a Satyagraha for the freedom of the people of Bangladesh. I was arrested and had an opportunity to go to jail in support of Bangladesh’s Independence,” he said at the special commemoration on Friday. Back in 1971, far from the public eye, the government’s plans for Bangladesh’s liberation, the diplomatic outreach and training and arming the Mukti Bahini cadres, were all already under way by August of the year. The Soviet treaty dented India’s non-aligned policy, but Soviet naval support and military supplies assisted New Delhi in the war that followed. Through that time, the U.S. policy was chronicled through a series of memos, and taped conversations between Mr. Nixon and Dr. Kissinger. “I think that in fact, the April 28 memo is one the most important documents of the time, because this memo set the course of American policy towards Bangladesh’s liberation war,” said military historian Srinath Raghavan, who authored the book 1971: A Global History of the Creation of Bangladesh . “It set the U.S. ‘tilt’ (towards Pakistan) as policy and asked everyone in the U.S. government to fall in line,” he added, referring to the fact that Mr. Nixon put the words down in his own hand and then underlined the word “Don’t” three times for emphasis. In a special commemoration in the U.S. Congress last Monday, Representative Shiela Lee Jackson said, “Approximately 2 to 3 million people were killed, over 200,000 women were raped in organised rape camps, and over 10 million people were displaced, most finding refuge in India.” Ms. Jackson called for an apology from Pakistan and an acknowledgement from the U.S. of its “solidarity” with Bangladesh. While many historians have focused on the more sensational comments made by Mr. Nixon and his National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger about India’s role and their anger at Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the secret White House Memorandum (Action 27870/April 28,1971)titled “Policy Options towards Pakistan” is a detailed account of the U.S.’s strategy during the year, that eventually led to it moving its “Seventh fleet” into the Bay of Bengal in an attempt to deter the Indian Army from advancing towards Dhaka (Dacca) during the two-week war in December 1971. In the Memo, declassified 30 years later in 2001, Dr. Kissinger proposes three options to Mr. Nixon: to support Pakistani President General Yahya Khan’s political and military plans, without sending any ammunition; to remain neutral, and delay all aid, food and military equipment until India-Pakistan tensions were resolved; and to help Gen Yahya to “end the war”, establish an autonomous government in East Pakistan, and give control of aid, food shipments and military equipment to West Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-bangladesh-liberation-anniversary-role-of-india-us-in-1971-in-spotlight/article34181109.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cryptic call about a crime can’t be FIR: SC||A cryptic phone call vaguely informing of a crime cannot be treated as a First Information Report, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S. Ravindra Bhat was hearing an appeal filed by a man whose acquittal in a murder case was set aside by the Bombay High Court. The trial court convicted two of his co-accused, but let him go. The High Court reversed the decision, prompting him to appeal to the top court. The accused said the police had received a call about two men on a motorcycle attacking the victim. However, the FIR was registered later against the three men on the basis of the accounts given by witnesses and the dying declaration of the victim. The accused argued in court that the phone call was the original complaint under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the police could have doctored the complaint later on. Complete information “A cryptic phone call without complete information or containing part-information about the commission of a cognisable offence cannot always be treated as an FIR,” Justice Bhat, who authored the verdict, observed. Justice Bhat relied on the Supreme Court’s judicial precedents which have settled the law that a “mere message or a telephonic message which does not clearly specify the offence, cannot be treated as an FIR”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cryptic-call-about-a-crime-cant-be-fir-sc/article34181124.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: victim files another complaint||A day after an FIR was registered against Ramesh Jarkiholi, BJP MLA, for sexual abuse, the lawyer representing the woman in the CD scandal case filed a second complaint on Saturday accusing him of intimidating her and disturbing the ongoing investigation after the first case was filed against him. The day also saw the woman’s parents appear before Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials. The officials said they recorded their statement about the kidnap case they have filed, threat perception, and the conversations they have had with the woman. In the complaint addressed to the city Police Commissioner and the Cubbon Park police, with copies to the SIT and the Home Secretary, lawyer Jagadish Kumar said the accused had appeared before the media and made repeated attempts to threaten the woman with consequences and was exerting pressure on her. He also leaked the audio conversation of the woman with her brother, violating individual privacy, said the complaint. While the woman is under pressure and being threatened, “phones are being illegally intercepted by the accused by using government machinery,” Mr. Kumar stated in the complaint. The accused claimed that he was going to break big news, which would affect the investigating process. “If the accused is scot- free, he may destroy the available evidence by threatening the complainant and other witnesses,” said the petition. ‘Under pressure’ The complaint came hours after a video surfaced, purportedly of the woman, claiming she was under pressure and may be pushed to ending her life, holding the accused responsible. She said in the video that she continued to face harassment and threats from the former Minister. In the video, she also denied the claim that she had met KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. An audio of a purported telephone conversion of the victim with her parents, aired on TV channels, had references to Mr. Shivakumar. She said in the video that she had told her parents she was meeting Mr. Shivakumar only to convince them that she was safe. “The very fact that this conversation has been leaked shows that my parents are not safe,” said the woman. “The SIT has been saying that they will give protection. I urge them to bring my parents to Bengaluru,” she said, adding that they were not safe. Referring to Mr. Jarkiholi stating that as one who had brought down a government in the past, he was ready to face anything, the woman said, “This means that he can go to any length. He can harm my family and me as well.” She said she was willing to make a statement to the police only in the presence of her family. The video clip released on Saturday is the fourth from the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cd-scandal-victim-files-another-complaint/article34181101.ece
28 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat breaks its daily record with 2,276 cases||Gujarat continues to see a surge in cases as the second wave of the pandemic sweeps through the State. On Saturday, 2,276 cases were recorded, its highest case count since the pandemic broke out in March 2020. The State is also witnessing a rise in mortality. There were five deaths on Saturday. The active cases have jumped to 10,871 and 157 patients are on ventilator support. In the main cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, more than 70% of the COVID-19 beds have been occupied. “We will continue to witness a rise in cases for the next few weeks,” a top doctor from Ahmedabad told The Hindu . He said there is also a sudden spurt in demand for ICU beds. Ahmedabad and Surat recorded 600 plus cases on Saturday. In Ahmedabad, the leading IIM-A has been declared a containment zone with more than 35 cases emerging from the business school. “If drastic steps are not taken, then we may run out of hospital beds in both places,” a senior medical practitioner said, adding the authorities have been caught napping while the pandemic spread in even rural areas this time. Negative test report The government announced that a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR test report will be mandatory for those arriving from other States. It must be taken in the previous 72 hours. The order will come into force on April 1. Earlier, it made negative test report a must only for those coming from neighbouring Maharashtra. “The infection rate is increasing in many States. It is also seen that the prevalence of COVID-19 is high among those who have a travel history,” the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-2276-gujarat-records-its-highest-ever-covid-19-count/article34181121.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Two from Noida held for cheating people through dating websites||Two men from Noida in Uttar Pradesh were arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber Crime police for allegedly luring and duping several men through desi dating websites and applications. Police seized four mobile phones, bank cards, SIM cards, PAN cards from the possession of the accused. The arrested are Kaushal Chaudhary, 30, and Umesh Yadav, 21, both residents of Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Gigolo Services Last year, a victim of such a dating website from Secunderabad approached police stating that he contacted the phone numbers found in Google for ‘Play Gigolo Services’, who lured him and made him pay Rs. 41.50 lakh for providing dating services, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Soon, he realised that he was cheated and lodged a complaint. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and teams were formed to identify and nab the accused. According to Mr. Mohanty, the arrested along with their associates Janta Vishwas and Aman Varma post dating advertisements on Facebook and other websites like Locanto and OLX to provide dating services. Dating services “The gullible customers who call them will be informed that they will be provided dating services and are told to deposit huge money,” he said. In order to make the customers believe them, the tricksters used to arrange calls from women in West Bengal and make them deposit the amount for hotel security deposit and adult toys. “Once the customers deposit amounts, they do not respond to the calls and withdraw money for a lavish life,” the Joint Commissioner of Police added.  The Hyderabad Cyber Crime police seized four mobile phones, bank cards, SIM cards, and PAN cards from the possession of Kaushal Chaudhary, 30, and Umesh Yadav, 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-from-noida-held-for-cheating-people-through-dating-websites/article34181199.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 casts a shadow over Kumbh Mela||“These are strange times. You have to sanitise yourself before taking a bath in the Ganges!” exclaimed Sohanlal Sharma, a priest at the Shankaracharya Math temple, pointing to the sanitiser dispensers at the holy ghat. On Thursday, a day after the Uttarakhand High Court passed an order that said the Kumbh should not be allowed to become a breeding ground for the COVID-19 virus and that the standard operating protocol (SOP) of the Central government should be adhered to “in letter and spirit”, thousands took the auspicious Ekadasi bath in the Ganges, many of them without a mask and COVID-19 negative report. The HC order said devotees should come to Haridwar with a COVID-19 negative report that is not more than 72 hours old. However, Kumbh Mela Adhikari Deepak Rawat said that, officially, the Mela would commence on April 1 as per the State government notification which, incidentally, also came on March 24. Mr. Rawat said the SOPs would be publicised in other States so that those without the test report, “don’t make plans” to travel. In accordance with tradition, the Haridwar Kumbh began on January 15 and five snan s (holy bath), including the shahi snan of Mahashivaratri, have already happened. Observers feel that the stakeholders woke up when the cases rose in the week following Shivaratri. A Central government team reported that 10-15 cases were being reported every day. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of the Social Development of Communities Foundation, a Dehradun-based think tank, said that had the government wanted the SOPs, they would have been implemented from January itself. Also, as the HC order pointed out, some of the critical COVID-19 related infrastructure such as a 550-bed hospital is not operational yet. The order came after the newly appointed Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat made statements that rendered SOPs superfluous as he welcomed everybody. On March 22, the virus caught up with him and he isolated himself. However, it appears that the message did not percolate. On Thursday, Banshidhar Bhagat, Urban Development and Housing Minister, held an official meeting without wearing a mask. Refusing to comment on the Minister’s COVID-19 inappropriate behaviour, C. Ravi Shankar, District Magistrate, Haridwar admitted that checking reports at the border would be a huge challenge. “We have been reiterating it. We are putting up multiple lanes and creating holding areas,” he said. He said the infection rate in Haridwar was much lower than the national and State average. On March 24, he said, 64 positive cases had been found, while on March 25, the number was 54. “There is a slight increase in numbers as we have increased our testing capacity from 2,000 to 6,000. We intend to ramp it up to at least 10,000 a day by April 1.” The HC order said that 10 lakh people were expected at the Kumbh on regular days and 50 lakh visitors on snan days but officials feel, with no special trains, the numbers will be less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-casts-a-shadow-over-kumbh-mela/article34181088.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Over 50% don’t wear masks, finds govt. survey||The States are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Bihar. India has seen the sharpest rise in weekly COVID cases and fatalities since May 2020 (7.7% and 5.1% respectively) and 46 districts contributed 71% of the cases and 69% of the deaths this month. India registered 62,258 new cases over the 24 hours to 8 a.m. on Saturday. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 36,902. It is followed by Punjab with 3,122 while Chhattisgarh reported 2,665 new cases. “One infected person could spread COVID-19 to an average of 406 other individuals in a 30-day window without restrictions which could be reduced to just 15 by decreasing physical exposure to 50% and to a further 2.5 (average) by decreasing physical exposure to 75%. It was also highlighted (at the meeting) that the concept of ‘second wave’ reflected more the laxity among everyone regarding 'COVID appropriate behaviour' and COVID containment and management strategy at the ground level,” the statement noted. The total vaccination coverage in India approached six crore, with India being the third largest vaccinator in the world behind the United States and China. More than 5.81 cr (5,81,09,773) vaccine doses have been administered through 9,45,168 sessions as on Saturday. These included 80,96,687 health care workers (first dose), 51,44,011 HCWs (second dose), 87,52,566 frontline workers (first dose) and 35,39,144 FLWs (second Dose). There were 61,72,032 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first Dose) and 2,64,05,333 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. States were advised to increase testing in all districts and increasing RT PCR tests, to more than 70% of total. Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) to be mostly deployed as a screening tool in flushing out cluster cases from densely populated areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-50-dont-wear-masks-finds-govt-survey/article34181091.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,||UoH drops M.Phil, gives ‘school’ status to communication dept.||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has decided to discontinue the M.Phil. programme in accordance with the National Education Policy. It has also decided to upgrade the status of the department of communication to the School of Communication and Media Studies. This will be the 13th school at the university and will continue to offer two MA programmes in Media Studies and Media Practice, and a Ph.D. programme. These were the important decisions taken at the 88th Academic Council meeting of the varsity on Friday. The Academic Council also approved the introduction of a few programmes, including a multi-disciplinary M.Tech in Modeling and Simulation to be offered by the Centre for Modeling, Simulation & Design; a Master of Performing Arts programme in Music; reintroduction of five-year Integrated MA in Urdu; and a certificate course in Publishing, in collaboration with Cambridge University Press, by the Department of English that has recently returned to the top-300 global rankings; a post-graduate diploma in Community Eye Health; and a certificate course in Opthalmic Dispensing Optics. The university has also accorded in-principle approval for joint Ph.D programmes with top-ranking foreign universities, a provision made in the NEP. The University’s Office of International Affairs will work with the institution’s IoE Directorate to put in place modalities for admission, eligibility, and degree equivalence. This is expected to open up opportunities for Indian research scholars enrolled in the university to gain exposure and experience in leading international research labs and departments, while permitting international students to work at departments and schools of UoH. The Academic Council has also approved establishing working relationships with national laboratories to facilitate collaborative research, especially at the doctoral level. The university will soon be establishing rigorous benchmarks, against the top-100 universities in the world, for assessing faculty publications for all academic purposes, in line with the mandate given, along with the additional funding, as an Institution of Eminence, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uoh-drops-mphil-gives-school-status-to-communication-dept/article34181598.ece
28 March 2021||Guwahati,||Cong. set for landslide win in Assam: Kharge||The signs on the ground indicate the Congress is heading for a landslide victory in Assam, party leader and Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge said on Saturday. Elections were held in 47 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats in the first phase on Saturday. Tea plantation workers, a majority of whom shifted loyalty from the Congress to the BJP in 2016, will be the deciding factor in 38 of these seats. “The first phase has given clear signs of a landslide victory for the Congress in Assam. The guarantees of our party have visibly stumped the BJP on the ground,” Mr. Kharge said. The guarantees include nullifying the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and raising the daily wage of plantation workers to Rs. 365.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-set-for-landslide-win-in-assam-kharge/article34181106.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||President to undergo bypass surgery at AIIMS||President Ram Nath Kovind will undergo a ‘planned’ heart bypass procedure on Tuesday, according to a statement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mr. Kovind, 75, was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, on Saturday afternoon. Post investigations, doctors advised him to undergo the procedure. The President’s health was stable, the statement said. The President was admitted to the Army’s Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on Friday morning after complaining of chest discomfort and was then shifted to AIIMS. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is away in Bangladesh, spoke to Mr. Kovind’s son and told him that he was praying for his recovery, according to a tweet from the Prime Minister’'s office. In the afternoon, the official handle of the President tweeted: “The President has been under observation after a routine checkup. He thanks all who enquired about his health and wished him well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-to-undergo-bypass-surgery-at-aiims/article34181114.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Soldier, 2 militants killed in Shopian encounter||Two militants and a soldier were killed, and another soldier was injured in an encounter between terrorists and security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Saturday. “The injured soldier has been evacuated to 92 Base Hospital and is stable,” an Army spokesman said. “Two militants were killed and two Army personnel were injured [in militant firing]. One M-4 rifle was recovered from the encounter site. Searches were going on in Wangam area,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldier-2-militants-killed-in-shopian-encounter/article34181150.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||AAI’s plan to buy body scanners hits roadblock||The Airports Authority of India’s plan to procure 198 body scanners for its airports across the country has hit a roadblock after it had to withdraw a tender bagged by a Chinese company, Nuctech, following the stand-off at the Line of Actual Control last year. Nuctech is dominant in border-control and security screening technologies globally and is partly owned by the Chinese government and once run by former Chinese President Hu Jintao’s son, Hu Haifeng, according to international media reports. In April 2019, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) — the aviation security watchdog — issued a circular requiring 84 hypersensitive and sensitive airports to instal full body scanners within a year to replace walk-through metal detectors. The same year, following a global tender, AAI decided to award the tender to Nuctech. New proposal soon “After a government advisory last year barring purchases from bordering countries, we have withdrawn the earlier tender. A new proposal has been sent for seeking financial approval after which a fresh global tender will be floated,” according to an official of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. With Nuctech out of the picture, the government’s procurement cost per equipment is likely to double. As a result, AAI will only be able to buy half of the scanners it had initially planned to buy. Three companies “There are only three other companies in the world that sell this technology — Smiths and L-3 from the U.S. and Rohde & Schwarz of Germany. The cost of a Nuctech body scanner was Rs. 1.5 crore per equipment. But now the revised estimate stands at nearly Rs. 3 crore per machine. So, we will invite tenders for 98 body scanners instead of the earlier figure of 198,” a source said. The U.S. banned Nuctech from airports in the country in 2014 and accused the Chinese company last year of passing on passenger information to Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aais-plan-to-buy-body-scanners-hits-roadblock/article34181123.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Better judicial infra needed: Justice Ramana||Supreme Court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, on Saturday called for the need to establish a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation to drastically improve judicial infrastructure across the country. Justice Ramana, who has been recommended by incumbent Chief Justice S.A. Bobde as the next Chief Justice of India, said the corporation could bring the much-needed “uniformity and standardisation” which could “revolutionise” judicial infrastructure. The senior Supreme Court judge, who is scheduled to take over as the 48th CJI, was replying to criticism that money is spent on the infrastructure of higher courts while the subordinate judiciary continues to function from stuffy, ill-lit and dingy courtrooms without basic facilities for litigants, court staffers and judicial officers. “There is a need for the Centre and States to cooperate and create a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, as a one-time measure, to cater to the need for judicial infrastructure in the country. Such a corporation would bring the uniformity and standardisation required to revolutionise judicial infrastructure,” Justice Ramana said in his address at the inauguration of a new Bombay High Court building in Goa. The modernisation of judicial “infrastructure does not mean building more courts or filling up vacancies or ploughing through vacancies”, he said. An efficient “judicial infrastructure” means providing equal and free access to justice. This could be realised through a “barrier free and citizen friendly environment”, Justic Ramana said. “We can assert true accessibility when the person with the maximum disadvantage can still knock on the doors of the court of justice,” he said.  It will bring the uniformity and standardisation required to revolutionise judicial infrastructure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-ramana-bats-for-national-judicial-infra-corporation/article34181126.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Millions depend on Teesta: Hasina tells Modi||“She underscored that to alleviate the sufferings and save the livelihoods of millions of people dependent on the Teesta river basin, it is necessary that Bangladesh receives its fair share of the waters, the draft agreement of which has already been agreed upon by both governments in January 2011,” declared a joint statement issued at the end of bilateral discussions between the two delegations. Sharing of resources The two leaders also instructed their Ministries of Water Resources to firm up the Framework of Interim Agreement over the six common rivers — Monu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dharla and Dudhkumar. Sharing of water resources has been a contentious issue between the two neighbours because of the number of stakeholders. The two Prime Ministers also agreed that the incidents of killings along the settled Indo-Bangladesh borders is a matter of concern and instructed their respective border guards to initiate “people-oriented” border management.  The Joint Statement said the leaders have expressed their desire to bring the number of such incidents involving civilians to ‘zero’. The killing of citizens of Bangladesh along the borders has been at the centre of bilateral ties over the last decade. India reiterated its demand for completion of border fencing by Bangladesh “at the earliest”. Bangladesh has called upon India to revive the jute sector with investment and through public private partnership. In this regard, Dhaka urged Delhi to withdraw the duties that were imposed on jute products of Bangladesh since 2017. Both sides reviewed a slew of measures that have been under way over the last several years that will ease connectivity between the northeastern States of India and West Bengal. The two Prime Ministers on Saturday inaugurated the Mitali Express, a new AC train that will connect Jalpaiguri with Dhaka. Bangladesh also offered the airports of Sylhet and Chittagong for the passengers of the Northeastern States, especially of Tripura saying these airports will help in improving connectivity in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/millions-depend-on-teesta-hasina-tells-modi/article34181087.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||C-DAC staff to help Kerala poll officials||Engineers from the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) have arrived in the State to assist election officials verify software-related issues in connection with the complaints regarding multiple entries of voters on the electoral rolls. The team despatched by C-DAC, Pune, and the Election Commission of India (ECI) has started work on fixing the problem, said a senior official on Saturday. Photos repeated “Given the number of complaints pertaining to duplicate entries on the rolls, we have initiated measures to identify the number and the types of errors on the lists. In some instances, the names of voters have been repeated. In others, photographs have been repeated with different names and addresses. The team has started work,” the official said, adding that the emphasis is on preventing bogus votes on April 6. The commission will file an affidavit in response to the petition filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala in the High Court. On Friday, the court had directed the commission to respond to the petition which sought action against the officials responsible for the discrepancies. The All India Congress Committee also had demanded the ECI to urgently clean up the voters’ lists in Kerala. Collectors’ report Meanwhile, District Collectors will submit their reports on the multiple entries on the electoral rolls of all 140 constituencies by Tuesday.  The commission will file an affidavit in the High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/c-dac-staff-to-help-kerala-poll-officials/article34181100.ece
28 March 2021||Chennai,||Finale of JSW Paints painting contest today||The finale of the JSW Paints Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021, which received an overwhelming response, will be held on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. All the qualifiers have been intimated through their registered contact details, according to a press release. The category-wise topics will be sent to the finalists’ registered email IDs around 30 minutes before the start of the competition. They must choose a given topic as per their age category and paint on a white drawing sheet (size 32.5 W X 25.5 H cm). An exclusive Slogan Contest will be held for parents, for which the topic will be announced at the same time. The competition received entries from students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. For further details, terms and conditions, please visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/jswpaints||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/finale-of-jsw-paints-painting-contest-today/article34181090.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,||UGC accepts CMA on a par with PG||The Institute of Cost Accountants of India is all set to start its next academic programme. Students having completed Class 10 are eligible for admission to the foundation course offered by the institute while those currently pursuing their degree or have completed it in any stream are eligible to apply for the CMA intermediate course. The recognition accorded by the University Grants Commission to CMA qualification is on a par with a post-graduate degree, and opens up multiple new vistas for students opting for it. The CMA course is a specialised cost accountancy course. The post-intermediate two-and-a-half year CMA course with this recognition can provide students an irrefutable headstart in their career. Admissions are currently on for the December 2021 examination and interested students can register online on www.icmai.in, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ugc-accepts-cma-on-a-par-with-pg/article34181147.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||AAI union to strike work on March 31||The Airports Authority of India Employees’ Union (AAIEU) have called for a nationwide strike on March 31 in protest against the privatisation of six airports and their takeover by Adani Enterprises Ltd. The union has demanded an investigation into the process leading to the leasing out of the airports in Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Guwahati, Lucknow, Thiruvananthpuram and Mangalore for operations, management and development to the private company. Last week, the AAIEU wrote to the Chairman of the AAI warning of a strike and drawing his attention to concerns among employees of the authority over the uncertain future staring them following the privatisation of the airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aai-union-to-strike-work-on-march-31/article34181105.ece
28 March 2021||Jammu,||Amarnath yatra from June 28||The annual pilgrimage to the Amarnath cave in the Kashmir Valley, which was suspended due to the pandemic in 2020, will start on June 28. “This year’s 56-day yatra shall commence simultaneously on both the routes from 28th June and culminate on Raksha Bandhan, 22nd August,” said Nitishwar Kumar, Chief Executive Officer of the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board. He said the registration of pilgrims would start on April 1 for both the Baltal and the Chandanwari routes in central and south Kashmir. Mr. Kumar said health certificates issued after March 15 would only be valid. “Persons under the age of 13 years or above the age of 75 years and women who are more than six weeks pregnant would not be registered for the yatra,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarnath-yatra-from-june-28/article34181129.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Custodial torture: NIA orders probe||A 31-year-old man was allegedly tortured by an officer of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Jammu on Friday, his family has claimed. The federal anti-terror probe agency ordered an inquiry on Saturday. Yugraj Singh, who works for a food delivery app, was called by the NIA for questioning in a narco-terror case on Friday. It is alleged that Mr. Singh was beaten in NIA’s custody and was later admitted to a government hospital in Jammu. Sewak Singh, maternal uncle of the victim and a retired police officer, claimed that his nephew was abused by the officials for wearing a kirpan (sword).  The family released a video of Mr. Singh from the hospital which showed severe injuries on his back, legs and hands. Mr. Singh alleged that they had submitted a complaint but the police were not registering an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/custodial-torture-nia-orders-probe/article34181152.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Covovax trial begins, launch by Sept.: Adar||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said the clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccine Covovax have begun in India, and the company hopes to launch it by September. In August last year, U.S.-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc. had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. “Covovax trials finally begin in India...It has been tested against African and U.K. variants of #COVID19 and has an overall efficacy of 89%. Hope to launch by September 2021!,” Mr. Poonawalla tweeted. The development and commercialisation agreement between Novavax and SII excludes major upper-middle and high-income countries, for which Novavax continues to retain rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covovax-trial-begins-launch-by-sept-adar/article34181130.ece
28 March 2021||Silchar,||‘Do you want Mahajot or Mahathug?’||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday asked the people of Assam to choose between Mahajot, the Congress-led grand alliance of 10 parties, and Mahathug (great goon), a term he used for the Bharatiya Janata Party. Addressing a rally for Mukesh Pandey, Congress candidate for the Lakhipur Assembly constituency in southern Assam’s Cachar district, he alluded to the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan that lost the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections narrowly to the Janata Dal (United) and BJP. “We know how they manipulate to win elections, but the five guarantees will see the Mahajot through in Assam,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-you-want-mahajot-or-mahathug/article34181054.ece
28 March 2021||Guwahati,||Assam poll official dies on duty||An election official died on duty at the Salkathoni polling booth in Sonari constituency of Charaideo district on Saturday, hours after voting began for the first phase of elections across 47 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats. The official, identified as Tulsi Khanikar, was assigned polling station number 187. District officials said he was rushed to a hospital in Dibrugarh after he collapsed, and his health started deteriorating. But he passed away on the way to the hospital. The 47 seats in the first phase cover 12 districts of eastern Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-poll-official-dies-on-duty/article34181056.ece
28 March 2021||Kolkata,||Audio clip creates a flutter||An audio clip with an alleged conversation between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Nandigram has created a political flutter in West Bengal political circles. In the clip that was made public by the State BJP leadership, the CM is allegedly heard requesting local BJP leader Pralay Pal to help her out in the Nandigram polls. Ms. Banerjee is contesting against the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram Assembly seat that goes to polls on April 1. “You are young person and do a lot of work, I know... Please help us out this time,” Ms. Banerjee is allegedly heard saying in the audio clip. There was no denial from the Trinamool that the voice in the audio clip was not that of Ms. Banerjee. Senior Trinamool Congress leader Subrata Mukherjee held a press conference and said that there was nothing wrong in the Chief Minister speaking to a former party worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/audio-clip-creates-a-flutter/article34181060.ece
28 March 2021||Morigaon,||Himanta is Kansa: Kahnhaiya||Press Trust of India   CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar hit out at the BJP on Saturday calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi “the biggest liar” and comparing the saffron party’s top Assam leader Himanta Biswa Sarma with King Kansa, the tyrant ruler of Mathura in the Mahabharata . The former JNU students union president termed Mr. Modi’s statement in Bangladesh, where he is on a visit, about going to jail for that country’s freedom a “big lie”. The Left youth leader questioned whether annually two crore jobs had been created as had been promised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himanta-is-kansa-kahnhaiya/article34181066.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Rs. 92.66 lakh||average assets per candidate contesting in the second phase (30 seats) in the West Bengal Assembly election. 15% of the candidates are crorepatis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/9266-lakh/article34181067.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||59%||of the candidates contesting in the second phase in West Bengal declared they were graduates or more, while 37% said they were between ‘5th pass’ and ‘12th pass’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/59/article34181068.ece
28 March 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,||COVID-19: No Arjita Sevas at Yadadri||Executive Officer of Yadadri Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple, N. Geetha on Saturday informed that various Arjita Sevas at the temple are being temporarily suspended, in the wake of fresh COVID-19 infections among the Devasthanam’s assisting staff. “In an attempt to check infection from other staff who have been diagnosed with COVID-19, all Arjita Sevas will be temporarily suspended till March 30,” she said in a statement. The devotees’ sevas to the deity will not be conducted from Sunday, and only laghu darshans will be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-no-arjita-sevas-at-yadadri/article34181597.ece
28 March 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Sky-high chimneys and contrasting ground realities||Ariyalur is one of the very few places where agriculture and industry contribute almost equally to the economy. While the town and its peripheries are dotted with medium to large cement plants, agriculture and allied activities fuel the rural economy. Ariyalur and its surrounding areas are rich in mineral deposits, limestone, sandstone and fire clay. Though it looks like an industrial town, thanks to the presence of eight cement plants, locals say only a few hundreds of them could get direct employment in them. Considering the fact that Ariyalur got its first cement plant about 40 years ago, the town should have witnessed a boom by now. But it still lags behind in many aspects of development. In the initial stages of the establishment of cement factories, both by the public and private sector, locals, particularly those who gave lands for the cement industries, were recruited for skilled and unskilled posts. As the years progressed, outsiders formed the majority of the workforce. Contract labour Moreover, but for a few, these companies preferred recruitment on contract basis, much to the consternation of the locals eyeing job security. Even the State-owned Arasu Cements, prefers contract labourers over permanent employees. Computerisation and automation also dealt a severe blow on the employment front. There were vociferous protests in the recent past by residents of a few villages such as Anandavadi, demanding employment to the locals in the new plant set up by the Tamil Nadu Cement Corporation on an outlay of Rs. 809 crore. Denial of job opportunities to the locals, unemployment, pollution caused by cement plants and failure of these companies to close the exhausted mines in various villages around Ariyalur emerge as major election issues. “Hundreds of acres of mines, where the government and private cement companies had used men and machines to mine limestone for more than three to four decades, remain uncared for. They should have been either converted into forest or waterbodies by fencing. They pose threat to the safety of passers-by and the residents at many places,” says S. Rajarajan, a resident of Ariyalur. Cashew belt Besides paddy grown on Ariyalur and Thirumanur belt, farmers here raise sugarcane, maize, cotton and cashew. The establishment of an exclusive marketing centre for cashew and cashew value addition unit has been a long pending demand of the farmers. The failure of monsoon and exploitation by middlemen have forced many farmers to migrate to Chennai, Coimbatore, Tirupur and other industrial towns for employment. Vanniyars and Scheduled Castes, followed by Moopanars, Pillai and Udaiyars are the dominant caste groups in the constituency. Since 1971, the AIADMK won five times, the DMK four and the TMC and the Congress once each. While the AIADMK has renominated Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran, K. Chinnappa, a MDMK veteran, is contesting on the DMK symbol. Though the AMMK, IJK and Naam Tamizhar Katchi have fielded their candidates, the main contest is between Mr. Rajendran and Mr.Chinnappa. While the former banks on the AIADMK government’s welfare schemes and election manifesto, the latter believes his long public stint and goodwill will fetch him votes. Mr. Rajendran aims to cash in on his contribution to the establishment of the government medical college in Ariyalur. Mr. Chinnappa has had to walk the extra mile to get the support of the DMK functionaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sky-high-chimneys-and-contrasting-ground-realities/article34181333.ece
28 March 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||CM||S. Sundar   Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami says he is determined not to allow any let-up in his efforts to take on the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). “People advised me to take rest for a couple of days because I had a sore throat. But the DMK will chart a new route in those two days. So I’ll not rest. My goal is to ensure the victory of AIADMK candidates,” he said, amid cheering from the ruling party cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm/article34181249.ece
28 March 2021||BODINAYAKKANUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure Deputy Chief Minister’s victory by the highest margin’||Chief Minister and AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to the electorate in the Bodinayakkanur Assembly constituency to elect party coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam by the highest victory margin in Tamil Nadu. Standing on top of the scoreboard in the State would be a real victory as Mr. Panneerselvam had nurtured not only his constituency but the entire Theni district, Mr. Palaniswami said. The two leaders, who a few months ago had a cold war over who would be the party’s chief ministerial candidate, travelled together in an open jeep while canvassing for votes. Lauds OPS Appreciating the Deputy CM for his sustained efforts, Mr. Palaniswami said the people of Theni had benefited in a big way through Kudimaramathu and other such schemes. Roads were laid. Drinking water was available. Infrastructural facilities had been provided. The broad-gauge conversion work here was also going to be completed soon and people could travel by train to cities like Madurai and Chennai, he said. Mr. Panneerselvam’s efforts had brought in the Law College, the Veterinary College, the Research Institute and the Polytechnic Institute, he said, adding that many other projects were in the pipeline, including the SIDCO industrial estate and the IT Park. Mr. Palaniswami said the minorities would continue to be safe under the AIADMK regime. Speaking at an election campaign meeting, he said the AIADMK had always remained a friend and custodian of the minorities. Whenever minorities approached the government for any assistance, the AIADMK never hesitated to be by their side, he added. During the pandemic, a large number of people from the minority community, who were in New Delhi to attend a conference, were unable to reach home. Mr. Panneerselvam instantly arranged a special train for those stranded to return home safely and gave them treatment as per the protocol, Mr. Palaniswami said. Attacking the DMK for its misleading statements and for spreading false news, Mr. Palaniswami cautioned the voters to beware of the false promises. Those who had spoken ill of Amma ’s (Jayalalithaa’s) government should not be given any recognition in any form, he said. The Chief Minister introduced party candidates Syed Khan (Cumbum), A. Logirajan (Andipatti) and Murugan (Periakulam). Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath and other senior party functionaries were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-deputy-chief-ministers-victory-by-the-highest-margin/article34181306.ece
28 March 2021||Bodinayakkanur,TAMIL NADU||Ensure victory of OPS with high margin, says Chief Minister||AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday appealed to the electorate in Bodinayakkanur Assembly constituency to elect party coordinator and Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam by the highest victory margin in Tamil Nadu. Standing on top of the scoreboard in the State would be a real victory as Mr. Panneerselvam has nurtured not only his constituency, but the entire Theni district, said Mr Palaniswami. The two leaders, who a few months ago had a cold war over who would be the party’s Chief Minsiterial candidate, travelled together in an open jeep while canvassing for votes. Appreciating the Deputy CM for his sustained efforts, Mr. Palaniswami said that the people of Theni had benefited in a big way through kudimaramathu scheme and among others. The roads have been laid. Drinking water was available to all and infrastructural facilities have come up. The broad-gauge conversion works here was to be completed so that soon, the people can travel by train to cities like Madurai and Chennai. Likewise, the efforts of Mr. Panneerselvam had brought in Law College, Veterinary College and Research Institute, Polytechnic institute and many other projects were in pipeline including SIDCO industrial estate and IT Park. Mr Palaniswami said minorities would continue to be safe during the AIADMK regime. Speaking at a well-attended meeting, he said that the AIADMK had always remained a friend and custodian of the minorities. Whenever the minorities approached the government for any assistance, the AIADMK never hesitated to be by their side. During the COVID-19 pandemic, a large number of people from the minority community, who were in New Delhi to attend a conference, were unable to reach home. When Mr. Panneerselvam was informed, he instantly arranged a special train for those stranded to return home safely and gave them treatment as per the protocol, according to Mr Palaniswami. Attacking the DMK for misleading statements and mischievous in spreading false news, Mr Palaniswami cautioned the voters to beware of the false promises. Similarly, in an apparent reference to the AMMK, he also took a dig by appealing to the electorate to ensure that they lost their deposit in the election. Those who had spoken ill of Amma 's (Jayalalithaa) government should not be given any recognition in any form, he said. The CM introduced the party candidates Syed Khan (Cumbum), A Logirajan (Andipatti) and Murugan (Periakulam). Theni MP O. P. Raveendranath and other senior party functionaries accorded a rousing reception to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-victory-of-panneerselvam-with-highest-margin-says-cm/article34181354.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A direct contest in Villivakkam||Villivakkam, a constituency that predominantly has a working class population, will again witness a direct contest between the major Dravidian parties in the Assembly election. This time, J.C.D. Prabhakar, one of the AIADMK’s senior leaders in the city, is pitted against A. Vetriazhagan, grandson of DMK veteran K. Anbazhagan. Once the largest constituency in the city, Villivakkam has shrunk in size as other constituencies — Ambattur, Kolathur, Maduravoyal, Virugambakkam and Madhavaram — were created after the delimitation process. However, the region has retained its flavour with employees of private companies and the Integrated Coach Factory and a few slums. Besides Ayanavaram, a small portion of Anna Nagar is also part of the constituency. Possible contenders Long-time residents note that the constituency had a strong presence of the DMK and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), and the parties have won at least six times since 1977. They say some of the basic amenities have improved, including roads. Efforts are under way to rejuvenate the Villivakkam lake after many years. However, voters expect solutions to core issues, such as water-logging, encroachments along New Avadi Road and the old sewer network. Key candidates have assured the voters of solutions to civic issues. An educationalist, Mr. Vetriazhagan says he grew up in the constituency. Enhancing the infrastructure, including better roads, healthcare facilities and drinking water supply, is his priority. “I’ll make efforts to find a permanent solution to flooding, particularly in areas like Sidco Nagar. I plan to bring an arts and science college and a government hospital to the constituency. Legal efforts would be made to retrieve the portion of a site belonging to the Government-aided Singaram Pillay Higher Secondary School that has been sold to commercial establishments,” Mr. Vetriazhagan says. The CPI(M) had staged an agitation, arguing that the sale affected the education of the needy. Fifth time contestant Villivakkam is Mr. Prabhakar’s home ground as he is contesting for the fifth time in the same constituency. He considers accessibility as his strength. “I was elected as MLA of this constituency in 1980 and 2011. People still remember me for the works I had done in my previous term, particularly during the 2015 floods. I’ll conduct grievance redress camps regularly and build community halls in all divisions. Piped water supply to all households is one of my promises,” he says. Among the 21 other contestants are D. Subamangalam of the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam, Sriharan Bala of Makkal Needhi Maiam and R. Sridhar of Naam Tamilar Katchi. Traffic congestion remains a major issue, and residents want the construction of the road over-bridge at level crossing 1 of the Villivakkam station to be expedited. More play areas CPI(M) Villivakkam secretary M.R. Mathiazhagan pitches for more playgrounds and alternate housing for residents of areas prone to flooding like Annai Satya Nagar. “The Greater Chennai Corporation must retrieve a dilapidated building on East Mada Street and build a community hall or maternity hospital,” he says. Replacing the old sewer network that leads to frequent clogging and more parks are the demands of the Ayanavaram residents. V. Baskaran, president, Ayanavaram Exnora, says encroachments are also an issue. Poor garbage disposal often leads to an unhygienic environment.  Greater Chennai Corporation must retrieve a dilapidated building on East Mada Street and build a community hall or maternity hospital M.R. Mathiazhagan CPI(M) leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-direct-contest-in-villivakkam/article34181268.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kolathur will be a model constituency’||Kolathur will be made a model constituency if the DMK is voted to power in the Assembly election, said party president M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Saturday. Campaigning in the constituency from where he is seeking re-election for a third consecutive term, Mr. Stalin said he was confident of his win as he was the constituency’s own son and had implemented a number of development works during his previous tenures as the MLA. “I have visited the constituency twice or thrice a week as an MLA. I was here when there were floods. I was here when there was COVID-19,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that although he could not campaign in his constituency until now, he was confident that the people would understand his commitment to campaign in other constituencies as well. “Kolathur has the distinction of being the constituency of the Chief Ministerial candidate. Once DMK comes to power, this will be made a model constituency,” he said. Later, Mr. Stalin campaigned in Saidapet for the party’s candidate Ma. Subramanian, A.M.V. Prabhakara Raja (Virugambakkam), and alliance partner Congress’ Velachery candidate J.M.H. Aassan Maulaana. He criticised the AIADMK government for allegedly indulging in corruption that surpassed the levels of the AIADMK regime from 1991 to 1996, which had witnessed high levels of corruption. It was time to end the “corrupt rule” of the AIADMK, which, he charged, was being subservient to the BJP, and restore the rights of Tamil Nadu. Mr. Stalin said that Saidapet had a special place in the history of the DMK as late Chief Minister and former party president M. Karunanidhi was elected from here when the party first came to power in 1967.  I have visited the constituency thrice a week as MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kolathur-will-be-a-model-constituency/article34181284.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Amma has trained us well in elections’||D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister, five-time Royapuram MLA and member of the AIADMK steering committee, is confident of facing this Assembly election, though the ruling party does not have a towering leader like former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Contending that party functionaries have been “well trained by Amma [Jayalalithaa],” he acknowledges that as a leader, she remains incomparable. “We are following the style of campaigning and people-centric approach that she has taught us. Even the manifesto has been drafted in a manner that she would do. So much so, not just the people but also those in the party believe that Amma is with us,” Mr. Jayakumar, who is seeking re-election from the constituency in north Chennai, told The Hindu . After Jayalalithaa’s death, the ‘two leaves’ symbol was frozen, “but we are now united and working towards the party’s victory for the third time,” he said. The former Speaker practically knows everyone in each house in his constituency. He is moving across his constituency on two-wheelers and autorickshaws and campaigning and interacting with his voters. “I was born and brought up here. I remember we used to have so many huts at Timothy Road, V.N. Pettai, Indira Nagar and MGR Nagar, which would be gutted in small kitchen fires. After I won for the first time in 1991, I ensured that those huts were converted into concrete houses. The area used to be notorious for anti-social elements too, but now all that has changed,” he said. “We have Metro Rail connectivity, thanks to Amma , who was gracious enough to include our area in the line when I asked her. Daily around 3,500 autorickshaws ply on our roads and 50,000 persons travel to Royapuram. The Metro Rail comes as a blessing, and will reduce congestion on the roads,” he said. He said he had been dividing time between campaigning in his constituency and ensuring that the party does well in the constituencies which he is in charge of. Questioned about complaints of bad road stretches and issues in water supply in certain areas, Mr. Jayakumar said he spent the MLAs Local Area Development Scheme fund on upgrading infrastructure and prevented flooding and power cuts during the monsoon. He said steps were being taken to sort out other issues. According to him, Rs. 150 crore was spent on upgrading the Kasimedu fishing harbour. “In the next round of expansion, we are planning the setting up of a fisheries hub. This will ensure better rates for the fish caught here,” he said, adding that fishing harbours were being set up at Tiruvottiyur, Kanniyakumari, Chengalpattu and Villupuram. He promised the fishermen of the establishment of processing facilities for seaweed, and other schemes. As for the Scheduled Tribe status for fishermen, Jayalalithaa had announced it and it was up to the Central government to implement it. “We have been pressing for it, and will continue to do so until our fishermen get it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-has-trained-us-well-in-elections/article34181316.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘This election is about protecting the State’s autonomy’||Veteran Communist Party of India (CPI) leader R. Nallakannu, a freedom fighter, is respected for his integrity and simplicity. In an interview on Saturday, the 95-year-old says the current Assembly election in Tamil Nadu is totally different from previous ones, as it is a fight for protecting State autonomy. Edited excerpts:  How do you see the current Assembly election when compared to the previous ones? This election is different when compared to the previous elections. This election is a fight to protect the State’s rights and autonomy. It is a fight to preserve the secular nature of India and against the BJP’s Hindutva ideology and its one culture, one nation concept. All allies of the DMK, including the CPI, have compromised on the number of seats they wanted to contest, citing that there is a need to defeat the BJP. Is this an acknowledgement that the BJP has grown in Tamil Nadu and the electorate can be easily swayed on the Hindu plank, unlike in the past? No, it is not an acknowledgement of the growth of the BJP in Tamil Nadu. There is a danger. The BJP is acting against the provisions of the Constitution. They want to make India a ‘Hindu rashtra’ and their agenda is to end India’s diversity. They are taking decisions unilaterally without consulting the States. Autonomy and the rights of States, including Tamil Nadu, have been impacted. The farm laws, the Citizenship Amendment Act and NEET are some examples of this. The farmers’ protest has been going on for more than five months, which is unprecedented. The BJP does not tolerate criticism. Against this backdrop, an objective and secular front led by the DMK has come together. We accepted the six seats on offer as we did not want to disrupt the alliance, which has come together with a common goal to defeat the BJP-AIADMK alliance. Your views on the performance of the AIADMK government... They have been in power for 10 years. There have been a lot of unfulfilled promises. [Chief Minister] Edappadi K. Palaniswami calls himself a farmer, but has supported the farm laws. This means that he is supporting the corporates. Earlier, the practice was to allow private participation only in certain sectors, while the government ran the key ones. Now, the BJP wants to privatise everything. It will force privatisation in Tamil Nadu as well. The BJP has been imposing Hindi and Sanskrit in Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK government claims that it is attracting big investments and creating jobs, but there is news about graduates applying for conservancy jobs. The AIADMK mishandled the Sterlite issue. When the BJP is acting against the States’ rights and autonomy, you cannot have an alliance with the party and say that it is for political reasons. You have seen many elections prior to and after independence. What has changed and what needs to change? The British rule gave voting rights only to a few. For instance, only graduates could vote. After independence, everyone got the right to vote and decide on which government they wanted. That is what Independence gave us. But concerns expressed by B.R. Ambedkar on whether the Constitution will sustain in the future remains. True independence can be preserved only if the divide of inequality is bridged and equality is achieved.  Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami calls himself a farmer, but has supported the farm laws. This means that he is supporting the corporates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-election-is-about-protecting-the-states-autonomy/article34181254.ece
28 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Joined MNM as I want to be ruled by an intelligent CM’||Yesteryear heroine and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) high-level committee member Sripriya is contesting from the Mylapore Assembly constituency. She speaks about  why she chose to enter politics and more. Edited excerpts:  Did you join MNM because of your film industry connect with Kamal Haasan? If you had asked this question a few years ago, politics was not on my agenda. I really did not want to be a politician. But I never hesitate to raise my voice if I find that something is wrong around me. That’s when it struck me that if you want to change things around, you need power, and to have that power, you need to be in politics. I was clear that if I was to get into politics, I should not be corrupt, and this was the time Kamal Sir was floating MNM. And I chose the party because in my lifetime, I want to be ruled by an intelligent Chief Minister. The ground where you are playing the match is a constituency where several heavyweights are contesting. Do you even visualise a chance for you here? While campaigning, people whom I spoke to have indicated that they want a change. When you talk of Mylapore, people always think of the famous temples, churches and mosques. If you actually get down to the streets, you see this as an area which has a mix of middle-class and upper middle-class people. This is also a region where there are many slums — for the last 10 years, politicians have done nothing for the people residing here. There are several infrastructure issues, too, which will be my priority if I am given a chance. Your party is not seen as a serious alternative, people see it as a vote-splitter. And even opinion polls don’t show any green shoots on your side. I don’t believe in these opinion polls. They are either one-sided or only few parameters are taken into consideration. So let us wait and see and not arrive at conclusions, going by opinion polls. Wherever we go, especially me, for campaigning, we are not asking votes; we are asking people to come listen to us and then decide. Why should the people of Mylapore vote for you? Do people take actresses seriously? A woman can bring about change within a house and in a State. We are people who can do multi-tasking. They cannot push me back because I am a woman; I am as capable as a man. I am also a Mylaporean and who else can better understand the problems of people here? It is sad cinema is looked like a caste — I have equal brains like any other person. And women from the film fraternity have done well in politics. Everyone who is running wants to win the race. I will run and touch the finishing line. Even if I don’t, I will give a tough fight to the other contestants.  I never hesitate to raise my voice if I find that something is wrong around me... If you want to change things around, you need power and to have that power, you need to be in politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/joined-mnm-as-i-want-to-be-ruled-by-an-intelligent-cm/article34181272.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Job scam: chargesheet filed against MLA||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), Job Racket Wing, has filed a chargesheet against V. Senthil Balaji, DMK MLA from Aravakurichi, who was the Transport Minister in the AIADMK government between 2011 and 2015, for his involvement in a scam pertaining to recruitment to transport corporations. The chargesheet named 46 other persons, including his personal assistants, former managing directors of transport corporations, junior engineers and others. Criminal conspiracy The investigation revealed that during 2014-15, Mr. Balaji entered into a criminal conspiracy with the then managing directors of all State Transport Undertakings (STUs) and other officers of transport corporations to obtain illegal gratification from candidates to recruit them as drivers, conductors, junior tradesmen, junior assistants, junior engineers and assistant engineers in the transport corporations, the chargesheet said. The final report of the CCB said Mr. Balaji colluded with his close associates, B. Shanmugam and M. Karthikeyan alias Karthik, and collected data from all State Transport Corporations through managing directors and officers of the personnel section to collate complete data of the candidates. Illegal gratification He received illegal gratification from the candidates and sent lists to the managing directors, appointing authorities and personnel section officers of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to issue appointment orders for the candidates mentioned in the said list. The investigation also revealed that appointment orders were issued to 33 candidates for the post of junior engineer, in accordance with the list illegally furnished by Mr. Balaji, the then managing director, joint MD, senior deputy manager (HR) and deputy manager, without following communal reservation. They fraudulently altered the original interview marks of candidates in the registers, the chargesheet said. The registers containing names, application numbers, interview numbers, caste, interview marks and other details of candidates, maintained in the personnel section, were tampered with and forged. Interview marks were fraudulently reduced for meritorious candidates to show that they scored less than the illegally appointed candidates. Consequently, the files, records and registers were falsely fabricated by officials. Hence, they committed offences punishable under Sections 465 (Punishment for forgery), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using genuine as forged) dishonestly uses as genuine and 420 (Cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), read with 120 (B) (Criminal Conspiracy) of the IPC and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Complaint in 2015 Originally, the case was registered based on a complaint by S. Devasagayamin 2015, alleging that C. Palani, who was working as a conductor in Metropolitan Transport Corporation, received Rs. 2.6 lakh to arrange a conductor’s job for his son. He neither got the job nor returned the amount even after 6 months. The final report was filed before the Additional Special Court for Trial of Cases related to Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu. The matter was posted for further hearing on April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-scam-chargesheet-filed-against-mla/article34181346.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Most vegetable prices remain low at Koyambedu||Traders at the Koyambedu wholesale market made brisk sales on Saturday as prices of most vegetables remained at a nominal rate. Though summer has set in, sufficient supply of produce from various neighbouring States helped keep prices under control. On Saturday, most vegetables were priced 20% lower than usual. The market received 400 truckloads of vegetables. Wholesale traders noted that the cost of most vegetables, including beetroot and brinjal, were within the range of Rs. 25-Rs. 30 per kg. With Sunday being a holiday, most of the stock was sold out. Some vegetables, such as carrots and broad beans, which are usually priced high, were sold for less than Rs. 30 per kg. Cabbage was one of the lowest priced vegetables, selling for Rs. 5 a kg. P. Sukumar, treasurer, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association, said some of the commonly used vegetables, like potato, tomato and onions, were affordable now as they cost up to Rs. 20 per kg in the wholesale market. Only a few vegetables like drumsticks, small onions (Rs. 50/kg) and green peas (Rs. 60-Rs. 70/kg) were relatively expensive. “Sales increased by 20% on Saturday as more retailers purchased produce. But the additional demand did not lead to a spike in prices as there was sufficient supply. The cost of vegetables with high water content is on the rise as summer is here,” he said. Traders expect prices to increase steadily by mid-April. Though restrictions are still in place owing to COVID-19, a marginal number of people were allowed along with retailers after checks, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-vegetable-prices-remain-low-at-koyambedu/article34181264.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||University of Madras says 60% of its faculty posts are vacant||In a reply submitted during the Senate meeting of University of Madras chaired by Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri on Saturday, the university acknowledged that 60% of its sanctioned posts were vacant. The replies were sought by Madhavaram MLA S. Sudharsanam, who is a member of the Senate. According to the data furnished, 57.7% of the 513 teaching posts and 60.8% of the 1,357 non-teaching posts were vacant. In total, 1,121 of the 1,870 posts were vacant, the statement said. Among the teaching staff, maximum vacancies were in the associate and assistant professors cadre. A total of 177 of the 290 (61%) assistant professor and 101 of the 129 associate professor (79.3%) posts were vacant. Pending funds Filling up of vacancies and the university’s financial position dominated the discussion at the Senate meeting.  The replies submitted at the meeting to the questions of Mr. Sudharsanam also showed that Rs. 165.77 crore of additional grants from the State government for the years 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 were pending. Owing to the non-release of funds, the university said it had to remit Rs. 16.37 crore from its Endowment Fund to meet salary and pension related expenses. The university officials also highlighted that admissions to the Institute of Distance Education, one of the important sources of revenue for the university, had fallen drastically due to new regulations of the University Grants Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-of-madras-says-60-of-its-faculty-posts-are-vacant/article34181270.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ECI has the power to withdraw a party’s symbol: former CEC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has the power to issue notice for the withdrawal of a party’s symbol for abusive language against a candidate, former Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) N. Gopalaswami said. Speaking at a webinar on the ‘Challenges in ensuring enhanced voter participation’ — a public interest initiative on the Right to Vote by Nippon Paint and powered by The Hindu — on Saturday, Mr. Gopalaswami said a symbol order was under the powers of the ECI. “They cannot derecognise a party. But they can take away the symbol. I hope at some point of time, the ECI takes things to that extreme and disassociates a particular party from a symbol, which will be in our circumstances a big blow. That step has to be taken wherever there is egregious violence or misconduct,” he said. ‘Covered in MCC’ Pointing to reports of abusive language “questioning somebody’s birth”, Mr. Gopalaswami said such things were covered in the model code of conduct (MCC). “Earlier, they used to get a notice. The question is what next? I think the Commission in the last election indicated what next. They can definitely issue a notice for the withdrawal of the party’s symbol,” Mr. Gopalaswami said.  Increasing turnouts Stressing on the need to increase the turnout in elections, the former Chief Election Commissioner said voters in urban constituencies, including in Chennai, seemed to be less enthusiastic about voting. “Tamil Nadu has been a fairly high-polling State. But urban voters seem to be thinking that their votes do not count,” he said. Arguing against online voting, Mr. Gopalaswami said citizens committed to democracy should spend 30 minutes and visit a polling station once in five years. “Those with a higher income level have developed cynicism. Urban voters are slightly less enthusiastic. Sceptical voters may keep urban voting at a lower level,” he said. ‘In 32 countries’ Answering questions about the action that can be taken against those who do not turn up to vote, Mr. Gopalaswami said voting was compulsory in only around 32 countries. Mark Titus, director marketing, Nippon Paint India (Decorative Division), said corporates must incentivise voting to increase the turnout in elections. Other topics covered by the webinar included suggestions for increasing participation in elections, lowering the age ceiling for postal ballots and electoral reforms for voter turnout. The webinar was moderated by T. Ramakrishnan, Associate Editor, The Hindu . The TV partner for the webinar was News 18 Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-has-the-power-to-withdraw-a-partys-symbol-former-chief-election-commissioner/article34181276.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neurosurgeon, mother convicted for dowry death||A mahila court has convicted a neurosurgeon working in a government hospital and his mother for causing the death of his wife, who was a psychiatrist, by harassing her for dowry. They were sentenced to seven-year rigorous imprisonment for abetment of suicide. According to the prosecution, the first accused, Mariano Anto Bruno Mascarenhas, was a neurosurgeon in the Government Multispecialty Hospital in the Government Omandurar Estate. His wife, Amali Victoria, a postgraduate in psychiatry, was working in the Institute of Mental Health, Kilpauk. On November 5, 2014, she was found dead in the bathroom of their home in Ayanavaram, where she lived with her husband and his parents. The police initially treated her death as being under suspicious circumstances, but the family claimed she had died due to illness. The case was investigated by personnel from the Ayanavaram police station and it was found that she ended her life due to physical and mental harassment. Mariano Anto Bruno and Amali Victoria completed their MBBS degrees and married in 2005. From the third month of the marriage, she was frequently harassed for dowry, the prosecution said. She got a job in the Vellore Government Hospital and at the time, was weak after undergoing an abortion. She was advised to rest for three weeks but her in-laws continued making her perform household chores, the prosecution said. The police charged Mario Anto Bruno, his father John Bricks Mascarenhas, and mother Alphonsal for offences under the Section 498A(Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC. Mahila Court Judge M. Rajalakshmi said the prosecution had proved charges against Mario Anto Bruno and his mother Alphonsal. John Bricks Mascarenhas was acquitted since the charges against him were not proven.  (Those in need of counselling may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neurosurgeon-mother-convicted-for-dowry-death/article34181291.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TB survivors come together to form support network||Over 100 tuberculosis survivors from Tamil Nadu have come together to form a survivor-led network. According to a press release, REACH, a city-based non-profit organisation working on tuberculosis for over two decades, facilitated the formation of the network. It was formed after over 120 tuberculosis survivors attended capacity building workshops last year. Following this, several ‘Tuberculosis Champions’ began working in the community in September 2020, with every district in the State having at least two.  TB Champions Asha Frederick, State Tuberculosis Officer, National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP), Tamil Nadu, while speaking at the launch, said, “We look forward to ‘Tuberculosis Champions’ to come to the programme with demands, needs and difficulties of tuberculosis-affected communities. With champions in every district of the State, we hope NTEP’s efforts to eliminate the disease will be further amplified.” Ramya Ananthakrishnan, director of REACH, said community engagement was a priority for REACH since its inception. “Formation of the survivor-led network is an important step towards strengthening community-led responses to tuberculosis in Tamil Nadu,” she said. The ‘Tuberculosis Champions’ were supporting people suffering from the disease in their communities, giving them and their families psychosocial support and addressing widespread stigma in the community by raising awareness on tuberculosis, said Sripriya Pandurangan, deputy project director, ALLIES Project, REACH. They were also working to identify people with symptoms and linking them to free tuberculosis care diagnosis. Over the last six months, they had supported over 1,200 persons suffering from the disease, she added. This was a first of its kind network in the State. It was in line with the National Strategic Plan for Tuberculosis for 2017-25 that calls for affected communities to no longer be passive recipients of care but become active and motivated stakeholders in the country’s response to the disease, the release said. Suma S., World Health Organization consultant to the NTEP, Tamil Nadu, and Lakshmi Murali, district Tuberculosis Officer, Tiruvallur, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tb-survivors-come-together-to-form-support-network/article34181273.ece
28 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||I was an accidental actor, but always involved in party work’||DMK president M.K. Stalin’s son and party youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin is testing the electoral waters in Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, a constituency represented by his late grandfather and former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. In the past, he had claimed that he had no plan to enter electoral politics. In an interview  , he says he was always involved in party work and his thatha (grandfather) is his role model.  Edited excerpts:  How does it feel to be shifting from cinema to full-time politics? You once said you were not keen on contesting. Even before entering the film industry, I was active in politics. I have campaigned for my grandfather and father during my school and college days. I grew up in Gopalapuram and travelled extensively across Tamil Nadu for party work with my father. Along with Kalaignar ’s (Karunanidhi) personal assistant Shanmuganathan, I used to proofread his letters published in Murasoli . Cinema was only an accident. Many of my family members are associated with the film industry. I never thought my first film would become a huge hit. Cinema is an added advantage. Only 10% of the people who come to my public meetings look for the celebrity in me...a majority see me as Kalaignar ’s grandson. How has the response to your campaign been? I am seeing the same public response that I saw in 2019. There is a clear anti-Modi wave along with anti-incumbency against the AIADMK. People don’t differentiate between the BJP and the AIADMK. The wave against the Prime Minister has only intensified due to various factors, particularly CAA, NEET, etc. The BJP is trying to use religion to gain votes but people of Tamil Nadu have always rejected such communal politics. You have been touring extensively. How confident are you about winning your seat? Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni is DMK’s fort. Kalaignar won thrice here. J. Anbalagan as MLA got infected by Coronavirus while distributing welfare measures to the people and died. I am very confident of winning. It’s not that I am not visiting. I have covered almost the entire constituency and people are saying I should focus on other constituencies. Who is your political inspiration? My father is my inspiration and my grandfather is my role model. I am only trying to learn some lessons from their political career. Thatha was an all-rounder. You cannot compare him with anybody. What issues have you identified in your constituency? There are many narrow lanes. Bad road and drainage facilities. People are complaining about power cuts. Beach shopkeepers were removed and AIADMK functionaries issued tokens for new shops after taking bribes. There is no parking space for vehicles in the constituency. If elected as MLA, I have promised to solve the issues and also develop it as a model constituency. COVID-19 infection is on the rise again. Your views on a lockdown and corona management... Lockdown to control the spread of the virus was done by many countries. Here it could have been done in a planned manner. They clamped lockdown without any notice and people were not prepared. While closing all shops, this government kept TASMAC open. That was a blunder. This government handled the pandemic very badly. If we come to power, we are sure of handling this in abetter way.  How do you propose to deliver clean and good governance, if elected? We have proposed to open a grievances cell in all districts. My father has proved his mettle as Mayor, Minister and Deputy Chief Minister. There is not a single allegation against him... Ours will be a very clean government, safe for people, particularly women.  ( http://bit.ly/Udhayanidhi StalinInterview )   This government handled the pandemic very badly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-was-an-accidental-actor-but-always-involved-in-party-work/article34181279.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 7.80 crore funds sanctioned for dispensary in Avadi||The Union Health Ministry has sanctioned Rs. 7.80 crore towards the construction of a wellness centre and laboratory in Avadi for beneficiaries of the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). A letter was sent by CGHS Additional Deputy Director General G.D. Paliya to the Additional Director, Chennai, on March 24. This has been a long battle for the CGHS beneficiaries from Avadi, which began in 2006, and culminated in the setting up of a dispensary in a building inside the Heavy Vehicles Factory premises. Currently, the dispensary has 17,000 beneficiaries. This includes employees of the Central Vehicle Research and Development Establishment, All India Radio and Central government pensioners from Pattabiram and Tiruvallur. The CGHS beneficiaries have been demanding a full-fledged polyclinic for the past decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-sanctions-funds-for-cghs-dispensary-in-avadi/article34181287.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK complains to CEO against A. Raja||A day after former Telecom Minister A. Raja made certain remarks loaded with insinuation about Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s “birth”, the AIADMK on Saturday submitted a complaint to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) seeking action against him. A group of AIADMK workers staged a demonstration in Chennai, demanding Mr. Raja’s arrest unless he tendered an apology. Mr. Raja explained that he had made the remarks in political context and not personally. DMK president M.K. Stalin appealed to party functionaries to maintain dignity in their utterances and not to provide room “for the attempts of the opponents to twist their words” in their bid to defeat the DMK. C. Thirumaran, joint secretary of the AIADMK’s advocate wing, said in the complaint that Mr. Raja’s comment were “vulgar” and “third-rate”. Alleging that he had made similar remarks against the Chief Minister in the past, for which a case was registered in Chennai, he sought registration of a case for election-related offences and debar the DMK deputy general secretary from campaigning further. Mr. Raja said his speech was misinterpreted. He respected Mr. Palaniswami as Chief Minister and would never insult or demean him. Mr. Raja told journalists that his speech referring to Mr. Stalin as a “healthy child” and Mr. Palaniswami as an “illicitly” born “preterm” baby was an allusion to their political careers and not to their personal lives. “I was comparing them as children of politics. Hence, I referred to Mr. Stalin as a healthy child as he evolved as a leader by growing up from being a district representative, a member of the general and executive councils, youth wing secretary, MLA, Mayor and Deputy Chief Minister. Mr. Palaniswami, on the other hand, was not elected by the people to be the Chief Minister. He became the Chief Minister through a shortcut by falling at the feet of V.K. Sasikala [aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa] and hence I made the reference,” he said. Claiming that a select portion of his speech was cut and pasted “to twist” his words, he said that apart from political criticisms, he would never stoop to the level of personally insulting or disgracing the Chief Minister. Mr. Stalin said in a social media post that victory as well as the path taken for the victory were important and the party would not tolerate lack of dignity. Recalling DMK founder C.N. Annadurai’s advice to party workers to have the three traits of duty, dignity and discipline, Mr. Stalin said dignity must be of foremost importance for the party speakers. He said that having failed in similar attempts and fearing defeat in the election, opponents were trying to cut, paste and twist the words of those from the DMK. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said Mr. Raja’s comments were disgusting. Dindigul I. Leoni of the DMK recently took the flak for his remarks on women while campaigning in Coimbatore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-complains-to-ceo-against-a-raja/article34181241.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity syndicate gets six new members||Six new members have been elected to the syndicate of the University of Madras. While five seats were bagged by the Professors’ Forum one seat went to a member representing Madras University Teachers Association. This time, three teams fielded candidates. Apart from Professors’ Forum and MUTA, a newly formed association, the Madras University Faculty Confederation, also fielded six candidates. MUTA’s candidate E. Murugan, professor and head, Department of Physical Chemistry polled 52 votes. The Forum’s winning candidates include T.V.S. Padmaja, principal of Valliammal College for Women; G. Baskar, head, Centre for Water Resource Management; M. Srinivasan, head of the Department of Criminology; R. Srinivasan, head of the Department of Econometrics; and R.R. Krishnamurthy, head of the Department of Applied Geology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-syndicate-gets-six-new-members/article34181261.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Non-medical teachers demand rolling back of NMC hiring guidelines||The National M.Sc Medical Teachers’ Association (NMMTA) has represented to the Union Health Ministry and the National Medical Commission (NMC) to withdraw the new guidelines on appointment of candidates with M.Sc/Ph.D degrees as teachers in medical colleges.  The Medical Council of India’s teachers eligibility and qualifications guidelines stipulated that persons with M.Sc/Ph.D qualifications could be appointed as teachers in five non-clinical specialities to the extent of 30% (50% in biochemistry) of the total faculty strength. While the draft released for public feedback by the NMC was in tune with the MCI norms, in the final gazetted notification, the permissible percentage was halved to 15% in anatomy, physiology and biochemistry. It was completely removed in the case of some disciplines, such as pharmacology and microbiology. The new norms will come into effect from academic year 2021-22. Association president P.N. Sridhar Rao said the new guidelines would prevent upward movement of faculty in pharmacology and microbiology. Also, hundreds of such teachers across the country appointed on tenure or contract would suffer. The association held a protest recently in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-medical-teachers-demand-rolling-back-of-nmc-hiring-guidelines/article34181274.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Local containment is need of the hour’||A total lockdown will be of little effect now and local containment in areas where clusters have emerged may be the apt public health measure, according to K. Kolandaswamy, former Director of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine. Speaking on electioneering and voter safety in view of the rise in fresh COVID-19 cases and the upcoming Assembly poll at a webinar on Saturday, he pointed out that last year's lockdown was to prepare the healthcare system to face the pandemic. “The lockdown caused a lot of economic hardship. It was mainly to build the capacity of our hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. It gave us the breathing time for preparedness measures,” he said. With cases rising again, he said another lockdown would have no great impact and would only extend the pandemic. “Already, nearly 50% of the population will be infected, and we are also vaccinating people. Normalcy has been restored. A lockdown will only affect services. Instead, we can have local containment measures with restrictions in movement in places where clusters of cases have surfaced. We can also restrict the movement of senior citizens and those with co-morbidities,” he said. Dr. Kolandaswamy called for setting up polling booths in well-ventilated spaces instead of cramped rooms. “Closed and contained spaces are a risk factor for disease transmission. So it is important to have proper ventilation. Hand wash facilities should be made available at polling centres. Masks should be mandatory,” he said. Election-related gatherings alone cannot be termed as the cause for a surge in cases, he said, adding, “Elections are one of the activities now. All regular activities have resumed.” Not a second wave The former DPH said the present rise in cases cannot be called a second wave. “We will not have the same magnitude of cases as we had in the first wave. Clusters are surfacing in uninfected areas and uninfected groups. This is how it will move from a pandemic to endemic,” he said. He raised the need to include more categories for the COVID-19 vaccination drive. Jaya Shreedhar, Internews pandemic adviser, participated.  We will not have the same magnitude of cases as we had in the first wave. Clusters are surfacing in uninfected areas and uninfected groups. This is how it will move from a pandemic to endemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-containment-is-the-need-of-the-hour/article34181293.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s tally exceeds 2,000 after over four months||After over four months, fresh coronavirus infections exceeded 2,000 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. A total of 2,089 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the overall tally of cases to 8,77,279. November 12, 2020, was the last time the State recorded over 2,000 cases (2,112). This new high since then pushed the active cases to 12,157, of which Chennai accounted for a major chunk as 4,785 persons were under treatment, followed by Chengalpattu (1,254) and Coimbatore (1,092). Chennai reported 775 new cases, while Chengalpattu and Coimbatore had 186 and 185 cases respectively. There were 110 cases in Tiruvallur, 82 in Kancheepuram and 66 in Thanjavur. There was an overall rise in infections in a number of districts across the State — 59 in Tiruppur, 55 in Salem, 51 in Nagapattinam, 45 in Tiruchi, 43 in Cuddalore, and 38 each in Madurai and Tiruvarur. Five returnees Among those who tested positive for the infection were five returnees from the UAE, Gujarat, Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal. Nine more persons died in the State, taking the toll to 12,659. There were four deaths in Chennai, two in Pudukottai, and one each in Chengalpattu, Madurai and Tiruvallur. All nine of them were aged above 50 years and had co-morbidities. This included a 65-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had diabetes and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on March 24 and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. In the last 24 hours, a total of 84,759 people were tested. This took the total number of people tested till date to 1,89,40,627. Samples-wise, 85,173 samples were tested. Over one lakh vaccinated Another 1,05,814 people — 35,233 senior citizens, 41,374 persons aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities, 19,077 frontline workers and 10,130 healthcare workers — were vaccinated on Saturday. The overall coverage stood at 27,53,823. Vaccination was conducted in a total of 4,773 sessions. While 28,090 senior citizens, 33,471 persons with co-morbidities, 14,553 frontline workers and 7,994 healthcare workers received Covishield, 7,143 senior citizens, 7,903 persons aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities, 4,524 frontline workers and 2,136 healthcare workers received Covaxin, according to the daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.  Another 1,05,814 people — 35,233 senior citizens, 41,374 persons aged 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities, 19,077 frontline workers and 10,130 healthcare staff — were vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-4-months-states-tally-exceeds-2000/article34181289.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Smriti Irani hits out at A. Raja||BJP leader and Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani strongly criticised DMK MP A. Raja for his alleged remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s mother. ‘Morally corrupt’ “I knew you [A. Raja] are corrupt [he was acquitted by a trial court in the 2G scam]. Today only I got to know you are also morally corrupt,” she alleged at a roadshow held near the Valluvar Kottam for the BJP’s Thousand Lights candidate Kushboo Sundar. “If a leader from the DMK makes such remarks about the Chief Minister, think about what they will say about common people,” she said. She told voters to reject the dynasty politics of the DMK and claimed that it stood for “Dynasty, Money and Katta Panchayat”. She alleged that the United Progressive Alliance regime was known for corruption and the DMK was part of it. She also alleged that the DMK is only interested in growing the wealth of its own family members and voters should reject it. The BJP, according to her, stands for new India, development, and prosperity for people. She highlighted the schemes of the Centre which benefited Tamil Nadu. Earlier, she held a roadshow on NSC Bose Road and sought votes for the party’s Harbour constituency candidate Vinoj P. Selvam.  If a leader from the DMK makes such remarks about the Chief Minister, think about what they will say about common people Smriti Irani Union Textiles Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smriti-irani-hits-out-at-a-raja-for-alleged-remarks-on-cms-mother/article34181297.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for murder||Personnel from the Sankar Nagar police station on Saturday arrested A. Amudha, 44, R. Athimoolam, 46, S. Rani, 33, and a 17-year-old juvenile for allegedly murdering Sheik Ali, 25, a construction worker and native of West Bengal, in Pozhichalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-murder/article34181262.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras varsity syndicate gets 6 new members||Six new members have been elected to the syndicate of the University of Madras. This time, three teams fielded candidates. Apart from Professors’ Forum and MUTA, a newly formed association, the Madras University Faculty Confederation, also fielded six candidates. The Forum’s winning candidates include T.V.S. Padmaja, principal of Valliammal College for Women; G. Baskar, head, Centre for Water Resource Management; M. Srinivasan, head of the Department of Criminology; R. Srinivasan, head of the Department of Econometrics; and R.R. Krishnamurthy, head of the Department of Applied Geology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-varsity-syndicate-gets-6-new-members/article34181637.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T searches chit fund firm||The Income Tax Department on Saturday searched the offices and premises of DNC Chits in Dharmapuri and other parts of the State. The department conducted searches at a school based on an input that the group had some cash movements there. Sources in the department said the group belonged to a relative of a Minister hailing from north Tamil Nadu. “More than Rs. 6 crore has been seized so far from the group and associates. We are now verifying the source of the cash,” said an official. The searches continued late into the night, officials said. DNC Chits started operations in Dharmapuri and slowly expanded to Krishnagiri, Salem and Chennai. In 2019, the company set up its corporate office in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-searches-chit-fund-firm/article34181277.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7.5% of Chennai population vaccinated||The Greater Chennai Corporation has administered COVID-19 vaccine to 7.5% of the city’s population, Commissioner G. Prakash said. Mr. Prakash told presspersons on Friday that volunteers would identify eligible residents for vaccination. “Many eligible residents above the age of 45 have not received doses. Vaccination is a tool to contain COVID-19,” he said. “We started with 16 centres to administer COVID-19 vaccine. The number of vaccination centres has increased to 411 in the city. This is the largest number for any city in the country. We will administer vaccine to 10 lakh residents by the end of this month,” said Mr. Prakash. Over 6 lakh residents in 15 zones had received vaccination so far. Over four lakh had been given Covishield and two lakh Covaxin. The civic body would distribute PPE kits to COVID-19 patients visiting the polling booths on April 6, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-of-chennai-population-vaccinated/article34181327.ece
28 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin||T.K. Rohit   Amid an increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, DMK president M.K. Stalin took a dig at his party’s Alandur and Pallavaram candidates while campaigning in Pallavaram. Requesting everyone to wear masks when stepping out, Mr. Stalin pointed out to the crowd in jest: “Look...our candidates are not wearing masks. Please wear a mask.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin/article34181258.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Candidates promise to address challenges of diverse sectors||Palladam, one of the Assembly constituencies in the western region that is with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) for 20 years, is looking for assurances from the candidates this election on issues such as infrastructure, water supply for agriculture, and better livelihood for powerloom weavers. Palladam Assembly constituency covers one municipality, two panchayat unions, and parts of Tiruppur Corporation, including Pongalur, Palladam town, Koduvai, and parts of Tiruppur town. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) candidate S.S. Ponmudi won here in 1996 and after that the Assembly constituency remained with the AIADMK. This year, the AIADMK has fielded M.S.M. Anandan and the DMK front has nominated K. Muthurathinam of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK), who contested in 2016 too. There are candidates from Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and Makkal Needhi Maiam also. Palladam constituency has more number of women voters than men and is the largest in Tiruppur region, with 548 polling booths. The electorate are from diverse sectors, such as agriculture, powerloom, poultry, and textile processing. “We want the newly-elected government to ensure that job working powerloom units get higher wages. There is no increase in wages for the last 10 years. Further, as use of autolooms are on the rise, the government should reserve some varieties to be woven using the normal power looms,” said Velusamy, a powerloom weaver. According to K. Kandasamy of Paruvai village, ground water level is available at 500 feet to 1000 feet or below. Farmers in Palladam belt cultivate mainly vegetables and a major challenge for them is shortage of farm labour. “Several lands remain unused. Agriculture activities used to thrive in our villages when I was about 15 years old. Now, there is shortage of workers and water. The MNREGS workers should be permitted to work on farms as done in Kerala,” he said. “While the opposition parties are focusing on price rise, the ruling party is highlighting the election manifesto promise of six free LPG cylinders a year and payment of Rs. 1,500 a month for women,” Mr. Velusamy added. Both, Mr. Muthurathinam and Mr. Anandan are assuring the voters their efforts to ease traffic congestion in Palladam town. “The town needs a bypass road and an electric crematorium and I will ensure both these are implemented,” says Mr. Anandan. “The people are unhappy with the AIADMK government on several agriculture policies. Palladam has about 50,000 powerlooms. These weavers are unhappy. The poultry sector needs better infrastructure such as a research centre and the textile dyeing units need financial support from the State government. I promise to address these,” says Mr. Muthurathinam. “The wage issue for job working powerloom units is a complex one. I had taken part in discussions between textile manufacturers and jobworkers when I was the Minister earlier. I will find a permanent solution to this problem and will also construct a marketing centre and common facility centre for the powerloom weavers,” says Mr. Anandan. With these assurances, both the candidates are confident of winning the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidates-promise-to-address-challenges-of-diverse-sectors/article34181773.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Price rise, an issue in textile industry||Steep hike in prices of raw materials in the last few months is emerging as a major issue in the textile clusters across Tamil Nadu, which will go to polls next month. Tamil Nadu, the textile capital of the country, employs directly almost 60 lakh people and has clusters across the textile value chain -- spinning, weaving, processing, and garment making. The prices of cotton, which is the basic raw material for spinning mills, is up and that has pushed the prices of yarn, say the spinners. Coupled with increase in demand and speculation, the prices shot up, they say. In the last three to four months, yarn prices have increased by Rs. 100 a kg. And there is no certainty on the prices. The government should take at least temporary measures to bring stability to yarn prices. Weaving is a labour-oriented industry. Already the prices of textile products such as towels are up, says a fabric manufacturer in Salem. There was no special package for textiles even when the Central government announced relief measures after the lockdown, he adds. “Yarn prices should be brought under control and weavers should get yarn at affordable prices,” says M. Varadarajan, a handloom weaver and general secretary of Erode District handloom weaving workers union. The handloom weavers also want the State government to give orders for free dhoti and sarees scheme to the handloom sector. “This will give us business throughout the year and youngsters will remain in the weaving sector,” he said. The textile processors in Tiruppur say they have appealed to all the political parties to bring down GST for processing and to convert the Rs. 200 crore interest-free loan given to Common Effluent Treatment Plants to grant. A garment exporter in Tiruppur says hike in prices of diesel and yarn is likely to impact voting. After moving up for nearly four months, yarn prices have remained stable during the last week and supply is becoming regular.  Housing for workers According to Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association, Tiruppur's main demand to political parties is to support the manufacturers in the construction of houses for workers. A medium-sized garment exporting unit employs nearly 500 workers. Housing for these workers can be developed jointly by the government and the industry. Most of the workers in Tiruppur are from other districts or States and now live in dormitories and rented houses, he says. The spinning mill owners add that removal of Market Committee cess is a long-pending demand with the State government. Electricity, pollution control, and labour come under the State government purview for textile mills. The mills need industry-friendly energy policies to attract investments, they say. Further, yarn produced in States such as Gujarat, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh cost less than that of Tamil Nadu because of the incentives offered by the respective governments. Tamil Nadu should have policies that will make textile production competitive and attract investments, they say. According to Ashwin Chandran, chairman of Southern India Mills' Association, the yarn price issue should be addressed jointly by all the stakeholders in the textile sector. The Association has appealed to all its members to not increase the prices any further and to supply yarn at the committed price, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-rise-an-issue-in-textile-industry/article34181362.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade and industry present demands to candidates in the fray||The trade and industry in Coimbatore have submitted their demands to the candidates contesting the Assembly elections. The meeting, organised jointly by various industrial associations, was attended by six candidates - Vanathi Srinivasan of BJP (Coimbatore south), R. Doraisamy of AMMK (Coimbatore south), Mayura Jayakumar of Congress (Coimbatore south), R. Mahendran of MNM (Singanallur), N. Karthik of DMK (Singanallur) and Amman Arjunan of AIADMK (Coimbatore north). The main demands related to infrastructure, industry, electricity, and transport. It included expansion of Coimbatore airport, better international air connectivity, multi-storeyed industrial estate for micro units, clusters for wet grinders and agriculture equipment manufacturing, and two 1,000-acre industrial parks. The industry wanted privatisation of electricity distribution so that industries had alternative sources to buy power. Solar energy generators should get incentives to promote clean energy. Coimbatore city also needed a circular train service connecting places such as the airport, Hope College, Tidel Park, Nanjundapuram and Ondipudur. Some places already had the infrastructure for this. The candidates spoke about the works they and their parties had taken up in the past and what they planned to do, if elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-and-industry-present-demands-to-candidates-in-the-fray/article34181321.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Existence of MSMEs under threat: Coimbatore MP||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore district are facing several challenges and their existence is under threat, said Member of Parliament from Coimbatore P.R. Natarajan. In a memorandum to the Union Government, Mr. Natarajan said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) conducted a meeting with the MSMEs here recently, in the presence of the party general secretary Sitaram Yechury. The MSMEs in Coimbatore operate in different sectors such as pumpsets, plastic, and wetgrinders and provide jobs to thousands of workers. These units do job works for medium and large-scale industries. But the units have been facing several challenges in the last few months. For instance, the cost of raw materials has increased manifold in the last one year. The price of amino gas has increased 166 %, he said. The MSMEs are unable to realise even minimum profit and hence face the threat of closure. The government should take steps to control the prices of raw materials. It should constitute a committee to monitor the prices and ensure these remain stable for a year. The MSMEs pay GST of 12 % to 18 %. This is too high and the rate should be brought down to 5 %. The government should have a redress forum on GST for MSMEs. A skills training institute should be established for MSME workers. Separate banks should also be opened to cater to the financial needs of MSMEs. Since the units are facing several challenges because of the pandemic, the loan repayment period should be extended to 15 years and the rate of interest should be 8 %. The infrastructure needs of MSMEs, such as industrial estate, accommodation for workers, and marketing centres, should be established, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/existence-of-msmes-under-threat-coimbatore-mp/article34181320.ece
28 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Kural Malai project will be completed soon’||A project to engrave the 1,330 Thirukkural couplets on a hill in Erode district will be completed soon with the permission of Central and State governments, said former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University E. Balagurusamy here on Saturday. The project named Kural Malai (Kural Hill) involves the inscription of the couplets along with their explanations in Tamil and English on a 20-acre surface of the hill at Malayappalayam in Nambiyur Block of Erode district. The first couplet was inscribed and inaugurated on the hill in 2016, he told mediapersons. A conference was also held at Erode in January 2020 where he proposed a resolution to create this Kural Malai that was received by former UNESCO Director Armoogum Parsuramen, Mr. Balagurusamy said. The recent announcement made by the Tamil Nadu BJP in its manifesto that all arrangements will be done for the Kural Malai has come as a shot in the arm for those spearheading this project for many decades, he said. Estimated to cost around Rs. 100 crore, Mr. Balagurusamy said that the area around the inscriptions would be developed as a tourist spot and the works would begin after the Assembly election. P. Ravikumar, founder of Kural Malai Sangam, said that out of the total area of 20.5 acres available on the hill in Malayappalayam, the couplets and their explanations would be engraved within seven acres. The rest of the available space would be used for pathways, vehicle parking and children’s park, he said. The Kural Malai Sangam has formed a committee led by Mr. Balagurusamy to coordinate with the Central and State governments for this project, Mr. Ravikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kural-malai-project-to-be-completed-soon/article34181373.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested on charges of cheating||The District Crime Branch (DCB) of Coimbatore Rural Police on Saturday arrested two persons on charges of cheating a financier of Rs. 46.61 lakh. The arrested were M. Jegannathan (34) from Gandhi Nagar at Edayarpalayam, and S. Suresh (29) from VOC Street at Seeranaickenpalayam. According to the police, S. Karthik (48) of V.K.L. Nagar, Thudiyalur, who runs a finance firm and used car dealership, lodged a complaint with the DCB against Jegannathan and Suresh accusing them of swindling Rs. 46.61 lakh between August 2, 2018 and November 8, 2019. Remanded in custody The accused were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. Staff Reporter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-on-charges-of-cheating/article34181775.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three election officials suspended in Valparai||District Collector S. Nagarajan has suspended an overseer and two police personnel who were part of a static surveillance team in Valparai Assembly constituency. Dereliction of duty In his proceeding dated March 26, Mr. Nagarajan said by failing to act on a complaint forwarded to them the overseer, Vellingiri, and constables Prasath and Kumaravel, had shown dereliction towards duty. They had not acted on the complaint for two hours, he said and added that they were suspended with immediate effect and also relieved of election duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-election-officials-suspended-in-valparai/article34181778.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sivasenapathy apologises for Leoni’s remarks||DMK candidate for Thondamuthur Assembly constituency Karthikeya Sivasenapathy apologised on Saturday for the remarks the party's star campaigner Dindigul I. Leoni made a few days ago. He told reporters it was quite unfortunate that Mr. Leoni made the remark. “Even as he was making the remark, I pulled his wrist as a signal. It was made in jest as an example to highlight the importance of native breed cows and his association with their protection”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivasenapathy-apologises-for-leonis-remarks/article34181383.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||T.T.V. questions AIADMK’s poll promise||How would the AIADMK government that couldn’t properly disburse old age pension, pay Rs. 1,500 a family as mentioned in its election manifesto, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran asked in his public meeting in Coimbatore on Saturday. With the State having a debt of over Rs. 6 lakh crore, how would the AIADMK deliver on its promise. Its manifesto is full of untruth as it was aimed at duping people. The AIADMK leadership was under the impression that with money and administrative power it could get away with anything. The AIADMK would not be able to buy people, Mr. Dhinakaran said and added that only the AMMK government would give stability and development. If voted to power, the AMMK would strive for Coimbatore airport expansion, upgrade of the government hospital, elevation of government hospital in Mettupalayam to a district head quarters hospital among others, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ttv-questions-aiadmks-poll-promise/article34181386.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Union Minister challenges Kamal Haasan to a debate with Vanathi Srinivasan||BJP leader and Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday challenged Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan to a debate with Vanathi Srinivasan, the BJP’s candidate for the Coimbatore South Assembly constituency. Recalling her debate with Mr. Haasan on a television platform, she said, “I call upon one who is going around with a torch to debate with Ms. Srinivasan on problems, solutions, policy and governance. The debate will help voters see the difference like milk and water. Let the voters determine who is better between the two,” she said. Alternating between Hindi and Gujarati, Ms. Irani said voting was a sacred duty because a vote for the BJP was to uplift the poor. As a result they would gain good deeds, which would reach them sitting on the lotus (BJP symbol) and not with a torchlight (MNM party symbol). Appealing to the young voters to encourage their friends to vote for the BJP, she said during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Central government, through Jandhan accounts, was able to directly transfer money to people’s accounts. It had also given free rations for eight months to 80 crore families. Imagine if this would have reached the people in Tamil Nadu had the DMK been in power, she asked. According to her, for the BJP politics was a way of serving people. She reminded the people of Prime Minister Narendra Modi bowing down on the Parliament steps in 2014. A vote for Ms. Srinivasan was a vote for the BJP and a reflection of the faith in Mr. Modi, she said and highlighted the achievements of the BJP government at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smriti-irani-challenges-kamal-haasan-to-a-debate-with-vanathi-srinivasan/article34181323.ece
28 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant camp concludes||The 13th annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants concluded at Thekkampatti, near Mettupalayam, as a low-key affair on Saturday. Organised by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department, the end of the 48-day-long elephant camp usually sees the participation of Ministers from the State government. Department sources said that Ministers and top officials could not be invited as they were busy with the Assembly election. HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan and Forests and Animal Husbandry officials participated in the concluding ceremony, during which the 25 elephants that attended the camp and their mahouts boarded vehicles to their respective temples or mutts, the sources said. This year’s camp suffered a setback when a video clip of elephant Jeyamalyatha from Andal Temple in Srivilliputhur being caned by its mahout and another man went viral on social media last month. The elephant was sent back to the temple on March 4, following the mahout’s suspension and arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-camp-ends/article34181310.ece
28 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Barat festival||Coimbatore District All Jamaath general secretary M.I. Mohammad Ali announced that the ‘Barat’ night will be celebrated on March 28 (Sunday). The festival will commemorate the 15th night of Shaban, which is the eighth month of the Islamic calendar. Special discourses will be held in all the Sunnat Jamaath mosques in the district to mark the festival, Mr. Ali said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barat-festival/article34181774.ece
28 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||M. Soundariya Preetha   The ‘Meet your candidate’ event, organised by trade and industry associations of Coimbatore on Friday, was an opportunity for candidates to come together on a single platform. AIADMK candidate for Coimbatore North Amman K. Arjunan and DMK candidate for Singanallur N. Karthik were seated next to each other. The Coimbatore South Congress candidate, the Coimbatore South BJP candidate, the Singanallur MNM candidate and the Coimbatore South AMMK candidate took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34181250.ece
28 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Namitha||Karthik Madhavan   Actor and BJP campaigner Namitha appealed to her fans to vote for the BJP, while campaigning for Coimbatore South candidate Vanathi Srinivasan in Ramnagar on Friday. She reached out to her fans by addressing them machan in Tamil, an endearment she is known for, amid claps. She also briefly danced with the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namitha/article34181256.ece
28 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Stage set for a tough battle in Cuddalore||The stage has been set for an intense battle in Cuddalore between Industries Minister M.C. Sampath of the AIADMK and G. Iyappan of the DMK. The Amma Makkal Munnettra Kazhagam (AMMK) is also in the fray. Mr. Sampath is aiming for a hat-trick. In 2011, he won by 33,678 votes, and in 2016, the margin dipped to 24,413 votes. The AIADMK breached the DMK bastion thrice — in 1977, 2011 and 2016. The DMK has won in seven of the 15 elections held since 1952. An analysis of the vote share since 2011 reveals a dip for both parties. From 60.56% in 2011, when Mr. Sampath defeated E. Pugazhendi of the DMK, the AIADMK’s vote share went down to 41.07% in 2016. The DMK’s vote share dropped from 36.83% in 2011 to 26.93% in 2016. There is always an undercurrent of caste tension in the coastal town. How the caste equations will play out this time remains to be seen. Factional fights in the AIADMK’s district unit and possible anti-incumbency are expected to affect the party’s chances to some extent. Cuddalore remains a backward area, residents say, and Mr. Sampath has not added to the town’s infrastructure in his two consecutive terms as Minister. One of the major problems is pollution. There has been no improvement in the water quality in the SIPCOT area. Cuddalore is a water-stressed town and the continuous release of untreated effluents has caused an irreparable damage to the ecology, says T. Arul Selvam of SIPCOT Area Community Environmental Monitors (SACEM). “The infrastructure is woefully inadequate and no development is visible during the past 10 years of the AIADMK rule. Be it education, industrial pollution or even roads, there has been no work,” says Mr. Iyappan, the DMK candidate. “The Cuddalore port project was activated when I was the MLA. However, the port’s expansion and creation of fish landing facilities have been put on the back-burner,” he says.  The infrastructure is woefully inadequate and no development is visible during the past 10 years of the AIADMK rule   G. Iyappan DMK candidate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stage-is-all-set-for-a-tough-battle-in-cuddalore/article34181308.ece
28 March 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||BJP will lose deposit in all seats: Balakrishnan||The BJP will lose deposit in all the 20 seats it is contesting in the Assembly election, State secretary of CPI(M) K. Balakrishnan said here on Saturday. The rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG had severely affected the public, he told presspersons. Poser to CM “There is a wave in favour of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led front across the State,” he said, and asked why Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who calls himself a farmer, had not supported farmers’ protests in Delhi.  Mr. Balakrishnan said that farmers were against the Chief Minister as he had jailed those who protested against the Salem-Chennai green corridor project, the GAIL pipeline and installation of high-tension towers on farmlands here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-lose-deposit-in-all-seats-cpim/article34181280.ece
28 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||304 vulnerable polling stations in Erode district||A total of 304 vulnerable polling stations were identified in the eight Assembly constituencies in the district and security would be stepped up during polling on April 6, said District Election Officer and District Collector C. Kathiravan here on Saturday. Mr. Kathiravan along with general and expenditure observers and police observer chaired a meeting with representatives of recognised political parties at the Collectorate. During the meeting, Mr. Kathiravan said that vulnerable polling stations identified in each constituencies are Erode (East) – 20 polling stations, Erode (West) – 39, Modakkurichi – 31, Perundurai – 67, Bhavani – 28, Anthiyur – 34, Gobichettipalayam – 66 and Bhavanisagar 19. Also, a total of 38 polling stations, 21 in Anthiyur constituency and 17 in Bhavanisagar constituency, were identified as shadow area stations where there is no mobile connectivity. He said that there are 2,741 polling stations in the district. Public can lodge election-related complaints with the control room that functions round-the-clock at the Collectorate at toll free number 1800 42570 24, 1950 or 0424-2257901, 2256782, 2251863 or 2256524. Mr. Kathiravan said that there are 50,052 electors above 80 years and 14,597 differently-abled voters and a total of 5,435 electors had requested for postal ballot facility and had submitted Form 12D. Election officials will reach their residence between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Sunday and they can cast their votes. If they cannot cast their postal ballot on March 28, officials will again visit their houses on March 31, he said. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, District Revenue Officer Murugesan and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/304-vulnerable-polling-stations-in-erode-district/article34181370.ece
28 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Reaching out to the North Indian voters||Major political parties are reaching out to about 16,500 voters from North India, who have settled in various parts of the city coming under the Erode East Assembly constituency. During Partition, a Hindu family from Karachi in Pakistan came to the city and settled down. They opened a textile showroom, ‘Bombay Hall’, near the Town Police Station. Till 1975, only nine families were doing business here. As a favourable business environment prevailed, more people from North India, particularly from Rajasthan and Gujarat, started arriving between 1975 and 1980 and settled here. While over 60% of them are involved in textile business, the rest are involved in selling wholesale fancy items, utensils, turmeric exports and lending money. They reside in Indira Nagar, Thirunagar Colony, Kottai, Valayakarar Street, K.A.S. Nagar, OMR Colony, Nehru Street and parts of Karungalpalayam that are spread across four major wards of the Erode Corporation. Also, people from from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha and a few other States run tea shops and other small businesses in the city. Over 8,500 families of 22 castes have been residing here for over 30 years, and have cast their votes in elections. Since these people have been residing here for long, the candidates chose to speak to them in Tamil, rather than make an attempt in Hindi. Candidates M. Yuvaraja of Tamil Manila Congress, who is contesting on the AIADMK’s two-leaves symbol and E. Thirumahan Everaa of the Indian National Congress are seeking the votes of these people with a promise to solve problems their businesses faced. On Friday, All India Congress committee (AICC) secretary and party Tamil Nadu in-charge Sanjay Dutt and Mr. Thirumahan Everaa campaigned on a street where the people from North India run their businesses, and sought votes for the party. Congress members said that since these votes were significant, there was focus on reaching out to all these families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reaching-out-to-the-north-indian-voters/article34181365.ece
28 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Paid holiday on polling day||District Election Officer and District Collector C. Kathiravan has announced that all the public sector undertakings, private business establishments and industries should declare a paid holiday for their employees on the day of polling on April 6.  Action will be taken against establishments if they fail to pay wages to the workers for the particular day. Complaints can be lodged with, for industries - K. Chandramohan, Deputy Director, Industrial Safety and Health at 99948-47205, for shops and commercial establishments and food business – D. Balathandautham, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) at 86107-11278, P. Murugesan, Deputy Inspector (Labour) at 94435-66160, and S. Rajkumar, Assistant Inspector (Labour) at 96982-11509.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paid-holiday-on-polling-day/article34181368.ece
28 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for robbing train passenger||A 28-year-old man from Mallapuram in Kerala was arrested by a special team for robbing jewellery, cash and mobile phone worth Rs. 1.60 lakh from a differently-abled woman passenger S. Priya (39) of Coimbatore on board the train here on Saturday. He was produced before the court and lodged at prison. A release said passengers in distress can call the Railway Police Helpline 1512 and also 99625-00500 to lodge security-related complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-robbing-train-passenger/article34181367.ece
28 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode||S.P. Saravanan   With just nine days left for campaigning, parties are leaving no stone unturned. On Friday, DMK and AIADMK cadre, with party flags, stood outside the New Masjid in the Erode Corporation limits, seeking support for their respective candidates after prayers got over at the mosque. AMMK and other party cadre, too, stood outside mosques, seeking support for their candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34181252.ece
28 March 2021||Kaayalpattinam,TAMIL NADU||Render justice to anti-Sterlite crusaders, says Vaiko||The voters of Thoothukudi district should render justice for every drop of blood shed by the anti-Sterlite protestors killed in police firing and the gruesome killing of trader P. Jayaraj and his son Benicks due to custodial torture by the police, MDMK general secretary Vaiko appealed. Campaigning for DMK candidate for Tiruchendur constituency Anita R. Radhakrishnan on Saturday evening, Mr. Vaiko said the police, to safeguard the business interests of mining baron Anil Agarwal’s Sterlite Copper, hunted down the anti-Sterlite protestors even as they took out a peaceful march to submit a petition to the Collector to highlight their demand of permanent closure of the copper smelter. The police, in a bid to justify their gruesome murders, set fire to vehicles to show the world that the arson had been set off by the protestors. “I met the traumatised families of the deceased, whose agony cannot be described in any terms. Though human right activists had camped in Thoothukudi to compile voluminous report on this incident, I don’t know how and when the justice will be rendered to these families. But I firmly believe that you, the electorate of Thoothukudi district, can render justice through your votes by handing over crushing defeat to these perpetrators in the upcoming Assembly election on April 6,” Mr. Vaiko said. He also recalled the brutal murder of Sattankulam trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks due to custodial torture. The MDMK general secretary said there was no safety and justice for the minorities in the country as the Narendra Modi-led Union Government was launching systematic attack on the Muslims living across the country – right from Kashmir to Kanniyakumari. After autocratically removing Article 370 of Indian Constitution that guaranteed special status to Kashmir, the Muslims there were not even allowed to move out of their houses while Internet connectivity was down for more than a year in a bid to isolate the population there from rest of the world. “After detaining the leaders including Farook Abdullah, his son Omar Abdulla, Mehboobha Muft and others, the people of Kashmir were not even allowed to contact others to share their plight. Even though the international community and the media were very much concerned about the state of affairs in Kashmir, the Modi-led government was keen on murdering democracy in Kashmir. There is no safety for minorities under the rule of Mr. Narendra Modi, who pushes aggressively Citizenship Amendment Act and Farmers’ Act for the benefit of corporates,” Mr. Vaiko said as Kaayalpattinam houses sizeable Muslim population. He assured that the Secular Progressive Alliance would safeguard the interests of the minorities despite the threat from BJP’s ‘One nation, one language, one culture and one religion’ ideology. Mr. Vaiko said the voters, who had been hit hard by unprecedented inflation, sustained steps being taken by the Centre to destabilise the diversity of the country, and other unsafe situations being created by the State and the Central Governments for political gains could be neutralised only if the Secular Progressive Alliance in Tamil Nadu was strengthened in the Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-ensure-justice-for-anti-sterlite-crusaders/article34181286.ece
28 March 2021||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen, farmers reject CM’s assurance||Within a few hours after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami assured that his government would not allow the Kanniyakumari International Transhipment Terminal Project, fishermen and farmers of the district have categorically declared that their agitation against this project would continue until the State and the Central Governments formally scrapped it. A resolution to this effect was passed in a mammoth meeting and subsequently a demonstration was held in the coastal hamlet of Keezha Manakkudi near Kanniyakumari on Saturday evening. Over 15,000 people from various parts of the district participated in this meeting and the protest was led by retired civil servant M.G. Devasahayam. “We reject the Chief Minister’s announcement which has been made on the eve of elections to hoodwink the people agitating against this project. Our protest will continue with much vigour until the governments come out with formal announcement on permanently scrapping the Kanniyakumari International Transhipment Terminal Project,” said the resolution. While farmers reached Keezha Manakkudi via road, the fishermen from almost all coastal hamlets of the district took the sea route to arrive at the protest venue in hundreds of boats with black flags as they feared that they would be stopped in their villages itself. Bishop of Kottar RC Diocese Most Rev. Nazarene Soosai, ‘Ayya Vazhi’ Balaprajapathi, environmental activist G. Sundararajan of ‘Poovulagin Nanbargal’, coordinator of the Anti- Kanniyakumari International Transhipment Terminal Project R.S. Parthasarathi and others participated in today’s protest and the meeting as well. When the Union Government decided to create container transshipment terminal at Enayam near Colachel under ‘Sagarmala Scheme’, the fishermen opposed it and organised a series of intense agitations against it that forced the Centre to give-up the proposal. The fishermen said the project would wipe-out fishing operations in the entire district due to pollution caused by the proposed port and other consequences. Subsequently, the Centre shifted the project to a place close to Kanniyakumari only to get similar opposition from the fishermen and the farmers. And, the intense opposition reflected in the Lok Sahba polls in 2019 in which BJP’s Pon. Radhakrishnan, who had declared that he would ensure the execution of the project at any cost, lost by a whopping margin of over 2.50 lakh votes to Congress candidate H. Vasanthakumar. Even as the people expected that the negative election result would seal the fate of the project, the ‘Expression of Interest’ advertisement given recently by the VOC Port, Thoothukudi, the project proponent, inviting private firms to join hands with the government in executing the Kanniyakumari International Transhipment Terminal Project instantly revived the protest. Sensing the people’s anger, Mr. Palaniswami while campaigning in the district on Saturday, announced that he would not allow the project. However, the farmers and the fishermen have declared that their agitation would continue until the project was shelved permanently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-farmers-reject-cms-assurance/article34181355.ece
28 March 2021||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Unfinished development works and broken promises||A constituency, popularly known as Chettinad town and famous for its heritage style bungalows, ancient temples and dishes is now grappling with an issue that has thrown haywire the daily lives of the people here. A scheme to lay underground drainage facility in Karaikudi Municipal limits was welcomed by the tax paying citizens about five years ago. However, the undue delay has irked the residents so much that a majority of them are fed up with the authorities and elected representatives. A number of voters in the constituency, with whom The Hindu spoke, expressed their concern. They pointed out that the UGD works should have been completed two years ago. Lack of accountability and official lethargy coupled with problems from contractors had dragged the works. The heavy rainfall in December and January 2020 too had its share in the delay. “It is a classic example of how a project should not be drawn up,” the residents summed up and wished the works would get over at the earliest. The UGD project taken up in Karaikudi Municipality should have actually worked in favour of the ruling party. However, delay and the hardships faced by the residents due to digging of roads appear to be giving an edge to the opponents in this election. The constituency is home to numerous philanthropists. Leading among them is the late Alagappa Chettiar, who had donated huge resources from his family for the development and welfare of the people of Karaikudi. The Alagappa University stands tall in the town. Likewise, a number of schools and polytechnics too have children studying from in and around Karaikudi and Devakottai and other towns. However, academicians say that though there is a state-of-the-art varsity, they don't have a government engineering college. Similarly, a law college has also been a long pending demand. The elected representatives even assured in the past to establish an IT Park on the lines of Chennai and Coimbatore cities, but nothing has taken shape. Congress vs BJP For over a month, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP P. Chidambaram, a heavy weight in the town, has been touring the constituency by presiding over booth-level workers meetings and has openly challenged to defeat the BJP’s entry in Tamil Nadu. “I will not allow BJP candidates to win even one seat in TN,” he said and compared the party to a poisonous plant. He has urged the Congress workers to begin door-to-door campaigning and bring votes in favour of Mangudi, the Congress candidate. However, senior BJP leader H. Raja, who was elected from Karaikudi Assembly constituency exactly two decades ago, is sure to make it to the Assembly this time with a comfortable margin. Considered as a prominent person in the party, who has access to people in New Delhi, the party functionaries say that Mr Raja, if elected, would bring in more Central projects directly through which the people here would benefit in a big way. A resident of Karaikudi, Mr Raja, is familiar with the people and the issues. He says that the Congress, which was elected from here multiple times in the past, had done nothing tangible for the constituency. Even with the presence of Mr Chidambaram, Karaikudi has seen no big development, which should have come in with ease. The BJP is banking on the popularity of Narendra Modi and relying on the AIADMK workers at the ground level. Active support from AIADMK district secretary Senthilnathan is expected to help the BJP functionaries at the booth and union levels. Though the infighting in Congress has settled for the time being, Mr. Mangudi, who has been the Sankarapuram panchayat president for over a decade, is relying on the former Union Finance Minister Mr. Chidambaram's goodwill and popularity here rather than the support from the DMK. Apart from the two national parties, the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) has fielded Durai Manikam, Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) has Rajkumar and AMMK has Therbogi Pandi, the district secretary in the race. While the NTK and MNM candidates are known for their active roles in social issues, Mr Pandi of the AMMK, had polled 1.22 lakh votes in the Lok Sabha polls here and among them he got the maximum votes from Karaikudi Assembly then. Hence, the three regional party candidates are determined to play spoilsport effectively to the front runners. With the high voltage campaign of the regional party leaders completed, the candidates are moving from one end of the constituency to the other meeting voters and community leaders. While DMK president M. K. Stalin attacked the AIADMK for having done nothing, the tour of CM Edappadi Palaniswami has come as a fillip to the grassroot workers as he repeatedly mentioned that the State was free from law and order issues. The CM’s promise to upgrade Karaikudi as corporation and to complete the UGD works has brightened the prospects of the BJP. A change in the constituency looks imminent, according to political analysts, but strongman Mr Chidambaram is said to be very much determined to take home the cake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfinished-development-works-and-broken-promises/article34181360.ece
28 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Good governance by Karunanidhi led to development in T.N.: Siddaramaiah||Former Chief Minister of Karnataka Siddaramaiah said that good governance by former Chief Minister Karunanidhi led to development in Tamil Nadu. Campaigning in Hosur, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the BJP hads not been able to grow much in South India. In Karnataka, the BJP was not voted to power but it formed the government through ‘Operation Kamal’. He said that voting for the AIADMK was equal to voting for the BJP. Hence, the public should hand a huge loss to the BJP-AIADMK alliance in the upcoming elections. The DMK should come to power to put an end to hike in petrol, diesel and domestic gas prices. Mr. Siddaramaiah accused the BJP of trying to rule the country through divisive politics and by creating clashes between Hindus and Muslims. Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not have time for farmers who had been protesting for 120 days, but he was working in favour of corporates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-rule-by-karunanidhi-led-to-development-in-tn/article34181304.ece
28 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Strict adherence to COVID-19 safety precautions stressed||There has been a significant rise in new COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai district in the past three weeks. The public health department officials say that hospitals are prepared with additional facilities and manpower to meet the surge. While the number of active COVID-19 cases recorded in the district was 50 on March 1, it rose to 227 on March 27. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that the positivity rate of the district rose from 0.86 in the last 14 days to 0.99 in the last seven days. Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) Dean J. Sangumani said nearly 100 out of 520 beds in GRH were occupied with patients suffering from COVID-19. Similarly, a total of 246 beds were ready to handle COVID-19 cases at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur. Recently, a separate meeting was convened with the heads of departments and other doctors of the GRH to discuss ways to manage the rising COVID-19 positive cases. They were instructed that equal importance must be given in treating other cases. A separate committee has been formed to ensure mask compliance within the GRH campus. Dr. Arjun Kumar said that around 800 beds are ready at the IT park in Vadapalanji - a COVID-19 care centre - to treat patients. “As the need increases, additional number of COVID-19 care centres will be established.” Till date, around 1.06 lakh healthcare, frontline workers and the public have been administered COVID-19 vaccine in Madurai district. COVID-19 vaccination is important as it helps to bring down severity and infectivity of the virus, said Dr. Sangumani. Former Director of Public Health K. Kolandaisamy said strict adherence to use of masks, maintaining personal distance and washing hands frequently were important to prevent the spread of infection. “People should not be careless and strictly follow all safety measures. It was important to widen the category of people who can be administered the COVID-19 vaccination. “The government should allow all those with comorbidities to get themselves vaccinated, irrespective of their age. People who have high public interaction like vendors and traders must also be included in the COVID-19 vaccination cover,” he added. Dr. Arjun Kumar said that children and elderly must stay away from crowded places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-ready-to-meet-surge-in-covid-19-cases/article34181686.ece
28 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stage being set for PM’s visit in Madurai||Leaders of the AIADMK and the BJP on Saturday participated in a boomi puja to set up a gallery at Amma Thidal near Pandikoil here ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Madurai on April 2. A large public meeting to canvass votes for contestants of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is scheduled on April 2. Apart from the PM, AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other leaders of alliance parties are expected to participate in the public meeting. Revenue Minister R.B.Udhayakumar, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, AIADMK Tirupparankundram candidate V.V. Rajan Chellappa, BJP Madurai North candidate P. Saravanan, and BJP State general secretary R. Srinivasan also participated in the boomi puja function. A source from the BJP said that a huge crowd is expected to participate in the public meeting. “NDA contestants from other southern districts are also expected to participate,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stage-being-set-for-pms-visit-in-madurai/article34181841.ece
28 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petition to fill up vacant posts in all Central Prisons||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought response from the State in a public interest litigation petition seeking direction to fill up posts of Additional Superintendents and social workers in all Central Prisons in the State. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi sought response to the petition filed by advocate K.R. Raja of Madurai. He said that the post of Additional Superintendents have been kept vacant since 2018 without any valid reason. Highlighting the duties and functions of Additional Superintendents, the petitioner said that one of their main functions was to check court orders with regard to admission and release of prisoners after verification and checking committal warrants. Due to the vacancy in the posts, subordinate officers were carrying out these functions and it had resulted in workload. This impacted prison administration, he said. Similarly, the posts of social workers were vacant, he said. The petitioner said that social workers offered counselling to prison inmates and due to the vacancy, they were receiving insufficient assistance. There was a lack of attention towards psychological well being of prisoners. He sought a direction to the State to take steps and fill the vacancies to the posts in all Central Prisons in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-to-fill-up-vacant-posts-in-all-central-prisons/article34181683.ece
28 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Forum flays Jhansi incident||Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council (TNBC) and Tamil Nadu Latin Bishops’ Council (TNLBC) have condemned the recent incident where two nuns and two postulants travelling with the nuns were forced to de-board in Jhansi railway station, Uttar Pradesh. They were detained for questioning at the railway station after ABVP members had accused them of illegal conversions. They were allowed to resume their journey after railway officials found out that there was no conversion involved, as alleged by the ABVP members. Condemning the incident, members of the Bishops' Council said that this was unacceptable. Those responsible for the act should be booked for the false accusation they levelled against the nuns and the postulants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-flays-jhansi-incident/article34181843.ece
28 March 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||‘No container transhipment terminal in Kanniyakumari’||AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday assured that the Kanniyakumari International Container Transhipment Terminal will not be allowed as the people are against the project proposed by the Union Government. “Since the DMK and its political ally Congress are experts in hoodwinking the people during elections to bag their votes by repeatedly spreading false information, I assure you once again that the Kanniyakumari International Container Transhipment Terminal will not be allowed,” Mr. Palaniswami said while canvassing votes for the AIADMK and the BJP candidates fielded in the district. The Tamil Nadu Government had already made it clear that any project opposed by the locals would not be allowed in any part of the State. Since the people of Kanniyakumari were against this project, the government too has decided against allowing the container transshipment terminal in Kanniyakumari. “The DMK and the Congress, who are experts in fabricating false stories during the elections, have started the false campaign again to hoodwink the people. I appeal to you not to believe this campaign'" he claimed. BJP candidate for Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha by-election and former Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan, who had vowed to execute this project at any cost, was standing nearby in the campaign vehicle, when Mr. Palaniswami spoke against the project. The Chief Minister said Kanniyakumari district should elect candidates of the ruling parties at the Centre and the State for better coordination between both the governments and to bring more new projects capable of giving employment to the locals while ensuring holistic development of the district. “The voters of Kanniyakumari should give Mr. Radhakrishnan, who did a good job when he was the Union Minister, another chance to serve them in a better way. Since neither the BJP nor the AIADMK had any representative from Kanniyakumari district as MP or MLAs, the delay in executing the government schemes and welfare measures could be felt in the past. None represented your grievances in the Assembly and in the Parliament,” Mr. Palaniswami contended. Thovaalai While addressing the voters at Thovaalai, he said the voters should back the AIADMK as Tamil Nadu, under his leadership, had won several Union Government awards for ensuring better roads, water management,100 lakh tonnes of food grain production, superior healthcare facilities, uninterrupted power, quality education, increasing gross enrolment ration to 49% in students’ admission in higher education, organ donation, maintenance of better law and order etc. According to him, the AIADMK government had retrieved since 2011 over 15,000 acres of land forcibly grabbed by the DMK men across Tamil Nadu between 2006 and 2011. “The DMK men, even when they are not in power, are threatening traders, hoteliers and the businessmen and conducting ‘kangaroo courts’ even refusing to pay the bill for the food they enjoyed or the product they purchased,” Mr. Palaniswami claimed. During his electioneering at Panagudi, Mr Palaniswami said his government had started 11 new medical colleges and three veterinary colleges in the past four years. “We are for the betterment of Tamil Nadu while the DMK has become a ‘private firm’ functioning for the betterment of a family,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-container-transhipment-terminal-in-kanniyakumari/article34181356.ece
28 March 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Religious undercurrents in Kanniyakumari||Voters in the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency — where a byelection will be held on April 6 — are believed to vote on religious affinities. The mobilisation on religious lines began in the 1980s. Former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan of the BJP won twice, when candidates of major parties entered the fray and shared among themselves the anti-BJP votes. He is facing Congress candidate Vijayakumar Vasanth, son of H. Vasanthakumar, whose death caused the vacancy. Both are Hindu Nadars, the predominant community of the district. While Mr. Radhakrishnan is expected to poll a substantial portion of the community votes, Mr. Vijayakumar could get significant support from the Christians and the Muslims, besides DMK, Congress and Communist voters. The BJP is going all out to win the constituency back since it is in power at the Centre. In an election season, it has belatedly scrapped plans to build a container transshipment hub in the district through public-and-private partnership following opposition from local fishermen, who are Roman Catholics. It also believes that the votes of the ruling AIADMK will work in favour of Mr. Radhakrishnan. “But the AIADMK’s presence will not help the BJP because there is not much of a change on the ground since the last election. The attitude of the government remains the same, and I believe Mr. Vijayakumar Vasanth stands a better chance of winning the election,” says James Reynolds Daniel, former principal of the Scott Christian College. He also believes the middles class and the “intelligentsia” have a good opinion of the Secular Progressive Alliance because of the “failure of the Central and State governments” to address the local issues, such the Enayam port and the transshipment hub. When told that the Centre had scrapped the transshipment hub project, Mr. Daniels says it is not easy to read the mind of the government since Mr. Radhakrishnan gave an assurance that he would not bring any project against the wish of the local people and subsequently made a case for allowing him to complete the projects he had already brought for the district. “Though the BJP has done a lot of things for the minorities, fringe incidents like harassment of nuns on a train has sent out a wrong signal,” he says. ‘Never betrayed them’ Mr. Radhakrishnan, while campaigning at Colachel, regretted that “religion enters the scene during election”, though people cutting across religious identities attended marriages and other functions. “I was a Central Minister for 10 years and can anyone say I have betrayed the Christians and Muslims? If anyone proves it, I will quit from the election,” he said. He said the district was lagging behind in development because of the late MP Vasanthakumar. “That is why we are telling people to vote for Mr. Radhakrishnan and he can make a difference,” says R. Arumugam, secretary, BJP legal wing. “What works in our favour is the Assembly election, which has given space for an intense campaign at the grassroots. We hope the cancellation of the transshipment hub project and the goodwill enjoyed by AIADMK candidate Thalavai Sundaram among the fishermen will help Mr. Radhakrishnan too,” Mr. Arumugam says. But the victory margin of over 2.5 lakh votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha election is too big for the BJP to cover. “The Congress is not campaigning much because it knows that the Christians and the Muslims will solidly vote for the party. The Congress candidate also has the votes of his party and the DMK. But the neutral Hindus among the DMK sympathisers will throw their weight behind Mr. Radhakrishnan because of the anti-Hindu diatribes of the DMK and its allies,” says V. Umaiyorbhagan, former principal, Noorul Islam College of Arts and Science, Kumarakovil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/religious-undercurrents-in-kanniyakumari/article34181246.ece
28 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Tough fight between Dravidian fronts in Tiruchengode||This election, Tiruchengode would see a tough fight between Dravidian fronts, with one of the important coalition party leaders of DMK contesting from the constituency. E.R. Eswaran, general secretary of Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi is contesting from the constituency as part of DMK-led alliance against incumbent Pon Saraswathi. Mr. Eswaran is seeking votes in ‘Rising Sun’ symbol. KMDK is an important ally of the DMK front expecting to create a consolidation of Goundar community votes in favour of the Opposition. Goundar community is a dominant vote base in the constituency. A major campaign taken up by Mr. Eswaran is the formation of a separate district with Tiruchengode as headquarters. Tiruchengode is known for its rig industry and also as a borewell hub. Though it is known as the rig capital of the country, the woes of the industry continue. The industry has been demanding an auto nagar for years to improve their business. There are over 10,000 rig vehicles operating in the region which does business in various parts in the country. Rig operators said that they are yet to recover from the effects of COVID-19 pandemic and the steep hike in diesel prices has severely affected their business. The rig operators have been demanding measures like subsidies while operating for farmers or inclusion of fuel in GST. The rig industry have also been demanding facilities for meeting the basic needs of their labourers as a majority of the workers hail from northern States. Over one lakh workers are involved in the industry. The public here have also been demanding measures to construct a ring road to decongest traffic within the town. The Ardhanareshwarar Temple, an important religious centre which has been attracting devotees is also a major attraction and people have been demanding improvement of amenities here. Weaving, is another major industry in the region. Weavers have been demanding incentives and subsidies to improve their sector. R. Janagaraj is contesting on behalf of Makkal Needhi Maiam and R. Hemalatha is contesting for Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-fight-between-dravidian-fronts-in-tiruchengode/article34181377.ece
28 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress seeks derecognition of BJP’s U.T. unit, candidates||The Congress has demanded the derecognition of the BJP Puducherry unit and the disqualification of its candidates in light of the observations made by the Madras High Court while hearing a petition against the BJP for misusing Aadhaar details, including the phone numbers, of voters. Addressing a joint press conference here, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Congress general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao said the High Court had taken a serious note of the complaints filed before it against the misuse of Aadhaar details. “We will be filing a complaint before the Election Commission of India demanding the derecognition of the Puducherry unit of the BJP and the candidates for the Assembly election in the Union Territory. Getting Aadhaar details, including phone numbers, of individuals is a serious offence and amounts to breach of privacy,” Mr. Rao said. The BJP should explain how it got the individual details of voters, he said, adding that it was a blatant example of the misuse of power. Mr. Narayanasamy said the ECI should take serious note of the issue and ensure a level-playing field for all political parties. Stating that the BJP manifesto was silent on giving statehood to the Union Territory, the former Chief Minister said All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) chief N. Rangasamy should make his stand clear on whether he agreed with the BJP, his alliance partner, on the issue. “The AINRC had even appealed to political parties to boycott the election till the Centre conceded to the demand for statehood. Now, his alliance partner has given a manifesto that is silent on statehood. The AINRC should respond now if it is being genuine about their demand for statehood,” he added. The former Chief Minister also challenged Mr. Rangasamy for an open debate on the performance of the Congress government during the last four-and-a-half years. MP V. Vaithilingam and PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) senior vice president P.K. Devadoss were also present.  Getting the Aadhaar details, including the phone numbers, of individuals is a serious offence   Dinesh Gundu Rao Congress general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-seeks-derecognition-of-bjps-ut-unit-candidates/article34181314.ece
28 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) seeks removal of CEO||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded the removal of Puducherry Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Shurbir Singh for dereliction of duty. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, party secretary R. Rajangam said a representation had already been given to the Election Commission of India (ECI) seeking the removal of the CEO. The CEO had failed to address the violation of the model code of conduct by BJP candidates, he said. The party had also demanded the disqualification of BJP candidates for wrongfully obtaining the Aadhaar details, including the phone numbers, of voters. The Madras High Court had taken up the issue, he said, adding that it was now up to the ECI to take action “Private and sensitive information of Puducherry voters, specifically phone numbers linked to Aadhaar, have been illegally obtained by the BJP to engage in electoral campaigning. They have created booth-level Whatsapp groups to influence the voters. It is a clear violation of the fundamental right to privacy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-seeks-removal-of-puducherry-ceo/article34181312.ece
28 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death and 128 new cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded one COVID-19 death and 128 new cases. A 72-year-old from Korkadu village succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College here. As per data released by the Health Department, 128 new cases were reported in the Union Territory from 2,022 tests. Of the total cases, 94 were from Puducherry, 32 from Karaikal and one each from Yanam and Mahe regions. The death toll rose to 680. The Union Territory has 846 active cases. So far, 40,964 cases have been recorded and 39,438 patients have recovered. Meanwhile, the total number of COVID-19 cases at Vellore district in Tamil Nadu reached 21,376, with 19 new cases reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-and-128-new-cases/article34181290.ece
28 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to bring back fishermen||Union Minister Giriraj Singh on Saturday said the Centre was working with the Sri Lankan authorities for the safe return of the 14 fishermen from Karaikal. Addressing a press conference, he said the Centre was working in close coordination with various agencies for the return of the fishermen. “We are hopeful of their return by Sunday or Monday. The government is doing everything possible for their safe return.” Mr. Singh criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his remarks on a separate Ministry for fishermen. “Without knowing the facts that the BJP government has created a separate Ministry for Fisheries, Mr. Gandhi is criticising our government. We have done a lot more for the fishermen than any other government,” he said. The BJP would also appoint a person in-charge for each of the 40 fishing hamlets in Puducherry to address the grievances of fishermen, Union Minister Giriraj Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/working-to-bring-back-fishermen/article34181281.ece
28 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Training held for polling staff||The second round of training for polling personnel was held at respective Assembly constituencies here on polling duties. Casting of postal votes by polling personnel also began here on Saturday. Following second round of randomisation, 18,832 polling personnel including 10% reserve would be deployed for polling duties on April 6. According to officials, 4,708 personnel would be deployed as presiding officers and booth level officer I, II and III. A total of 4,280 polling booths would be set up, including 1,003 additional booths set up for preventing spread of COVID-19. According to officials, 351 polling booths would be set up in Gangavalli, 346 in Attur, 408 in Yercaud, 426 in Omalur, 402 in Mettur, 403 in Edappadi, 389 in Sankari, 423 in Salem West, 397 in Salem North, 381 in Salem South and 354 in Veerapandi constituencies. District Collector S.A. Raman along with Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran reviewed the progress of postal ballot voting at a training centre in Sri Shakthikailash College. According to officials, arrangements for casting postal votes were made at all the training centres and forms were distributed to the staff. COVID-19 preventive measures were at place in halls where postal ballots were arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-held-for-polling-staff/article34181372.ece
28 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Raja’s speech not condemned by Stalin’||Pattali Makkal Katchi leader Anbumani Ramadoss charged that DMK president M.K. Stalin did not condemn his party MP A. Raja’s remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. During a campaign here, Dr. Anbumani urged women to boycott the DMK in the upcoming elections, terming Mr. Raja’s speech derogatory. This showed that the DMK did not respect women or motherhood, Dr. Anbumani said. The PMK leader also alleged that no leader from the DMK-led alliance condemned the speech. The PMK would have removed from the party any member who had passed remarks disrespecting women. Mr. Stalin was not qualified to be either to Opposition leader or a Chief Ministerial candidate, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajas-speech-not-condemned-by-stalin-anbumani/article34181384.ece
28 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Silk ‘vastram’ from Tirumala arrives at Andal Temple||Ahead of Goddess Andal Tirukalyanam on Sunday a silk vastram from Lord Venkateswara Temple in Tirumala was received at the Andal Temple here on Saturday. As part of the tradition, the silk vastram was brought by the Venkateswara Temple authorities. A grand reception was accorded to the silk temple here by the devotees and temple authorities, led by the temple Executive Officer, A Elangovan. The celestial wedding of Goddess Andal and Lord Rengamannar will be performed between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. on Sunday at the Andal Temple..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silk-vastram-arrives-at-andal-temple/article34181349.ece
28 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Safety gear despatched to polling stations||Personal safety gear including personal protective kits and face shields meant for use by the polling staff on the election day were despatched on Saturday from the district headquarters to the office of the Returning Officers of the 8 Assembly constituencies. After supervising the process, Collector M.Govinda Rao told reporters that face shields, hand sanitiser, single-use rubber glove, surgical face mask, infrared thermal scanner, PPE kit and necessary facility for safe disposal of used materials would be made available at all 2,886 polling booths in the district to ensure the safety of the polling staff. While volunteers would be engaged at each booth to test the body temperature of voters arriving at the booth and provide them hand sanitiser before entering the premises to cast their vote, PPE Kits would be provided to COVID 19 positive voters. The number of COVID-19 infected persons who are likely to take part in the polling exercise would be ascertained by the officials before the polling day. Such persons would be allowed to cast their votes between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. on the polling day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-gear-despatched-to-polling-stations/article34181331.ece
28 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||More students test positive||Thirteen students in Kumbakonam and Aduthurai have tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. Disclosing this to reporters here on March 27, Collector M.Govinda Rao said seven students of a school at Aduthurai and six in Kumbakonam tested positive and the institutions were directed to remain closed for the next 14 days. A teacher at the Kumbakonam school also tested positive. Stating that so far 227 students have tested positive for the virus infection, he said 120 of them were discharged from hospitals and the condition of others was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-students-test-positive/article34181328.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Discontent among Kumbakonam residents||A strong undercurrent of voter discontent is discernible among Kumbakonam residents over the government’s failure to cede the demand for a new district with the town as its headquarters. The resentment has grown stronger after Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami chose to ignore the demand during his recent campaign in the delta region while promising creation of new districts such as Palani elsewhere. With Kumbakonam being a major commercial hub in the delta region, the demand for creation of a new district had grown popular over the past two decades though it has been aired sporadically ever since Nagapattinam district was carved out of the then composite Thanjavur district in 1991. Ever since, the demand to make the Kumbakonam division, covering Kumbakonam, Tiruvidaimarudur and Papanasam Assembly segments, a new district has grown shriller. Last year, the residents redoubled their efforts and staged a slew of protests including a hartal called by the Coordination Committee for Formation of Kumbakonam District. They tried a ‘kolam vazhi korikkai’ campaign to draw rangolis in front of houses to highlight the demand. “We have sustained our struggle in various forms over the past several years but to no avail. When smaller towns have got the status of district headquarters in recent years, Kumbakonam’s rightful claim should have got priority,” says V. Sathyanarayanan, general secretary, Federation of All Traders Associations, Kumbakonam, who has been in the forefront in lobbying for the cause. Residents contend that Kumbakonam deserves the status of a district headquarters. “Kumbakonam had been a capital during the Chola period. Under the British, it was a zilla headquarters. When former Minister Ko.Si.Mani (DMK) was a Minister, he had created all necessary infrastructure required to make the town a district headquarters,” he says. The issue will have an impact on the election in the three Assembly segments, he says. “Although all candidates and parties have been promising that the town will be made a district headquarters, people are not willing to believe them any more,” he observes. When Tenkasi was announced as new district, Revenue Minister R.B.Udhayakumar indicated in the Assembly that Kumbakonam will be made a district soon. Yet, no announcement has been made so far, he says. In fact, many residents suspect that political considerations were behind the AIADMK neglecting the demand as Kumbakonam has been returning DMK candidates in recent elections. With claims of an impending announcement circulating on social media, there was much anticipation that the Chief Minister would come out with a promise during the campaign here. But that too was not to be. On the other hand, DMK president M.K.Stalin has promised that Kumbakonam would be made a district if the party is voted to power. Although Thanjavur is the district headquarters, most major district level activities take place in Kumbakonam, says A.Giri, a resident of Kumbakonam, and secretary, Thanjavur District Rail Users’ Association. If Kumbakonam was made the district headquarters, people in rural areas would have better and easy access to the administrators. It would help promote the town as a heritage tourism hub. Claiming that the annual passenger earnings of the Railways through Kumbakonam railway station was Rs. 21 crore, he says as the town is not a district headquarters halt for important trains had to be secured after a struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discontent-among-kumbakonam-residents/article34181340.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Spike continues in central region||Continuing the trend of reporting a sharp spike, the central region reported 232 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Two deaths, both in Pudukottai district, were reported in the region. A 65-year-old woman with a history of diabetes and hypertension and a 57-year-old man with acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to COVID-19. In Thanjavur, 66 patients tested positive. Among them were 13 students and a teacher from schools in Kumbakonam and Aduthurai. So far, 227 students in the district had reported positive. However 120 among them had recovered and had been discharged. Nagapattinam district reported 51 cases and Tiruchi 45 - marking a sharp increase over the last few days. Two patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Tiruvarur recorded 38 fresh cases and Pudukottai 16. In Karur, nine patients tested positive and in Ariyalur six. Perambalur district recorded one case on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spike-continues-in-central-region/article34181329.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women sweat it out to break into this male bastion||The number of women candidates contesting the Assembly election is hardly encouraging. The AIADMK is fielding 179 candidates of which 16 are women and the DMK, 11 out of 173 candidates. Only NTK has fielded 117 women, 50% of the 234 candidates. The AMMK has 16 women among 161 candidates. Several women are not too happy about how the election is unfolding, especially concerning women’s representation. Former Tiruchi Mayor Sarubala Thondaiman who is contesting on an AMMK ticket in Srirangam believes that women were denied leadership roles in politics, but many work at the ground-level. “If you notice, many women leaders emerge in panchayat and village levels,” she said. She alleged that senior members of parties collude to ensure a woman does not take a position of power. “There are men who fear that their own chances will be washed away if a woman gets an opportunity and proves herself. You need to develop thick skin. Character assassination is also prevalent,” she said. Although K. Selvarathi, Naam Tamilar Katchi candidate for Srirangam constituency, has no experience in contesting the Assembly elections, she says she was able to take the plunge because of the equal opportunity given by her party. She contested the elections for District Panchayat councillor during the local body elections in 2019 and lost by a margin of 250 votes. Ms. Selvarathi says it is the political party’s duty to lend a hand to women. “Many enterprising women are looking for the right opportunity. The problem is that most parties do not show interest. For many, only money and power speak,” she says. Support from family members is equally important, she adds. Parties woo women voters but are yet to understand their real demands, Ms. Selvarathi says. “The freebies and money they promise will take us nowhere. Instead, opportunities to work will be more helpful,” she says. When parties like hers give 50% representation to women, others will be pressured into following suit, she adds. Interest matters T. Indragandhi, AIADMK candidate in Thuraiyur, disagrees. “There are many women, especially in our party. Only some show interest in contesting in the elections. The parties are not to be blamed,” she says. However, she concedes that more women MLAs are essential to represent women’s issues in the legislative Assembly.      Man-made hurdles Since women are denied leadership roles, they work at the ground-level  Enterprising women look for opportunity but parties prefer money, power||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-sweat-it-out-to-break-into-this-male-bastion/article34181337.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Probe on into charge of cash distribution||District election officials have taken up an inquiry into the alleged distribution of cash to a section of police personnel at a couple of stations in the Tiruchi (West) constituency on Saturday. Tiruchi Collector-cum-District Election Officer S. Divyadharshini, who assumed charge earlier in the day, said a committee had been formed to inquire into the allegation. It was alleged that a few persons visited the stations and handed over covers with cash to some personnel (who will be casting votes through postal ballots), asking them to vote in favour of a party candidate [allegedly belonging to an Opposition party]. Ms. Divyadharshini said there were unconfirmed inputs that a few personnel were given cash. DMK principal secretary and candidate for the constituency K.N.Nehru, in a complaint to the returning officer, said “fake news” was being spread on social media about cash distribution. “Themala fideact has been done with intent to defame me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-on-into-charge-of-cash-distribution/article34181247.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death||A history-sheeter, Praveen Nath, 32, of Musiri, was beaten to death by a gang near No.1 Tollgate on the outskirts of the city on Friday night. According to police, Praveen Nath was accosted by a seven-member gang near a liquor shop and attacked with logs. A severely injured Praveen Nath died on the spot. Previous enmity is suspected to be the motive behind the murder. Kollidam police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death/article34181343.ece
28 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Governance in T.N. as bad as condition of Coonoor river’||Pointing at the sewage-filled Coonoor River, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan said here on Saturday that its condition reflected the the state of governance in Tamil Nadu. At a rally endorsing the MNM candidate in Coonoor, H.B. Rajakumar, Mr. Haasan said that despite the Nilgiris being a tourist destination, it was being neglected. “As we speak, we can smell the stench from the river. This is the state of Tamil Nadu at the moment. Moreover, this is a tourist destination… we can take videos of this place, but we can’t smell it [through videos],” said Mr. Haasan. On the need to start the MNM and his entering of politics, Mr. Haasan said that the party was born out of the need to get people who did not think that politics was a job, but a duty. “I myself am an example. For 60 years, since I was a small boy, I came to Ooty to act in films. From then to now, the people have borne me on their shoulders. I did not do anything for them… I thought it was enough to pay tax correctly, but it is not enough. To repay the love of the people, I wish to do something for them,” he said. Mr. Haasan was earlier in Udhagamandalam, and endorsed the MNM candidates contesting in Udhagamandalam, Dr. Suresh Babu and Gudalur, J. Babu. He said that if voted to power, he would ensure transparency in how the party MLAs spent their funds. “One corrupt party should not be replaced by another,” he said, adding that freebies announced by other parties were not an answer to solving poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governance-in-tamil-nadu-as-bad-as-condition-of-coonoor-river-kamal/article34181302.ece
28 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Early-warning systems installed in Pandalur||The Forest Department has installed two early-warning systems along the two key corridors in Kannampalli and Cherangode in Pandalur taluk to automatically notify nearby villages about the presence of elephants. The early-warning systems, which employ infrared sensors, will light up and raise an alarm that can be heard in villages located near them. “We hope that when this alarm is heard, people will keep in mind that there are elephants nearby and stay inside their homes,” said Kommu Omkaram, District Forest Officer, Gudalur division. Mr. Omkaram said the early-warning systems were installed in two locations that were important corridors for elephants moving between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “We have realised that many of the problematic interactions between humans and elephants occur when animals cross over from neighbouring Kerala into Gudalur,” said Mr. Omkaram, adding that the locations where the early-warning systems had been installed were chosen after discussions with the field staff and elephant experts in the region. The infrared sensors are triggered when an animal or object passes in front of it. To prevent false-alarms caused by other wildlife passing between the sensors, only animals that are above eight-feet in height will cause the alarm to trigger. This is the first automated early-warning system installed in Gudalur forest division. Earlier, field staff monitoring the animals would trigger a system to send SMS to local residents. The Forest Department also plans to install other experimental systems to deter elephants from entering human habitations, including fox lights that have coloured lights blinking at random intervals. The system, developed by students from the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam with inspiration from similar systems used in other parts of the world, works on the principle that the lights blinking randomly could spook elephants and other wildlife and keep them away from villages. The warning systems are being tried in Gudalur following the deaths of two men in the division on Thursday, who entered a reserve forest to witness a herd of elephants.  The herd, comprising two females and a calf, are being tracked by the department, with officials stating that the herd had left the area on Friday.  We hope that when this alarm is heard, people will keep in mind that there are elephants nearby and stay inside their homes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-warning-systems-put-up-in-pandalur/article34181300.ece
28 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Concerns over Ibrahim’s security’||The Nilgiris district police have clarified that Tamil Nadu Ekathuva Prachara Jamaat president, Vellore Ibrahim, was not allowed to campaign in designated “communally sensitive” areas due to security and law and order concerns. After addressing a public gathering in Udhagamandalam on Thursday, Mr. Ibrahim went on a door-to-door to campaign for BJP candidate M. Bojarajan. He was allowed to campaign in Main Bazaar and Lower Bazaar, but was stopped from entering Khandal area by police, leading to a protest by BJP activists. Nilgiris district Superintendent of Police R. Pandiarajan said permission was not granted by police for Mr. Ibrahim to campaign in Khandal. “As it is a communally sensitive area with a mix of different communities, we had denied permission for him to campaign there,” said Mr. Pandiarajan. The SP said that the police were mostly allowing public rallies at designated places. “We had not given permission only to Mr. Ibrahim due to law and order and safety concerns,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ibrahim-was-prevented-from-entering-khandal/article34181363.ece
28 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||19 cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,376, with 19 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 20,870 have recovered, the active cases in the district stood at 152. The district’s death toll is 354. In Ranipet district, 24 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,401. In Tirupathur district, 15 new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,761. In Tiruvannamalai district, nine new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,636. Out of this, 19,296 have recovered and the number of active cases stood at 55.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-cases-reported-in-vellore/article34181690.ece
28 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Control room to look into complaints||Virudhunagar District Election Officer and District Collector R. Kannan has appealed to the members of public and representatives of political parties to lodge election-related complaints to the Election Control room functioning round-the-clock. He said people could lodge the complaints through toll free number 1800-425-2166 and 04562-252100. They can alert the officials about violations of model code of conduct like distribution of cash, gifts, and hoarding of cash. The complaints received at the control room would be passed on to the official concerned and immediate action will be taken, he said. Meanwhile, the Collector said that all TASMAC liquor shops and bars (from F.L 2 to FL 11) except for FL 6 in Virudhunagar district will remain closed between April 4 and April 6 in view of the polling on April 6 for Tamil Nadu Assembly election. The shops and bars would be closed from 10 a.m. on April 4 till midnight of April 6. Any violation of the order would attract penal action under Tamil Nadu Liquor (License and Permit) Rules, 1981,the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-room-to-look-into-poll-related-complaints/article34181357.ece
28 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||More ballot units reach Virudhunagar||With five out of seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district having more than 15 candidates that necessitated second ballot units, the officials have brought additional ballot units from Thoothukudi. Virudhunagar District Election Officer, R. Kannan, said that a total of 1,120 ballot units have been brought from neighbouring Thoothukudi district. Only Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur Assembly constituencies have 14 and 15 candidates respectively. “With the additional NOTA in the ballot unit that have only 16 options, all other five constituencies that have from 18 to 29 candidates required two ballot units,” an official said. The officials had already despatched 2,965 ballot units that were available with the district administration to the respective Assembly constituencies after randomisation. The district has 2,370 polling booths and each constituency should have additional 25% ballot units as reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-ballot-units-reach-virudhunagar/article34181351.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caste equations crucial here||Paapireddipatty was carved out of the erstwhile Morappur constituency after delimitation to become an Assembly seat for the first time in 2011. Extending close to the Collectorate in Dharmapuri town, the constituency is a mix of caste equations, with the winners decided primarily based on caste solidarities and seldom on issues. This has dictated the choice of candidates by the major parties. A considerable area in Paapireddipatty is under tapioca production and crop-based value addition industries figure in the list of demands of the voters. The primarily agrarian constituency has been in need of an irrigation scheme by channelling the waters of Vaaniyaru dam – a project that had figured in the AIADMK’s past manifestoes, but not implemented. The fraught eight-lane Salem –Chennai Expressway project cuts through a section of this constituency, earning the ruling AIAMDK the wrath of the project-affected farmers. Paapireddipatty’s voter make-up is one of countervailing caste equations with the second majority caste tipping the scales deciding the winner. This time around, the Kongu Vellalars are slated to play that role given their resentment against the AIADMK for the non-allocation of the constituency to their community. The community’s votes also decided in favour of the AIADMK winning the by-elections alongside the PMK’s vote bank, in 2019. Paapireddipatty comprises of Vanniyars (35.1%), followed by Adi Dravidars (23.1%), Kongu Vellalar(14.5%), Arunthadhiyar (6.5%), Boyars (4.6%), Muslims (3.8%) among others. The AIADMK, this time, has fielded A. Govindasamy, its sitting MLA from the 2019 by-election. The electoral representation for the district under Jayalalithaa has been strategic in that Paapireddipatty was traditionally assigned to Kongu Vellalar community. This changed in 2019 by-elections, when A. Govindasamy, a Vanniyar got the ticket and won the elections on the strength of the PMK’s vote bank. Yet, the same was not reciprocated from this Assembly segment for the MP elections held simultaneously. Paapireddipatty segment returned just a margin of over 2,000 votes for Anbumani Ramadoss. That festering grievance aside, there is also the disgruntlement among PMK cadres over the allocation of the seat to the AIADMK. The PMK is said to have a sturdy organisational base in Paapireddipatty. Upon allocation of the seat to the AIADMK, the cadres took to the streets to protest locally. For the candidate Govindasamy, it is a task he has to contend with the Vanniyar-Vellalar tussle and the resentment of the cadres of the ally. DMK has fielded M. Prabhu Rajashekar, its 2016 Vanniyar candidate once again. DMK lost by a margin of about 18,000 votes in 2016, when it came third only to the PMK. In 2019 by-elections, DMK registered the same margin of loss by 18,000 votes. The AIADMK-PMK’s formidable alliance could not bridge the margin indicating that the second largest community votes tip the scale. The AMMK has fielded P. Palaniappan, a Kongu Vellalar, a two-time MLA and former Minister under Jayalalithaa. In 2019, he was seen to have poached into the AIADMK votes registering 15,283 votes. However, this time, Mr. Palaniappan is also likely to cut into the Kongu Vellalar votes of the DMK, because of the caste factor. Seen to have affable equations with Dalits in the constituency, the AMMK candidate will also undercut the Scheduled Caste votes, that would go to the DMK. However, the AMMK’s role would be confined to helping the winner by fracturing the votes in a primarily two-sided contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caste-equations-crucial-here/article34181375.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 185 new cases||A total of 185 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, registering an increase from Friday’s 173 cases. The district had 1,092 COVID-19 patients under treatment in different hospitals. The Health Department said that 107 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. 59 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district on Saturday reported 59 new cases, which took the overall tally to 19,105. No deaths were reported as the toll remained at 224. As many as 18,587 patients have recovered and 294 patients were under treatment, the Health Department said. On Saturday, 38 patients were discharged from various treatment centres upon recovery from COVID-19. Meanwhile, the School Education Department officials on Saturday closed a wing of a government school comprising six classrooms in Tiruppur after a Class 12 student was reported to have contracted COVID-19. The 17-year-old student of Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School at Rayapuram in Tiruppur Corporation limits had attended regular classes on March 19 and was on leave since, officials said. He informed the school on Saturday that he tested positive for COVID-19, following which the officials ordered to close all six classrooms, including the one where the student attended regular classes, for disinfection.  However, with nearly 400 students studying Class 12, the regular classes will continue in alternative classrooms, according to the officials. None of the students and teachers have exhibited COVID-19 symptoms so far, the officials claimed. In the Nilgiris, 19 persons tested positive for the viral disease on Saturday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,600. A total of 115 persons were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-185-new-cases/article34181777.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK complains to CEO against A. Raja||Alleging that he had made similar remarks against the Chief Minister in the past, for which a case was registered in Chennai, he sought registration of a case for election-related offences and to debar the DMK deputy general secretary from campaigning further. Mr. Raja said his speech was misinterpreted. He respected Mr. Palaniswami as Chief Minister and would never insult or demean him. Mr. Raja told journalists that his speech referring to Mr. Stalin as a “healthy child” and Mr. Palaniswami as an “illicitly” born “preterm” baby was an allusion to their political careers and not to their personal lives. “I was comparing them as children of politics. Hence, I referred to Mr. Stalin as a healthy child as he evolved as a leader by growing up from being a district representative, a member of the general and executive councils, youth wing secretary, MLA, Mayor and Deputy Chief Minister. Mr. Palaniswami, on the other hand, was not elected by the people to be the Chief Minister. He became the Chief Minister through a shortcut by falling at the feet of V.K. Sasikala [aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa] and hence I made the reference,” he said. Claiming that a select portion of his speech was cut and pasted “to twist” his words, he said that apart from political criticisms, he would never stoop to the level of personally insulting or disgracing the Chief Minister. Mr. Stalin said in a social media post that victory as well as the path taken for the victory were important and the party would not tolerate lack of dignity. Recalling DMK founder C.N. Annadurai’s advice to party workers to have the three traits of duty, dignity and discipline, Mr. Stalin said dignity is of foremost importance for party speakers. He said that having failed in similar attempts and fearing defeat in the election, opponents were trying to cut, paste and twist the words of those from the DMK. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said Mr. Raja’s comments were disgusting. Dindigul I. Leoni of the DMK recently drew flak for his remarks in Coimbatore district on women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-complains-to-ceo-against-a-raja/article34181298.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK complains to CEO against A. Raja||Mr. Raja told journalists that his speech referring to Mr. Stalin as a “healthy child” and Mr. Palaniswami as an “illicitly” born “pre-term” baby was an allusion to their political careers and not to their personal lives. “I was comparing them as children of politics. Hence, I referred to Mr. Stalin as a healthy child as he evolved as a leader by growing up from being a district representative, a member of the general and executive councils, youth wing secretary, MLA, Mayor and Deputy Chief Minister. Mr. Palaniswami, on the other hand, was not elected by the people to be the Chief Minister.” “He became the Chief Minister through a shortcut by falling at the feet of V.K. Sasikala [aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa] and hence I made the reference,” he said. Claiming that a select portion of his speech was cut and pasted “to twist” his words, he said that apart from political criticism, he would never stoop to the level of personally insulting or disgracing the Chief Minister. Mr. Stalin said in a social media post that victory as well as the path taken for the victory were important, and the party would not tolerate lack of dignity. Recalling DMK founder C.N. Annadurai’s advice to party workers to have the three traits of duty, dignity and discipline, Mr. Stalin said dignity must be of foremost importance for party speakers. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said Mr. Raja’s comments were disgusting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-moves-ceo-against-a-raja/article34181385.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in Aliyar river||A 22-year-old man who went missing in River Aliyar near Anamalai on Wednesday was found dead the next day. The police identified the deceased as K. Rajkumar from Palani. According to the police, the man was washed away in the river near Anamalai – Kottur Road on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-aliyar-river/article34181388.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 55 cases in Salem||The COVID-19 positive cases crossed 50-mark on Saturday as 55 cases were reported. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 26 were from Salem Corporation limits. Erode district reported 32 new cases taking the district’s tally to 15,222. While 21 persons were discharged, 160 continue to be under treatment. In Namakkal, 20 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all the cases were indigenous. In Krishnagiri, 19 indigenous cases were reported. Six cases were reported as indigenous in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-55-cases-in-salem/article34181366.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||12th Assembly||election being contested by DMK  general secretary Duraimurugan, who has contested the highest number of Assembly elections (among those alive) in Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12th-assembly/article34181259.ece
28 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||The Hindu agent in Bidar passes away||Suryakant Pachange, who served as agent of The Hindu in Bidar for nearly four decades, died on Saturday. He suffered a heart attack at the district hospital where he was admitted following a minor illness. He was 56. Hailing from a poor family in Gondhali Gall in Bidar old city, he began working as as a newspaper hawker in the early 70s. He soon obtained a sub agency of some newspapers. After becoming the circulation agent of The Hindu , he worked hard and built a team of hawkers and sub agents. “He used to cycle to Zaheerabad in Telangana to carry newspaper bundles to Bidar every morning before sunrise,” recalls his friend Manik Rao. He continued to deliver papers till he fell ill a few days ago. He ran the Air Force Wives’ Welfare Association bookstore near the Air Force station entrance. He supplied textbooks to schools in north Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-hindu-agent-in-bidar-passes-away/article34181417.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic work: Citizens will now be the decision makers||Citizens will have a greater say in allocation of resources towards development work in their neighbourhoods. Decentralisation of funds and decision making at the zonal and ward levels were the focus of the civic Budget presented on Saturday, the first under the new BBMP Act, 2020. Of a total Budget outlay of Rs. 9291.33 crore, various administrative decisions involving financial resources to the tune of Rs. 2000 crore – roughly half of the civic body's revenues — has been delegated to the zone level. It makes a commitment “to devolve at least 50% of BBMP’s Budget to the zonal level within the next few years,” a move that has been widely welcomed by the civic activists. Major reform In the Budget, the civic body described it as a major reform that will bring the execution and payment for work closer to citizens who will be the decision makers. Four-tier model The new BBMP Act, 2020 provides for a four-tier model for decentralisation at the levels of area committee, ward committee, assembly constituency consultative committee, and a zonal committee. While the Budget remains silent on area committees that are not yet a reality in the city, it takes decisive steps towards empowering ward committees. One percent of property tax collected in a ward will be allocated to the ward committee to take up required works. However, the Budget also gives the Assembly constituency consultative committee led by the local MLA the power to approve the work for execution. Each ward committee will be allotted Rs. 20 lakh to repair footpaths. The aim is to create 5 km of walkable footpaths in every ward, adding up to 1,000 km across the city. Ward committees will be the supervisory body for maintenance of all parks in the ward. Decentralisation welcomed V. Ravichandar, member of BBMP Restructuring Committee, that recommended for a decentralised administration in the city, welcomed the push for decentralisation in the budget. “Starting with Rs. 2,000 crore and making a commitment that 50% of the Budget outlay will be devolved to zonal committees, is a huge step forward. Earmarking 1% of property tax collected in the ward to the ward committee is a good move, though it could have been done slightly differently – giving a higher share, say 25% of the additional tax collected in the ward – to incentivise tax collection. Though giving the MLA led committee a veto power to approve ward works is a dampener,” he said.  Highlights * 1% of property tax collected in a ward will be allocated to ward committee for development work * Each ward committee will be allotted Rs. 20 lakh to repair footpaths * Ward committees will be the supervisory body for maintenance of all parks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-work-citizens-will-now-be-the-decision-makers/article34181203.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second wave: Rate of spread is a concern||While some argue that second wave in Karnataka will not be as severe as the first outbreak, epidemiologists say that the second wave, on the contrary, could be worse. This is mainly because the Reproductive Number (R. No) in Karnataka stands at 1.6 as on March 25. This means for every 10 people infected, a further 16 persons will be infected by them. The last time Karnataka had a similar R. No. was on July 19, 2020, when the State had a total of 59,625. On that day (July 19, 2020) as many as 4,120 cases were reported. Karnataka’s R. No as on March 25 is higher than the national average of 1.48. Besides, it is the third highest after Bihar (2.21) and Chhattisgarh (2.07).  Rate of infection R. No describes how many people each infected person will infect on an average. It is often estimated using three factors: the duration of contagiousness after a person becomes infected, the likelihood of infection in each contact between a susceptible person and an infectious person, and the frequency of contact. Giridhara R Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, told The Hindu that an increasing R. No is a cause of concern as the jump has been rapid. The number has crossed 1 in at least 19 States, he said. In Karnataka, the reproductive number has increased from 0.9 on January 17 to 1.6 on March 25. “After July 19, the R. No in Karnataka has only dropped. It started rising again from March 1 onwards. This means the transmission is high in the State and it is a clear indication that the second wave has set in. In the days to come we can expect a steep rise in cases,” he said. “This is a worrying situation unless we take tough measures. The next two months are extremely crucial and people also have to behave responsibly,” said Dr. Babu, who heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-COV-2 in Karnataka who is also a TAC member, said ideally R. No should be less than one. “If it crosses one, then the propensity for the infection to spread is very high,” he explained.  Road with several humps Dr. Ravi said, “Pandemics of respiratory infections come in waves over a period of two to five years. We had a second wave of Influenza ‘A’ H1N1 in 2012, three years after the first outbreak in 2009. The 1918 Spanish Flu also lasted for two years.” “This is a road with multiple speed breakers and we have to be careful all along. We should expect repeated outbreaks in the next one to two years till we will reach herd immunity. And, herd immunity is possible only through repeated infections and/or vaccinations,” Dr Ravi explained.  Revised testing targets With the rapid spread, the Technical Advisory Committee has now recommended the State government revise its testing targets further. The TAC that met on Friday night recommended that the State should set a target of conducting 1.27 lakh tests daily. As of now the State is conducting over one lakh tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-wave-rate-of-spread-is-a-concern/article34181233.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic exposed State MSMEs to a bouquet of miseries||The pandemic-brought lockdown and an unproductive year was like a violent storm followed by an uneasy calm for about 10 lakh medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) in Karnataka that employ around 60 lakh people. Most of these have seen a total destruction of their supply chain. With revenue streams drying up and labour force returning to their hometowns, they faced a huge cash crunch. Micro enterprises were left to operate at suboptimal levels; many had a hand-to-mouth existence, and were unable to purchase raw materials or pay wages. Meeting overheads/operational costs became a daunting task for most MSMEs as banks refused them credit. But what was worse was that most schemes and relief packages by the Union and State governments came with riders and restrictive clauses. A year after, and cases rising again, Karnataka’s once vibrant MEME ecosystem tells a different story: thousands of micro businesses have gone down the drain, hundreds of small businesses are still fighting for survival while only a small number of medium and large-scale enterprises have managed to survive. Trade bodies who represent these enterprises say that businesses need government support without riders so that relief packages become more real, meaningful and inclusive. President of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Perikal M. Sundar was of the opinion that the government should support the MSME sector by offering direct cash benefits instead of pushing them under the debt trap by compelling them to borrow. “Small and medium scale firms are still staring at the uncertainty promulgated by the devastating pandemic-induced lockdown. Unfortunately, MSMEs which did not have existing loans or were not classified as NPAs (non-performing assets) weren’t qualified to benefit from the government's Rs. 20 lakh crore relief package,” he said. The hike in fuel prices was an additional burden. Trade bodies in general claim that the operating cost of MSMEs has gone up by 30% as a consequence of the recent hike in fuel prices. Despite drastic disruptions followed by the lockdown and economic slowdown, some enterprises could overcome some supply chain bottlenecks and be able to bring back some normalcy in the last couple of quarters. “However, if there is a second wave, the MSME apple cart would be upset beyond recovery and repair,” warned K.B. Arasappa, president, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA). “Notwithstanding the challenges and current circumstances, MSMEs in the State are hopeful that things will turn close to normalcy by 2022,” he added. D.R. Subramanyam, member, CII Karnataka State Council, said, a few sectors like defence and aerospace were seeing some recovery while many other industries, mostly due to price hike in commodities and raw material are yet to get back on growth track. Other sectors where demand has not picked up yet included garments and textiles, he added. Digital acceleration On the positive side, the pandemic ushered in digital acceleration, which probably would not have happened in the next 10 years. T.R. Parasuraman, president, Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC), said, “A large number of MSMEs were able to catch up with online and digital race in the last one year.” MEMEs built a substantial online presence for themselves. As a result, their customer touch-points have dramatically increased. To an extent, these digital advancements brought in some amount of comfort and confidence to the MEME ecosystem. In addition to this, many micro and small enterprises innovated their businesses and repurposed their production centres to make essential commodities and items, Mr. Parasuraman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-exposed-state-msmes-to-a-bouquet-of-miseries/article34181589.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman’s family, Jarkiholi accuse DKS of ‘using’ her for political ends||Launching a frontal attack on KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, the family of the woman allegedly seen in the CD in the Ramesh Jarkiholi sexual abuse case, on Saturday said it was an instance of a “Scheduled Tribe girl” being used as a pawn in a political game. Minutes later, Mr. Jarkiholi spoke to the press and said it was clear now who was behind the conspiracy and that the leader named by the family was “unfit to continue in politics”. Attacking Mr. Shivakumar, without naming him but using a term of abuse, he said he would book an atrocity case against him and bring him to book. Meanwhile, Mr. Shivakumar, campaigning in neighbouring Tamil Nadu for the elections, denied any role in the episode. Soon after being questioned by the SIT, the woman’s parents and brother addressed the media, where they claimed they were staying at the house of a relative, were safe, and were under no pressure by anyone. Holding Mr. Shivakumar as responsible for the developments, the woman’s father said, “If anything happens to our family and my daughter, it is [Mr.] Shivakumar who should be held responsible.” The woman’s brother said she had told him that Mr. Shivakumar had given money and sent her to Goa and she was going with his instructions. “We demand that he bring back our sister and hand her over to us,” the woman’s brother said. Abduction complaint It may be recalled that the woman’s father has registered a case against unidentified individuals in Belagavi, alleging that his daughter has been abducted. Mr. Jarkiholi who had said he would make a “big reveal” on Saturday evening, addressed the media at a hurriedly convened press conference minutes after the woman’s parents spoke to the press in the city. Thanking the woman’s family, he claimed their account had “proved his innocence” now that the “mahanayaka” (big leader) behind the “conspiracy” had been exposed. “There is no forgiveness to the leader who has stooped so low, he has to retire from politics,” he said, adding that he would go to Kanakapura (Mr. Shivakumar’s constituency) to fight against him. Calling himself “a man” he repeatedly referred to Mr. Shivakumar with an unparliamentary word questioning his masculinity, without naming him. He also claimed he was in possession of 11 documentary evidences in the case, to prove his innocence and he would submit them to the SIT soon. Late in the night, he regretted the use of the unparliamentary word.  The CDGate victim’s statement is evidence about the direct involvement of INC Karnataka’s Mahanayaka. Will Siddaramaiah question his leader and demand justice for the victim? A tweet by BJP Karnataka   You [Ramesh Jarkiholi] have spoken filthy language in the CD. You have used filthy language while speaking to press. This is proof of the genuineness of CD. Why isn’t the government arresting a rape-accused? A tweet by Karnataka Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/womans-family-jarkiholi-accuse-dks-of-using-her-for-political-ends/article34181219.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fiscal discipline is guiding principle of Budget: BBMP||As expected, the Budget — presented during an administrator’s tenure with no council — focused on fiscal discipline, which the civic body termed as “moola mantra” or guiding principle. The Budget announced that the job number system will be revamped for all civic works. It also stated that over a period of time, it aims to ensure that liability, such as pending bills as well as bills for ongoing projects, at any point will not exceed 2.5 times the fiscal space available for taking up such work. The cap essentially limits the quantum of work that can be taken up by the civic body, and probably solve the pending bills problem in the long run. “This will make BBMP’s financial management comparable to ULB’s like Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation,” stated the Budget. Currently, the overall liability of BBMP – pending bills of Rs. 3000 crore and works at various stages of implementation of about Rs. 7000 crore – is several times the fiscal space available, which the Budget termed as “intimidating”. Another problem that plagues civic Budgets is overestimation of revenues, based on which more projects are sanctioned in the Budget leading to a huge problem of pending bills as the unrealistic revenue targets are not realised. This Budget conservatively revised property tax collection targets reducing the amount, probably for the first time. It also aims to follow a system of budgetary management that introduces controls where capital outlays would be released for expenditure only up to 60% of the Budget amount in the first six months of the financial year. “Based on the revenue buoyancy and target achievements of the Budget the remaining 40% of expenditure would be incurred,” it stated. The BBMP Accounting and Budgetary Management Rules have been submitted to the government and are likely to be notified very soon. The Budget also announced the formation of an internal audit wing, whose staff will be trained by the CAG office. It claimed that the BBMP will be debt free this year, and the last of the mortgages properties – K.R. Market – released. This has given the civic body as A+ rating from credit rating agency ICRA Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fiscal-discipline-is-guiding-principle-of-budget-bbmp/article34181206.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No hike in property tax proposed||In what may come as a relief to citizens, the Budget does not mention any increase in property tax for the coming financial year. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Special Commissioner (Finance) Tulasi Maddineni announced that the civic body will move towards implementing property tax based on the Capital Value System. Owners will pay tax-based on the capital value of the property. However, with the system not yet in place, it seems unlikely that it will be implemented in the coming financial year. Though the BBMP plans to recover dues from 4.1 lakh properties whose owners have wrongfully assessed their property tax this year, the target collection has been reduced from Rs. 3,500 crore (2020-21) to Rs. 2,800 crore (2021-22). This, even though the civic body has reportedly managed to collect nearly Rs. 3,000 crore as property tax this current fiscal. Stating that there were no plans to increase property tax, the Budget said the achievable target of Rs. 2,800 crore has been set, which, with various cesses will add up to Rs. 3,500 crore. The non-profit organisation, Janaagraha, in a statement, stated that the target of Rs. 2,800 crore property tax collection is 40% more than the maximum amount of tax collected t0 date. Stressing on the need for better enforcement to bring unassessed properties into the tax net and correction of zonal misclassification, civic commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that 78,000 notices had been issued. Tax assessment The civic body plans to shift to the Capital Value System of tax assessment from the current rental based system. BBMP is the only urban local body in the State that has yet to make this shift. However, it is not clear when the CVS will be implemented. BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta said that the BBMP needed a legal basis to implement the system from the next fiscal – April 1, 2021. Senior officials, on condition of anonymity, told The Hindu that they would require at least another six months to put in place all the processes. “We will then have six more months to create awareness among citizens about the new taxation system,” officials said, stating indirectly that the implementation would be unlikely in the coming fiscal. B khatas to A khatas The Budget, once again, makes a case for conversion of B khatas to A khatas. Certain legislative changes are required to convert B khatas into A khatas and a proposal regarding the same is pending with the government. “This is in the final stages and is likely to be approved. It will make way for a more transparent system and result in orderly growth in the city,” said Mr. Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-hike-in-property-tax-proposed/article34181209.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Limiting number of appeals to one may provide early end to litigation: Hegde||We should start dialogue on how to find a quick justice delivery system for genuine litigants by discouraging “speculative litigation” that are causing burden on the system, said N. Santosh Hegde, the former judge of the Supreme Court, here on Saturday. Providing only one appeal against the orders passed by the trial courts would be a solution to ensure quick end to litigation, he said while inaugurating a mega Lok Adalat organised by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA). “Let’s start thinking that there could be a quick end to the litigation. Those who enter the justice delivery system must also have a quick exit. Let’s find an exit which is as important as access to justice,” he said. “...a lot of speculative litigation are entering into the system... There will be interim orders in various courts up to the Supreme Court on such litigation...And these speculative litigation are causing burden on the justice delivery system,” he said. He added that the present justice delivery system had provided a way for “speculative litigation” in the form of multiple appeals and fora for revision over the orders passed by trial courts. “One appeal is enough. Superior courts such as the Supreme Court and the High Courts should have specified role and they cannot be made nodal appellate courts for every case ... We need one appeal to re-look into the case as after all it is the human beings who are deciding the cases,” Mr. Hegde said while referring to the one appeal system that exists in some developed countries. He was of the view that people would get used to such a system of one appeal like in the present system how they have accepted the apex court as the final chance for appeal. Meanwhile, Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said cases related to senior citizens under the provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act and domestic violences could be included for amicable settlement in the Lok Adalats in future. High Court judge and Executive Chairperson of the KSLSA Aravind Kumar said that around 92 lakh cases were amicably settled through various Lok Adalats conducted by the KSLSA since 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/limiting-number-of-appeals-to-one-may-provide-early-end-to-litigation-hegde/article34181226.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP makes a massive allocation of Rs. 1,622.33 crore for city’s solid waste management||The BBMP Budget, which was presented on Saturday, has allocated Rs. 1,622.33 crore to handle the city’s gargantuan garbage problem. The civic body justified the allocation and pointed out that lower allocations in the past in solid waste management (SWM) had resulted in bills remaining unpaid for months on end. The allocation, however, includes ongoing capital work amounting to Rs. 522 crore. The huge allocation has been made taking into cognisance the financial support that the proposed independent body for SWM would require initially. With street sweeping and welfare of pourakarmika continuing to be the responsibility of the BBMP, the civic body announced a slew of welfare measures for the civic workforce, starting from providing Rs. 5,000 to each pourakarmika under direct payment system to mark Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s birth anniversary every year. The Budget has also allocated Rs. 9.50 crore towards education fee reimbursement up to Rs. 1 lakh for children of pourakarmikas and Group D employees of BBMP. That apart, Rs. 27 crore has been provisioned towards medical funds for pourakarmikas, Group D and general public. Detailed guidelines for reimbursement of medical expenses under this fund will be finalised soon. Pourakarmikas will also be given Rs. 200 each every month for purchase of brooms, gloves and boots. These items will not be procured by BBMP henceforth. Online feedback An online system to give feedback on the quality of street sweeping will be enabled to monitor the delivery of services on ground. The schedules of sweeping by mechanical sweepers will be made public, so that citizens can verify the work done. Each pourakarmika has also been allotted a particular street or part of the street and citizens can provide an evaluation on the work. The BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha said that none of its demands for pourakarmika welfare find mention in the Budget, especially increase in minimum wages from around Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 24,000 a month. The money for brooms is far less than what pourakarmikas actually spend every month to procure new ones. “There is no reference to bringing contract workers, drivers and assistants of autorickshaws and compactors, under the direct payment system, housing, pension, drinking water, changing rooms etc.. There should also be an audit of funds allocated to pourakarmika welfare in previous Budgets,” the sangha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-makes-a-massive-allocation-of-rs-162233-crore-for-citys-solid-waste-management/article34181210.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Title deeds: Fee waiver for slum-dwellers||For the benefit of slum residents, the State government has slashed the fee to be paid by dwellers of 1,873 slums to obtain title deeds for areas of their residences in all urban local bodies, including in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike limits. As per the revised order issued by the Housing Department, the fee has been fixed at Rs. 4,000 for general category and Rs. 2,000 for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and psychically challenged category residents residing on sites not more than 600 sq. ft area in the BBMP and other city corporation limits, said the notification. The earlier fee was Rs. 10,000 for general category and Rs. 5,000 for SC/ST category residents. The fee has been fixed at Rs. 2,000 for general category and Rs. 1,000 for SC/ST/physically challenged persons residing on sites not more than 600 sq. ft in the city municipal council limits. Earlier, the fee was Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 2,000 for the respective categories. The fee has been fixed at Rs. 2,000 for general category and Rs. 1,000 for SC/ST/physically challenged persons residing on sites not more than 1,200 sq. ft in town panchayat and town municipal council limits. Earlier, the fee was Rs. 3,000 for general category and Rs. 1,500 for SCs and STs. A total of 3,12,969 families — nearly 16 lakh people — are residing in these slums in ULBs in the State, said a notification. The decision to provide title deeds was taken after holding discussions with officials of Revenue, Urban Development, and Municipal Administration departments. The governments in the past had made announcements of providing title deeds to slum-dwellers but failed to take the decision and fix the fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/title-deeds-fee-waiver-for-slum-dwellers/article34181217.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Outlay realistic, but points to deeper malaise’||Civic activists deemed the BBMP’s Budget outlay of Rs. 9291.33 crore as realistic. However, the Budget size points a deeper malaise in the city administration, said Srikanth Viswanathan, CEO, Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy. “The current status quo of meagre funds and staffing in the BBMP is adversely impacting Bengaluru. The Brihan Mumbai Corporation manages half the area of BBMP, possibly one-third the road length and has more than three times its Budget. BBMP will need a Budget size of at least Rs. 30,000 crore and capacities and systems to utilize funds well, to break the current status quo,” he said. Revenue target Data released by Janaagraha on Saturday showed that the civic body’s reliance on grants from the ‘State and Union governments went up to 46% — from 40% last year. This, even as the BBMP has set itself an own revenue target of 50% this year. However, Mr. Vishwanathan pointed out that of the grants from the State government – Rs. 3845.56 crore – only Rs. 785.86 crore was devolution grant from the State Finance Commission. The remaining was a one-time grant by the State government. “Ideally the devolution of taxes under the State Finance Commission must be significantly higher, giving the civic body discretion of how to use those funds,” he said. ‘Augment resources’ According to Mr. Vishwanathan, now that the BBMP Act, 2020 is in place and fiscal discipline is being implemented, it is time for the State government to think about augmenting the resources of the civic body significantly. “In an ideal condition, the city must stand on its own feet, but in our situation, property tax cannot be hiked multiple times at once. So in the intermediate, the civic body has to be funded by the state, like London is,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/outlay-realistic-but-points-to-deeper-malaise/article34181204.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appeal to adopt schools||M.R. Doreswamy, adviser, education reforms, Government of Karnataka, on Saturday appealed to all stakeholders, particularly elected representatives and the corporate sector, to give momentum to development of government schools and help the government deliver school education to all sections of society. People’s representatives Prof. Doreswamy said since last year this issue has gained momentum with the school adoption policy involving people’s representatives and universities. As many as 3,000 schools have recently been adopted through these new initiatives, a first in the country, he said. A social movement is necessary to cover 30,000 needy schools in the next two years, he said. Involvement of corporate and industrial sectors has been envisaged to reach the target. Schools adopted Prof. Doreswamy appreciated the interest evinced by MLAs Ramalinga Reddy, V. Somanna and Bandeppa Kashempur and Chidananda, MLC, who have already commenced development of adopted schools. He paid tributes to Basavaraja Horatti, Chairperson, Legislative Council, for his intervention to convey the government's request to join hands for the development of government schools. He thanked MLAs Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Soumya Reddy and MLC Thippeswamy for their interest in the subject. He thanked Sudha Murty, co-chairman, Infosys Foundation, for offering digitalisation of all government schools in Dharwad district. He commended donation of 2,000 desks to government schools in Dharwad district by Union Minister Pralhad Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-adopt-schools/article34181212.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||28-year-old bartender found dead in her house||A 28-year-old woman was found dead in her house at Nrupatunga Layout in R.T. Nagar on Friday. The police have taken up a case of murder. The victim, Zara, worked as a bartender in a pub in the Central Business District and shared a rented accommodation with another woman. She got engaged recently. “The assailant banged her head against the corner of an iron cot. Zara sustained severe head injuries and died,” said a police officer. “We suspect someone known to her, as there was no sign of forced entry into the house,” said a police officer. The police are trying to identify the accused; one person has been detained for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/28-year-old-bartender-found-dead-in-her-house/article34181215.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru Urban among 46 high burden districts in country||Bengaluru Urban, that is recording a steep rise in the number of cases since March 9, has been identified as one of the 46 high burden districts in the country. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday chaired a high-level meeting with Principal Secretaries and top officials of 12 States, along with Municipal Commissioners and District Collectors of the 46 districts that are worst affected due to the resurge in Covid-19 cases. These districts from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Bihar, have a high mortality rate too. State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra told The Hindu that the State had been advised to strictly enforce COVID appropriate behaviour through stringent measures. “The testing targets will be revised in Bengaluru Urban and all officials have been asked to ensure people follow guidelines,” he said. Karnataka on Saturday reported 2,886 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,83,930. Of these, 1,820 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. With 13 deaths, the toll rose to 12,484. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,179 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 9,50,167. Of the remaining 21,252 active patients, 196 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.68%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.27%. As many as 1,07,416 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,00,346 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,10,02,216. Vaccination As many as 16,74,453 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1 when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 4,98,294 persons above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Saturday, 56,303 senior citizens and 27,692 above 45 years with comorbidities took the jab till 7.30 p.m. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers - 3,29,506 and 72,688 - respectively in both these categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-urban-among-46-high-burden-districts-in-country/article34181234.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Parents being coerced’||Late on Saturday night, the woman released another video in which she said her parents were in the dark about the developments and were “being coerced” into making these statements. She said she needs help of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Opposition leaders, including Siddaramaiah, D.K. Shivakumar, and K.R. Ramesh Kumar, to make statement before a judicial magistrate. “I am scared because the case is being twisted. I am the victim, but I my family are being questioned and not the accused,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parents-being-coerced/article34181220.ece
28 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Applications are invited from eligible candidates for the posts of civil judge under the Karnataka Judicial Services (Recruitment) rules, 2004 and (Amendment) rules, 2011, 2015 and 2016. The last date for submission of online applications is April 27, 2021. For details, visitwww.karn atakajudiciary.kar.nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article34181224.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Temporary permits for pvt. operators during strike||The State government announced that it will provide alternative arrangements to bus passengers if the Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Employees Union goes ahead with its strike from April 7. The Commissioner, Transport and Road Safety, Bengaluru, in a release said that during the strike, to ensure that better transport facilities are provided to travellers, the Transport Department has decided to give temporary permits to contract carriages, maxi cabs and mini buses. Applications invited “In view of this, owners of minibuses, maxi cabs and buses, can contact the Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, and submit applications for temporary permits,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temporary-permits-for-pvt-operators-if-rtc-staff-stir-is-on/article34181235.ece
28 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Harking back to the big farmers’ stir 70 years ago||Exactly 70 years ago,Kagodu village near Sagar in Shivamogga district caught the attention of the entire nation as tenant farmers rose in revolt against the landlords. That is considered the first peasant movement in post-Independence India seeking land for tenants. This led to historic laws that provided land for the landless and gave them protection on several counts. The recent amendments passed by the Karnataka government, however, have removed restrictions on non-agriculturists purchasing farmland and ushered in changes that are seen as reversing some of the gains of the Kagodu movement. This was among the majorissues raised at the recently held Raitha Mahapanchayat held in Shivamogga. In March 1951, the tenant farmers of Kagodu revolted against the landlords following differences over the size of kolaga (a container used while sharing the produces grown.) The landlords refused to allow the tenants to enter the farms they had cultivated for generations. The farmers who attempted to plough the land against the wishes of the landlords were beaten up by the police and supporters of the landlords. Hundreds were arrested in the protracted fight. The highest number of arrests was made in April 1951. Lohia’s entry Prominent socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia joined the protest in support of farmers on June 14, 1951, and appreciated the courage of women who were part of it. He was also arrested at Sagar railway station and later kept in the central prison in Bengaluru. H. Ganapathiyappa, who was the founding secretary of the Raitha Sangha in Sagar taluk, is remembered by people as the architect of the movement. Though the movement did not get the tenants the land they cultivated immediately, it led to laws favouring them in the later years. Law favouring tenants “My husband was joyous when [the former Chief Minister] D. Devaraj Urs brought in a law making the landless tenants owners of the land they cultivated. He felt his fight during Kagodu Satyagraha yielded the desired result,” recalled Manjamma, wife of the late Ganapathiyappa who stays with her son Hoysala at Vadnala near Sagar. In fact, Ganapathiyappa named one of his sons Devaraj. Only a few who took part in the 1951-52 struggle are in Kagodu and neighbouring villages today. “Under the leadership of Ganapathiyappa we tilled the land against the wishes of landlords. The police beat us up and took us to jail. Those days many tall leaders of the country visited our village,” recalled Dodderi Eerappa, now in his 90s. During his visit to the village,Lohia had planted a pipal tree, which the locals treat with reverence. The village has a community hall named after Lohia. It was built when S.M. Krishna was the Chief Minister. At the entrance of the hall is the slogan ‘Uluvavane Holadodeya’ (One who tills the land is the owner). “Our elders fought for the rights over the land they cultivated for years. But, now the government has allowed non-agriculturists to purchase farmland. A bigger fight is needed now,” said Kannappa of Kagodu, proud of his village’s legacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/harking-back-to-the-big-farmers-stir-70-years-ago/article34181222.ece
28 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bigger statue of Vivekananda planned at Unakal lake||Mentioning about the long pending demand for a bigger statue of Swami Vivekananda at the Unakal lake in Hubballi, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has said that Hubballi-Dharwad Smarty City Limited (HDSCL) will be asked to take up the project. Addressing a gathering after unveiling the 10.5 ft statue of Swami Vivekananda at Shri Siddharoodha Swamiji Railway Station on Saturday, Mr. Joshi said that HDSCL will be asked to incorporate the project of installing a big statue of Swami Vivekananda under its Unakal Lake Development Project. A statue of Swami Vivekananda has already been installed at Unakal Lake but it is hardly visible from the lake bund. He said a decision in this regard would be taken during HDSCL meeting and it would be asked to install a bigger statue. Emphasising the need for installing statues of Swami Vivekananda at various places across the country, he said that it was Swami Vivekananda who in a way revived the India’s rich heritage, belief and culture. The Minister said that various developmental works had been initiated in the twin cities including the world’s longest railway platform at Hubballi station which was likely to be completed in April. Dharwad railway station was also being developed at a cost of Rs. 18 crore, Mr. Joshi said. Mr. Joshi said that he was he was in touch with TruJet Airways management for launching early morning flight services to Bengaluru from Hubballi. IndiGo had also been asked to start services to Bengaluru. Alliance Air was is going to launch services between Hubballi and Hyderbad from March 31, he said. Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar spoke on the contribution of Vivekananda and said that the youth should take inspiration from it. Nirbhayananda Sarawathi Swami of Ramakrishna Ashram said that Vivekananda breathed life into India’s freedom struggle and awakened the Hindu pride among the people. General Manager of SWR Ajay Kumar Singh, who is scheduled to retire on March 31, was felicitated on the occasion. Earlier the dignitaries inaugurated the railway underbridge near Sri Krishna Kalyanamantapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bigger-statue-of-vivekananda-planned-at-unakal-lake/article34181399.ece
28 March 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Hubballi-Bengaluru superfast train gets in-principle approval||Travel to the State capital from Hubballi might take less time as a superfast train to Bengaluru has been proposed and it has also received in-principle approval from the Railway Minister. Speaking to presspersons after inaugurating a railway underbridge and unveiling Swami Vivekananda’s statue at Hubballi station on Saturday, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal had given in-principle approval for a superfast express train between Hubballi and Bengaluru. Mr. Joshi said that already officials of the South Western Railway had been asked to send a proposal regarding the train to the Railway Ministry and the Railway Board. After cases drop The Union Minister said that the proposal had received assent of Mr. Goyal and members of the Railway Board and it would materialise after COVID-19 cases reduced in the State. Mr. Joshi said that the train was expected to run between the two cities in another six months and the travel time will be reduced to six hours from eight. Referring to the ongoing electrification of the railway line between Hubballi and Bengaluru, he said that it was likely to be completed in six months. Steps were also on fulfilling the late Union Minister Suresh Angadi’s dream of running a train between Dharwad and Belagavi via Kittur at the earliest, he said. Regarding the BJP’s decision to field Mangala Angadi, wife of Mr. Angadi, he said that the decision was taken due to political compulsion and demand from the local leaders. Winnability factor He clarified that the situation was different when compared to that of Tejaswini Ananth Kumar, wife of late Union Minister H.N. Ananth Kumar. He said that based on the winnability factor, this time the late Minister’s wife had been chosen to contest from Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-bengaluru-superfast-train-proposed/article34181423.ece
28 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Congress has become leaderless: Joshi||Ridiculing the Congress, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said the party did not have any issue to raise during the election and it had become leaderless. Speaking to presspersons in Belagavi on Saturday on his arrival to participate in a bypoll related meeting of the BJP, Mr. Joshi said the Congress did not have a stand of its own and it had become a ‘bus-stand’. He expressed confidence that BJP would register historic win in the three byelections being held in Karnataka and the party would also come to power in the five States where Assembly elections were underway. He said the ‘Didi Sarkar’ in West Bengal would collapse. ‘Easy win’ Mr. Joshi said the party candidate for Belagavi Loksabha bypoll, Mangala Angadi, would register an easy win. “People of the country are impressed by the good work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and developmental works of the B.S. Yediyurappa-led State government in Karnataka. The BJP will fight the election by presenting the development works before the people,” he said. To a query, he clarified that there would be no change of leadership in Karnataka and Mr. Yediyurappa would continue as Chief Minister. Regarding former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s statement about big payment being made for BJP ticket at Basavakalyan, Mr. Joshi said Mr. Kumaraswamy had the habit of making such statements for the sake of being in the news. “We are not in such a bad position as their party,” he said. Earlier speaking to presspersons in Belagavi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar expressed confidence of BJP’s win in the Belagavi bypoll and said the CD issue was not an election issue at all. The farmers’ issue had been raked up unnecessarily by the Congress as there was nothing to say against Mr. Modi, he said. If at all the farm laws were detrimental to farmers, the whole country would have taken the path of agitation, not just one or two States, he said. To a query, Mr. Shettar said the Jarkiholi brothers would campaign for the party in the byelection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-has-become-leaderless-joshi/article34181424.ece
28 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mega farmers’ convention in Belagavi on March 31||A mega convention of farmers, Raita Maha Panchayat, will be held in Belagavi on March 31 and over 50,000 farmers from across the district are expected to participate. Addressing a joint press conference in Belagavi on Saturday, farmers’ leaders Babagouda Patil, K.T. Gangadhar, Chukki Nanjundaswamy, and others said that through the mega convention, the farmers would register their protest against the three farm laws that were detrimental to the farm sector. Mr. Gangadhar alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had put ‘Bharat Mata on sale’ and was raising slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’. He said nobody could snatch away the constitutional right of agitation of the farmers and Mr. Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa should behave responsibly. He demanded that the farm laws be repealed immediately. He said that any effort to disturb the maha panchayat would evoke strong reaction from farmers. “The farmers’ agitation has now become a people’s movement with organisations from every sector expressing solidarity as the privatisation policy of the Centre is detrimental to all the sectors,” he said. Terming the farmers’ agitation as the second freedom movement, Mr. Nanjundaswamy of Raita Sangha said the implementation of the farm laws would adversely affect the middle class apart from farmers. Taking exception to the policies of State and Central governments, former Union Minister Babagouda Patil lambasted the government’s move to arrest farm leader Yudhvir singh. Mr. Patil alleged that the government was trying to snub the farmers’ movement and it would not be tolerated. “The Centre should first take up initiatives to address the hunger issue rather than building airports. First give work to empty hands. The farmers’ agitation should become youth agitation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-farmers-convention/article34181231.ece
28 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Coaching centres in Dharwad inspected||In the wake of complaints about violation of COVID-19 protocol in coaching centres, paying guest facilities, and 24x7 libraries, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal led a team to inspect them in Dharwad on Saturday. Mr. Itnal visited various coaching centers located at Saptapur locality in Dharwad and imposed penalty on on those violating the norms. During the inspection, municipal officials and health officials inspected the classrooms and asked the candidates to compulsorily wear masks and maintain physical distancing while attending the classes. Mr. Itnal told reporters that in the wake of complaints about non adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, strict instructions had been given to those managing the centres. However as it was found that some of those running these coaching centres were apathetic towards the guidelines, the inspection was conducted and fine was imposed. He said that in case of further violations of the norms, the buildings with such coaching centres would be declared as containment zones. A penalty of Rs. 50,000 was imposed on the institutes which had flouted the norms and notices had been issued to the owners of the centres. Meanwhile, the Municipal Commissioner ordered for the immediate testing of 25 candidates at these centres who were not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coaching-centres-in-dharwad-inspected/article34181397.ece
28 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Joshi takes exception to Sudhakar’s statement||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has taken exception to the statement by Health Minister K. Sudhakar on monogamy in connection with the CD issue. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Joshi said that Dr. Sudhakar should not have issued such a statement and it was wrong. Emphasising that morality was important for people in public life, he said that one should be first true to oneself and one’s conduct should be modelled on others in such issues. Mr. Joshi also said that the CD issue would not make any impact in the byelections being held in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joshi-takes-exception-to-sudhakars-statement/article34181416.ece
28 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||BJP’s ‘yuvaraja’ too involved: Yatnal||BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Saturday alleged that besides a ‘mahanayaka’ (great leader) in the Congress, a ‘yuvaraja’ (crown prince) in the BJP was also running “CD factories” and using them to blackmail leaders and officials. Speaking to presspersons in Haveri, Mr. Yatnal, without taking any names, alleged that they made CDs using young women and then blackmailed leaders, threatening to expose them. Mr. Yatnal said with the release of the audio clip and the ‘mahanayaka’ in the Congress had been exposed now and soon the ‘yuvaraja’ in the BJP would be exposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-yuvaraja-too-involved-yatnal/article34181223.ece
28 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Political activities gain momentum in Basavakalyan||Political activities have gained momentum for the byelections to the Basavakalyan Legislative Assembly constituency where polling is scheduled on April 17 while counting of votes will take place on May 2. The last date for filing nomination papers is March 30. Scrutiny will be taken up on March 31 and the last date for withdrawal of nomination paper is April 3. The Assembly seat fell vacant due to the COVID-19 death of legislator B. Narayan Rao on September 24, 2020. Political activities in Basavakalyan gathered momentum following the announcement of candidates by the major political parties. The Congress has fielded Mallamma Narayan Rao, apparently in an effort to get sympathy votes following the death of Narayan Rao who represented the constituency since 2018 as party legislator. The Congress leaders are working hard to capture the seat in the byelection. Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who has been picked by the Janata Dal (Secular) for the seat, recently left the Congress to join it. Springing a surprise and ending days of speculation on the choice of candidate for the bypolls, the ruling BJP on Thursday announced the selection of its candidate, Sharanabasappa Salgar, a political greenhorn and outsider [a resident of Kalaburagi district], for the seat. The choice of Sharanbasappa Salgar even surprised BJP local leaders as well as political observers as the party was expected to field a bigwig. The names of two-time former legislator Mallikarjun Khuba and BJP State vice-president and son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa B.Y. Vijayendra were names doing the rounds in BJP circles. However, now all the three contestants are first-timers. In the last 11 Assembly elections in Basavakalyan, the Janata Dal (Secular) won thrice in 1999, 2004, and 2013 elections. The Congress won it twice in 1972 and 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/political-activities-gain-momentum-in-basavakalyan/article34181402.ece
28 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ashtagi appointed State V-P of BJP’s SC Morcha||Ambaraya Ashtagi, a BJP leader and former zilla panchayat president, has been appointed as the State vice-president of BJP SC Morcha. Chalavadi Narayanaswamy, State president of the organisation, communicated the appointment to Mr. Ashtagi in a letter late on Friday. Mr. Ashtagi, a prominent Dalit leader from Kalyana Karnataka, worked in the Congress for nearly two decades before joining the BJP in 2018. He was identified as one of the confidants of Congress veteran M. Mallikarjun Kharge. After joining the BJP, he was appointed as the Kalaburagi (Rural) district vice-president. Mr. Ashtagi’s appointment is widely viewed as BJP’s strategy to use HIS organisational skills for strengthening the party in the region, particularly for attracting Dalit votes the imminent by-elections for Basavakalyan, Maski and Sindagi Assembly segments and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashtagi-appointed-state-v-p-of-bjps-sc-morcha/article34181406.ece
28 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two COVID-19 deaths in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district reported two COVID-19 deaths on Saturday. As per the information provided by the district administration, a 70-year old woman from Old Jewargi Road in the city, who was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, was admitted to the COVID-19 hospital on Wednesday and died on Friday. In another case, a 75-year old woman from Belamagi village in Aland taluk, who was suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday and died on Saturday. The number of deaths owing to COVID-19 is 339. The district also reported 147 new cases and 61 patients discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-covid-19-deaths-in-kalaburagi/article34181396.ece
28 March 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||BJP choice for Basavakalyan triggers revolt||Dissent within the party ranks over the BJP’s decision to field Sharanu Salagar, a Lingayat leader from Kalaburagi, in the Basavakalyan byelection, continued into the weekend. As the news of Mr. Salagar’s selection was out late on Thursday, party workers held flash protests in Basavakalyan town condemning the decision. They burnt tyres at Haralayya Circle, Tripuranta Circle and Ambedkar Circle. The dissent and disappointment took gathered momentum on Friday with more party leaders and cadres joining the agitations and airing their discontentment. An emergency meeting of party workers and leaders was held at Basaveshwara Temple where the party workers took oath not to vote for BJP in the by-election. “I am a patriot and I have self-respect. I am a fan of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Yet, I take oath in the name of Basavanna and my family’s deity not to vote for BJP in this byelection,” they said. A few leaders from Swabhimani Balaga, a group of local youth, strongly suggested fielding any one of the BJP ticket aspirants as an Independent candidate. The BJP activists also decided to take up an intense house-to-house campaign in the constituency appealing the voters not to vote for Mr. Salagar. The party workers raised slogans against Bhagwanth Khuba, the Lok Sabha member from Bidar, holding him responsible for denial of ticket to local aspirants and giving it to an ‘outsider’. A few of them even burnt his image printed on a banner. They alleged that Mr. Khuba had ensured the party ticket to Mr. Salagar in return for a huge amount of money. As many as 16 local leaders including a two-time former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba and others were tryinh to get the ticket. Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba told The Hindu he would take an appropriate decision after consulting the party workers and people of Basavakalyan on Tuesday. “BJP claims to be a party of ideology and principles. But, its leaders took a wrong decision. There are 2.5 lakh voters and 25,000 party workers in the constituency. There are many leaders and cadres who have been sincerely working for the party for the last 30 years or more. We are surprised to see that the party leaders could not find an able candidate among them. A meeting of people and party workers would be held on March 30 and I will decide my future course of action after taking suggestions from the stakeholders in the meeting,” Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba said. Mr. Suryakanth Nagamarpalli, son of former Minister late Gurupadappa Nagamarapalli, however, made it clear that he would neither contest the byelection as an Independent candidate nor quit the party, though he was disappointed by the party’s decision. “I am pained by the party’s decision to prefer an outsider over me and many other local leaders. My father was the man behind the revival of B.S. Yediyurappa’s political career. It is a sad thing that the party leadership did not recognise our work,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-choice-for-basavakalyan-triggers-revolt/article34181409.ece
28 March 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Six held on murder charge||The Kalaburagi police on Saturday arrested six persons in connection with the murder of a cloth merchant, Omkar M. Hanshetty, at Ashtagi village in the Kalaburagi district recently. According to the police, the victim’s sons Sharanappa Hanshetty and Ravi Hanshetty allegedly hatched a conspiracy to kill their father and took the help of their friends, Amar C. Hindoddi, Harish Vanti, Prahlad, and Suresh Dengi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-held-on-murder-charge/article34181394.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Movies on OTT platforms might require censorship’||Chairman of Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy Suneel Puranik said on Saturday that if the contents of cinema being streamed via Over The Top (OTT) platforms went unchecked it might require invoking the provisions of censorship on such movies. Speaking on ‘exploring the Indian identity through cinema’ at the third edition of Mangalore Lit Fest organised by the Mangaluru Literary Foundation, he said that only a handful of persons now produced cinema for OTT platform. A close observation revealed that they are being produced with a “hidden agenda” and they are “one-sided”. They could certainly influence some among the audience who are weak minded. Many of the movies do not bother about Indian identity and are a threat to the Indian identity, he said. Cine actor Suchendra Prasad said the objective of many such cinema is nothing but only commercial. Screen writer and director Abhishek Iyengar said that many movies streamed via OTT platforms were “judgmental and one-sided”. “There is a need for ethical censorship,” he said. Mr. Puranik said there was a need for investors to produce more films on the Indian identity. At the same time, he said that films portraying Indian identify, both puranik and historic, are coming to the forefront in the recent years. “Distorted version of the history was projected and shown for about 70 years thus misguiding the younger generation,” he said. But the present generation checks the reality through the modern IT tools, he said. Commenting on the trend of portraying Indian identity as “regressive”, Mr. Iyengar said the factor of “cool to abuse” can reduce when just as in European countries writing cinema is given due importance. Cinema must be seen from the perspective of education and cinema should be a propaganda, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movies-on-ott-platforms-might-require-censorship/article34181851.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two autorickshaw drivers, motorcyclist die in accidents||Two autorickshaw drivers and one motorcycle rider died in accidents reported from Mangaluru City and Dakshina Kannada district police limits on Saturday. Shyam Raj, an autorickshaw driver, died in a freak mishap on the Netravathi bridge off Jeppinamogaru on Saturday morning, when a car with a Kerala registration plate hit a tempo, and later his autorickshaw. Escaped unhurt Complainant Ibrahim told police that he was transporting fish from the Mangaluru Fishing Harbour along with his son Shabir in his tempo. When he was driving on the Netravathi bridge, the car being hit his tempo and later the autorickshaw. The autorickshaw driver was thrown out of the vehicle and was crushed under the wheels of the car, the complainant said. While Ibrahim received minor injuries, Shabir escaped unhurt. However, Shyam Raj was declared brought dead at the Wenlock Hospital, the complainant said adding the accident occurred due to the rash driving of car driver Vaibhav. The Traffic South Police have registered a case and are investigating. In another accident reported from Vitla police limits, autorickshaw driver Hamid alias Ammi, 35, died on the spot after hitting an oncoming car on Saturday morning. Police said the accident occurred near Kodaje Mutt between Mani and Puttur on NH 275. The autorickshaw driver reportedly lost control over the vehicle resulting in the collision. His wife, who was travelling in the rear, escaped with minor injuries while the occupants of the car remained unhurt. Vitla police have registered a case and are investigating. Motorcyclist dead A motorcyclist died after a bus his two-wheeler in Venur police limits on Saturday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Jabir, 34, resident of Poyyegudde, who had recently returned from abroad. The accident occurred near Padangadi Gram Panchayat office. The bus was on its way from Dharmasthala to Udupi. Venur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-autorickshaw-drivers-motorcyclist-die-in-accidents/article34181849.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘India has emerged stronger post-lockdown’||Retired IAS officer Shakti Sinha, who was private secretary to then Prime Minister A.B. Vajpayee, on Saturday said post the COVID-19 lockdown India has moved from taker to giver, overcoming the challenges. He was speaking at a panel discussion on “Post pandemic narratives: Reimagining the India way” after inaugurating the third edition of Mangalore Lit Fest here. Amidst the pandemic, India has shown its strength to China; produced the vaccine for COVID-19 and became a large supplier of the vaccine to the world, he said. Mr. Sinha said COVID-19 had thrown many challenges, including China at the borders. However, the country was not hesitant and the sense of responsibility helped it to stop China from grabbing Indian territories. The lockdown, one of the strongest, helped preventing mass spread of COVID-19 and the country was at the threshold of becoming “Vishwa Guru,” Mr. Sinha said. Former head of Research and Analysis Wing Vikram Sood spoke about the importance of narratives in bolstering power in the international geopolitics. Narratives bring a psychological impact that was rather unseen, he said giving the example of the narrative that the U.S. military being the strongest military in the world. In reality, Mr. Sood said the U.S. had not won a single war since 1940s. As such, narratives need not be in touch with the reality; yet they make a whole lot of difference in the way a country is perceived, he said. Another panellist, MAHE UNESCO chair’s head Madhava Nalapat said narratives of India, including ancient heroes, had given the status of mythology by the colonisers whereas in the West, the tales of Alexander and Julius Caesar were still being given primary importance. Stating that India has premise for great narratives while the country stands for Vasudaiva Kutumbakam. Prof. Nalapat said China feared the potential of India and hence, attempts to decapitate the country to become an economic power. Stating that the days of non-alignment movement were gone, another panellist Dattesh Prabhu from Goa University said the country was matured to take independent stance on global issues. MAHE professor M.S. Nanda Kishor moderated the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/india-has-emerged-stronger-post-lockdown-shakti-sinha/article34181429.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested on the charge of sexually assaulting minor||The city police have arrested three persons on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl and registered cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The police gave the names of the accused as Mohammed Muneer, resident of Polali, Taswin and Sadique from Gurupura Kaikamba. The accused allegedly enticed schoolgirls and women whose husbands were abroad, would have intimate relations with them, and later blackmail them for ransom, City Police Commissioner N. Shashikumar said. The Commissioner told reporters here on Saturday that Muneer befriended a 14-year-old schoolgirl . He also obtained her pictures and videos in private and later began to harass her. The sexual harassment continued for a while even as the parents of the victim parents who came to know about the activities, approached the Women Police Station in Mangaluru. Consequently, the three were arrested. Mr. Shashikumar said the accused used to obtain mobile phone numbers of girls and lonely women on some pretext. Later, the accused would record their intimate moments and demand money or valuables threatening to release the videos on social media. Local people complained to the police that many such gangs were active in Gurupura-Kaikamba region. The Commissioner said upon preliminary inquiry, it was revealed that there was a big network operating in that region and the police suspect many more girls and women have been victims. Police have urged such victims to approach them so as to nab the culprits.  The accused allegedly enticed schoolgirls and women whose husbands were abroad, would have intimate relations with them, and later blackmail them for ransom||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-on-the-charge-of-sexually-assaulting-minor/article34181847.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||If govt. can’t guarantee employment, it should be taken to court: Chenni||Stating that the right to get employment is a Constitutional right, retired professor of English at the Kuvempu University Rajendra Chenni said on Saturday that if the governments cannot guarantee employment, it amounted to crime. Unemployed youths should draw such governments to the court to get justice, he said. He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating a three-day State-level study camp of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on the theme ‘generate employment and provide jobs to the locals on priority’. Mr. Chenni said unemployment is not an issue and it is the right of the youth to get it. If the governments cannot guarantee the Constitutional rights they will not have the moral rights to remain in power. The country does not require a development which promotes only the capitalists by denying employment to the unemployed and social equality. He said that the governments remained mute spectators when thousands lost their jobs and labourers did not have employment during the lockdown. The government was not able to provide employment to the labourers who returned to their native places during the lockdown. Now, they have to return again to the cities to earn their daily bread. State president of DYFI Muneer Katipalla said the BJP-led government at the Centre had turned the country into a “factory of unemployed”. But the BJP while releasing its manifesto for the Assembly elections in five States said that it would give priority for providing jobs. It is nothing but a mockery, he said. Mr. Katipalla said Mangaluru is being projected as the education hub. But youths who have obtained higher education are able to get jobs which promises them only below Rs. 10,000 per month in the city. The youth instead of questioning the government about it are being lost by involving themselves in drug abuse, betting, communal violence, and caste conflicts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/if-govt-cant-guarantee-employment-it-should-be-taken-to-court-chenni/article34181853.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two tipper trucks seized for illegal sand transportation||The Ullal police on Saturday seized two tipper trucks that were allegedly transporting sand illegally to Kerala. Acting on information, sub-inspector T.R. Pradeep stopped the trucks near Koragajja Gudi at Kotekar on NH-66, said a communique. While the driver of one truck fled, the other driver confessed that the sand was loaded from a place near Mudipu and was being transported to Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-tipper-trucks-seized-for-illegal-sand-transportation/article34181850.ece
28 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kateel to lay foundation stone for RuB today||Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, will lay the foundation stone for the Rs. 49.95 crore road underbridge (RuB) and the four-lane road project at Mahakalipadpu railway level crossing in the city at 9.30 a.m. on Sunday. The cost of RuB has been estimated at Rs. 30.07 crore. Building a four-lane concrete approach road for the RuB will cost Rs. 19.87 crore. The approach road will provide better connectivity from Mangaladevi, Pandeshwara areas in the city to the Udupi-Mangaluru-Kerala national highway 66. It will be taken up under Mangaluru Smart City Mission by Mangaluru Smart City Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-rub-today/article34181857.ece
28 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Mohan Shenoy Yermal and Aruna M. Shenoy on Saturday donated Rs. 20 lakh to Manipal Academy of Higher Education Trust, Manipal, to develop trauma and operation theatre facilities at TMA Pai Rotary Hospital in Karkala, Udupi district. The cheque was handed over to H.S. Ballal, Pro-Chancellor, MAHE. Dr. Ballal said the fund will help create additional facilities at the hospital.     There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi on March 30 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Udyavara, Guddeyangady, Pitrodi, Balaipade and nearby places. It is for maintenance works.     Department of Horticulture has invited applications from farmers for 10-month training in horticulture from May 3, 2021, to February 28, 2022. The venue will be Bijuvalli in Moodigere in Chikkmagaluru district. Last date to apply is April 17, 2021. Candidates will be selected through interview on April 20. Log on to https://horticulturedir. karnataka.gov.in to download the application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34181855.ece
28 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MoRTH will widen ORR at rail intersections, says MP||The four troubling spots along the six-lane Outer Ring Road which converges and barrels into a two-lane road at the intersection of the railway tracks, will be widened by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). The 41.5 km ORR converges from a six-lane stretch to a two-lane stretch at four parts where the railway line intersects the highway: Mysuru-Bengaluru, Mysuru-Nanjangud, Mysuru-Hassan and Mysuru-RBI printing press railway lines and poses threat to motorists. This was indicated by Mysuru MP Mr.Pratap Simha who met I.K. Pandey, Director General, Projects, MoRTH, and apprised him of the issue. Mr. Simha said the project will be taken up in the coming financial year and hence is likely to be completed within an year. Once approved, it will help eliminate four major hazardous zones along the ORR and whose rectification by expanding the underpass was kept in the backburner all these years due to technical issues or for lack of funds. Though the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) earmarked funds for it a few years ago, it lapsed owing to lack of coordination with the railways which had to execute the project. Subsequently, the ORR was transferred to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which has now come forward to the resolve the issue. ORR is part of NHAI and connects NH 275 near Hinkal village, NH 150A near Columbia Asia Hospital, and NH 766 near APMC Bandipalya. Though pending since the last few years, the issue has been kept alive and not allowed to lapse and the MoRTH officials during their visit to Mysuru, were taken to the spots to underline the imperatives of widening the underpass in November last year. Mr. Simha said the widening exercise could be taken up on declaring the four locations as ‘’black spots’’ and seeking funds from MoRTH for rectification. The MoRTH has a policy to release funds to set right anomalies in road geometry and design on a priority basis as otherwise it could result in accidents and compromise the safety of the motorists. Though the anomaly in the road design came to the fore even before the completion of the ORR a few years ago, there was a question mark on its funding. Sources in the South Western Railway said any construction that has a bearing on the “permanent way’’ (track in the railway parlance) will involve the construction wing of the railways as they are well-versed with the technical aspects pertaining to the tracks. Once the tracks are secured the road work can be taken up, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/morth-will-widen-orr-at-rail-intersections-says-mp/article34181581.ece
28 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Showers, ice creams, frozen fruits||The rising mercury levels have activated the summer management plan at the Mysuru zoo with the authorities coming up with plans of keeping the animals cool and protected from the heat. A shower is keeping the elephants cool and water sprinklers are helping giraffes beat the scorching heat. Ice creams and seasonal fruits including water melon, musk melon and grapes, soya bean milk and cucumbers are keeping chimpanzees calm and energised. “This summer, we have taken all necessary precautions to keep the animals cool and fit, helping them beat the heat,” said zoo Director Ajit Kulkarni. Chimps and other primates’ health in summer needs to be looked into carefully as they get stressed up from heat with their body covered by thick hair. The diet is usually altered to keep them hydrated all through the day. Himalayan black bears find the weather hard to endure. So frozen fruits are fed to them besides water spraying twice a day. Ice blocks are dipped in their pools for producing chilled water. They remain in water for longer hours to beat the heat. To keep ticks at bay, Eucalyptus oil is sprayed in enclosures of deer, wolves, and hyenas. “We have put up water sprinklers in almost all enclosures. With no dearth of water, sprinklers are turned on in the afternoon. All ponds are fullfor the animals to bust summer stress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/showers-ice-creams-frozen-fruits/article34181584.ece
28 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru zoo denizens don’t feel the summer heat!||How come the Mysuru Zoo is unruffled by the summer heat when the entire city in the grip of a heat wave with soaring temperature? Visitors to the zoo frequently ask the volunteers and the zoo staff stationed at various points across the 157-acre campus, including the Karanji Lake Nature Park, how the zoo remains cool. The zoo authorities claim the temperature inside the zoo is usually lesser by two degrees. The reason: rich green cover with the large tree canopy that makes the zoo reasonably cool in summer. Notably, with most brimming ponds, coolness is often felt by visitors when they walk around the zoo premises, watching the large collection of animals and birds. With ample shade and ‘thandi sadaks’, most visitors say touring the large zoo campus is not exhausting. What makes the zoo rich in water and how come it doesn’t depend on outside water sources like it used to earlier? The zoo harvests nearly 79 crore litres of rainwater annually. This includes rainwater that goes into Karanji Lake besides three mammoth underground storages on the zoo campus that collect harvested rainwater. The zoo has six borewells and none of them have failed so far. The recharged groundwater helps the zoo draw as much water it needs from the borewells without depending much on supply from the Mysuru City Corporation. “I don’t know whether the zoo is the largest harvester of rainwater, but the amount of rainwater harvested appears to be one of the highest here. Out of 79 crore litres of water harvested in an area of 157 acres, only 24 crore litres of water is used. The groundwater gets recharged by the harvest, making our borewells a dependable source of water,” said Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni. The credit for Mysuru zoo remaining “water-rich” even in the harshest summer goes to senior IFS officer and APCCF, B.P. Ravi, who was the zoo director earlier and now the Member Secretary of Zoo Authority of Karnataka. Mr Ravi came up with a plan to tap rainwater that was going waste and help groundwater recharge. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kulkarni said water availability encouraged the zoo to establish more number of ponds in enclosures when compared to the situation 10-15 years ago. The flood waters from Karanji Lake get stored in these ponds, and also in the pits constructed for storing rainwater. Only surplus flood water from the lake is released into the stormwater drain, he said, adding that a flood management system gets activated during the monsoon. “Also, we have established a system where water keeps flowing in the moated enclosures of all animals for keeping the area cool. The visitors feel coolness upon entering the zoo.”   Saviour Karanji lake, that adjoins the zoo, has been a saviour for the zoo as its overflowing waters in monsoon is channelled to the ponds established inside the zoo. These ponds can store up to 120 million litres of water, which would have otherwise flowed into the stormwater drain. The water in these ponds not only helps groundwater recharge, it also makes the zoo self-sufficient. The flood management system has also stopped flooding of the zoo campus which used to take place when overflowing water entered the drain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-zoo-denizens-dont-feel-the-summer-heat/article34181427.ece
28 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Centre encroaching upon State subjects: Madhuswamy||Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy on Saturday put the ruling BJP in discomfiture by stating that the Centre was slowly divesting the States of their power and encroaching upon subjects under the Concurrent list. Mr. Madhuswamy went on to remark that centralisation of power did not augur well for the unity and harmed the federal structure by stoking regional sentiments. Extending the parallel to the State, the Minister said only a few districts in every State of the country had witnessed growth and development and this had fuelled the demand for the creation of more States. This was one of the reasons for the creation of Telangana and disgruntled voices being heard from north Karnataka, the Minister added. He urged Tejasvi Surya, MP for Bengaluru South, and a member of his own party, to raise the issue in Parliament and equated the policies leading to greater centralisation as akin to the policies pursued by the former Prime Minister the late Indira Gandhi for which the Opposition parties had criticised her. Pointing out that education was a State subject, the Minister said there was a centralised admission procedure through NEET with respect to admissions to MBBS course and this would leave Kannadigas in the lurch. Similarly, job opportunities for Kannadigas was limited in the industrial sector in Karnataka though the land was procured from the local people and the State provides infrastructure, he added. R. Balasubramaniam of Vivekananda Youth Movement and the former MLC Thontadarya were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-encroaching-upon-state-subjects-madhuswamy/article34181228.ece
28 March 2021||Tarikere (Chikkamagaluru),KARNATAKA||Clean, and catching your attention||Public toilets of Tarikere have become the talk of the town, thanks to the initiative by the Town Municipal Council to keep them clean and attractive. The council’s efforts have been well received by residents of the town and people who travel on the busy Bengaluru-Honnavar highway. Paintings on the walls of the toilets have been so attractive that many users take time out to take selfies on their mobile phone keeping the artworks in the background. “It is rare to witness people taking photos of toilet buildings. The staff members of Tarikere TMC deserve appreciation for this idea”, said Shashi Kumar, who noticed the toilets during his journey to Shivamogga from Bengaluru recently. Under the Swachha Sarvekshana programme, Tarikere TMC chose to clean 11 public toilets in the town. “They were all in a bad state. A couple of toilets were sites to dump municipal waste. In one toilet alone we removed one tractor load of old clothes,” H. Mahanthesh, Chief Officer of TMC, told The Hindu . After cleaning them, the officer ensured these structures get regular water supply. Each toilet had a water storage facility but required attention in repairing the pipelines. “We used the funds available for water supply and repaired the pipelines. Later, we took the help of artists to do wall paintings”, he said. The council spent a few thousand rupees on the artworks. Initially, the officers had apprehensions about the work. “Many opined that keeping toilets clean would be a difficult task. But, we took it as a challenge. We want to show it as one of the best practices in municipal administration”, the officer said.  Tarikere town has been declared open-defecation free. Among the 11 toilets, nine are regularly cleaned by the TMC staff, while two are Sulabh Shouchalayas, handed over to private agencies for maintenance.  Among the 11 toilets, nine are regularly cleaned by the TMC staff, while two are Sulabh Shouchalayas, handed over to private agencies for maintenance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clean-and-catching-your-attention/article34181579.ece
28 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Tough fight likely between BJP and Congress in Maski byelections||The Maski Legislative Assembly Constituency where bypolls are scheduled to be held on April 17 is likely to see a tough fight between the BJP and the Congress. Apart from nominees from the BJP [Pratapgouda Patil] and the Congress [R. Basanagouda Turvihal], a dozen local leaders are sweating it out in reaching the rural voters as the constituency includes a few villages carved out from Lingsugur taluk and more than 50 villages from Sindhanur taluk. The candidates and party workers need to traverse three taluks, Lingsugur, Maski and Sindhanur, to cover the villages. Going by previous election results, Mr. Pratapgouda Patil, who won for the third time from the constitutency in 2008 on BJP ticket, and earlier in 2013 and 2018 on Congress ticket, has proved his individual strength by winning three elections in a row though on different party ticket. After a year of the 2018 results, Mr. Pratapgouda Patil resigned from the Congress and also as MLA to join hands with the BJP and support the formation of the new government. At present, he is contesting on BJP ticket taking on Mr, Turvihal who is contesting on Congress ticket. When he contested on BJP ticket in the 2018 election, Mr. Pratapgouda Patil defeated Mr. Turvihal by a thin margin of 213 votes. After unanticipated political developments, Mr. Patapgouda Patil and Mr. Tuvihal are forced to fight each other again. The Janata Dal(S), which could not put up a fight against the BJP and the Congress in 2008, 2013 and 2018 elections, secured 11,392 votes when Somanath Nayak was its candidate in the 2018 election. Earlier, it secured 3,488 votes when Amaresh was its candidate in the 2013 election and 8,756 votes when Ayyanagouda was the party candidate in the 2008 election. This time, the party did not opt to field any candidate in the byelection after its State president H.D. Kumaraswamy declared that his party would not fight in the Maski Assembly and Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls. As the Janata Dal(S) is not ready to face elections, it will now be a direct fight between the BJP and the Congress in the byelections. Mr. Pratapgouda Patil, who has filed his nomination papers, will file a second set of nomination papers on March 29 accompanied by his party leaders in a grand procession. Mr. Turvihal, who is yet to file his nomination papers, has already started his campaigning in the rural areas braving the summer heat. Both candidates have been welcomed warmly by villagers in Sindhanur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tough-fight-likely-between-bjp-and-congress-in-maski-byelections/article34181405.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Compost from BBMP units gets good demand||Compost generated at the waste processing units of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on the city’s outskirts seem to have a lot of demand. Earlier in March, the civic body announced its decision to give away the compost free of cost to farmers. Since then, nearly 25,000 tonnes of compost have been picked up by farmers. The BBMP decided to give away compost free of cost primarily so that it could offload the nearly 70,000 tonnes of coarse compost lying in the waste processing units. The Technical Guidance Committee, appointed by the Karnataka High Court, had recommended the same several years ago. Different grades of compost The compost generated in the plants is usually run through a sieve with mesh of different sizes. At the end of the sieving process, different grades of material are sorted. Fine compost was initially being sold by the BBMP at a subsidised cost of Rs. 1,100 a tonne. The cost included transport charges up to some distance. This was later reduced to around Rs. 200 a tonne, sources said. The coarse compost, which has the same organic material as fine compost but for small plastic pieces, can also be used by farmers, albeit after sieving it again, sources said and added that the same material could become fine grade in two months. With space being a major constraint in most of the waste processing plants, the BBMP decided to give it away free of cost to farmers. Given the response now, the civic body is mulling over supplying it to farmers within a 30-km radius of the processing plants, sources added. BBMP Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan the good response to the compost was heartening. The compost from the plants can be used for several horticultural crops, including coconut, mango, pomegranate, arecanut and guava. “All the farmers have to do is arrange for vehicles to transport the compost to their fields. We are hoping this will free up much needed space in the waste processing units,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compost-from-bbmp-units-gets-good-demand/article34181214.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pedalling from West Bengal to ‘discover India’||It is a solo expedition that entails hour of pedalling and traversing unchartered terrain in a bid to discover India. Having pedalled nearly 7,000 km criss-crossing through the hinterland of various States, 28 year-old Madhai Paul also doubles up as a speaker at schools to highlight the importance of adhering to traffic rules. A native of Siliguri in West Bengal, Madhai Paul, who has studied till 12th Standard and worked in a driving school, was smitten by the cycling bug six months ago and wished to discover India pedalling across the length and breadth of the country. “There was this urge to see the places of which I had only read about in books or viewed it on social media channels’’, said Mr. Paul speaking to The Hindu after he woke up from his afternoon siesta under the shade of a tree at Kalamandira. But he finally decided to hit the road on December 1 and since then has cycled about 60 km per day to have covered almost 7,000 km so far. “I have traversed across West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala and have now entered Karnataka exploring Mysuru’’, said Mr. Paul. Almost 4 months of cycling has opened up his vistas and he has learnt to take the rough with the smooth as each day tends to be different. Travelling light with nothing more than a backpack, a quilt blanket rolled in a sack and a bag apart from an empty paint bucket to keep water bottles, Madhai Paul hits the road at around 6 a.m. so as to cover the maximum distance when the day time temperature tends to be bearable. “At night I halt at any petrol bunk or local people provide accommodation and I buy food with whatever little amount I carry. Sometime even this is taken care off as at Jharkhand people went out of their way to help me’’, he recalled. The National Flag which is strapped to the cycle’s handle bar and a poster on the front proclaiming “Bharat Darshan on cycle” tends to draw attention of the people and he stops in between to answer the queries of those curious about him. At times he is referred to a local school and so far he has delivered 20 talks on the importance of adhering to traffic rules. Just the beginning But Paul’s cycling mission has just started. ‘’It will take another 12 to 15 months of cycling to cover the entire country after which I hope to re-join my mother and brother at Siliguri’’, he added. He rates Vizag in Andhra Pradesh, Kochi in Kerala and Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu as the best places he has seen so far for the sheer view they offer. As for his future plans, Paul says he is yet to think of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedalling-from-west-bengal-to-discover-india/article34181583.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rowdy murdered||A 32-year-old history sheeter was hacked to death while his friend sustained serious injuries when an armed group of men attacked them at Gangondanahalli in Chandra Layout on Thursday. “The deceased, Syed Wasim, was a resident of J.J. Nagar. Passers-by took Wasim, who was bleeding profusely, and his friend Abdul to a hospital. “However, the doctors there declared Wasim as brought dead. Abdul sustained severe injuries and is in the ICU,” said a police officer. According to the police, Abdul and Wasim had a fight with their friend Saifulla two days ago. Saifulla allegedly threatened them with dire consequences, following which the two men decided to teach him a lesson. “Anticipating trouble, Saifulla called his brother Barkath who, along with his friends, attacked Wasim and Abdul with lethal weapons,” the officer added. Investigation on The Chandra Layout police have taken up a case of murder, attempt to murder, and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-hacked-to-death/article34181216.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festival of colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-of-colours/article34181588.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hoping for pot luck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hoping-for-pot-luck/article34181419.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Group effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/group-effort/article34181860.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/up-in-arms/article34181862.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Roadworks||The BBMP will take up 291 projects amounting to Rs. 1,000 crore for restoration of roads where BWSSB’s water and sanitary line work have been completed in 110 villages in the newly added areas. These are expected to be completed in the 2021-22 financial year.    A cash prize of Rs. 50 lakh will be awarded under the Innovation Challenge to wards that come up with the best implementable and scalable idea for effective door-to-door collection of waste and zero black spots.    Funds amounting to Rs. 214 crore has been set aside for the maintenance of 1,200 parks. Every park will henceforth prominently display the name and phone number of the person responsible for maintaining it.    The BBMP will establish a Central Control and Command Centre to monitor air quality across BBMP. Sensors to check vehicular emissions and water fountains will be set up to monitor pollution levels. Funds amounting to Rs. 279 crore from 15th Finance Commission will be utilised for this.    For better coordination between engineering and forest departments, a policy is being framed to make provisions for space to plant trees. BBMP intends to distribute 10 lakh saplings this year and increase Bengaluru’s greenery index.    BBMP’s goal this year is ‘zero flooding’, for which an allocation of Rs. 60 crore for desiliting, maintenance of storm water drains, identifying vulnerable areas and taking measures for proper drainage of rainwater will be taken up.    The BBMP is looking towards becoming debt-free in the coming financial year. After paying the last few instalments of its loan to the State Bank of India, the civic body is expected to get the mortgaged K.R. Market released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roadworks/article34181211.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Sangeetha Parishath: Flute recital by Medha Udupa of Mangaluru, Sharada Vidyalaya, Kodialbail, 3.45 p.m.; carnatic vocal by Madhur P. Balasubrahmanyam of Udupi, 5 p.m.  Democratic Youth Federation of India: State level study camp, Keshava Sharma and Phaniraj, professors, speak on ‘farming, corporatisation of public sectors and challenges before India’, Kalangan, Shakthinagara, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34181856.ece
28 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Fronts gird their loins for a poll thriller||As electioneering for the Assembly polls enters the final phase, Alappuzha district is in for an intense electoral battle. While the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) is eyeing a repeat of the 2016 elections when it bagged eight of the nine seats in the district, the Congress-headed United Democratic Front (UDF) is leaving no stone unturned to improve its tally. Along with the LDF and the UDF, the growing presence of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is expected to make it a close contest in most constituencies here. The CPI(M)'s decision not to field Ministers T.M. Thomas Isaac and G. Sudhakaran and the Communist Party of India (CPI) opting to keep away P. Thilothaman from the poll fray have surprised many. The UDF has opted for a mix of young and experienced faces. The NDA has fielded three crossover candidates from the communist parties in Cherthala, Kuttanad and Mavelikara. Explosive remarks But perhaps what set the election scene on fire was Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue R. Balashankar’s explosive remarks about a suspected tacit deal between the BJP State leadership and the CPI(M) behind him being denied the ticket by the BJP in Chengannur. BJP Alappuzha Assembly constituency candidate Sandeep Vachaspati paying floral tributes at the Punnapra-Vayalar martyrs’ memorial and the subsequent attack on BJP Ambalappuzha constituency candidate Anoop Antony Joseph further heated up the campaigning. While the LDF is riding high on development mantra and welfare schemes, the UDF is banking on the allegations against the government and, to some extent, the popularity of its candidates. Both the UDF and the NDA are also chorusing the Sabarimala issue. Of the four constituencies where sitting MLAs are seeking re-election, the contest is deemed tight in three of them. In Aroor, sitting MLA Shanimol Usman, who wrested the seat in the 2019 bypoll, is pitted against playback singer Daleema Jojo of the CPI (M). In Kayamkulam, U. Prathibha, MLA, is up against Aritha Babu, one of the youngest candidates fielded by the Congress. Pitched battle In his re-election bid, Saji Cherian of the CPI(M) is engaged in a pitched battle against M. Murali of the Congress and M.V. Gopakumar of the BJP in Chengannur. The LDF has its work cut out there after being at odds with both the Nair Service Society (NSS) and the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church, two prominent communities with considerable vote share. Although considered an ‘A’ class constituency by the BJP, Balashankar’s outburst is sure to dent its poll prospects in Chengannur. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who is seeking a fifth term from Haripad, is likely to sail through. The LDF is optimistic about a victory in Mavelikara, where it fielded M.S. Arun Kumar, a young face of the CPI(M). In Cherthala, Alappuzha and Ambalappuzha where new faces replaced Mr. Thilothaman, Dr. Isaac and Mr. Sudhakaran respectively, the battle will be much closer this time. In Cherthala, P. Prasad of the CPI is taking on S. Sarath of the Congress, whereas in Alappuzha, the main battle is between P.P. Chitharanjan of the CPI(M) and Congress’ K.S. Manoj. The contest between the District Congress Committee president M. Liju and H. Salam of the CPI(M) in Ambalappuzha is expected to go right down to the wire. Thomas K. Thomas of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is up against Jacob Abraham of the Kerala Congress in Kuttanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-gird-their-loins-for-a-poll-thriller/article34181516.ece
28 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Chennithala’s mother figures twice on poll rolls||Amidst the controversies over discrepancies on the voters’ list, the name of Devaki Amma, mother of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, reportedly features on the electoral rolls in two places. Her name appears on the voters’ list in Chennithala Thripperumthura grama panchayat in the Chengannur Assembly constituency and Haripad municipality in the Haripad constituency. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Chennithala said that lapses on the part of officials led to the double entry. Mr. Chennithala, his mother, and other family members were voters of Chennithala Thripperumthura. Recently, the family, including Devaki Amma, transposed their votes to Haripad where his camp office is situated. “When we transferred our votes to Haripad, we submitted an application requesting to remove our names from the voters’ list in Chennithala Thripperumthura. Names of all my family members, except my mother’s, were deleted from the list. I do not know why my mother’s name was not deleted. It is up for the officials concerned to clarify on the matter,” he said. Mr. Chennithala said all double/multiple entries of voter names on the electoral rolls should be deleted. “Four lakh bogus voters have been added to the voters’ list. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is behind it,” Mr. Chennithala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithalas-mother-figures-twice-on-poll-rolls/article34181540.ece
28 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||LDF, UDF did not back devotees: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda has said that both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) had taken a stance against the devotees in the Sabarimala issue. Addressing a public meeting at Old Bus Stand in Thodupuzha on Saturday, Mr. Nadda said that no UDF worker was seen taking to the street to protect the rights of Sabarimala devotees. If the BJP was elected, administration of all temples would be transferred to believers, he said. “The Union government stood with the people of Kerala when the State was affected by the floods and the Nipah virus. The Centre had constructed 20 lakh bathrooms in Kerala. It provided financial aid to homemakers when COVID-19 hit. When Keralites were stranded in the Gulf under trying circumstances, the Union government intervened to bring them back. He cited the cases of a priest and nurses as examples. Mr. Nadda said that the media should inform the public about the various programmes of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Earlier, a roadshow was held from the Sree Krishna temple to the old bus stand premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-did-not-back-devotees-nadda/article34181529.ece
28 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Make space for green issues in poll campaigns: forum||The Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samithi (WPSS) has urged political parties to discuss green politics focused on the rejuvenation of agriculture sector, restoration of ecology and conservation of the Western Ghats in the Assembly poll campaigns, instead of “trivial matters” affecting only a minor section of the public. “Political parties had highlighted issues such as the entry of women of childbearing age into the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple and free kits distributed to the public during the outbreak of COVID-19, construction of railway lines, tunnels, and alternative roads to the district in their election manifestos, but, had failed to address major issues affecting the public such as eco-restoration projects to combat the process of desertification, conservation of water sources and forests, measures to tackle escalating human-wildlife conflict, rejuvenation of the agriculture sector and measures to improve living standards of the marginalized section of people,” said WPSS president N. Badusha. Flood damage, COVID The irreparable ecological damage caused by the two recent floods or the outbreak of COVID-19 and its impact were not the concern of any political parties during the election campaign, he added. Successive governments or political parties were yet to come up with a land utilisation policy to address the issues of landless tribespeople in the district. The parties were yet to make an attempt to acquire and distribute thousands of acres of land illegally possessed by corporates to the landless, added Mr. Badusha. Farmers’ crisis The farmers were facing a crisis, owing to the drastic fall in prices of their produce in the market, but no one raised such issues during election time, he said. Ecological and habitat degradation due to the cultivation of mono crops such as teak and eucalyptus in forest land was the main reason for the escalating human-wildlife conflict and such issues were yet to be highlighted, added Mr. Badusha. The organisation urged the public to vote for political parties that took steps to address such issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/make-space-for-green-issues-in-poll-campaigns-forum/article34181460.ece
28 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF, UDF synonyms of corruption, says Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party president J.P. Nadda has said that both the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front are synonyms of corruption and it is time for the people of Kerala to get rid of them. The BJP leader was in Chakkarakkal on Saturday to campaign for C.K. Padmanabhan, the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) candidate in the Dharmadam constituency. Referring to the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, he said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had earlier said the Central agencies should investigate the scam, began opposing it when the investigation reached the Chief Minister’s Office. While the LDF government had a role in the gold smuggling case, the previous UDF government was involved in a solar scam, he said. In West Bengal Mr. Nadda said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Congress were confused and facing an ideology crisis. “In Kerala they fight each other, but they are hand in glove in West Bengal against the BJP,” he added. After the BJP government came to power at the Centre in 2014, Kerala got Rs. 2 lakh crore for development projects, thrice the amount allotted by the previous government, he claimed.  Growth impetus The BJP government was giving a lot of impetus to development. The Kanyakumari-Mumbai economic corridor would give employment to several lakhs of youth. Special attention was given to metros and National Highways. Kerala had been made a hub for refineries, he said, with the allocation of around Rs. 12,000 crore to develop refineries and gas pipeline. “In the Sabarimala issue, the BJP has been consistent and is fighting tooth and nail for the cause. The CPI(M) tried to crush the agitation, while the Congress paid only lip service,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-synonyms-of-corruption-says-nadda/article34181543.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||NATPAC recommends road safety audit of metro corridor||The National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) has suggested a road-safety audit of the entire metro corridor, taking into account accidents on roads beneath the 25-km metro viaduct, especially at curves and U-turns. Dozens of U-turns are unscientifically located and must either be sealed or relocated, official sources said. The development comes in the wake of experts from NATPAC and Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) inspecting the accident-prone curve at Elamkulam on SA Road on March 5 and readying a draft report on what has become the most accident-prone black spot in Kochi. Ten youths — mostly two-wheeler riders — died there in accidents in the past six months. The draft report, which has been submitted by the probe team to the NATPAC Director says that erroneous road engineering and tendency of motorists to overspeed were the reasons behind the accidents. Two-wheeler riders died after their vehicles either skidded off the edge of the road and hit the median or after they lost control of their vehicles, on either side of the curve. A multi-storey building protruding into the road on the southern side of the curve has resulted in considerable narrowing of the road width. Similarly, a ‘blind spot’ at the exit from a star-rated hotel on the northern side hampers visibility of vehicles that approach the curve from the Kadavanthra side, the sources said. The NATPAC Director is expected to take a call on the draft report, before forwarding it to the KRSA and City Traffic Police. As per Indian Roads Congress standards, U-turns must not be located close to one another and must be clearly visible to oncoming motorists. Following the preliminary report of NATPAC, a detailed study of the curve will be taken up, to ascertain the design and design speed of the road. NATPAC has suggested a speed limit of 40 kmph at the curve for now. Boards specifying it must be placed on either side. It has also recommended rumble strips, in addition to cat’s eye reflectors. The sources said that the KRSA had recently approved a study of such black spots in the city. Accident data has been collected, and a detailed analysis will be done in the coming two months. The KRSA will suggest remedial measures that NATPAC will implement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natpac-recommends-road-safety-audit-of-metro-corridor/article34181830.ece
28 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Triangular contest in the Gateway to Munnar||A flurry of fast-paced road resurfacing and widening work welcome people to Kothamangalam, even as shops displaying alluring furniture pieces and other goods remain near empty of customers, signifying the poll mood and the post-pandemic situation in the town, which was once the gateway to Munnar. The fiery triangular contest in Kothamangalam is the cynosure of all eyes, as CPI(M) leader and sitting MLA Antony John of the LDF is pitted against Shibu Thekkumpuram of the Kerala Congress (Joseph), a UDF constituent, and Joe Joseph of Twenty20. A medical doctor by profession, Mr. Joseph is the son-in-law of none other than KC (J) leader P.J. Joseph. The NDA has fielded Shine K. Krishnan of the BDJS. While Twenty20 has opted for a rather silent campaign, candidates of the three rival fronts are criss-crossing the constituency, with Mr. Thekkumpuram and Mr. Krishnan focusing on the Kuttampuzha tribal belt.  The Hindu caught up with Mr. John at Kottapady junction, where he explained how development projects worth Rs. 1,328 crore had been undertaken in the constituency since 2016. A total of 19 acres were acquired for the Thangalam-Kozhipilly road, while work to widen the 27-km Thangalam-Kakkanad road resumed after several years (the project had attracted criticism that only 1.20 km were completed over a 15-year period). Similarly, title deeds were given to 800 people, including for the ‘first time’ for agricultural land. Work on a Rs. 16-crore stadium at Chelad has begun, so also a Rs. 20-crore project to renovate the Kothamangalam taluk hospital. Yet another achievement was Rs. 50-crore funds for education, including construction of hi-tech classrooms, and Rs. 55 crore for developing the agricultural farm at Neriamangalam, Mr. John said. Addressing voters at Kuttampuzha town, Mr. Thekkumpuram exuded confidence that the UDF would wrest control of the constituency from the LDF — referring to the victory of former Minister T.U. Kuruvilla of the KC (J) in 2011. “Tribal areas need substantial Central and State funds to erect electrified fences to ward off attacks on crops and habitation by wild animals. Moreover, road projects, including the ring road, that began during the UDF rule are nowhere near completion, which show that the expected development did not take place under the the LDF MLA,” he said. Young voter Eldhose Mathew, an entrepreneur, expressed dismay at the long-overdue road projects to decongest Kothamangalam town. “With little development taking place, youth from here are migrating to Canada, Australia, and Europe in large numbers,” he said. Church feud The voting pattern of the members of the Syrian Jacobite Church, who constitute over 20% of the electorate and are embroiled in a long battle with the Syrian Orthodox Church over the custody of churches where Jacobites are in vast majority, will be a decisive factor in Kothamangalam. Farmers and traders in the region are peeved at the fluctuation of prices of banana, nutmeg, coconut, and rubber, and unavailability of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doling-out-promises-paying-heed-to-complaints/article34181527.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Shipyard delivers passenger vessel||Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) delivered the first 500 Pax passenger-cum-150-tonne cargo vessel Sindhu to the Andaman and Nicobar administration on Saturday. The protocol signing and handing over ceremony was held on board the vessel at the shipyard. The ship will ply mainly between the groups of islands and can also call at the mainland, said a press release here. The ship delivered on Saturday is part of a series of four passenger vessels comprising two 500 Pax and two 1,200 Pax at a total order value of about Rs. 1,400 crore under the ‘Make In India’ initiative of the government. The second 500 Pax sister vessel, which is under advanced stage of construction, is also expected to join the fleet in the current year. The protocol documents were signed by Ashutosh Pandey, Director, Shipping Services, representing the Andaman administration, and Sivakumar A., General Manager, CSL, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shipyard-delivers-passenger-vessel/article34181563.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Plan to streamline freight movement||A project to promote sustainable transportation of goods in the city, giving priority to health, safety, people-centred urban development, and low emissions and encouraging circular and regional economies, is on the cards. The aim is to minimise carbon footprint of freight transport, which contributes around 40% of global carbon emissions by the transport sector. The project, ‘EcoLogistics-Low Carbon Freight for Sustainble Cities’, is a partnership initiative of ICLEI South Asia in association with the Kochi Corporation. The project is supported by the Federal Ministry for Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMU), Germany, through its International Climate Initiative (IKI) programme. The focus of the project will be on enhancing capacities, strategies, and policies, to promote low-carbon urban freight through local action. It will advance the development of effective regulatory, planning and logistical instruments at different levels of the government, to bring about low-carbon freight transport in Kochi. This was mentioned as an initiative in the Kochi Corporation budget for 2021-22. A stakeholder discussion to develop a low-carbon action plan for Kochi, chaired by Mayor M. Anilkumar, was held here on Wednesday. A slew of projects to lessen carbon footprint are under way in the city, from Water Metro and e-autos to CSML readying smart roads with wide space for pedestrians and cycle lanes. Cargo autorickshaws The movement of cargo too will be similarly restructured by rolling out electric cargo autorickshaws. A cooperative society will be formed for the purpose, the Mayor said. On problems facing residents due to godowns that are proliferating on narrow byroads in the city, especially on the NH Bypass, Mr. Anilkumar said a master plan ought to be readied to address such issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-streamline-freight-movement/article34181826.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Candidates throng tribal hamlets of Kuttampuzha||With the Assembly poll date fast nearing, tribal hamlets at Kuttampuzha in Kothamangalam constituency are getting unusual number of visitors in the form of candidates and their campaign teams. Development has largely evaded the area, what with people there complaining of no hospital with facility for inpatient treatment available anywhere nearby, even as traditional systems of treatment are thinning down. Moreover, electricity has not yet reached a locality, although Ernakulam is often projected as a district which achieved 100% electrification. The tribal hamlet has 17 colonies, while title deeds have not been handed over to 67 families who were relocated to Pantapra colony off Pooyamkutty road. “We were living in Varium, where I cultivated coconut, rubber, pepper, and arecanut, when then government allotted two acres and possession certificate to each family a decade ago. We are unable to cut trees in the (forest) land allotted to us and cultivate any crops, since we have not been given title deeds,” said Rajagopal of the colony, pointing to the largely-barren tracts of land around houses made of bamboo. “Even worse, the so-called civilised people refuse to even accept us as human beings. They discriminate against us and our children and refuse to offer them admission in colleges, in violation of ST quota norms,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidates-throng-tribal-hamlets-of-kuttampuzha/article34181828.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Theatre Day marks major revival of stage activities||The World Theatre Day on Saturday had a dramatic effect on theatre activities in Kochi, with several programmes being organised in the city. Veteran stage artistes were honoured, and plays were staged under the aegis of various organisations to mark the occasion. “There has been a directional change in the way we approached theatre so far,” said Chandra Dasan of Lokadharmi, a well-known centre for dramatic arts in Kochi. He added that while the entire world reeled under the pandemic, it was not possible for theatre to stay away. Weekly talks While plays should be experienced directly, there have been widespread discussions on the theatrical and aesthetic aspects of drama during COVID times, he said. Lokadharmi has been organising weekly talks by renowned persons, he added. While Lokadharmi is set to revive its normal activities, it is also launching a publications division, Mr. Chandra Dasan said. The events at the Chavara Cultural Centre were inaugurated by Prof. M.K. Sanoo. Edward Albee’s “Zoo Story”, directed by T.V. Balakrishnan, was staged, and theatre veterans Maradu Joseph and John Paul spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theatre-day-marks-major-revival-of-stage-activities/article34181836.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Emphasis on new industrial estates||The promoters of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) expect the new government to lay emphasis on establishing new industrial estates and areas under local self-government institutions, improvement of facilities in minor ports such as Beypore, Azheekkal, Kottayam, and Kollam, and incentivising MSME units that generate large employment opportunities. In a brief note on the status of the MSMEs in the State, the Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) says the government should also build better infrastructure in industrial areas and on industrial estates. Sojan Joseph of the Edayar Small Scale Industries' Association points out the case of a segment of road, work on which has been delayed apparently for no reasons. He says around 4,000 people works in the industrial area and laying the nearly four-km road will help the more than 330 units in the industrial area. The KSSIA note also says encouraging local self-government bodies to set up industrial areas will substantially increase job opportunities besides augmenting revenue for the government. The improvement of facilities at the minor ports will help streamline cargo movement between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod and help attract investments in industrial units, the association feels. Mr. Joseph says the State government must help the small units by granting them title deeds to the land they purchased from the government on industrial estates and in industrial development area as per the April 1969 order from the government. The small industries association is of the view that the titles should be distributed to industrial unit owners who have fully met their hire purchase conditions and made full payment to the government. It is expected that once an entrepreneur pays the full amount as the cost of the land, the title deed will be granted, the association says.  Back local bodies to increase job opportunities KSSIA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emphasis-on-new-industrial-estates/article34181522.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||College plans Rs. 12-crore worth infra development||Union Christian College, Aluva, has envisaged infrastructure projects to the tune of Rs. 12 crore on its centenary. They include a state-of-the-art library building spread over 22,000 sq.ft and costing around Rs. 6.5 crore, an international house at Rs. 1.8 crore, a technology incubation centre worth Rs. 1.8 crore, renovation of the old ‘Kacheri malika’ dating back to the 1800s, and a new hostel for men. “The government had allocated Rs. 5 crore in the State Budget for the library building. We hope to undertake the remaining projects with help from the Centre and State governments, companies through their CSR funds, alumni and other well-wishers of the institution that was opened in 1921,” said Father Thomas John, manager, UC College. The new library building will have appropriately equipped space for the visually and physically challenged, a technology training centre for women and children from the neighbourhood, and space for production of digital teaching / learning resources. “The proposed international house will offer a place to stay for visiting faculty from abroad under the Scholar-in-Residence programme. It will have facilities to organise semester programmes with foreign universities under partnership initiatives,” said Father John. The college management has plans to set up an incubation and start-up centre spread across 10,000 sq.ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-plans-rs-12-crore-worth-infra-development/article34181832.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||247 new cases in district||Thrikkakara recorded 18 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, while Kalamassery and Cheranalloor saw 10 each. A total of 247 people tested positive in the district. No new cases were reported among health workers. With 391 people testing negative on Saturday, the district’s active patient load is 2,810. Of those recovering from the infection, 2,173 are recuperating at home, 17 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 25 are at PVS Hospital, three are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, and four are at the District Hospital, Aluva. While 160 patients are admitted at private hospitals, 19 are at FLTCs, and 93 are at SLTCs. A total of 10,292 people remain in quarantine. As many as 7,549 samples were sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/247-new-cases-in-district/article34181833.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Nothing wrong in supplying essentials to people’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that the Opposition was out to make sure that nothing good happened to the State and its people. While Vishu and Easter festivities are in April, the Leader of the Opposition is asking why the free supply of essentials (kits) was being made, the Chief Minister said. He was addressing an election rally at Malikampedika in the Kalamassery constituency. There is nothing wrong in the distribution of essentials when festive days come close together, he said. Mr. Vijayan also said that the government gave active support to start-ups. There were just 300 start-ups in 2016, and the number has risen to 4,000 now, he claimed. He added that the LIFE Mission scheme had benefited 2.5 lakh people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nothing-wrong-in-supplying-essentials-to-people/article34181834.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||POCSO case convict gets 10 years in jail||The Ernakulam POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court on Saturday sentenced a man accused of raping a nine-year-old girl multiple times to 10 years rigorous imprisonment, besides imposing a fine of Rs. 70,000. Kabeer Lal, 57, was found guilty of raping the child of a family who lived in the house he had rented out from September 2016. The Infopark police registered a case against him charging him with raping the child multiple times in 2017. The judge P.J. Vincent sentenced the convict to 30 years of imprisonment on three counts under IPC Sections 376 (2) (i) and 376 (2) (m) and Pocso Sections 9 (l) and 9 (n). However, he needs to undergo the sentence concurrently. The judge also directed the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to pay compensation to the victim under the Kerala Victim Compensation Scheme. Though the police had arraigned the child’s teacher as the second accused, she got the proceedings against her quashed by the High Court. The convict’s plea for leniency on account of his family and state of health did not cut ice with the court.  Man raped minor girl who lived in the house he had rented out||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-year-jail-term-for-pocso-case-convict/article34181538.ece
28 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CM: Collusion between Congress, BJP||A conspiracy between Congress and BJP leaders to allow the BJP to win in a few areas will pave the way for the State’s destruction, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The BJP was able to open its account in the Assembly by winning a seat in Nemom in 2016 because the party candidate then had the support of Congress workers, he added. There are reports that the Congress and the BJP are attempting to make a similar arrangement work in this election as well, and the matter deserves serious attention, the Chief Minister said. The Opposition Leader’s attempt to stop distribution of food kits for Vishu and Easter and his raising the issue with the Election Commission reflect lack of humanity, he observed. “Why disrupt the celebrations of ordinary people?” he asked. Mr. Vijayan was speaking at Thripunithura on Saturday at a convention for M. Swaraj, sitting MLA and LDF candidate. LDF’s achievements He drew on the LDF’s achievements over the past five years, including improvement of roads, schools, and health infrastructure. Employment guarantee will be one of LDF’s focus areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collusion-between-congress-bjp-cm/article34181464.ece
28 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Popular movements will power Oppn.: Karat||The Opposition, powered by popular movements, will soon find its political reflection in India, asserts Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and Polit Bureau member Prakash Karat. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu , he said electoral battles are only a small part of the elaborate counter-strategy of the Left. “In many places, the Opposition parties are being actively suppressed for the last few years and it has been stepped up after the second term of the Modi government. We cannot limit the fight to electoral battles alone as we are combating them politically and ideologically in all spheres,” he says. Centre flouting laws The Centre has been steamrollering various laws without listening to any voice of dissent. “The three farm laws make a prime example and Parliament had no real role in that. In such a situation, the movements outside have grown, like the farmers’ struggle that cuts across all political affiliations. The working class is up in arms against them and these protests are building up,” he said. He agrees that BJP-led the National Democratic Alliance is trying to grow all over the country and the State cannot be an exception, but quickly adds that Kerala, unlike other parts, offers strong resistance in the form of the Left Democratic Front government. “They are trying to grow by having some underhand dealings and alliances with political parties. In Kerala also we suspect selective understanding with the United Democratic Front and this is how they legitimise themselves. In Assam, the BJP was not a big force and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) was the major regional party. They practically swallowed the AGP, reducing it to a junior partner in the coalition,” he says pointing out that Congress' inefficiency to counter the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has helped the NDA gain a headway in many places. But in Kerala they will not succeed. LDF firm in State He feels the Left front is on solid ground in Kerala despite all minor and major hiccups related to candidature and seat-sharing. “Seat-sharing went smoothly, considering the fact that there are two new partners including the Kerala Congress (M) and Loktantrik Janata Dal. Very often people fail to understand the principle on which the candidature is fixed. We have decided to promote the new generation on the electoral front,” he says. Some people who have been working in parliamentary forums for long have been shifted to the organisation while the upcoming cadres in various movements brought to the fray. “We have implemented a two successive term policy which doesn’t mean that senior leaders will be kept out forever. Some may come back also,” he says. “You can never underestimate the people of Kerala and assume what they are thinking. But this time there was a distinct difference as I couldn't sense any anti-incumbency sentiment. There are political forces working against the government, but the people want the Left to continue in power,” he says.  If the LIFE Mission is a corrupt scheme used to divert funds, how's it possible to build 2.5 lakh houses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/popular-movements-will-power-oppn-karat/article34181542.ece
28 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Admission to computer courses||The LBS Centre functioning at the Sasthamcotta block panchayat has invited applications for Diploma in Computer Application (software) course. Plus Two is the qualification required and students from SC/ST/OEC categories will get fee concession. Call 9446854661, 7510297507, 0476-2831122 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lbs-centre-invites-applications-for-dca/article34181531.ece
28 March 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||Rahul prays at Erumely temple, Vavar shrine||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday offered prayers at a temple of Lord Ayyappa and a Muslim shrine dedicated to Vavar at Erumely, an important centre connected to Sabarimala pilgrimage. Speaking at an election rally organised in front of the two places of worship situated on two sides of the road at Erumely in Kottayam district, Mr. Gandhi hailed the practice of people visiting the Vavar mosque and the Ayyappa temple at Erumely before heading to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Today’s need “To live happily and peacefully and protect each other’s interests — this idea is the biggest gift you can give to this country today,” he said. The Congress leader said India's inherent pluralism is under attack and this has blocked socio-economic progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-prays-at-erumely-temple-vavar-shrine/article34181521.ece
28 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||As mercury rises, so does poll heat||The sun seemed near the zenith, and Noorbina Rasheed was sweating profusely. For the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) candidate from Kozhikode South, her day begins at the break of dawn and goes on till late at night. On Saturday, she was back in her turf, the Mukhadar ward of Kozhikode Corporation, where she had served as councillor for five years. “It is me, Noorbina, the same old Noorbina,” she said to a woman who looked at her keenly. A smile of recognition spread on the elderly voter’s face. Ms. Rasheed reminded her of the time when they had voted her to the Corporation and requested them to do the same once again. “And the symbol remains the same, the ladder,” she added. Ms. Rasheed’s candidature came as a surprise from the IUML, which had not fielded a woman to the Assembly for a quarter of a century. “She is a bundle of energy. We cannot match up to her,” said a party worker accompanying her. It was also a hectic day for Ms. Rasheed’s main opponent, Ahamed Devarkovil of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Waiting for Health Minister K.K. Shylaja to turn up at the Mankavu Junction, Mr. Devarkovil was busy entertaining his little fans and workers, who were vying for selfies with the candidate. “Children like him a lot,” said a party worker. Later, standing along side Ms. Shylaja on an open jeep moving towards Mankavu Maidan where a rally was being held, Mr. Devarkovil confidently waved at the party workers and the public. The national general secretary of the Indian National League has a huge responsibility on his shoulders — to win the seat back after ten years. Campaigning in the hot sun, Navya Haridas of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) seemed to hide her fatigue well. “Don’t we all need change?” she asked a couple on a scooter. Ms. Haridas was quick on her feet, running from one house to another, accompanied by her entourage of party workers. She wound up her house visits at Mankavu by 10 a.m. and quickly moved on to Panniyankara and nearby areas. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident of making a mark in Kozhikode South, with three Corporation wards within the constituency under its belt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-mercury-rises-in-district-so-does-poll-heat/article34181451.ece
28 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||In Koduvally, major fronts exude confidence||If the candidate is a singer, the biggest task for the person is to woo voters with a song during public campaigns. For United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate M.K. Muneer, it is seemingly an engaging task as he finds pleasure in singing and enjoys the instant feedback. ‘Madhurikkum Ormakale...’ , the classic song that he sang during a recent campaign in the Koduvally Assembly constituency, still resonates in the ears of many. “Bloom where you are planted is my political approach, and I am optimistic of fulfilling my party’s expectations,” says Dr. Muneer, who travels in an open campaign vehicle to greet his voters. He says the residents of Koduvally are convinced about his welfare-oriented actions and that he does not want to unleash personal attacks against rival candidates. For many, Dr. Muneer’s entry to Koduvally from Kozhikode South came as a surprise. His identity as the son of former Chief Minister C.H. Mohammed Koya and his experience as a minister in the last United Democratic Front government are the biggest highlights for his poll campaigners. “Those who portray me as an outsider should at least have a look at the welfare projects I sanctioned for Koduvally during my stint as Minister for Social Justice,” says Dr. Muneer. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) campaigners, however, are not upset with the entry of a VIP candidate. Sitting MLA and LDF candidate Karat Razak says the development projects worth Rs. 1,232 crore implemented in the constituency during the last five years are enough to win the voters’ hearts. “This is my home ground where I am strong, and I have nothing to be worried about guest candidates,” he says. Mr. Razak reiterates that the LDF government’s pro-poor approach and welfare schemes will help it have a grand victory. NDA vote share For the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the fight in Koduvally is mainly to prove their vote share. Its candidate, T. Balasoman, says Koduvally has become a hub of gold smuggling activities, unaccounted money exchange and drug trafficking. He says the LDF and the UDF are equally responsible for the dangerous transition of the area. “The poor segment of voters has already identified the truth, and they will respond suitably in this election,” says Mr. Balamohan. He makes it clear that the NDA was not eyeing a great victory, but aims to give a democratic shock to both the rival fronts by improving its vote share.  Those who portray me as an outsider should at least have a look at the welfare projects I sanctioned for Koduvally during my stint as Minister for Social Justice M.K. Muneer UDF candidate   This is my home ground where I am strong, and I have nothing to be worried about guest candidates Karat Razak LDF candidate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-koduvally-major-fronts-exude-confidence/article34181457.ece
28 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||An experiment of various political matrices||With electioneering in Kozhikode district in full flow, a tight contest appears to have shaped up in the majority of the 13 constituencies. Of the total 96 candidates, two are Ministers, some are incumbent legislators, a few fresh contestants, unsuccessful aspirants running for second time, State and national-level office-bearers, leaders of affiliated organisations, and even elected representatives of local and civic bodies. Campaigning The campaigning is pitched on locally resonant pivots, claims of development, a good dose of communal polarisation, strong undercurrents, and politics of violence. A no-holds-barred battle is on the cards between the Congress-led UDF and the CPI(M)-led LDF in constituencies except Elathur, where Nationalist Congress Party leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran is in the fray for the third time. Both the coalitions are experimenting with different political matrices unlike the BJP that has fielded only party candidates. The only seat where the BJP has managed to make it a triangular fight is Kozhikode North where it has fielded its State general secretary M.T. Ramesh. Here, the CPI(M) has gone with local warhorse Thottathil Raveendran, a two-time Mayor. But elections have surprising tales of underdogs. Despite hamstrung by organisational flaws, Congress nominee K.M. Abhijith has taken the fight to the battle-hardened veterans here. In the neighbouring Kozhikode South segment, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has nominated Noobina Rasheed, a woman candidate after 25 years. The party also experiments by fielding businessman C.H. Ibrahim Kutty as UDF Independent against CPI(M) leader and Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan in Perambra and Congress local leader Dinesh Perumanna, also an Independent, in Kunnamangalam. Another segment is Beypore where Democratic Youth Federation of India president P.A. Mohammed Riyas is seeking his fortunes again. Koduvally is all set to witness a tight fight between IUML leader M.K. Muneer, who has shifted from Kozhikode South, to wrest the party’s traditional seat now held by LDF-backed Independent Karat Razak. A mix of religion and politics is being pandered to by the electorate in Koyilandy, Nadapuram and Kuttiyadi. The CPI(M) has fielded former district panchayat president K.P. Kunahamedkutty to wrest its lost seat. Kuttiyadi had seen an open revolt by party cadres when the seat was offered to the Kerala Congress (M). A close duel between IUML legislator Parakkal Abdulla and Mr. Kunahamedkutty is on the cards. Nevertheless, it remains to be seen whether he can retain the seat. Unsuccessful aspirants of the 2016 polls, N. Subramanian and K. Praveenkumar, both of the Congress, are again vying for the Koyilandy and Nadapuram seats. However, the CPI(M) has cautiously chosen district panchayat president Kanathil Jameela to win Koyilandy. Another key segment is Vadakara where the UDF is supporting K.K. Rema, widow of slain RMP leader T.P. Chandrasekharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-experiment-of-various-political-matrices/article34181514.ece
28 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Different views on developing Palakkad||The three key candidates in Palakkad, a constituency being watched eagerly by the entire State, have contrasting perceptions about development. All of them speak of development. But when they mount a platform to discuss development, they differ greatly. Palakkad saw its candidates of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF), E. Sreedharan, Shafi Parambil and C.P. Pramod respectively, present their points on Saturday on why they should be elected to the Assembly, thanks to an initiative by the Palakkad Press Club. Mr. Sreedharan’s views of development were holistic, gained from his engineering experience stretching nearly seven decades. Mr. Shafi’s were formed out of practical experience as a people’s representative over the last 10 years. And Mr. Pramod’s perceptions centred around political pragmatism that has been kept waiting in the wings. Even when they differed starkly, they displayed good-natured amiability and assured their help and support for the development of Palakkad irrespective of the outcome of the election. “That’s the spirit of it. That’s what we want,” they chorused, in spite of having met for the first time as contestants in Palakkad. “Sir, I have met you once aboard a flight,” Mr. Shafi told Mr. Sreedharan, who remained clueless about that meeting. Soon conviviality was on the air and Mr. Pramod too joined them. Mr. Sreedharan focused on nothing but development, that too with a broad framework and at macro level. Dam capacity “I want to use my experience for Palakkad’s development. Water scarcity can be addressed by increasing Malampuzha dam’s capacity by 30 per cent. We need to bring in industry, better educational facilities, a better transport system and better health care facilities,” Mr. Sreedharan said. Describing establishment of the new Government Medical College at Palakkad as a once-a-lifetime achievement, Mr. Shafi sought the electorate’s endorsement for what he has done in the last two terms for Palakkad. He went on to explain how difficult it was to get things going especially while being in the Opposition in the Assembly. Mr. Pramod aired the doubts being asked by a section of voters as to whether Palakkad had joined the State’s development bandwagon. He found that there was much more for a people’s representative to do for Palakkad. “Government has limitations. Different parties and groups should sit around a table and find a solution for the issues. But we lacked that initiative,” Mr. Pramod said. Development, according to Mr. Sreedharan, should not be the responsibility of the government and the people’s representatives. CSR funds “We should bring in CSR funds and private investments.” Mr. Sreedharan went on to say that building a KSRTC bus-stand was not the job of an MLA or the government. “It’s the duty of the KSRTC. If they can’t do it, let them wind up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/different-views-on-developing-palakkad/article34181473.ece
28 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Sumesh shows kitchen is no women’s domain||Any deviation from the usual campaign trail can bring back the focus on a candidate. Sumesh Achuthan, the young United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate of Chittur, found himself in the limelight on Saturday when he entered a community kitchen at Polpully. Instead of seeking votes of the Congress women engaged in cooking at Babu Auditorium, Polpully, Mr. Sumesh took over the job of cooking and sent home the message that kitchen was not women’s exclusive domain. “Yes, there is a wider message to it. By showing that kitchen is not the exclusive domain of women, I wanted to convey a message of gender equity. Women should not be chained to kitchen as well,” said Mr. Sumesh. Mr. Sumesh knew he could not be a cook overnight. So he sought the help of his wife Swapna. Both of them reached the kitchen and cooked the mid-day meal along with the other women there. “The wider message is that all changes should begin from home. Good homes will pave the foundation for a good society,” he said adding that social justice and gender equity were important messages of the election. Mr. Sumesh went on to say that election campaigns should not be drowned in political debates and wrangles over development. “We have even more serious things that can bring about major changes to our social fabric. We should not desist from addressing such matters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sumesh-shows-kitchen-is-no-womens-domain/article34181553.ece
28 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Rahul revs up UDF campaign||Youngsters constitute more than 50% of the United Democratic Front candidate list and they will give a new vision to Kerala, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said. Addressing an election convention at Konni on Saturday, Mr.Gandhi said the coalition’s candidates were a good mix of experience and youthfulness so that it could take the State to a new path of development. “Our election manifesto was not made in a closed office. Instead, we reached out to you and asked about your requirements. Based on it, a State-specific action plan has been finalised,” he said. Mr. Gandhi also spoke of the United Democratic Front’s plan to roll out the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (Nyay) on a pilot basis in Kerala, which envisages providing Rs. 72,000 to every poor person in the State. The welfare pension will be increased to a minimum of Rs. 3,000 while the minimum support price for major crops, including rubber, paddy and cardamom, will be raised substantially. “This additional amount will be used up for consumption, in turn reviving the economy and creating more employment,” he noted. Mr. Gandhi spoke at three locations across Pathanamthitta before departing for Idukki via Erumely. Addressing a rally at Puttady, near Kumily, in Idukki, Mr. Gandhi reiterated the UDF’s resolve to pilot Nyay if elected to power in the State. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr Gandhi said the former was sitting on the driving seat of a car without petrol. “Sometimes he is trying to start it and give the accelerator, but the car is not moving,” he said. “This is the situation of the State economy,” he added. “Sometimes the Chief Minister reads Das Kapital by Karl Marx. But he did not get answer. The reality is that there is no answer in the book,” he said. He also attended meetings at Adimali, Thodupuzha, and Erumely. ( With inputs from Idukki bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-revs-up-udf-campaign/article34181545.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to vaccinate 2.5 lakh people daily||The State is launching a mega COVID-19 vaccination drive on April 1 with an aim to vaccinate 2.5 lakh individuals above 45 years daily, for a period of 45 days. A high-level review meeting called by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy here on Saturday said that the State wanted to vaccinate as many individual as possible before the election-related activities, upcoming festival season and reopening of schools lead to a surge in the State’s COVID-19 case graph. The Health Department is making large-scale arrangements for the smooth conduct of the vaccination drive with more vaccination sites set up in government and private hospitals and public places too. Plea to people The department appealed to the people to make use of the first opportunity to receive the vaccine and to visit their nearest vaccination centres. “The State has successfully held out against COVID-19 for a year, ensuring that the virus did not spread wild in society, till the vaccines became a reality. Paradoxically, we are now paying the price for the good containment efforts because unlike in other States, we have a huge population unexposed to the virus. It is imperative that our vaccination really picks up pace at this point before the second wave sweeping across many parts of the State, including neighbouring Tamil Nadu, leads to new outbreaks here,” said R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. School reopening He pointed out that the upcoming school reopening in June would be a huge challenge before the State because globally, school reopenings have always been followed by a surge in infections in the community. To prevent that happening, the State would have to go on an aggressive vaccination spree and ensure that all above 45 years are covered; impress upon the Centre the unique vulnerability of the State and ensure that the demand-supply position of vaccines was kept robust, Dr. Aravind said. Latest guidelines According to the Union Health Ministry’s latest guidelines, those who have received the first dose of Covishield should take the second dose between 42 and within 56 days. Those who have received Covaxin as the first dose should take the second shot 28 days after the first dose and within 42 days. Principal Secretary of Health Rajan Khobragade, senior health officials, and representatives of the WHO, UNDP, UNICEF, private hospitals, IMA, Rotary Clubs and Lions Clubs were present at the meeting.  Health Department to set up more vaccination centres in government, private hospitals and public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-vaccinate-25-lakh-people-daily/article34181561.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Time to choose BJP over others, says Nadda||Making a pitch for National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates across the State, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda went on a whirlwind tour from one end of the State to another on Saturday. Over the course of the day, he addressed four rallies and took part in two road shows. In the capital, he led a vehicle rally in Nemom, the only constituency that the BJP currently holds in Kerala, flanked by the incumbent MLA O. Rajagopal and the BJP candidate Kummanam Rajasekharan. Calling for a change in the alternating regimes of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala, Mr. Nadda said that the State would witness development only if lotus bloomed here. Even though the rally321, which was set to begin at 5 p.m, began almost three hours late, BJP workers waited patiently on their motorcycles to take part in the rally that concluded at Karamana. Later, Mr. Nadda headed to yet another rally at Peroorkada, for V.V. Rajesh, the BJP candidate in the Vattiyurkavu constituency. Addressing the rally here, he said the BJP, if elected to power, would ensure that there would be no political intervention in the traditions and beliefs of temples. Sabarimala issue “At Sabarimala, the CPI(M) crushed the sentiments of the people who were fighting to protect the temple’s tradition. The Congress party that was then paying lip service is now promising to bring an ordinance. They are shedding crocodile tears. It was the BJP that took a stand to protect the culture and tradition of Sabarimala, right from the beginning,” he said. Saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken special care of the State, he said that the PM rushed here within three hours of the Puttingal temple tragedy in 2016. Development Most infrastructural development had taken place in the State after the NDA government came to power, he said. “For a long time, both the LDF and the UDF have been playing musical chairs. There is a very tactical understanding between them. Both have got many things in common. Both are corrupt and have nothing to deliver to the people of Kerala. The time has come to say goodbye to these fronts and welcome the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-to-choose-bjp-over-others-says-nadda/article34181874.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||From IT infra to protection of faith, this segment covers all||The red Willys Jeep, bristling with party flags, pulls to a stop at a small turning near Ulloor Junction. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran dips his head from the open vehicle to accept garlands fashioned out of red ribbons as CPI(M) workers crowd around him. A brief speech later, the jeep, leading a mini-convoy, moves on to the next reception. The Left Democratic Front candidate being the Devaswom Minister, Kazhakuttam is a segment where the re-emergence of the Sabarimala controversy ahead of the Assembly polls may prove to be an irritant to the LDF, but he appears unfazed. Mr. Surendran, who defeated V. Muraleedharan of the BJP by 7,347 votes in 2016 to win the seat for the LDF, instead chooses to focus on development. “I am confident of victory. Public opinion has consolidated overwhelmingly in favour of the LDF between 2016 and 2021. Developmental activities to the tune of Rs. 2,200 crore are in various stages of progress. Further development of Technopark and Technocity is on the cards. Kazhakuttam has already achieved the status of an important constituency here. It will be taken forward,” he says. ‘No outsider’ S.S. Lal, the United Democratic Front candidate, met voters at the Karikkakom Devi temple on Friday morning. Later, he toured parts of the segment. Dr. Lal believes his credentials as a professional and a public health expert have appreciable heft in a constituency that is home to one of India’s biggest IT hubs. Attempts to portray him as an outsider have more or less backfired, he says. “I completed part of my education in this constituency and have many personal connections,” he says. Kazhakuttam can be developed as a global hub of education, health care, sports and tourism, but the segment has been experiencing development stagnation. BJP’s Sobha Surendran spent Friday morning touring the Njandoorkonam, Powdikonam and Chempazhanthy wards. Though she arrived late on the scene, Ms. Surendran has made significant headway in her campaign, assert local BJP leaders. ‘Protection of faith’ is an overarching theme in the poll speeches of the BJP State vice president, a vocal critic of the LDF government’s handling of the Sabarimala issue. She has gone on record stating that it is her destiny to join battle with the Devaswom Minister. Nonetheless, as her campaign vehicle wends its way down narrow country lanes on Friday, Ms. Surendran does not ignore the development card. “It took 50 years for a bypass to materialise here. How many jobs did the LDF MLA create for the youth in the past five years?” The segment needs attention on everyday issues such as housing and water supply, she adds. Ms. Surendran is also quick to parry rivals’ accusation of her being a stranger to Kazhakuttam. “E.K. Nayanar and V.S. Achuthanandan too have contested from other seats. Where you are from is not the important thing, but what you can do,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-it-infra-to-protection-of-faith-this-segment-covers-all/article34181520.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Approval for six more special trains||The Railway Board has given the approval for another six pairs of additional fully reserved special trains for long-distance commuters. Train 06097 Kochuveli–Yog Nagari Rishikesh weekly superfast special will leave Kochuveli on Fridays at 9.15 a.m. from April 16 to reach Yog Nagari Rishikesh at 1.40 p.m. on Sundays and the pairing train (06098) will leave Yog Nagari Rishikesh on Mondays at 6.10 a.m. from April 19 to reach Kochuveli at 12.25 noon on Wednesdays. Train 06319 Kochuveli–Banaswadi biweekly humsafar special will leave Kochuveli on Thursdays and Saturdays at 6.05 p.m. from April 10 to reach Banawadi at 10.30 a.m. the next day and the pairing train (06320) will leave Banaswadi on Fridays and Sundays at 7 p.m. and reach Kochuveli at 9.35 a.m. the next day. Train 06161 Ernakulam–Banaswadi weekly superfast special will leave Ernakulam Junction on Sundays at 4.50 p.m. from April 11 to reach Banaswadi at 3.55 a.m. the next day and the pairing train (06162) will leave Banaswadi on Mondays at 7 p.m. from April 12 to and reach Ernakulam at 6 a.m. the next day. Garib Rath special Train 06164 Kochuveli-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Garib Rath special will leave Kochuveli on Sundays and Thursdays at 8.45 a.m. from April 11 to reach the Lokmanya Tilak terminus at 11.45 a.m. the next day and the pairing train (06163) will leave the Lokmanya Tilak terminus on Mondays and Fridays at 4.55 p.m. from April 12 to reach Kochuveli at 8.25 p.m. the next day. Train 06861/06862 Puducherry–Kanyakumari–Puducherry weekly and 06191/06192 Tambaram–Nagercoil Junction– Tambaram Daily Antyodaya specials are the other trains given the approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/approval-for-six-more-special-trains/article34181557.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police calm flared tempers in Kazhakuttam segment||The City police have initiated conciliatory efforts to restore peace in Kazhakuttam where the political animosity among CPI(M) and BJP workers came to a head late Friday. A day after the workers of the political parties were involved in a stand-off in Aniyoor, near Chempazhanthy, a round of talks was held with political leaders and Thiruvananthapuram Corporation ward councillors in the region to broker peace. Along with a boosted police vigil, the mediation showed early signs of success with both sides refraining from engaging in any form of retaliation, official sources said. The stand-off took place after CPI(M) and BJP workers argued over a parked vehicle in the path of the latter’s Kazhakuttam candidate Sobha Surendran’s rally. While this led to an altercation, BJP workers soon laid siege to the CPI(M) booth committee office at Aniyoor for hours. In a bid to pacify the agitators, the police took two CPI(M) workers, identified as Joshy and Noufal, into custody and 10 others under preventive detention on the basis of a complaint by Ms. Surendran that the accused attempted to attack her and other BJP workers. Another case was registered on the basis of a complaint by CPI(M) against BJP workers, the police said. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, Ms. Surendran and BJP’s Nemom candidate Kummanam Rajasekharan accused the government and the CPI(M) of attempting to scuttle the fair conduct of the polls. They also alleged that violence had been unleashed by Tourism Minister and incumbent MLA Kadakampally Surendran against his political rivals. Dismissing the allegations, Mr. Kadakampally Surendran demanded the BJP candidate desisted from triggering violence for political gains. United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate S.S. Lal accused both his opponents of orchestrating violent activities to divert public attention from burning issues in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-calm-tempers-in-kazhakuttam/article34181532.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Postal voting going on in district||The postal voting of absentee voters—electors above 80, persons with disabilities (PwD), COVID-19-positive ones, and quarantined electors—is progressing in the capital district. Special teams formed at the constituency level are visiting voters with the ballot papers. Returning officers will inform the voter beforehand about the proposed visit via SMS, mail or booth-level officers. District Collector Navjot Khosa on Saturday asked the eligible voters to be present at the appointed time and cooperate with the polling teams. Team Each team is made up of a micro-observer, two polling officers, a police officer and a videographer. The candidates in the respective segments or authorised representatives can monitor the process from outside the voter’s residence. The polling officials will establish the identity of the voter and explain the process. The voter will then be handed the ballot paper, covers, pen and gum. The vote has to be cast by maintaining secrecy. Once the vote is cast, the ballot paper should be placed in the cover and sealed and handed back to the polling team. This step will be videographed. Once the covers are transferred to the Assistant Returning Officers, they will be placed in a strong room at the office of the Returning Officers. The District Collector will be updated about the number of postal votes cast on a daily basis. The data will be passed on to the Election Commission of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-voting-going-on-in-district/article34181876.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Employees will get revised salary, pension from April 1||State government employees, including teaching and non-teaching staff of aided educational institutions and local bodies, will get the new salary and allowances from April 1 as promised by the outgoing Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Government pensioners, including part-time pensioners, will also get the pension recommended by the 11th Kerala Pay Revision Commission headed by K. Mohandas and approved by the government. The salary and allowances of the government employees have been revised with effect from July 2019. Treasury ready The Treasury Department has geared up to disburse new salary and pension before Easter and the elections to the Assembly that are scheduled for April 6. Working days The treasuries will remain open on April 2, Good Friday, and April 4, Easter, which are closed holidays. Official sources said the two days would be restricted holidays for those from the Christian communities working in the treasuries across the State. Between April 1 and 6, there are only two working days, April 3 and 5. For fixation of pay, the NIC has developed a module in SPARK for fixation of pay in the revised scale as per an order issued by the Finance Department on February 10. The Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) used this module for pay fixation of the employees, other than gazetted employees, under their control. The DA arrears, from January 1, 2019 to February 2021, claim to Provident Fund and salary for March 2021 are to be e-submitted to the treasury as a single bill by the DDOs. Staff on deputation However, those on deputation will not be entitled for revised salary as the manual drawn salary data entry from July 2019 to February 2021 is not permitted for the time being to avoid processing of arrears of employees on deputation. Thus, hundreds of employees on deputation during July 2019 to February 2021 are not listed for pay revision fixation. Director of Treasury A.M. Jaffar said the facility for update of the data of those on deputation during these 20 months had been disabled temporarily in SPARK and it will be restored in the second week of April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/employees-will-get-revised-salary-pension-from-april-1/article34181555.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elaborate security blanket in district for election day||An elaborate security blanket will envelope the capital district on April 6 with hundreds of policemen delegated with keeping a tight vigil to thwart any untoward incident during the Assembly elections. Central forces will also be deployed in vulnerable booths to augment security and surveillance measures. Nearly 1,400 policemen will be stationed at the polling booths and other parts of the city. Besides nine companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), numbering around 570 soldiers, and a sizeable contingent of special police officers (SPOs) comprising ex-servicemen, retired policemen, NCC cadets and others will also assist the police in queue management and attending to voters. Social distancing will also be strictly implemented at the polling stations. While 1,400 booths have been arranged in nearly 300 polling stations in the city, around 200 booths have been designated as sensitive and nearly 80 as vulnerable. Monitored by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic), the entire region has been divided into 10 election sub-divisions, each of which will be supervised by Assistant Commissioners. In addition, Assistant Commissioners will man the election control room and the election cell that have been set up for coordinating the activities of the police. Rural limits As many as 1,922 polling booths will function in 978 stations in the Thiruvananthapuram rural limits. Among these, there are 25 critical booths, 120 sensitive booths, and 30 vulnerable booths. In addition to a robust deployment of nearly 2,400 police officers, 400 CAPF personnel and 1,600 SPOs will also be stationed at various places. According to official sources, 24 district border points will also be sealed with vehicles thoroughly screened in the run-up to and on the day of the polls. Using data analytics, the police have zeroed in on problematic areas in Nemom, Poonthura, Vizhinjam, Valiyathura, Sreekaryam and Kazhakuttom in the city, and Venjaramoodu and Parassala in the rural police limits. The police have also intensified vigil to prevent a flow of narcotic substances and liquor in the district. The City police have been able to seize 44 grams of the synthetic drug MDMA in various operations. Around 10kg of ganja have also been confiscated in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elaborate-security-blanket-in-district-for-election-day/article34181872.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Right panel wants elderly woman to be compensated||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed that an elderly woman be paid Rs. 15,000 as compensation in the wake of grave lapses being found in the platelet count during a blood test conducted at the Chemmaruthi primary health centre (PHC) laboratory. Acting on a complaint by Chemmaruthi resident Swapna Sujith, commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the District Medical Officer (DMO) to pay the compensation, and if need be, recover it legally from the employees concerned. The DMO was also asked to submit an action-taken report within two months of paying the money. The compensation is to be paid to Ms. Sujith’s mother, 67-year-old Prasanna. The lapse was detected in Prasanna’s blood test. Platelet count Ms. Sujith alleged that her mother’s platelet count was checked on January 4 at the PHC’s lab as part of treatment for diabetes. The test results showed only 10,000 cells, while the required number is 1.5 lakh to 4 lakh. On being directed to seek expert treatment, Prasanna was taken to a private hospital in Kollam where fresh tests revealed the presence of 1.82 lakh cells. When Ms. Sujith reached the PHC to communicate her grievance, the doctor and the health inspector there behaved rudely with her, she alleged. The commission sought a report from the DMO, which said there was no lapse on the part of the PHC staff. The commission came to the conclusion that the lab report was incorrect. As a result, Ms. Prasanna had to seek expert treatment in Kollam. The two women had to undergo mental stress and financial loss, the commission order said.  Platelet count showed only 10,000 cells, while a test at private hospital showed 1.82 lakh cells||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/human-rights-panel-wants-elderly-woman-to-be-compensated/article34181466.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Postal votes for those on essential services list from today||Electors on the essential services list will start exercising their right to franchise in the Assembly polls through postal votes from Sunday. Voting centres arranged in all the 14 constituencies in the district will be open till March 30. Electors in the essential services and voters who had applied for postal votes and were found eligible can cast their votes at the centres from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Navjot Khosa, District Collector and District Election Officer, said. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has sanctioned postal votes for the essential services category and officials on election duty on April 6. Time and location The eligible voters will be informed about the time and location of the centre through SMS or the nodal officer concerned. These voters can cast their votes only at the postal voting centres. The voters should produce their official identity cards at the centres. The ballot papers, declaration form, and related paperwork will be provided at the centre. The services of a gazetted officer will be available at the postal voting centres for attesting the declaration forms. Fourteen centres have been opened in the district for casting the postal votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-votes-from-today/article34181550.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Voter training organised at Valipara||A meeting and a training programme were organised at Valipara in Kuttichal panchayat under the umbrella of the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral participation programme (SVEEP) on Sunday. The programmes were aimed at creating awareness of voting in tribal areas of the district and improving their participation in the electoral process. District Development Commissioner Vinay Goyal inaugurated the programme. Tribal vote Each tribal vote was capable of determining the State’s future, Mr. Goyal said, urging them to cooperate with the district administration in enhancing the voting percentage in the tribal belt. Training was provided in casting of votes using electronic voting machines. Voting pledge and march past along with the vote vehicle were also organised in the area. Nedumangad Sub-Collector Chetan Kumar Meena, Suchitwa Mission district coordinator A. Faizy, Integrated Tribal Development Programme project officer A. Rahim, settlement chief (moopan) Ayyappan Kani, tribal extension officers, and SVEEP officials spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voter-training-organised-at-valipara/article34181871.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Defeat NDA nominees, demand farmers’ outfits||A group of farmers’ organisations have vowed to work for the defeat of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates in protest against the Centre’s alleged anti-farmer policies. Launching a movement under the aegis of Dilli Chalo Karshaka Samara Aikyadhartya Samithi, farmers leaders Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh south India coordinator P.T. John and national coordinator K.V. Biju, Kisan Swaraj steering committee member R. Sridhar, Dilli Chalo Karshaka Samara Aikyadhartya Samithi district convener Manu Jose and Ekta Parishad district president C. Parasuraman declared their political stance at a press conference held here on Saturday. They accused the NDA government of neglecting the largest-ever farmers agitation under way in the national capital to demand the withdrawal of three farm laws that, they claimed, were aimed at catering to corporate interests. “The Centre has been hell-bent on scuttling the demonstration by foisting false cases on the agitation leaders and portraying them as terrorists,” they said.  Impact of import laws The farmers leaders said that the import laws of the government had been destroying the agriculture sector. Besides permitting the import of various commodities including wheat and milk powder at lowered import duties, the government also decreased the tax levied on importing crude petroleum to 27.5%. Various bilateral trade agreements being entered into by the Centre is bound to affect the farming community of the country. Slamming the government for slashing corporate tax to 22% (from 30%), they alleged that the revenue loss of Rs. 14,500 crore incurred by way of this was being recuperated by increasing the tax imposed on the public for petroleum products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/defeat-nda-nominees-demand-farmers-outfits/article34181469.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Reviving past glory of Kanthalloor Sala||As part of attempts to rebuild the Kanthalloor Sala, a university that existed in the city over 1,000 years ago and believed to be superior to other ancient universities in the country, the Kanthalloor Sabha trust will open its temporary office at Sree Ananthapuri Anyonyam on Vasudeva Vilasam road in Fort on Sunday. Academic courses Inauguration of academic courses to be offered by the Kanthalloor Sala and release of logo and website and a YouTube channel will be held on the occasion. Interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary studies in ancient Indian knowledge streams such as Vedas and ideology and research will be facilitated by Kanthalloor Sala. No barriers Students and scholars from across the world without any discrimination based on caste, religion, or sex will be welcome here. N.P. Unni, former Vice Chancellor of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, will inaugurate the office and the courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reviving-glory-of-kanthalloor-sala/article34181468.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU publishes timetable for BTech examinations||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has published the timetable for the third-semester BTech regular examination that will commence on April 15. The registration for the first-semester supplementary examinations of BTech (2019 scheme), BHMCT, BArch and BDes has commenced on the university portal. Students have been directed to register and pay the requisite fee at the respective colleges within March 29. The university also published the results of the eighth-semester MCA Integrated examinations on its website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-publishes-timetable-for-btech-examinations/article34181558.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,055 fresh cases, test positivity rate 3.93%||The State on Saturday added 2,055 new cases of COVID-19 to its tally when 52,288 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 11,15,777. The test positivity rate went up to 3.93%. With 2,084 recoveries being reported, the active case pool registered 24,231 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported have risen to 10,86,669. The addition of 14 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities took the cumulative toll to 4,553. Ernakulam reported four deaths, Alappuzha and Kottayam three each, Kannur two while one death each was reported from Kollam and Wayanad. The number of critically ill COVID patients who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals has come down to 439, according to official reports, with 138 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Of the 2,055 new cases reported, 1,798 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections, through contact with other infected persons. These include infections reported in 25 health-care workers. In 82 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States. No history of travel or contact with infected persons is reported or known in the case of 175 infections. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 263, followed by Ernakulam 247, Kannur 222, Kottayam 212, Thrissur 198, Thiruvananthapuram 166, Kollam 164, Malappuram 140, Palakkad 103, Pathanamthitta 80, Kasaragod 78, Alappuzha 62, Idukki 62 and Wayanad 58.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2055-fresh-cases-test-positivity-rate-393/article34181560.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train to be diverted||Train 02678 Ernakulam Junction–K.S.R Bengaluru daily express special, leaving Ernakulam Junction on March 30, will be diverted between Salem Junction and K.S.R Bengaluru to run via Jolarpettai Junction-Tirupattur- Krishnarajapuram, skipping the scheduled stoppages at Dharmapuri, Hosur and Carmelaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-to-be-diverted/article34181556.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala disrupting ration supply: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) State secretariat has slammed Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for “disrupting the distribution” of Public Distribution System (PDS) rice to BPL (below the poverty line) families. In a statement here on Saturday, the CPI(M) said Mr. Chennithala’s complaint to the Election Commission of India (ECI) had deprived low-income families of their quota of rice, pulses, edible oil, sugar and other essentials during the Vishu-Easter-Ramzan festival period. The Food and Civil Supplies Department has appealed against the ECI’s decision. The Left Democratic Front government had expanded its PDS net to aid people laid low by the COVID-19 pandemic. The administration had distributed free food kits to stave off hunger and prevent starvation deaths. The rice distribution for April was a continuation of the welfare scheme initiated in 2020. The government did not implement it on the eve of the polls with an eye to sway voters, as alleged by the United Democratic Front, the party said. The CPI(M) urged the ECI to lift the ban on the distribution of PDS goodgrains. It also urged the people to protest against the UDF’s declaration of war against them. The CPI(M) urged its workers to initiate house-to-house visits and neighbourhood level meetings to spotlight the UDF’s assault on the people’s welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-disrupting-ration-supply-cpim/article34181547.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District has 166 more COVID cases||The district recorded 166 COVID-19 cases and 178 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 2,140 on Saturday. The pandemic has so far claimed 874 lives in the district as on Friday, according to official statistics. Five recent deaths—those of three men, aged 55, 60 and 64 and two women, aged 86 and 52—were included in the death toll on the day. Under quarantine As many as 1,176 people were placed under quarantine. Also, 1,336 others were permitted to conclude quarantine during the last 24 hours. There were currently 16,705 people who were quarantined in their homes in the district, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-has-166-more-covid-cases/article34181878.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Little KITEs IT clubs||Students in Class VIII who want to become members of Little KITEs IT clubs can apply in schools that have units till March 31. Applicants should appear for a software-based aptitude test in the first week of May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/little-kites-it-clubs/article34181549.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KPCC plans open forums||The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) will organise open forums on the UDF election manifesto in the 140 Assembly constituencies on March 28, 29 and 30. The event is being organised by the KPCC Vichar Vibhag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-plans-open-forums/article34181837.ece
28 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KPCC leader complains to EC||KPCC secretary John Venatius has complained to the Election Commission (EC) that People’s Plan facilitators are participating in election campaigns using the People’s Plan programme as a front. The facilitators are appointed in all 14 districts for coordinating the People’s Plan activities. However, the facilitators are participating in the campaigns, Mr. Venatius alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-leader-complains-to-ec/article34181877.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Arabic teachers’ exam results||Results of the Arabic teachers’ supplementary examination, conducted by the Pareeksha Bhavan in December last, have been published on the Pareeksha Bhavan websitewww. keralapareekshabhavan.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arabic-teachers-exam-results/article34181548.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pension for bedridden workers sought||A meeting of the district committee of the Kerala State Artisans and Nirmanathozhilali Federation (CITU) has demanded that bed-ridden workers who are members of the construction workers welfare fund and under treatment for months should be allowed pension. Calling for an empathetic outlook to their problems, the organisation said there were hundreds of workers who were unable to pay the welfare fund subscription in time, as they were under medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pension-sought-for-labourers/article34181467.ece
28 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Power supply disruption||Electrical supply to areas around the Vanchiyoor court complex will be disrupted from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday owing to maintenance undertaken in Pettah electrical section limits, the Kerala State Electricity Board has said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-supply-disruption/article34181869.ece
28 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||All development funded by Centre, says Nadda||All major development projects in Kerala have been funded by the Centre, BJP president J. P. Nadda has said. He was addressing people at Vadanappally on Saturday during a roadshow as a part of the poll campaign of A. N. Radhakrishnan, NDA candidate in Manalur constituency. “Whether it is the GAIL pipeline project, expansion of Cochin Refineries, National Highway projects or Kanyakumari-Mumbai Economic Corridor project, the major chunk of funds have come from the Central government. During the UPA regime, the 13th Finance Commission allotted Rs. 45,000 crore to Kerala. But the 14th Finance Commission at the time of Narendra Modi gave Rs. 2 lakh crore for Kerala,” Mr. Nadda noted. The LDF government had deeply hurt the religious sentiments of Sabarimala devotees. “When BJP men and women were being thrashed by the police for holding protests over the Sabarimala issue, the UDF leaders and workers were doing only lip service. It was the BJP who stood by the believers,” he added. Gold smuggling case during LDF rule and the solar scam during the UDF regime were blots on Kerala’s reputation at the national and international level, Mr. Nadda said. “Kerala people are educated. However, the youth in the State had to leave their place in search of jobs due to the inefficiency of both the LDF and UDF, who ruled the State for the past six decades. So, people should vote for the BJP if you want development,” he said. ‘Lotus to bloom’ Lotus will bloom in Manalur and several other constituencies in the State this time, he said. Muhammed Nahas, who was the UDF candidate of Kaipamangalam in 2016, joined the BJP during the event. A. N. Radhakrishnan, BJP national spokesperson G. K. Agarwal, BJP Manalur segment president Sudheesh Menothuparambil, Mahila Morcha leader Rema Devi among others took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-development-funded-by-centre-says-nadda/article34181459.ece
28 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Central order comes as a dampener for Pooram||The Centre’s new order to ban crowds at celebrations has raised doubts over the conduct of Thrissur Pooram. The order has come in the wake of a fresh wave of COVID-19 cases across the country. Preparations on The new order came at a time when preparations for the Pooram were progressing. Meanwhile, the organising committee has asked the authorities to ease the restrictions in the number of visitors for the Pooram exhibition. Cancel threat They threatened to cancel the Pooram if there is order to allow just 200 people at a time for exhibition. The organising committee also expressed its dissatisfaction in the order to restrict visitors by online booking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-order-comes-as-a-dampener-for-pooram/article34181554.ece
28 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Difficult to believe BJP’s ‘silly mistake’, says Kanam||It is very difficult to believe that a party that rules the country will make silly mistakes in nomination papers, Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran has said. He was responding to a question at Janasabdam, organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Saturday, about the impact of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not having candidates in three segments. He said the Assembly election verdict would be an evaluation of the performance of the Left Democratic Front government. Expressing confidence about the victory of the LDF, he said in the past five years, the State had witnessed ‘vindictive politics of the BJP government at the Centre.’ ‘No Central support’ The Centre did not support the State even during calamities. When Kerala suffered Rs. 3,400-crore loss in Cyclone Ockhi, we got only Rs. 133 crore from the Centre. In the 2018 devastating floods, even the United Nations estimated a loss of Rs. 27,000 crore in the State. But the Centre’s allocation was Rs. 2,904 crore. When the State suffered a loss of Rs. 37,000 crore in the 2019 floods, we did not receive anything from the Centre. Now, representatives of the Union government are asking people to vote for them. People will repay them in the election, he said. He alleged that the United Democratic Front did not support the government during crisis. “Now they are trying to stop distribution of free ration to 88 lakh ration card holders for Vishu in the name of the model code of conduct.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/difficult-to-believe-bjps-silly-mistake-says-kanam/article34181546.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stepping up security||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stepping-up-security/article34181463.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Drumming up support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drumming-up-support/article34181471.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Full of zest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/full-of-zest/article34181535.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Conglomeration of gods||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conglomeration-of-gods/article34181565.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caring for earth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caring-for-earth/article34181880.ece
28 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t take profession like T20 match, lawyers advised||Chief Justice of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh Arup Kumar Goswami advised young lawyers and judges in the fraternity to work hard to achieve excellence and not to take the profession like a T20 or One-Day match in cricket. See it as a Test match and have a lot of patience, he said. Addressing a gathering of judges, lawyers and students at the centenary celebrations of the Anantapur District Court here on Saturday, Justice Goswami said such a vast gathering of people from his own fraternity had made him nostalgic. He said it was while working together with some legal luminaries that he had learnt a lot, and advised the youth to think about the case for three hours, if they study it for two hours, so that they could argue logically in the courtroom with patience. He put the onus of improving the skills of young lawyers on the seniors and asked the seniors to guide them properly. He said in his early days, his seniors used to attend the court cases in which he was arguing so that they could correct him and show the right method. The lasting bond between the seniors and juniors would go a long way in improving the quality of arguments, he opined. He congratulated the judges and lawyers in Anantapur for keeping the highest traditions of the judiciary alive and doing their best to deliver justice to the people. Other judges who spoke included J. Uma Devi, M. Ganga Rao, Matam Venkata Ramana, Rao Raghunandan Rao, K. Suresh Reddy of A.P. High Court and Challa Kodanda Ram of High Court of Telangana. Other High Court judges said many judicial luminaries might come and go, but the traditions must go on and justice to people must be delivered from this place, which has been happening all these 100 years in Anantapur. Pylon unveiled The Chief Justice unveiled a pylon to mark the completion of 100 years of the court in Anantapur. The Anantapur District Court started functioning on January 1, 1920, from District Collector’s office Complex and the present building was constructed in 1930. The first District and Sessions Judge was J.W. Hughes and in the 100th year, Aruna Sarika, the current Principal District and Sessions Judge, is the first woman to head the district court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-take-profession-like-t20-match-lawyers-advised/article34181172.ece
28 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Our aim is ‘Clean Anantha’, says Mayor||Clean Anantapuram with the cooperation of all stakeholders is our priority, said Mayor Mohammad Waseem Salim at the first-ever Municipal Council meeting here on Saturday. As part of Clean Andhra Pradesh, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had suggested taking up a 100-day programme in each municipality to shore up the cleanliness of the town or city and as part of that the programme was being taken up in Anantapur too, said Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy. He said Rs. 150 crore had been sanctioned by the State government for the repair of the roads and drains and the works were nearing end within the next couple of months, showing a marked difference in the general condition of roads in the city. Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy at the outset of the meeting explained the works that were in progress in the Corporation limits and as to what funds the local body could expect. Deputy Mayor Vasanthi Sahithya was also present on the occasion. The Mayor said it was the responsibility of all of the newly elected corporators, including him, to ensure the city was taken to the first position in terms of cleanliness and sought the cooperation of all elected ward members and the citizens. He said the services of 740 personnel in the 74 Ward Secretariats should be properly leveraged to ensure all the programmes were implemented properly. “The mandate given by the people in the corporation is a very big responsibility on all of us,” said Mr. Anantha Venkatarami Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/our-aim-is-clean-anantha-says-mayor/article34181622.ece
28 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue youth attempting suicide||With the presence of mind and utilising technology, the Anantapur police on Saturday saved a man, who was about to commit suicide by falling under a train, at Taticherla village. Identified as Satish, 30, a resident of Narpala, the man used to work for a non-governmental organisation at Jaggaiahpeta in Krishna district and had left the job recently. He reportedly sent a text message in Telugu to one of his friends that he was about to end his life and attached a couple of selfie photographs of him lying on the tracks. Alert friends immediately informed Dial 100, where Circle Inspector K. Damodar got in touch with him over his number and engaged him for sometime counselling him against committing anything extreme. Meanwhile, he alerted Anantapur Rural Circle Inspector Muralidhar Reddy and with the help of his phone’s GPS location, the police reached the spot immediately before any train could pass through. The police rescued the youth and brought him to the police station and counselled him against such acts. His parents were informed about the incident and Satish was handed over to them. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu appreciated both the circle inspectors for acting quickly and saving a life. Helpline There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-youth-attempting-suicide/article34181625.ece
28 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on nationalism released||Sri Krishnadevaraya University Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy on Saturday released a set of two volumes of the book on ‘Nationalism, Peasantry and Social Change in India’ penned by Pedarapu Chenna Reddy, Head of the Department of School of History, Culture and Archaeology in Potti Sriramulu Telugu University, Srisailam. The book sheds light on the peasant movements and economic history of South India. Mr. Chenna Reddy said the book was a Festschrift to K.K.N. Kurup, Vice-Chancellor of Calicut University, who was his teacher and a famous historian in South India. SKU Rector K. Krishna Naik and University principal Vijaykumar were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-nationalism-released/article34181623.ece
28 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha police stations get patrolling vehicles||Superintendent of Police(SP) S. Senthil Kumar on Saturday flagged of a fleet of 50 GPS-fitted Disha two-wheeler patrolling vehicles and a mini-bus (crime scene management vehicle) at the Old District Police Office grounds here. The bikes had been allotted to all the rural and urban police stations in Madanapalle, Chittoor, Palamaner and Puttur sub-divisions. The mini-bus, equipped with additional features such as communication network and first-aid kit, is intended for rushing to the troubled spot and for investigation purposes as and when a crime is committed. SP Senthil Kumar said that the patrolling vehicles, manned by the women constables, would play a crucial role in tackling the menace of ragging and eve-teasing against girl students, and the staff would maintain special vigil at educational institutions and public places. The constables would also guide girl students and women to download the Disha App and create awareness on the user-friendly features. Mr Senthil Kumar appealed to women in distress to contact the police through Disha App, or by Dial 100. Additional SP D.N. Mahesh, Deputy SP (Chittoor) N. Sudhakar Reddy, senior police officials from traffic, crime and armed reserve wings were present. In Kadapa, SP K.K.N. Anburajan flagged off 50 two-wheelers and a mini-bus at the District Police Office. He said that the patrolling vehicles will cover all major centres across the district, focusing on making the police stations more women-friendly and approachable. Kurnool, Anantapur Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli on Sunday formally launched two-wheelers for Disha police stations in Kurnool. “Out of the 78 Law and Order Police Stations in the district, 60 stations have got women’s help desks and the vehicles will help women constables from these stations reach the crime spot on time,” the SP said. In Anantapur District, the Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said women’s safety would be given the highest priority and 61 police stations in addition to the Disha Station in the district headquarters were being equipped with new patrolling vehicles. On Thursday he launched 61 two-wheelers and two Toofan vehicles for Quick Response Teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disha-police-stations-get-patrolling-vehicles/article34181627.ece
28 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for blackmailing women, cheating youth||The Piler Rural police on Saturday nabbed Bandi Muthyalaiah (35) of Chinnagottigallu mandal of Chittoor district on charges of cheating several youth promising them jobs in airports and in the Indian Air Force, besides allegedly extorting money from women by blackmailing them with objectionable photographs after befriending them. The police seized gold ornaments worth Rs. 3.5 lakh, cash of Rs. 70,000, a motorcycle and some photographs and video footage from him. Circle-Inspector (Piler Rural) S. Murali Krishna told mediapersons that the accused was involved in several cases of cheating the youth promising them jobs in airports and the Air Force, and collecting huge amounts from them. Criminal cases were filed against him in several police stations in Chittoor, Kadapa and Kurnool districts. Apart from this, Muthyalaiah would allegedly befriend women with false promises of getting them jobs. Later, he would allegedly blackmail them with morphed digital content showing them in objectionable manner and extort money and gold ornaments. Acting on complaints against him with police stations in Madanapalle sub-division, a special party was formed to nab him. With reliable information about his movements, the accused was arrested at Bhakarapeta ghat section under Piler rural circle. Though the accused had reportedly committed similar crimes under several other police stations in Rayalaseema districts, not many came forward to file complaints. “Now, we ask his victims to boldly come out and lodge complaints with the police of their respective areas,” Mr Murali Krishna said. The accused was produced before the local court at Piler and was remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-cheating-youth-promising-jobs-blackmailing-women/article34181628.ece
28 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest staffer held for red sanders smuggling||The police on Saturday nabbed three persons and seized 20 logs of red sanders, a car, some cash, two mobile phones, axes and saws, after raiding a forest location at Tippayapalle beat of Pullampeta mandal in Kadapa district. Superintendent of Police (Kadapa) K.K.N. Anburajan told the media that the arrested were identified as repeat offender C. Subramanyam (38) of Tirupati and his two accomplices M. Sudhakar Reddy (32) of Proddatur town and forest protection watcher N. Sivanjaneyulu Reddy (27) of Pullampeta mandal. They had brought woodcutters from Tamil Nadu got the red sanders trees cut and dressed from the forest at Tippayapalle. When the trio was loading the logs into a car with T.N. registration at the forest location, the Pullampeta police, who received information about the activity, had rushed to the spot around 3 a.m. On seeing the police personnel, the accused had attacked them with axes and saws. However, the police could surround the operatives and nabbed the three, while the others had fled the scene under the cover of darkness. The prime accused, Subramanyam, had been in the red sanders smuggling since 2009. Additional forces were deployed to nab the other operatives, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-staffer-held-for-red-sanders-smuggling/article34181173.ece
28 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure action plan for water supply during summer: Mayor||Mayor Kavati Shiva Naga Manohar Naidu has said that officials must take steps to ensure a comprehensive supply of drinking water in view of the summer in the city. Mr. Naidu held an emergency meeting with the new governing body of the city council here on Saturday. Earlier, the Mayor administered the oath of office to 42nd Division Corporator Vemulapalli Shriram Prasad. Then as part of the agenda, tender-cum-open auction for the year 2021-22 for markets, toilets, cycle stands and canteens under the Municipal Corporation, 100% door-to-door garbage collection in the city as part of the Clean Andhra Pradesh 100 days programme was done. Mr. Naidu said that steps should be taken to solve the drinking water crisis, especially in the merged villages and suburbs. He mentioned that special sanitation work was to be done at the Christian Cemetery Gardens during the Easter festival. In view of the month of Ramadan from April 14, he ordered the officials to check water supply near every mosque, fix the problem areas and install street lights. He directed the authorities to look into changing the numbers of the secretariats as per the ward. Commissioner Challa Anuradha gave a power point presentation on the ongoing sanitation and development work in the city. East MLA Mohammad Mustafa said the ruling party should work for the development of the city beyond politics. manner. West MLA Maddali Giridhar said that urban development was a huge responsibility of the corporators and urged them to take appropriate steps to address the drinking water problem in the city. Deputy Mayor I Vanama Bala Vajra Babu,said that drinking water was being wasted through public taps in many parts of the city and they wanted to identify them and check water wastage.Additional Commissioner P. Niranjan Reddy, S.E. Ravi Krishna Raju Deputy Commissioners D. Srinivasa Rao, B. Srinivasa Rao, T. Venkata Krishnaiah, YHO Venkataramana, YCP, TDP Janasena corporators and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-action-plan-for-water-supply-during-summer-mayor/article34181603.ece
28 March 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Minister Narayana made accused in student ‘suicide’ case||Former Minister and Narayana educational group director P. Narayana has been named as the first accused (A1) in the FIR of a case pertaining to the suicide of a student, which saw light in Kadapa recently. Mr. Narayana’s name has been entered into the police records following the suicide of M. Srinivasulu Reddy, a second year Intermediate BiPC student. In spite of being the State topper for the first year, the boy took his life allegedly owing to ‘academic pressure’, which he had scribbled on his hand before resorting to the extreme step. With the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC) Chairman Justice R. Kantha Rao forming a fact-finding committee to investigate the issue, a three-member team comprising Vice-Chairman Vijaya Sarada Reddy, members V. Narayana Reddy and B. Eswaraiah visited the campus here on Saturday. After a prolonged interaction with the students, student union leaders and parents, the panel came to the conclusion that the barbaric behaviour of the teachers and wardens had indeed become unbearable for the victim. Fourth case This is said to be the fourth suicide case at the Intermediate level in the State in the last three years. “For this academic year, this is the second such incident for the educational group, the previous one was reported in Tirupati a few months back. Many students poured out their grievances on the humiliating treatment and manhandling by the teachers. We will submit our report to the State government soon,” the members announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-minister-narayana-made-accused-in-student-suicide-case/article34181170.ece
28 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||India’s only barge-mounted power plant to sail out of Kakinada coast||The exercise of shifting India’s only 220 MW barge-mounted power plant located on the Kakinada coast has commenced. It will be shipped to Turkey through the Kakinada deep-sea port. The power plant was brought to the Kakinada coast in April 2010 from the Mangalore coast, where it was first commissioned in November 2001. Owned by GMR Energy Limited, the plant, developed by the U.S.-based GE Technology, was shut down in 2013 citing lack of availability of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) that was supposedly procured from the D-6 block in the Krishna-Godavari (KG) basin. “We have already begun the exercise of shifting the country’s only barge-mounted power plant out of the Kakinada coast. The plant will be shipped to Turkey via the Kakinada deep sea port, from where the receiver will plan the transportation until it reaches the destination,” GMR group’s communication officer M. Srimanth Reddy told The Hindu . ‘Clearances obtained’ The details of the buyer who will commission the Rs. .600 crore power plant in Turkey have not been shared by the GMR group. “We have obtained all the clearances, including the ‘yard dismantling’ clearance. The power distribution company authorities have also given the nod for shifting the plant to the port by a towing vessel,” Mr. Srimanth Reddy said. By April-end, the power plant will be leaving the coast. On Saturday, loading of the power plant machinery on the barge, VAMSEE 5 - KAKINADA, was under way at the plant site near Kumbhabhishekam point on the Kakinada coast. ‘Huge losses’ The GMR group has reportedly witnessed huge losses on the power plant during the three years of its operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/barge-mounted-power-plant-to-move-out-of-ap/article34181099.ece
28 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contractors fined Rs. 22.50 cr. for excavating sand illegally||The District Sand Monitoring Committee headed by East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has imposed a whopping fine of Rs. 22.50 crore on three contractors and an agency for extracting sand beyond the permissible area in the four sand reaches of the Godavari riverbed. The illegal activity, which posed a threat to the existing riverbed ecosystem, had been exposed by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB - Sand and Liquor) led by ASP Sumit Garud. Based on the geographical coordinates of the respective reaches, the officials detected the illegal activity and assessed the extent of damage done to the riverbed. A fine of Rs. 10.68 crore was imposed on Sayeed Rabbani (Tatipudi reach); Rs. 5.36 crore on Mallidi Bhupathi Reddy (Kapileswarapuram reach); and Rs. 1.79 crore on Vomula Srinivasa Rao (Pulidindi reach). M/s. Raghuram Hima Pipes that had bagged the contract for the Vemagiri reach was slapped a fine of Rs. 4.66 crore. The quantum of fine was five times the worth of sand illegally excavated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contractors-fined-rs-2250-cr-for-excavating-sand-illegally/article34181611.ece
28 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||First Kurnool-Vizag flight to take off today||The first flight from the Uyyalawada Narasimha Reddy Airport at Orvakal in Kurnool district will leave for Visakhapatnam at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday, providing direct connectivity between the State’s proposed Judicial Capital and Executive Capital. With the International Air Transport Association code ‘KJB’ and the International Civil Aviation Organisation code ‘VOKU’, the airport will become fully operational from Sunday. IndiGo flight (6E 7911), which leaves Bengaluru at 9.05 a.m., will be the first to land at the new airport at 10.10 a.m. with 52 passengers on board. The first flight to depart will be IndiGo flight (6E 7912) with 66 passengers. A grand welcome and send-off await the passenger. Ministers B. Rajendranath and G. Jayaram, several people’s representatives, District Collector G. Veerapandian, SP Fakkeerappa Kaginelli, and officials of the airport and the Postal Department will take part. The first passenger will be presented with the special ‘First Day Postal Cover’ unveiled by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during the formal inauguration of the airport on March 25. While the airport will handle six flights every Sunday, there will be four flights on three days (Monday, Wednesday and Friday) and two flights on the other three days of the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-kurnool-vizag-flight-to-take-off-today/article34181095.ece
28 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drinking water plant donated to agri committee||The Coromandel International Ltd. on Saturday donated a drinking water plant to Adoni Agriculture Marketing Committee for the benefit of farmers at the marketyard. The RO water plant, donated as part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility, was inaugurated by Adoni MLA Y. Sai Prasad Reddy in the presence of the Anantapur Municipal Corporation Chairperson and Secretary. Fertilizer launched At the inaugural, Coromandel vice president G.V. Subba Reddy and the MLA also launched the company’s new organic fertilizer ‘Godavari Bhubhagya’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drinking-water-plant-donated-to-agri-committee/article34181624.ece
28 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poetry collection released||A poetry collection titled ‘The Secret Scriptures of Life’, an English translation by L. Rao of the works of late Sk. Khader Shareef, was released in Nellore on Saturday. Mr. Rao’s own collection ‘The World Within’ was also released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poetry-collection-released/article34181634.ece
28 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focussed approach in villages pays dividends||As part of the plan to ramp up the COVID vaccination drive in villages, the health workers visited Machavaram, near Kandukur, in Prakasam district on Saturday and used all their persuasive skills to convince the seniors who were hesitant to take the jab. The sleepy village turned livelier as one after another lined up to take the vaccine, and in total, 282 persons were covered by dusk. The situation was no different in Tangutur village, selected for the pilot initiative to cover all the eligible villagers on a saturation basis on Saturday. Hesitancy gave way to cooperation and as many as 224 persons were administered the vaccine. Roadblocks Though the vaccination programme suffered roadblocks initially for various reasons, including issues on the registration front and lack of smart phones, the response is now better, said Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli. “We have created helpdesks in all the village secretariats for the purpose and posted a health worker to assist the elders to make on the spot registration,” she added. So far, 81,209 in the age group of 45-59 and seniors have been covered in Prakasam district and another 15,000 persons have registered their names for taking the vaccine. Nellore The response was good also in the neighbouring SPSR Nellore district, where the focused approach of reaching out to the vulnerable people at the grassroots level was taken up in Kaluvaya and Pandaluru villages on Saturday. Over 100 persons took the jab in the two villages, Nellore DMHO S.Rajyalakshmi said. On an average, 8,000 persons are being administered the vaccine each day, the health official said, adding that the department was making all-out efforts to step up the vaccination programme from Monday by covering all those aged above 45. Active cases Meanwhile, the number of active cases rose to 408 in both the districts as 66 tested positive during the last 24 hours while 10 persons were discharged from hospitals following recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-focussed-approach-pays-dividends/article34181631.ece
28 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat secretaries seek fair deal||Members of the Panchayat Secretaries Association staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Saturday protesting the State government’s decision to hand over the powers vested with the Panchayat Secretaries to Village Revenue Officers(VROs). Leading the protest, Panchayat Secretaries Association president M. Benher said the move was against the spirit of the 73rd Constitution Amendment Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchayat-secretaries-seek-fair-deal/article34181633.ece
28 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stern action will be taken against erring SEB staff: SP||There will be zero tolerance towards any form of corruption in the Special Enforcement Bureau(SEB), said Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. “Being a dedicated wing to deal with enforcement activities, SEB shall always lead by example and follow a zero tolerance policy towards corruption, and in the event of non-compliance, stern action will be taken against erring staff,” the SP said in the wake of a raid by sleuths of Anti-Corruption Bureau at SEB at Podili. Since its inception, the SEB has registered 208 cases of excise and sand violations against 280 government employees, including the staff of the SEB. Complaints against the SEB staff could be communicated to district police on their WhatsApp number 9121102266, a police release here said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stern-action-against-erring-seb-staff-sp/article34181629.ece
28 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1 lakh donated for development of DIET||PVS Rammohana Rao Foundation head P.V.S. Ramamohana Rao on Saturday handed over Rs. 1 lakh cheque to Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas for the development of library and park in District Institute for Education and Training (DIET), Vomaravalli, where the foundation had established Gandhi statue a few months ago. Mr. Rammohan said that pleasant atmosphere in the park and availability of books would make youngsters concentrate on their studies. Mr. Nivas congratulated Mr. Rammohan for donating for the improvement of educational standards in the district. He recalled establishment of 850 Gandhi statues in various schools and parks in district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-1-lakh-donated-for-development-of-diet/article34181604.ece
28 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rock paintings of Sivalingams found||Paintings of Sivalingams were identified on the rocks, along the Nagavali river, located near the historic Umarudra Koteswara Swamy temple in Srikakulam district. The INTACH team, which noticed the paintings, said it is yet to decipher the language on the rocks. “We will contact the Archaeology Department very soon for further study,” INTACH convener K.V.J. Radha Prasad said. Mr. Radha Prasad along with programme coordinator V. Jagannadham Naidu, Srikakulam Tourism Officer N. Narayana Rao visited the Goluganda beach and other places to continue further study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rock-paintings-of-sivalingams-found/article34181175.ece
28 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pournami Garuda Seva cancelled||The TTD has dispensed with the performance of Pournami Garuda Seva organised once a month and the annual Tumburu Theertha Mukkoti slated for Sunday. While the decision to cancel the monthly Garuda seva was taken in view of the annual Teppotsavams currently under progress, it resolved not to permit devotees for Tumburu Theertha Mukkoti in accordance with COVID guidelines amid rising new cases. Thousands of devotees throng Tumburu Theertham, the sacred water body situated amid the thick Tirumala forests about eight kilometres from the shrine, every year to take a holy bath on Phalguna Pournami (Sunday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pournami-garuda-seva-cancelled/article34181635.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati byelection: late entrants go all out to defy early bird syndrome||The YSRCP has already announced the candidature of M. Gurumoorthy for the ensuing byelection to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha seat, and the TDP favoured former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi for the seat much ahead. But that has not sapped the morale of the late-comers. Defying the proverbial ‘early bird’ syndrome, the late entrants are leaving no stone unturned to attract the voters’ attention and turn the tide in their favour. Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and former MP Chinta Mohan has been working closely with the constituents for over a month, though his name was officially announced only on Friday. In fact, he has already covered all the mandals, barring one or two, in the seven Assembly segments forming part of the parliamentary constituency. Accompanied by Youth Congress national in-charge Swathi Malagi and State president Rakesh Reddy, Dr. Mohan campaigned in the Muthyala Reddy Palle area on Saturday. Similar is the situation in the BJP camp. Though the party had officially named former Chief Secretary of Karnataka K. Ratna Prabha late on Thursday, the party workers have been aggressively campaigning in the constituency for over a month, highlighting the scores of schemes showered over the Tirupati constituency by the Central government, by projecting Prime Minister Narendra Modi as their ‘official mascot’. The party also plans to project Ms. Ratna Prabha as a symbol of women empowerment. In fact, she is known for ‘UBUNTU’, a consortium of women entrepreneurs, touted to be the first of its kind. Her website, ‘SheForHer’, is known to have highlighted the success stories of women in various fields. Meanwhile, Republican Party of India (RPI) plumped for journalist and social activist M. Chakravarthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-byelection-late-entrants-go-all-out-to-defy-early-bird-syndrome/article34181615.ece
28 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreant makes bid to loot ‘hundi’ at Govindaraja Swamy temple||A miscreant sneaked into the TTD’s Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple here on Friday night and made a bid to steal valuables from the ‘hundi’. The incident took place exactly two years after a similar attempt was made, in which three golden crowns adorning the deities of a sub-temple were stolen. The TTD’s vigilance and security officials said that an unidentified person gained entry into the temple in the guise of a devotee and stayed back inside the precincts by hiding in a corner. After the temple was closed for the day, he took some keys from the nearby room and made attempted to open the ‘hundi’. After all his attempts failed, he kept the keys in the same place and left. The security personnel, after observing the CCTV footage, lodged a complaint with the Tirupati Urban police. In April 2019, the police, with great difficulty, had cracked the theft case and recovered the gold crowns in molten form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreant-makes-bid-to-loot-hundi-at-govindaraja-swamy-temple/article34181613.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour on campuses’||Education Minister A. Suresh on Saturday urged managements and teachers of educational institutions to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour on campuses in view of the increase in the number of positive cases. The Minister reviewed the situation in schools and colleges with the officials in a video-conference, and discussed the action plan chalked out for strict implementation of COVID-19 protocol. He said it was the duty of the teachers to ensure that the students followed the protocol, including use of hand sanitizers and face masks, and maintaining social distance. He said each school kit distributed to students under Jagananna Vidya Kanuka included three face masks. The outbreak of the virus followed by the lockdown had disturbed the academic calendar last year, but the government did its best to reach out to the students by designing on-line, off-line and hybrid mode of classes. The Minister said teachers and staff associated with the implementation of ‘Jagananna Goru Mudda’ (mid-day meal scheme) should exercise great caution in maintaining distance and hygiene. He asked the Joint Collectors to supply gloves to ayahs who serve the food to the children. To continue this academic year, a special SOP had been designed. The officials had also been asked to establish mandal and district-level special monitoring cells for the purpose. Collectors and Joint-Collectors, with the help of the Medical and Health Department, should ensure availability of thermal scan machines in schools, especially for children of primary sections. Half-day schools In view of the half-day schools from April 1, the biometric system had been updated to ensure that teachers and children came to school in time. Officials should regularly visit schools to see if these biometric devises were being put to proper use. The review meeting was attended by the Joint Collectors (Welfare) of all districts, Vice-Chancellors of Universities, Regional Joint Directors in the Education Department, District Education Officers and Samagra Shiksha wing’s Additional Project Directors. Director, School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi, Commissioner of the Board of Intermediate Education V. Ramakrishna, Special Chief Secretary Satish Chandra, Chairman of the AP State Council of Higher Education Hemachandra and others were present at the media conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-covid-appropriate-behaviour-on-campuses/article34181618.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UN-Habitat’s sustainable cities project draft for Vijayawada demonstrated||The United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) conducted an online demonstration of the application of the draft Urban Sustainability Assessment Framework (USAF) prepared for Vijayawada, which is one of five cities selected for the Sustainable Cities Integrated Approach Pilot (SCIAP) project, funded by Global Environment Fund (GEF). The project is implemented by UNIDO, NIUA and UN-Habitat, in partnership with the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). UN-Habitat is delivering the Sustainable Urban Planning and Management component for the project. Urban governance expert from UN-Habitat Pooja presented the USAF and emphasised the need to elicit the practitioner's perspective. UN-Habitat, urban planner and city coordinator (Vijayawada) Imran Basha presented the application of USAF to Vijayawada across various sectors and demonstrated the signiﬁcance of evidence-based spatial diagnostic required for prioritisation of developments in the city. VMC Aditional Commissioner and project SCIAP nodal officer U. Sarada Devi said the main objective of the project was to integrate sustainability strategies into urban planning and management to create a favourable environment for investment in infrastructure and service delivery. VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh applauded USAF representatives and appreciated Mr. Imran Basha for the comprehensive analysis of the indicators and spatial outcomes for the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/un-habitats-sustainable-cities-project-draft-for-vijayawada-demonstrated/article34181599.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mask it up, people told||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu participated in a special drive taken up in the Vijayawada Police Commissionerate on Saturday. He appealed to the people to follow COVID-19 precautions and check the spread of the virus. Special teams led by Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs), CIS and other officers conducted the drive. They stopped the vehicle riders and educated them on the need to wear masks. The police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel conducted raids on sanitiser making units in Vijayawada. They conducted awareness meeting to stop people from consuming sanitisers. Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu offered roses and masks to the public at various junctions in Machilipatnam on Saturday. Drives were also taken up in Gudivada, Avinagadda and Jaggaiahpeta divisions in the district. In West Godavari district, SP K. Narayan Naik took part in the drive at different places. He supplied masks to the public and explained to them the need to wear masks and use sanitisers. Police organised awareness programmes at Jangareddygudem, Narsapuram, Kovvur and Polavaram divisions and asked the public to cover nose and mouth fully with masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mask-it-up-people-told/article34181608.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu opposes merger of Kuppam RESCO with Southern Discom||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday raised objection to the cancellation of the sale, distribution and retail licence of the Kuppam Rural Electric Cooperative Society Ltd. (RESCO) without justifiable reasons. In a letter addressed to the Chief Secretary, Mr. Naidu urged him to exempt Kuppam RESCO from the retail licence in order to allow the cooperative society to continue its activities as before. The orders of the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) for cancellation of the licence were unilateral, he argued. Mr. Naidu contended that the APERC order for the merger of Kuppam RESCO with the AP Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd. was against the will of the people. The order was given just because the Kuppam RESCO did not get the retail licence. It was not right on the part of the government to allow the APSPDCL to take over Kuppam RESCO at this juncture, he said. Established in 1981 in the Kuppam Assembly constituency, the society aimed at achieving 100% rural electrification in the backward Kuppam segment, Mr. Naidu said, adding that it had succeeded in its objective with the support from the RESCO AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-opposes-merger-of-kuppam-resco-with-southern-discom/article34181616.ece
28 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI raids houses of loan defaulters||Officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted raids on various companies and houses of fraudsters and defaulters, who borrowed loans from national banks allegedly by producing fake and forged documents. The raids were conducted in A.P. and other States in the last two days following complaints lodged by the banks. CBI sleuths conducted searches in Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, West Godavari and Guntur districts. The defaulters allegedly obtained huge loans from State Bank of India (SBI), Union Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Indian Overseas Bankand other banks and were not repaying, the officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-raids-houses-of-loan-defaulters/article34181887.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fill posts in missionary schools, CM urged||Bishops and heads of Christian missionary education institutions have appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fill the vacancies in the school run by missionary organisations. About 1,400 education institutions are being run by Lutheran, Baptist, CSI, RCM, ECI and other organisations in Andhra Pradesh. Many posts are vacant in the schools for the last few years, said Vijayawada Bishop Telagathoti Joseph Rajarao. Heads of the institutions, including Bishops, correspondents, DGMs and principals, organised a meeting here on Saturday. Eluru Catholic Diocese bishop P. Jaya Rao said the participants discussed about the COVID-19 precautions being followed in schools, vacancies in teaching and non-teaching categories and other issues. Nellore Bishop M.D. Prakasam said that many Christian missionary organisations were rendering services by running education institutions for more than 100 years in the State. Mansignore Muvvala Prasad said alumni of Christian education institutions were in good positions across the world. Guntur Bishop Ch. Bagyaiah said that recruitments in missionary schools were stopped since 2004. In wake of raise in COVID cases, CSI Bishop George Cornelius reviewed the COVID-19 precautions being taken in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fill-posts-in-missionary-schools-cm-urged/article34181177.ece
28 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Supply ration to all transgenders, sex workers’||Joint Collector (Development) L. Siva Shankar has directed the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) department officials to supply ration through Fair Price Shops in the district. At review meeting held here on Saturday, Mr. Shankar directed WD&CW officials to supply ration to all the sex workers and transgenders, though they do not possess ration and Aadhaar cards. Assistant Project Director K. Prameela Rani said steps were being taken to provide ration and Aadhaar cards to 220 transgenders and sex workers enrolled through various NGOs. Those who do not have ration cards could visit the WD&CW district office, said Ms. Uma Rani. Krishna District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) Project Director M. Srinivas Rao, District Civil Supplies Officer K. Ranga Kumari, District AIDS Prevention officer Kiran Krishna, District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar and other officers were among those attended the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/supply-ration-to-all-transgenders-sex-workers/article34181892.ece
28 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Adhere to COVID norms during Holi’||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said Holi will not be celebrated at Raj Bhavan due to the spike in COVID-19 cases. In a release on Saturday, he appealed to the people to celebrate the festival by following the COVID-19 norms such as maintaining social distance and wearing mask. He also appealed to the eligible people to take the vaccine and prevent the spread of virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adhere-to-covid-norms-during-holi/article34181620.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 156 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 156 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 61,681, as on Saturday morning. The district reported second highest number of COVID-19 cases in a day after Chittoor (180) in the last 24 hours. With the new cases, the total number of cases reported in March have breached the 1,000-mark. Since February 28 to March 27, the total number of new infections reported from the district was 1,141, as against 268 cases reported in February. The number of active cases also rose to 766 by Saturday morning. On March 1, the active cases were just 24. According to the bulletin released by the Health Department on Saturday, 37 persons have recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 60,372. Special teams The death toll stands at 544 as no death was reported in the last 24 hours. The district Health Department is conducting about 7,500 tests on a daily basis. District Collector V. Vinay Chand has asked the District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) P. Suryanarayana to form special teams which would take up contact tracing in the district. He instructed him to declare containment zone if cases are reported in an area and also conduct door-to-door survey. He has asked the DMHO to get ready with beds in Community Health Centre (CHC), Area Hospital and District Hospitals, as the cases have been increasing. All these hospitals should have ventilators, oxygen supply and other required amenities, the Collector said. ‘Stock medicines’ Mr. Vinay Chand instructed Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar to make arrangements at Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), King George Hospital (KGH) and Government Hospital for Chest & Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) with adequate number of beds. Equipment, ventilators, technicians, food supply, manpower, paramedical, medical and sanitary staff, ambulances, drivers and medicines must be kept ready, the Collector said.  Awareness drives Meanwhile, the city and district police have been conducting awareness drives to sensitise people about wearing masks. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and Superintendent of Police, (Rural) B. Krishna Rao distributed masks to people near Kali Matha temple on Beach Road here on Saturday evening.  Meanwhile, police teams also conducted a special drive and imposed fines on those not wearing masks. Mr. Krishna Rao conducted an awareness programme about safety precautions to be taken at Sabbavaram police station in the district on Saturday. Anakapalle rural police have been sensitising people about steps to be taken with the increase in number of cases through public addressing system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-156-new-cases/article34181896.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor inspects GVMC school||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari inspected K.N.M. High School of GVMC here on Saturday. She interacted with the students and learnt about the facilities there. Ms. Hari Venkata Kumari enquired about the classes being conducted, attendance of teachers and welfare schemes being provided by the State government. Later, she also had mid-day meals along with the children. GVMC Education Officer Srinivasa Rao explained about the steps being taken to achieve 100 % pass percentage in the schools. Meanwhile, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana along with Deputy Mayor J. Sridhar had inspected Ward No 52 in Zone V, here on Saturday morning. She learnt about several issues and instructed the officials to resolve them at the earliest. She also asked the officials to develop parks in the locality. Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-inspects-gvmc-school/article34181897.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC officials project Rs. 4,029 cr. revenue, Rs. 4,053 cr. expenditure||In the year 2021-22, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has projected an income of Rs. 4,029.73 crore, while the projected expenditure is about Rs. 4,053.62 crore. With an opening balance of Rs. 225.61 crore, the GVMC intends to end the year with a closing balance of Rs. 201.73 crore. Coming to the receipts, the GVMC intends to generate revenue receipts to the tune of Rs. 1,693.35 crore and capital receipts of Rs. 2,336.38 crore. On the expenditure side, the GVMC has projected revenue expenditure of Rs. 1,402.22 crore and capital expenditure of Rs. 2,651.40 crore. In revenue generation, the corporation has earmarked about Rs. 450 crore in the form property tax and Rs. 237 crore in assigned revenue. It has also earmarked revenue generation of about Rs. 188 crore through Building Penalisation Scheme and Building Plan Approval. The GVMC also expects about Rs. 23 crore in the form of service charges and about Rs. 50 crore in the form of vacant land taxes. A total of Rs. 275 crore has been earmarked for bulk and semi-bulk water charges, while Rs. 60 crore revenue is expected from tap rate charges. Expected grants The civic body is expecting about Rs. 146 crore through the 15th Finance Commission grants and about Rs. 288 crore from externally aided projects. About Rs. 24 crore grant is expected as part of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The GVMC intends to spend a major share on engineering works. About Rs. 40 crore has been earmarked for maintenance of GVMC roads and Rs. 20 crore for filling of potholes. About Rs. 65 crore is proposed to be spent on CC roads, while Rs. 40 crore is proposed for laying B.T roads. A sum of Rs. 40 crore is proposed to be spent on roads upgradation and widening. The corporation has also proposed to spend Rs. 55 crore on stormwater drains, Rs. 35 crore on open drains, Rs. 20 crore on community halls, Rs. 10 crore on footpaths, Rs. 10 crore on beach development and Rs. 25 crore on secretariat buildings. Coming to public health- sanitation expenses (outsourcing wages), the corporation has earmarked about Rs. 150 crore. For garbage clearance/door-to-door waste collection, about Rs. 82 crore is being reserved.Similarly, about Rs. 120 crore has been earmarked for water supply pipelines and Rs. 20 crore is likely to spent on sewerage lines. A sum of Rs. 15 crore was proposed for works related to new reservoirs. The GVMC also intends to spendRs. 60 crore on LED/EESL lighting. A sum of Rs. 127.34 crore has been reserved for horticulture works, while Rs. 15 crore was earmarked for MEPMA, SHG trainings, livelihood centres in Urban Community Development (UCD) wing. The corporation has also proposed Rs. 22.98 crore budget for education and Rs. 33.90 crore for JNNURM houses. About Rs. 288 crore has been earmarked for externally aided projects and Rs. 100 crore for AMRUT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-officials-project-rs-4029-cr-revenue-rs-4053-cr-expenditure/article34181898.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Russian technician dies in Visakhapatnam||A 43-year-old Russian reportedly died due to a cardiac arrest in Visakhapatnam on Friday. The incident came to light after police registered a case on Saturday morning. According to preliminary information given by the police, Grachev Dmitri (43), who had come to Visakhapatnam on February 27, had been working as a technician in a project at the Eastern Naval Command. On Friday, at about 1.15 p.m., he collapsed in his room at Dolphin Nose enclave of the ENC. He was immediately shifted to INS Kalyani, the ENC’s main hospital. Around 2.45 p.m., the doctors declared him as brought dead. Based on a complaint from Navy officials, Malkapuram police have registered a case. The Inspector of Malkapuram police station, Durga Prasad, said that the post-mortem has been conducted and in coordination with the Navy officials, the body will be handed over to the family members through the embassy, as per protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/russian-technician-dies-in-vizag/article34181176.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officials carry unidentified body in a ‘doli’ for 3 km||In a noble gesture, Visakhapatnam district police have carried an unidentified body for about three km in a ‘doli’ to the nearest mortuary. The incident occurred at Seethapalem area under Rambilli police station limits in the district on Saturday. On Saturday morning, revenue officials have informed police that a body of a man had washed ashore near Seethapalem village. Rambilli police reached the spot and registered a case. The police have also passed information about the body to surrounding villages but no one had responded to it. Rambilli Sub Inspector Arun Kiran, ASI Dora, head constable Manesu and police constable Narasinga Rao prepared a ‘doli’ from the available material at the beach and carried it for 3 km to the nearest road front and then shifted it to the nearest mortuary to Yelamanchili in a vehicle. They were appreciated by Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officials-carry-unidentified-body-in-a-doli-for-3-km/article34181900.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Earth Hour: call to cut carbon emissions||On the occasion of Earth Hour day, the children of GVMC School, Maddilapalem, appealed to people to reduce carbon emission and make the ‘Earth Hour’ a success. They were participating in a programme organised at the school on Saturday by Green Climate, an NGO. Earth Hour is being observed on Saturday for one hour from 8.30 p.m. lights are switched off, globally. Speaking at the programme, J.V. Ratnam of Green Climate said that the event is held on the last Saturday of the March, with the idea of creating awareness on the problems associated with global warming. Earth Hour was first held in Sydney, Australia, in 2007, when about two million residents of the city switched off their lights. The children enthusiastically took part in the programme. GVMC’s UNDP programme officer D. Ravikumar, headmistress Aruna Kumari, Green Climate Team and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/earth-hour-call-to-cut-carbon-emissions/article34181902.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shift towards non-fossil fuels: expert||The world is moving towards the use of non-fossil fuels , said Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) faculty K.R.Ramana here on Friday. He was addressing a webinar on energy conservation programme jointly organised by PCRA Southern Regional Office and Mechanical Engineering department of GITAM Deemed to be University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shift-towards-non-fossil-fuels-expert/article34181893.ece
28 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||21-year-old girl comes under wheels of bus, dies||A 21-year-old girl died after allegedly coming down under wheels of a private travels bus, while her father received minor injuries near NAD Junction here on Saturday morning. According to the Kancharapalem police, the accident occurred when the duo were heading towards MVP Colony from Gajuwaka area on a motorcycle. After crossing Kakani Nagar, the handle of the motorcycle brushed against the bus and both of them fell from the vehicle. The victim was identified as Gita Kumari. The Kancharapalem traffic police shifted the girl to a hospital, where she died while undergoing treatment. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/21-year-old-girl-comes-under-wheels-of-bus-dies/article34181901.ece
28 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebrate Holi at home, police officials appeal to people||The police warned that stern action would be taken against those violating COVID-19 protocol despite repeated requests in the district. They said that several people failed to realise the seriousness of the COVID second wave and not adhering to norms like social distancing and wearing masks in public places. The police said that social distancing is not being followed in PW Market, Ulli Veedhi Market, Clock Tower and Three Lamp Junctions in Vizianagaram. With identification of new cases, the district administration decided to act tough on those violating COVID protocol. It has banned celebrations in public places and mass gatherings. Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari said that action would be taken under the Disaster Management Act against the violators of COVID-19 protocol. “We urge people to celebrate Holi and other festivals at their homes instead of public places,” Ms. Rajakumari said after conducting an awareness camp at Fort Junction on the second wave of coronavirus in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebrate-holi-at-home/article34181605.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases on the rise in Vijayawada||The city has been witnessing a rapid rise in the incidence of COVID-19 infections of late, and a majority of the Krishna district’s 46 containment zones and 604 active cases were in the city. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that the positivity rate of the samples tested every month in the district came down from 7.7% in October to 0.4% in February but in the current month so far it was 1.1%. He said the district saw nearly a thousand infections in the past month, including the 500 reported in the past week. Of the 500, 424 cases were reported in Vijayawada and surrounding areas. Containment zones Currently, there are 46 containment zones and most of them were in Vijayawada, Jaggaiahpeta, Kankipadu and Penamaluru, he said. As many as 19 infections were reported in schools, where 10 teachers and nine students tested positive, he said. New strains Mr. Imtiaz said the rate of transmission of the virus from person to person was faster compared to that in the corresponding month last year. He said that if a person in the family contracted the virus, the remaining members were also getting infected in no time. He said two foreign returnees brought in two different strains of the novel coronavirus to the district, but they were isolated and none caught the infection from them. One person, who returned from the U.K. and the other from South Africa tested positive with the new strains from respective regions, he said.  He called upon the eligible public to get vaccinated as more vaccination centres were being set up. So far, 1.8 lakh persons got vaccinated in the district and 40,000 of them got both doses. Mr. Imtiaz said that there would be no lockdown or restrictions on gatherings at public places but vigil to ensure people wear masks would be stepped up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-in-vijayawada-surroundings/article34181601.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan hailed for forming ST Commission||Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Saturday hailed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for constituting a separate Commission exclusively for the Scheduled Tribes in the State. Speaking as part of an awareness programme on “Constitutional Rights and Safeguards”, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said Mr. Jagan had been looking beyond narrow political gains to serve people of every community. Considering merit as the yardstick, he had been appointing responsible persons to key posts to ensure that the fruits of the government-launched welfare programmed reached the genuine beneficiaries at the grass root levels. Kumbha Ravi Babu, who assumed charge as Chairman of the ST Commission on Saturday, promised people that he would work relentlessly for the uplift of the Scheduled Tribes and other needy population. He said his focus would be on spreading awareness on the Constitutional rights of the ST s and the many welfare programmes launched for the community. Director, Tribal Welfare Department, P. Rajita Bhargav, Deputy Chief Ministers P. Pushpa Srivani and Dharmana Krishna Das, MLAs Ambati Rambabu, T. Balraju, N. Dhanalakshmi, Talari Venkat Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-hailed-for-forming-st-commission/article34181891.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. not doing enough to save people from virus’||TDP national spokesperson K. Pattabhi on Saturday said the YSRCP government had failed to take preventive steps against the rising threat of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. At a press conference, he said without giving a thought, the Chief Minister had removed 10,000-odd nurses, lab technicians, anaesthetists and other frontline warriors from their jobs without paying their salaries. He demanded that the “COVID workforce” be reinstated and their salaries be paid. He said these staff were recruited in a formal way by the Special Chief Secretary, Health, on April 30 last. Unlike in Sates like Maharashtra and Delhi and the neighbouring Telangana, where COVID warriors were honoured, in Andhra Pradesh, these frontline warriors were humiliated and deprived of their jobs for risking their lives and serving the public, he alleged. ‘Govt. indifferent’ He said the government remained indifferent to their protests in Guntur demanding that they be reinstated. The police resorted to lathicharge on the peaceful agitators, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-not-doing-enough-to-save-people-from-virus/article34181619.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colourful collection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/colourful-collection/article34181180.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a greener tomorrow!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-a-greener-tomorrow/article34181607.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor visibility||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poor-visibility/article34181905.ece
28 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Preparations for celestial wedding from today||In the runup to next month’s Sri Rama Navami celebrations, the process of preparing Talambralu for Sri Sitarama Tiru Kalyana Mahotsavam slated for April 21, will begin at the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on the occasion of Vasantotsavam on March 28. The temple will witness a host of special rituals including formal launch of preparatory works for the ensuing celestial wedding and Dolotsavam coinciding with Holi celebrations on Sunday, according to temple sources. The COVID-19 safety regulations will be followed during the special rituals to be held in connection with Vasantotsavam inside the temple complex, temple sources added. The annual fete of Vasantha Paksha Tiru Kalyana Brahmotsavams is scheduled to be conducted in the 17th century temple, which is popularly known as Bhadradri, from April 13 to 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/preparations-for-celestial-wedding-from-today/article34181673.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Masks, restrictions on public gatherings mandatory in State||In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases across the State, the Telangana government has decided to enforce wearing of masks to prevent the spread of the infectious virus/disease besides imposing restrictions on public gatherings. In the orders issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday, the government has reiterated that wearing of masks in all public places, work spaces and public means of transport is mandatory across the State. Any deviation in the preventive measure shall attract prosecution under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 188 of the India Penal Code as well as other applicable laws. Restrictions In another GO, the Chief Secretary has imposed restrictions on public gatherings, congregations, rallies and processions during the upcoming religious events. As the number of COVID-19 cases in the country as also in the State has been showing a rising trend since the last few weeks, the Ministry of Home Affairs has issued orders with guidelines for effective control of coronavirus spread by imposing restrictions. Stating that congregations would pose considerable threat of rapid transmission of the coronavirus, the Chief Secretary said it was decided not to allow public celebrations/observances during the upcoming religious events such as Shab-e-Barat, Holi, Ugadi, Rama Navami, Mahavir Jayanthi, Good Friday, Ramzan, etc till April 30. No congregations No rallies, processions, public celebrations, gatherings, congregations would be allowed even in connection with religious event in public places, grounds, parks and religious places in the State during the period. Any violation of the instructions would be prosecuted under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws. Accordingly, directions have been issued to all District Collectors and Commissioners/Superintendents of Police in the State to strictly implement the instructions on wearing of masks and restrictions on public gatherings and rallies including in the religious events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/masks-restrictions-on-public-gatherings-mandatory-in-state/article34181645.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Public debt in TS increases at higher pace than GSDP||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has noted that the outstanding public debt of Telangana to the tune of Rs. 1.65 lakh crore increased by 16% in 2018-19 over the preceding year at a slightly higher pace than growth of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Interest payments increasingly consumed revenue receipts and were much higher at 12.41 per cent against the target of 8.37% fixed by XIV Finance Commission. The CAG report for 2018-19 was tabled in the Assembly on Friday. It said the revenue surplus was overstated by the State government in its budget reports by Rs. 9,481.97 crore and fiscal deficit by Rs. 217.86 crore on account of misclassification and non-contribution to statutory funds. Effectively, there was a revenue deficit of Rs. 5,144.97 crore and fiscal deficit of Rs. 27,166.86 crore. In a series of recommendations, the CAG asked the State government to rationalise budget preparation exercise so that the gap between budget estimates and actuals was minimised. This was because there was an increase in revenue receipts and revenue expenditure but found to be lower than the budget estimates. The State government was also asked to place on record debt servicing capacity of institutions before providing them loans because the average rate of interest payments as a percentage of outstanding liabilities was 6.39 per cent while the interest receipts as a percentage of outstanding lands and advances was only 0.03%. As of March 31, 2019, loans and advances given by government to autonomous bodies, corporations etc were Rs. 24,509 crore. The government provided loans of Rs. 5,932 crore to Hyderabad Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board whose annual accounts were in arrears from 2010-11. Government also gave fresh loans of Rs. 1,083 crore to three autonomous bodies for servicing their past loans. It was noted that the government extended guarantees to bodies that had not finalised their accounts. Out of total loans guaranteed by government, nearly 65% related to two special purpose vehicles -- Telangana Drinking Water Supply Corporation for implementation of Mission Bhagiratha and Kaleshwaram Irrigation Project Corporation Limited for Kaleshwaram project. The CAG asked the government to ensure that no expenditure was incurred without budget provision or in excess of what was passed by the legislature. By incurring an excess expenditure of Rs. 29,133 crore in seven grants and two appropriations, the government violated constitutional provision which provided that no money shall be withdrawn from the Consolidated Fund except under appropriation by law by the legislature. Another provision which made it mandatory for the government to get excess expenditure over a grant or appropriation regularised by legislature was also not heeded in an excess expenditure of Rs. 55,517 crore over and above the allocation during the years 2014-15 to 2017-18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/public-debt-in-ts-increases-at-higher-pace-than-gsdp/article34181675.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discoms performed poorly: CAG||The two power distribution companies (discoms) of Telangana have performed “poorly” in some of the key areas such as feeder segregation and smart metering although their performance was “excellent” in terms of metering of distribution transformers, providing electricity to unconnected households and distribution of LED bulbs. During the 2014-19 period, the Rate of Real Return on Investment in the eight public sector undertakings (PSUs) in the power sector was negative ranging between -17.64% and -10.23%. Huge losses incurred by the discoms during the period had contributed to the overall losses of the power sector PSUs. The observations were made in the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) reports for the year ending March 2019. As against the paid-up capital of Rs. 17,770.46 crore, the accumulated losses reported by the PSUs were Rs. 28,426.43 crore, resulting in a negative net worth of Rs. 10,655.97 crore. SCCL contribution Commenting on the implementation of UDAY (Ujjwal Discom Assurance Yojana) scheme, the Comptroller and Auditor General report stated that out of the total outstanding debt of Rs. 11,897.24 crore as on September 30, 2015, the State government took over a total debt of Rs. 8,923 crore up to 2018-19. Of it, Rs. 7,723 crore was released as on March 31, 2019 as the equity contribution and the balance of Rs. 1,200 crore was yet to be released. During 2018-19, out of the eight PSUs only three companies – Singareni Collieries Company Ltd, TS-Genco and TS-Transco – have earned a profit of Rs. 2,587.6 crore with SCCL alone contributing 68.27% (Rs. 1,766.66 cr) of it. Similarly, two PSUs – Southern Discom and Northern Discom – have incurred a loss of Rs. 8,018.7 crore, contributing substantially 99.97% of the total power sector PSU losses of Rs. 8,021.14 crore. The net loss incurred by the eight PSUs was Rs. 5,433.54 crore during 2018-19 as against the loss of Rs. 1,907.03 crore incurred during 2014-15. The audit report pointed out that TS-Transco’s non-compliance with the ‘merit order’ despatch procedure during the period from December 2016 to March 2019 had resulted in an avoidable extra expenditure of Rs. 44.67 crore to the discoms. The CAG report further pointed out that the differences in the figures of equity, loans and guarantees were pending reconciliation since long and suggested the government to take concrete steps to reconcile the differences in a time bound manner. The matter was taken up (February 2020) with the State Government and replies were awaited. It observed that the delay in finalisation of accounts carries the risk of fraud and leakage of public money going undetected and recommended that the State Government take appropriate steps expeditiously complete the finalisation of accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discoms-performed-poorly-cag/article34181666.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nod for extending existing tariff||Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has extended the implementation of existing retail supply tariff, cross subsidy surcharge and additional surcharge, as applicable on March 31, 2019, from April 1, pending disposal of an application made by the two power distribution companies (Discoms) in the State. In the order issued on Saturday, the Commission comprising Chairman T. Sriranga Rao and Members Bandaru Krishnaiah and M.D. Manohar Raju said they were issuing the order following a communication from the State fovernment conveying the commitment of subsidy during 2021-22. Further, the tariff determined in respect of electric vehicle charging and battery swap stations as also in respect of concessional tariff to Hyderabad Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) shall also stand continued from April 01 till the two Discoms file their regular tariff proposals, the Commission said in its orders. The Commission has also directed the two discoms to file the regular petition for determination of fresh retail supply tariff, cross subsidy surcharge and additional surcharge for the 2021-22 financial year “immediately”. It was on March 27, 2018, that the Commission had issued a retail power supply tariff last. The discoms did not filed their retail supply and other tariffs for 2019-20 and 2020-21 besides for 2021-22. The retail supply tariff for 2018-19 was continued for the next two financial years too. In the recent budget presentation for 2021-22, the State government has allocated Rs. 10,645 crore for agriculture and allied tariff subsidy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nod-for-extending-existing-tariff/article34181668.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish flags off mobile fish outlet vehicles||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said the State government has brought about a paradigm shift in fisheries by developing it from import of fish to export. Earlier, the fisheries industry was understood as limited to Coastal Andhra, a notion which has been turned on its head by the Telangana government. Along with the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Talasani Srinivas Yadav, he flagged off 117 vehicles, which had been distributed to women beneficiaries from self help groups on Saturday, for them to run mobile fish retail outlets. Telangana’s fish will have higher demand as they are fresh water fish, Mr. Harish Rao said, and elaborated that all the tanks in the State are being filled with water from Krishna and Godvari rivers which will help in fish yield. Government is determined to give a fillip to vocational trades, and for fishermen, so far Rs. 1000 crore have been spent. Check dams are being built with an expenditure of Rs. 1,200 crore, where fish can be grown. Vegetable and non-vegetarian markets are being set up in each town for which the government has allocated Rs. 500 crore in the State budget, Mr. Rao said. The Minister handed over Revolving Fund cheques worth Rs. 45 lakh to 13 fisherwomen’s self help groups during the same event, attended by Members of Parliament B. Prakash, B.B. Patil, lLegislators Danam Nagender, Muta Gopal, Arikepudi Gandhi, Bethi Subhash Reddy, MLC Farooq Hussain and others. Each vehicle distributed to the women costs Rs. 10 lakh, of which government and National Fisheries Development Board together contributed Rs. 6 lakh and the beneficiary, Rs. 4 lakh. The vehicle has facilities to sell fish delicacies on one side and raw fish on the other. Mr. Srinivas Yadav said Chief Miniser K. Chandrashekhar Rao has increased allocations to the fisheries sector to Rs. 100 crore, from the earlier Rs. 10 crore during the joint State. This shows the commitment of the government for the development of the industry. Hundred crore fish seed is being distributed free of cost to the fishermen. The mobile fish retail outlets are being distributed keeping in view the growing demand from public for fish, he said. The distribution will be enhanced to 500 in the coming days, and 70 of the already distributed vehicles will head for districts, he said. If the vehicles change hands, they will be seized, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-flags-off-mobile-fish-outlet-vehicles/article34181659.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Active COVID cases double in less than a fortnight||Telangana added 495 cases to its coronavirus tally and the number of active cases has increased by 100% in less than a fortnight. From around 2,000 a day till March 14, the number has gone up to 4,241 on March 26 given a spike in the infectious disease from March 15. Admission of COVID-19 patients in Intensive Care Units (ICU) has also increased. From around 350-370 patients in ICU in a day from March 1 to 14, it has surged to over 600 patients a day now. On Friday, 58,029 samples were tested and results of 984 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients died, pushing up the toll to 1,685. The new 495 cases included 142 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 45 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 35 from Rangareddy, 30 from Nizamabad and 21 from Nalgonda. So far, the State had conducted 99,61,154 tests, leading to the detection of 3,05,804 cases. So far, 2,99,878 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/active-covid-cases-double-in-less-than-two-weeks/article34181678.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State for vaccination of all public service staff||The Telangana government has requested the Central government to allow COVID-19 vaccination to those who have high rate of exposure to the public. Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao cited teachers, drivers of buses and cabs, those working in banks, employees at commercial establishments as examples of those who have high exposure to people. Apart from them, street vendors, shopkeepers, and others, too, are exposed to more people. Private companies’ plea The senior official said that they are expecting a response to the request in a few days. For the past few months, managements of private companies have been approaching Health department officials with requests to vaccinate all their employees regardless of age group. It was published in these columns that the managements approached the officials with list of their employees. Currently, apart from Health Care Workers (HCWs), Frontline Workers (FLWs), the vaccine is offered to people who are 60 years or above and those belonging to 45-59 years with co-morbidities. From April 1, the jabs would also be given to people above 45 years regardless of co-morbidities. When asked if they have requested people below 45 years with co-morbidities too to be vaccinated, Dr Srinivasa replied in the affirmative. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday that the Centre is planning to widen the umbrella of the COVID-19 vaccine beneficiaries. Two ways out Though it has been more than three months since vaccination drive was launched, the response from people is still low. Fear of developing side effects or severe adverse effects is keeping people away from taking the jab. There are 3,31,097 HCWs and 2,57,239 FLWs. It is estimated that there are over 50 lakh people who are 60 years or above, and 45-59 years with co-morbidities. Dr Srinivasa said that the two ways to get out of the pandemic is by maintaining precautions and by vaccinating against coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccinate-those-with-high-exposure-to-public/article34181646.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Change in national status policy hailed||The Telangana government has welcomed the change in the policy of the Centre in the matter of according national status to irrigation projects following its approval to the Upper Bhadra project in Karnataka as national project and requested the latter to extend the similar status to Kaleshwaram project. Vice Chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar urged the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) on Saturday to send the proposal of Kaleshwaram project, lying with it for long, to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for according the national project status. “Kaleshwaram has secured all clearances and approvals from the MoJS and the Ministry of Environment and Forests and it’s very much eligible to get the national project status”, he suggested. In contrast, the Upper Bhadra project in the K-8 sub-basin of Krishna with an estimated cost of Rs. 21,473 was being take up in violation of the tribunal award. Against the allocation of 9 tmc ft water to it at 65% dependability by the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal (KWDT-II), which is yet to be notified by the Centre, the Karnataka government has designed the project for utlisation of 29.9 tmc ft water. The Central Water Commission (CWC) did not deem it fit even to inform the lower riparian States, Telangana being one of it, while approving the project although it is mandatory, he observed and wondered how a project would be given clearance when the matter of water allocation is pending in the Supreme Court. He brought to the notice of MoJS that the Telangana government’s request for according national project status to Kaleshwaram was pending for over five years. He mentioned that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 11, 2016 with the request to accord national project status to Kaleshwaram. Similarly, the then Irrigation Minister T. Harish Rao wrote to the then Union Water Resources Ministers Uma Bharati and Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and 2018, respectively with the same plea and MPs of Telangana Rashtra Samithi too had raised the matter in Parliament several times. However, Mr. Gadkari had categorically announced in Lok Sabha in August 2018 that the Centre had discontinued the process of giving national status to irrigation projects. However, in contrary to that announcement the CWC had approved the Upper Bhadra project without taking into consideration the concerns of lower riparian Stated and recommended it for according national status, Mr. Vinod Kumar noted adding that the proposal would come before the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs for its concurrence. He pointed out that it would be a discrimination against Telangana if the similar status was denied to Kaleshwarm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/change-in-national-status-policy-hailed/article34181667.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||358 CCTVs inaugurated||As many as 358 surveillance cameras installed under the community CCTV project of Hyderabad Commissionerate were inaugurated by Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Talasani Srinivas Yadav here on Saturday. About 33 new areas have been identified for installation of CCTV cameras, taking into consideration the ground level requirement of concerned station house officers. These areas include Osmania General Hospital, Housing Board Colonies, certain crime prone areas and bastis, including Singareni Colony, Sunder Nagar ‘A’ Colony, Friends Colony, Shivaji Nagar Colony, Swarnadhama Nagar Colony, Jai Santoshi Nagar Colony, Pardivada and Chowk Maidan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/358-cctvs-inaugurated/article34181653.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Event manager duped of Rs. 10 lakh||A city-based event manager was duped of Rs. 10 lakh by cyber tricksters recently, after a sleazy chat and ‘naked’ video call. The victim, a resident of Tarnaka, told police that recently he got a Facebook friend request from a woman - and they started chatting. A few days later, she asked for his mobile numbers and they chatted over WhatsApp. During their conversation, she sent obscene videos to the man, and they started ‘sexting’ and he made her nude video calls. During the process, she recorded his entire act using a screen recording application, and blackmailed him to pay Rs. 10 lakh, Cyber Crime police said. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/event-manager-duped-of-rs-10-lakh/article34181654.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fear of virus spread in commercial spaces||After educational institutions in Telangana were shut down following detection of COVID-19 clusters in schools and hostels, there are fears over the virus spreading in commercial spaces such as pubs and bars. When the question was raised during a press conference at State Health Campus, Koti, on Saturday, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said the closure of schools was a temporary decision even as he stressed the efforts of officials in curbing the transmission chain. He added that restriction on movement had been lifted as citizens went through hardships and governments were affected financially. Screening, vaccination Dr Srinivasa Rao said managements of commercial establishments such as malls and theatres have been informed that COVID-19 tests are conducted free of cost. “Undergo massive screening every 15 days so that productivity will not take a beating. Beneficiaries have to take the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fear-of-virus-spread-in-commercial-spaces/article34181815.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Illegal bio-diesel storage unit busted||The Keesara police on Friday arrested a 50-year-old man who was storing bio-diesel illegally in a godown at Rampally Dayara. They seized around 30,000 litres of bio-diesel worth over Rs. 20 lakh from the illegal storage point. According to inspector J. Narender Goud, the accused Giridhar, from Nallakunta of Srinidhi Enterprises, started the business last month, and so far he sold bio-diesel worth Rs. 80 lakh. The accused had a tie-up with Gyanti Multi Services Pvt. Ltd., of Lucknow, and the fuel was mostly used for industrial purposes. “He got authorisation from logistic companies for maintaining, refuelling and servicing - and the godown, which had no permission or fire safety equipment, has 90,000 litre storage capacity,” Mr. Narender Goud said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/illegal-bio-diesel-storage-unit-busted/article34181820.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CAG points out glaring lapses in lake protection||Lack of seriousness on part of the State government and its agencies in lake protection came out glaringly in the Comptroller & Auditor General’s report for the year ending March, 2018, which puts a big question mark on the government’s resolve for prevention of urban flooding. The Lake Protection Committee, constituted by the High Court in 2010 as prelude to a statutory Lake Protection Authority, has failed even in conducting regular meetings. Only 16 meetings For 101 meetings that ought to have been held up to September, 2018, only 16 meetings were held up to September, 2017, ostensibly due to preoccupation of Irrigation and Revenue officials in implementation of flagship schemes. Though the Government of India advised the State government in 2012, to set up Lake Protection Authority to be eligible to receive financial assistance for conservation of polluted/degraded lakes and wet lands under the scheme ‘National Plan for Conservation of Aquatic Eco-systems’, no action has been taken to issue any such notification. HMDA action plan The HMDA had submitted an action plan in November, 2013 for conservation and beautification of 258 lakes to the State government with an expenditure of Rs. 64.5 crore to be met jointly by HMDA, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and Irrigation Department. Neither approval nor release of funds came from government, and HMDA spent mere Rs. 12.62 crore on survey of lakes during the five years before March, 2018. Administrative sanction was accorded to HMDA for development and beautification of 20 lakes with Rs. 120 crore, but there were no pre-feasibility reports for 11, and only two among them had final notification. Though the GHMC had made budgetary allocation of a total Rs. 287.33 crore during 2014-18 for lakes, only Rs. 42.14 crore were spent on protection and beautification works, construction of Ganesh idol immersion ponds, and Bathukamma festival arrangements. Restoration and comprehensive development of 19 urban lakes taken up under Mission Kakatiya is not based on the priority in the hydraulic chains of the lake systems, but merely on Assembly constituencies as mandated by the guidelines of the scheme, the report pointed out. Survey of lakes and their notification was incomplete with only 5% of the 3,132 lakes enumerated actually notified up to June, 2018. Even in case of notified lakes, the survey numbers of the FTL area and buffer zone were not notified in the Gazette. Absence of such a notification resulted in rampant encroachments and registration of illegal layouts even in notified lakes. Even the list of 3,132 water bodies is not exhaustive as it excluded 146 lakes existing on the ground. In the lakes that were finally notified and were supported by memoirs of Irrigation Department, it was noticed that the FTL notified was less than that in the memoirs by 120.895 acres, the report noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cag-points-out-glaring-lapses-in-lake-protection/article34181661.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS to ‘wait and watch’||The TRS wants to keep the opponents in Nagarjunasagar guessing and delay the candidate’s name till the last minute as a part of its strategy to take on the Congress that is heavily dependent on Mr. K. Jana Reddy’s image, and the BJP that is confident of improving its vote share quite considerably. Sources said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is in no hurry to announce the name and it would be revealed only after the Holi celebrations. Though there are quite a few names surfacing, Nomula Bhagat, son of late Nomula Naarsimhaiah has better chances as of now. It is also said that the TRS wants to wait till the BJP announces its candidate and then move with its strategy to dilute the BJP’s chances of getting a respectable number of votes. It doesn’t want to give any scope for poaching from the TRS and also implement its plans of wooing the BJP supporters to its fold based on its candidate. The caste considerations of the BJP candidate will be the deciding factor as well. Interestingly, the BJP has also adopted the wait and watch policy and sources in the BJP said candidates from both Reddy and Yadava castes are being considered but the final selection will depend on TRS candidate. It is also raking up the local sentiment to creative negativity around Mr. Bhagat, if he is the TRS candidate, who hails from the Nakirekal constituency. Meanwhile, the TRS party leaders including MLAs have been put on the job of targeting Congress and BJP leaders of some influence and inviting them to the TRS fold. An MLA from Nizamabad district, who is made incharge of a mandal, was recently cornered by villagers when he came with an offer for a Congress leader considered a close follower of Mr K. Jana Reddy. Yet, a senior leader working in the constituency said joining of some well-known leaders from the opposition parties is expected in a couple of days. The ruling party has identified that more than 1.30 lakh people are beneficiaries of government schemes like sheep distribution, pensions, Rythu Bandhu, and Kalyana Lakshmi and they are influenced to vote for the ruling party or they may face issues with the benefits in future. Buoyed by the success in the MLC elections, where an incharge was appointed for every 50 voters, the party wants to use the same strategy. Given its financial reach and the ‘helpful’ administration, TRS is leaving no stone unturned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-to-wait-and-watch/article34181670.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pay minimum time scale to sweepers in schools: HC||Issuing Government Orders (GOs) would not mean enforcement of court orders. Making this observation, Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao on Friday instructed the State government to pay minimum time scale wages and arrears to sweepers working in zilla parishad schools by the end of April. Hearing a contempt of court petition over non-implementation of the HC orders over payment of minimum time scale wages to government school sweepers, the judge declined to grant two months of time sought by the government to enforce the court orders. One Mr Kasim and 45 others working as sweepers in government schools moved the HC in March 2018 seeking minimum time scale of wages. The HC passed interim orders instructing the government to pay minimum time scale (Rs. 13,000 a month) to them. With the government not complying with the HC order even after three years, the petitioners filed a contempt of court petition. During the previous hearing, the judge directed the officials responsible to appear personally in the matter. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development principal secretary Vikas Raj appeared before the judge on Friday. The officer explained to the court that the government had already issued a GO on March 22 in connection with the court direction. Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao observed that issuing GOs did not mean enforcement of the court directions. Only payment of minimum time scale to the sweepers would constitute compliance of the court direction, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pay-minimum-time-scale-to-sweepers-in-schools-high-court-tells-government/article34181677.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man found dead in school||A man was found dead at a private school at Tappachabutra here on Friday night. Police said that Mohammed Abdul Kaleem, 48, from Tallagadda who worked at a pan shop in Asif Nagar, ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan. According to police, Kaleem allegedly slipped into depression due to financial problems and resorted to the extreme step. The investigators found a note purportedly left behind the victim, in which he apologised to his family members for his drastic step. (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead-in-school/article34181662.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Some vaccine recipients test positive||One of the reservations expressed by people who chose not to take the COVID-19 vaccine is that they might contract the infection even after taking the jab. And the Health department has indeed come across a few such cases. One such case which came to notice of the officials is that of a 80-year old man who took two doses of the vaccine, but was later found COVID-positive. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that the octogenarian suffered from only mild form of the infectious disease. CT Scan revealed that his lungs were clear. He added that the efficacy of vaccines is not 100%. Putting together efficacy percentages of the two currently-available vaccines, the senior official said there is 29% chance that one who takes the vaccine might test positive. “There is benefit with the vaccine, but no loss,” he said in an attempt to counter vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/some-vaccine-recipients-test-positive/article34181814.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Blue Hyderabad Run on April 11||Society for Advancement of Human Endeavour (SAHE), in association with The Rainwater Project, which are working towards water conservation projects, is hosting the first edition of Blue Hyderabad Run from Gachibowli Stadium, to raise funds, and sensitise citizens about rainwater harvesting and restoring urban water bodies, on April 11. Blue Hyderabad Run will have both 5 km and 10 km categories and interested participants can register at www.saheindia.org. The funds raised from the run will be used for restoration of lake and stepwell projects under way in the heart of Hi-Tec City and Kondapur. “The run is going to be a sustainable event using biodegradable and ecological options for the event. We are expecting more than 1,000 runners,” said the organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blue-hyderabad-run-on-april-11/article34181676.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High-risk groups urged to steer clear of crowds||With a series of festivals lined up in the coming days, senior officials of the Health department have appealed to people belonging to high-risk groups to avoid taking part in the festivities and escape the risk of COVID-19. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has urged people above the age of 50-60 years and those suffering from chronic diseases and pregnant women to stay away from the celebrations. Others who wish to participate are advised to maintain COVID-appropriate behaviour during festivities. Citing examples of Maharashtra and Kerala where high number of cases are being recorded, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said Telangana too would end up in such a situation if people do not take precautions. Reiterating how early identification and treatment helps avoid severe infection among COVID patients, Dr Ramesh Reddy also said that even mild form of the disease could lead to long-term distress as some recovered persons are consulting doctors for lung and breathing problems. He also emphasised that one person with COVID-19 can spread the virus to eight or nine others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-risk-groups-urged-to-steer-clear-of-crowds/article34181813.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Co-branded credit card unveiled||Union Bank of India, in association with national oil marketing company Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL), has launched ‘UNI-Carbon Card’, a co-branded credit card on the Rupay platform of NPCI. A contactless ‘Tap and Go’ as well as an NCMC card, in line with Central government’s directives, it is for the salaried and others, a release said. The card limit offered is 20% of gross annual income with minimum of Rs. 50,000. There is no upper limit. Use of the card at HPCL retail outlets would get cardholders cashback/rewards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/co-branded-credit-card-unveiled/article34181669.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Development of eco-tourism projects discussed||Development of Kawal Jungle Safari, Laknavaram and Pakhal lakes, Bogatha Waterfalls, Mallur trekking pathways, and Farahabad Eco-Circuit Park as eco-tourism projects figured at a joint coordination meeting of tourism and forest officials on Saturday. Tourism Minister V.Srinivas Goud and Forest Minister A.Indrakaran Reddy participated in the meeting to give directions about the infrastructural and tourist facilities at the eco-tourism sites. Officials were directed to press more boats into reservoirs for tourist rides. Forest permission should be obtained for works in tiger reserves, sanctuaries and protected areas, the Ministers said. Necessary directions were issued to officials upon request by MLA Rekha Shyam Naik for new boats in Kaddam reservoir. Legislators Rathod Bapu Rao, Diwakar Rao and Atram Sakku and officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/development-of-eco-tourism-projects-discussed/article34181671.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Flyovers closed||In view of ‘Shab-e-Barath’ Jagne ki raat, all flyovers expect for Greenlands, PVNR Expressway and Langer Houz, will be closed, said Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar. The flyovers will be closed after 10 p.m. on March 28 to avoid any untoward incidents, road accidents and for the safety of commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-flyovers-closed/article34181660.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 2 (with photo)||The 72nd National Track Cycling Championship commenced at the velodrome on Osmania University campus under the aegis of Sports Authority of Telangana State, Cycling Federation of India and Telangana Cycling Association. It was inaugurated by Sports Minister V. Srinvas Goud. About 700 cyclists are taking part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-with-photo/article34181816.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New president for Telangana Association of UK||Telangana Association of United Kingdom (TAUK), a non-profit organisation, promoting Telangana culture in the UK., has elected Rathnakar Kadudula as its president. TAUK founder Anil Kurmachalam said Mr. Rathnakar Kadudula and core committee members -- Pavithra Kandi, Ashok Goud Dusari and Naveen Reddy will soon appoint the full committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-president-for-telangana-association-of-uk/article34181822.ece
28 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Job Mela inaugurated (with photos)||Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Saturday inaugurated a ‘job mela’ at Prof. G. Ram Reddy Centre for Distance Education, Osmania University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-job-mela-inaugurated-with-photos/article34181823.ece
28 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Recover 50% compensation from Piramal, NGT tells PCB||In a move that would be a warning to industries that are polluting the environment, the National Green Tribunal (NGT), Principal Bench, New Delhi, directed the Pollution Control Board (PCB) of Telangana to collect 50% of environmental compensation impugned within a period of two months from Piramal enterprises. “The Pollution Control Board was directed to deposit the amount with a nationalised bank for six months so that in case the amount has to be returned, the appellant should be entitled to get interest accrued on the deposit. The PCB was also directed to submit proof of deposit in a nationalised bank as directed by this tribunal for a period of six months before the next hearing date,” read the order issued by the National Green Tribunal on March 24. The Pollution Control Board (PCB) imposed an environmental compensation of Rs. 8,31,60,000 on December 9, 2020, against Priamal. “The appellant also prayed for an interim order for stay of recovery of amount. The violations alleged to have been noted by the authorities have been continuing since long time and even on the earlier occasions certain directions have been issued which according to the PCB had not been complied with. So under such circumstances, we feel that instead of granting blanket stay of recovering the amount, we feel it appropriate to grant a conditional stay of enforcing the order on condition that the appellant shall deposit 50% of environmental compensation within a period of two months,” the order further read. “Though environmental compensation was imposed based on the recommendations of multi-disciplinary committee, it is not right on the part of Chennai Bench to give so many opportunities to Piramal,” Mr K. Lakshma Reddy of Zaheerabad who challenged the environmental pollution told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recover-50-compensation-from-piramal-ngt-tells-pcb/article34181674.ece
28 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Change education to suit industry needs: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that there was a need to change the curriculum according to needs of industry. Addressing a gathering of students at a skill development programme held on the Toshiba industry premises at Rudraram in Patancheru mandal on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said that training by Japan - India Institute of Manufacturing will provide better employment for the unemployed. “There is a need for change in the education system. It should suit the requirements of industry. This training will provide employment for youth from rural areas. The training will be in accordance with the technologies that are coming up. Every year 120 youth will be trained and they will be offered employment. Priority should be given to youth from Sangareddy district,” said Mr. Harish Rao. Minister for Labour M. Malla Reddy suggested that employment must be provided to locals. Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, Information Technology, said the training being offered by the institute will offer better employment opportunities and they will come into contact with new technologies. The Minister along with Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod inaugurated Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Law College (Men) at the district headquarters. This is the first such college in the country. Stating that the expenditure on tribal education has increased to Rs. 570 crore from the existing Rs. 70 crore, Mr. Harish Rao said several residential degree colleges and two residential law colleges were established in the State. Ms. Satyavathi Rathod said this will provide better opportunities for tribal students to become lawyers and as many as 36 students joined the course. She said KG to PG scheme is being implemented in Tribal Welfare department. Ekalavya Schools, Residential Schools are being run perfectly, she said, adding that Rs. 2,600 crore was allocated for the department in the present budget. Minister serious Mr. Harish Rao become serious over the poor arrangements and not following the protocol despite two Ministers attending the programme. “Don’t you have idea where the programme will be held? How to organise?,” the Minister openly commented. Lok Sabha members B.B. Patil, Kotha Prabhakar Reddy, MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, R.S. Praveen Kumar, Secretary, TribalWelfare, and others attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-to-change-education-according-to-industry-needs-says-harish-rao/article34181681.ece
28 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IITH joins global hunt for Einstein’s waves from monster black holes||An Indian initiative, Indian Pulsar Timing Array (InPTA), formally joined IPTA as a full member. InPTA is a collaboration of currently about 25 research scientists and students from 15 institutions in India and abroad. Shantanu Desai, Associate Professor, Dept. of Physics, Raghav Girgaonkar (BTech in Engineering Physics) and Ashwin Pandey (B.Tech in Mech. Engg.) are currently part of this prestigious collaboration from IIT Hyderabad. The collaboration also includes one IITH alumna, Suryarao Bethapudi (BTech Engg. Physics, batch of 2018), and a PhD student in MPIFR, Germany. InPTA uses the uGMRT, operated by the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, for monitoring about 6 to 20-millisecond pulsars since 2015. Recently, this consortium of mainly Indian researchers which regularly employs the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (uGMRT), situated near Pune, became a full member of the international effort to discover and study very low-frequency gravitational waves from monster black holes going around each other in orbit. The largest radio telescopes in the world are routinely being used by an international experiment, called International Pulsar Timing Array (IPTA), to precisely measure the clock periods of a collection of these radio pulsars. IITH’s participation in the detection of nanoHz gravitational waves would make it a premier institute for astrophysics and cosmology. I look forward to working with more IITH students, said Dr. Shantanu Desai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iith-joins-global-hunt-for-einsteins-waves-from-monster-black-holes/article34181682.ece
28 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Medak Region of TSRTC invites applications||TSRTC Medak Region is inviting applications for apprentices from ITI diesel mechanics trade. According to Regional Manager M. Rajashekar, those who completed course in the combined Medak district can apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medak-region-of-tsrtc-invites-applications/article34181656.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In pursuit of love||Debutant director Manikanth presents a breezy romantic comedy that’s reasonably good. Not waiting for compelling stories, directors these days started focusing on engaging the audience throughout the film.  Thellavarithe Guruvaram is about a couple who are on the verge of entering into wedlock the next morning. The previous evening at the reception, the audience understands that both of the are disinterested in each other and have plans to elope. The girl has issues of her own and the boy is in love with a doctor who’s unsure about their love. The soon-to-be couple go on a journey that night and minutes before the wedding, and having learnt a few lessons, realise they are indeed made for each other. The story takes place in a span of a few hours and there aren’t many location changes. The film is entirely dialogue-driven and comedian Satya plays the most significant role. Right from the first frame to the last he stands out with his exceptional comic timing and sparkling dialogues and leaves you asking for more. Sri Simha Koduri in the main role is on his way to stabilise his career, after making his debut with Matthu Vadhalura . Kaala Bhairava’s music is good. This is a small budget film with familiar faces from the big screen and all the cast did their parts well. Newcomers Misha Narang and Chitra Shukla had interesting roles, that of confused girls and conveyed their emotions well. Writer Nagendra shines and brevity is definitely an asset. There is an unnecessary episode to create a conflict in the plot in the second half, which is tiresome and it’s obvious that the director is trying to stretch the story and bring the lead pair together. Every time the film begins to dip, Satya enters and changes the mood of the scenes. Visuals are good and so are rest of the technical aspects. There are no twists and turns but a straightforward narration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-pursuit-of-love/article34181819.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Jana throws no-campaign challenge||“I will file my nomination on Tuesday and not tour any villages further but will only appeal to people of Nagarjunasagar to vote for me through a pamphlet. Let people decide the mandate. Will the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and BJP do the same, will KCR accept my challenge?” senior Congress leader K. Jana Reddy asked at a public meeting here on Saturday. In his address, at the ‘Nagarjunasagar Jana Garjana’, the seven-time winner, said voters should see the bypoll as a protest against Centre-State policies and promises, to end politics of turncoats and question governments. He said the Nagarjunasagar ‘no-campaign’ challenge would become a role model for politics in the country by promoting healthy voting. Mr. Jana Reddy said he had done the same in the 1985 election and won it, and as a professor of healthy democracy he said voters of his constituency by electing leaders without any influence, would be as esteemed as Nagarjunasagar Project itself. The Congress leader, mentioning that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) had appointed an MLA to each mandal as election in-charges, quoted B. R. Ambedkar’s words on vote as a weapon and told the gathering not to become slaves. Mr. Jana Reddy belittled the claims of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) ‘MLA-in-charges’ and went on to explain the role of Congress in the country for Independence and for separate Telangana. At the constituency level, under his legislatorship, he said Nagarjunasagar had the longest Panchayati Raj roads, irrigation network and electrification achieved in the State. Referring to TRS leaders, who questioned his development works in Nagarjunasagar, he said, “TRS government is like a midwife who helps at birth and later claims the baby as her own.” Mr. Jana Reddy added that he was not aiming for higher echelons of power through the bypoll, but said his duty was to hand over a legacy of good democracy to younger generations. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said Jana Reddy’s victory was a historical need. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and MLC Jeevan Reddy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jana-throws-no-campaign-challenge/article34181665.ece
28 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha doctors perform first allogeneic BMT||A cancer patient got a new lease of life after the doctors at Odisha’s SCB Medical College & Hospital, Cuttack, performed the first-ever allogenic bone marrow transplant free of cost on Saturday. The BMT unit in the Hospital has been extending costly treatment facility to cancer patients free of cost – a first such effort in a State government hospital in the country. Till Saturday, the unit at the SCB Medical College had been conducting only autologous BMT. In autologus BMT, stem cells of the patient are used for one’s cancer treatment while in allogeneic procedure, a donor donates stem cells. Abhiram Jena, a 21-year-old fatherless youth from Dhenkanal, had no resources to go for the costly treatment. He was suffering from relapsed B — Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia — one type of blood cancer. His sister donated stem cells. “The BMT, which would have cost around Rs. 30 lakh and the waiting period would have been at least one year outside Odisha, was carried out with active support of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and his administration,” said R.K. Jena, who led the doctors’ team during the critical operation. ‘Landmark treatment’ “This landmark BMT will create opportunity for cure of many blood and other diseases like thalassemia, sickle cell disease, aplastic anaemia, various blood cancers and other cancer diseases. Thousands of patients need this procedure and are not able to receive it due to many logistic challenges outside the State,” said Dr. Jena Availability of such facilities in government institutions would benefit these patients and the overall cost is bound to come down in private institutions, he said. “The stem cells were collected from the patient’s sister and were transfused to the patient on the same day. This prophylaxis will be continuing for few weeks,” said the doctors. According to the BMT Unit, the allogeneic BMT was made possible due to the support of P.K. Mohapatra, Additional Chief Secretary (Health); Datteswar Hotta, administrator of the SCB Medical College & Hospital and C.B.K. Mohanty, Director of Medical Education and Training. The BMT unit was opened in 2014 with two rooms having all state-of-the-art facilities including stem cell enumeration, stem cell aphaeresis and stem cell storage. This was the first State government hospital with such facilities in the entire country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-doctors-perform-first-allogeneic-bmt/article34181801.ece
28 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BJP legislator thrashed by protesters in Punjab||A BJP legislator was thrashed and his clothes torn allegedly by a group of people anguished over the Centre’s farm laws, in Punjab’s Malout town in Muktsar Sahib district on Saturday. Arun Narang, the MLA from Abohar constituency, was on his way to the BJP office to attend an event. As his car reached the office, the group of demonstrators protesting against the contentious farm laws allegedly surrounded him and threw ink on him, said the police. Mr. Narang and his supporters ran into a shop for protection but the agitated protesters thrashed and tore his clothes as soon as he stepped out of it. “Mr. Narang was to address a press conference at the party office in Malout. The incident happened outside the office where a few people were sitting and protesting. The protesters thrashed him but the police personnel deployed there evacuated him safely,” Superintendent of Police (Investigation) Rajpal Singh told The Hindu . No arrests yet “No arrests have been made so far but some suspects have been identified. Once the FIR is registered, we will take necessary action. Mr. Narang’s medical is yet to be conducted. Two of our police officers sustained injuries,” he said. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condemned the incident and warned of strict action against anyone trying to disturb the State’s peace by taking the law into their hands. The Shiromani Akali Dal termed the incident “deplorable” and demanded an impartial inquiry into the incident. Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal appealed to everyone to exercise restraint. He also accused the State police of failing to do their duty and said the Congress government had failed miserably in maintaining law and order. BJP State president Ashwani Sharma said, “The State government has totally failed to protect law and order and the Chief Minister should immediately resign.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-legislator-thrashed-by-protesters-in-punjab/article34181794.ece
28 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal hits out at Punjab govt. for delaying wheat purchase||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday hit out at the Congress government in Punjab for delaying the wheat procurement season by ten days to April 10, instead of April 1. Senior SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema said the very fact that the State government had delayed the procurement season was proof that it was playing into the hands of the Central government. “The delay will cause hardship to farmers who will have to stock their harvested crops in the fields for ten days, besides leading to the extension of the procurement season and late sowing of the upcoming paddy crop.” Amid the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Punjab government had announced to start wheat procurement operations from April 10 this year. The decision was taken at a recently held COVID-19 review meeting, presided over by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. ‘Will meet Guv.’ Mr. Chandumajra and Mr. Cheema said the SAD would take up the issue with Governor V.P. Singh Badnore on March 30 and demand that the procurement start from April 1. “We will also bring to the Governor’s attention that the government has compromised the interests of the State by presiding over a huge paddy procurement scam under which paddy purchased at Rs. 800 per quintal from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh was brought to Punjab and purchased at Rs. 1,900 per quintal. This is why against a likely purchase of 164 lakh tonne, the actual paddy purchased in the last season was 218 lakh tonnes,” said the leaders at a press conference here. They alleged that the government was sleeping over the issue of new specifications for procurement of food grains by the Food Corporation of India. “It is clear that the Central government is trying to renege on the payment for food grains on MSP and the State government is becoming a tool in fulfilling this nefarious agenda,” they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/akali-dal-hits-out-at-punjab-govt-for-delaying-wheat-purchase/article34181803.ece
28 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU to burn Bill copies on Holi||The Bharatiya Kisan Union said on Saturday that farmers would burn copies of the Bills at the Ghazipur protest site on Holi. BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait will lead the farmers on Sunday by burning the copies of the Bills. The BKU is leading the protest against the contentious farm laws at the Ghazipur border. ‘Not acceptable’ Mr. Tikait appealed to the farmers that during the Holika Dahan, farmers should burn copies of Bills in their villages. “It will help in making the government understand that the Bills are not acceptable to farmers,” he said. He said it is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s programme. “On Monday, instead of using colours, farmers will apply farm soil as tilak on the forehead of fellow farmers as a tribute to farmers who lost their lives during the protests.” He further said farmers were ready to stay at the protest site till Diwali if the laws were not repealed and a new law, that guarantees the MSP, is not made. Kisan Mazdoor Yatra On Saturday, the Kisan Mazdoor Jagriti Yatra that started from Ramraj on March 6 reached the Ghazipur border. Covering 16 districts, the farmers participating in the Yatra have brought soil from different villages of these districts with them. “This soil will be kept at the Ghazipur border,” said Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of BKU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bku-to-burn-bill-copies-on-holi/article34181798.ece
28 March 2021||JAIPUR,||GNCTD Amendment Bill is ‘murder of democracy’: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday described the GNCTD Amendment Bill passed by the Narendra Modi government to curtail the Delhi government’s rights as “murder of democracy”. In a tweet, he said abolishing the power of an elected government was against the spirit of democracy and added that the apex court had earlier ruled that the elected government was the real head of Delhi. “The Modi government wants to run the country in a fascist manner. Electoral malpractices, horse-trading of elected MLAs, and when failing in both, it resorts to passing such a dictatorial Bill on the strength of its majority in the Parliament. This is how the Modi government rules,” Mr. Gehlot said. He also demanded an immediate withdrawal of the electoral bonds which, he said, were promoting black money and were brought in by the Centre despite objections by the Election Commission, the Reserve Bank of India and the Opposition parties. Mr. Gehlot said the BJP had got 95% share of the electoral bonds in 2017-18 and the RBI Governor had stated that these bonds could lead to money laundering. “The EC filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in 2019 stating that the electoral bonds would end the transparency of donations received by political parties.” While stating that the EC had softened its stand now, Mr. Gehlot affirmed that simply withdrawing the electoral bonds would not serve the purpose. He said the Supreme Court should take the petition to its logical conclusion to ensure transparency in political funding. “Mr. Modi had promised to put the black money to an end. He could neither bring back the black money from abroad nor the demonetisation could reduce it,” Mr. Gehlot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gnctd-amendment-bill-is-murder-of-democracy-gehlot/article34181796.ece
28 March 2021||JAIPUR,||First COVID-19 reinfection case treated||A private hospital in Jaipur has successfully treated Rajasthan’s first case of reinfection, which occurred despite the patient having been given the first dose of the vaccine. The unusual case has caught the doctors here by surprise, as the 28-year-old patient had developed a good quantity of antibodies. The patient, a dental doctor, was admitted to the Rajasthan Hospital here on March 15 after developing moderately severe COVID-19 pneumonia for the second time. The Hospital’s Lung Centre Director Sheetu Singh said this was the fourth case of reinfection in the country and the first in the State. The patient was discharged over the weekend after she tested negative following her treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/first-covid-19-reinfection-case-treated/article34181802.ece
28 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Man dies in police custody in U.P.’s Ambedkar Nagar||A special police team (SWAT) in Ambedkar Nagar was on Saturday booked for murder after a man from Azamgarh died in police custody after being allegedly picked up for questioning. His family alleged that the police tortured him. An FIR was lodged at Akbarpur police station in Ambedkar Nagar under sections 302 (murder) and 364 (abducting for murder) of the IPC against Devendra Pal Singh, SWAT team in-charge, and unidentified police personnel. The accused police personnel were also sent to the reserve lines, said the Ambedkar Nagar police. The victim was identified as Ziyauddin of Hazipur Kudrat in Powai area of Azamgarh. Shahbuddin, Ziyauddin’s brother, alleged that on March 24 he left home to go to a relative’s place but on the way members of the SWAT team picked him up and tortured him causing his death. Ziyauddin was “beaten to death,” alleged Shahbuddin in his police complaint, accusing the police team of murder. SP Ambedkar Nagar Alok Priyadarshi said on Friday a special police team had picked up Ziyauddin for questioning. During the questioning, Ziyauddin complained of feeling unwell and at 1 a.m. he was admitted to the district hospital where he died, said the officer. A magisterial and judicial probe has been recommended, said the Ambedkar Nagar police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-dies-in-police-custody-in-ups-ambedkar-nagar/article34181799.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Divine songs lift spirits at Nizamuddin dargah||After observing silence for over eight months, Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah courtyard is back to life again. The pandemic had brought lives of qawwals – majority of whom were dependent on the money earned at the dargah from the visitors – to a standstill. Qawwalis here resumed in December, slowly and steadily. The magic of qawwalis is often best described by those who listen to them in awe. They say qawalis make them “feel connected to God” and that they often lose control over their tears. Hasnain Nizami (46), a resident of Nizamuddin area, has been a qawwal all his life and comes from a family of qawwals who have been performing for over 700 years, he says, proud of his lineage. However, the last one year has been tough for all of them – financially and more so, emotionally. “I stay at a walking distance from the dargah and for a long time, we could not visit it. But once the government allowed reopening of religious places, we came to pay obeisance even when the dargah had not opened for public till September first week. It was like a sigh of relief to be able to come here,” he said. Mr. Hasnain said that during the pre-COVID days, he and others from the family, who are part of different groups, used to earn around Rs. 400-500 per head a day if there were four-five persons performing. “On a regular day, people would give us about Rs. 3,000-Rs. 5,000, which we would divide among ourselves. These days, however, we get anything between Rs. 100-300. There’s nothing fixed,” he said. The qawwals mark their presence on all days barring any exception and perform ‘ salaam ’ in the morning now, but this was not the scene till a few weeks ago. Dargah Committee member Altamash Nizami said that the dargah had opened for public on September 6, but the qawwali was then being performed without instruments with bare minimum qawwals sitting at a distance. “There used to be no mehfil [gathering],” he said. Now, Thursdays are houseful, meaning a courtyard full of people – “united in feeling one with the Almighty”. ‘Artistes deprived’ Talking about the lockdown period, Mohammed Ali Nizami (21), a resident of Daryaganj, said that while there were facilities provided by the State and Central government for most sections of the society, there was nothing for artistes. “We are artistes and we were dependent on the income from the dargah . We would never go asking for money because our conscience does not allow us. But how could we have managed to get food? Thankfully, the dargah was providing ration and cooked food as well,” he said. Mr. Ali, who has been performing for the last four years and knew that this was his future, said that they are all used to eating meat, but during the lockdown, they did not have enough money to be able to afford it every day. “It was not easily available as well,” he said. For seven months, Mr. Ali did not even meet his parents and sister who were back in their house in Gwalior and could not come to Delhi because of restrictions. However, for Mr. Ali, not being able to step inside the Dargah for seven months was more problematic than the financial crisis. “For us, Mehboob-e-ilahi is more important than our family, parents and loved ones. I remember that my uncle, who lives in Nizamuddin and also performs here, used to come and video-call me but it is different from coming physically. The dargah has been very close to me while I was growing up. I was pining to come,” he said. Mr. Ali recalled how on Amir Khusrao’s death anniversary in June, two persons from a qawwali group had gone to the dargah and sang a few verses without any instruments and in absence of public. “I felt like crying. It was difficult to see them perform in a deserted courtyard, which otherwise does not have an inch of empty space,” he said. Azam Nizami (23) has his mother, younger brother and sister to take care of after his father passed away around two years ago. He has been performing for the last 11 years, he said. His father was ailing, he recalled. “It was a tough time but God was with us. The dargah helped us and the time has passed,” he said. While some groups, which are more popular than the rest, were able to make some money from online shows, some faced a tough time. As number cases of COVID-19 has been seeing a spike again, these people, who do not want to relive the days of crisis owing to the pandemic, are scared again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/divine-songs-lift-spirits-at-nizamuddin-dargah/article34181791.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s decision to lower drinking age met with cheers and jeers||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on March 22 announced that the Delhi government has decided to reduce the minimum age for liquor consumption in the city from 25 to 21. While the decision has brought the government under fire from many quarters, it has also won appreciation from others. Calling it a good move, Subham Aggarwal, 22, a college student, said in many States the drinking age is 18 years. “It’s unfair to people of Delhi that the minimum age was 25. Also, having a higher age doesn’t actually stop people from drinking,” Mr. Aggarwal said. No verification at pubs He said that many of the pubs or clubs hardly checked the age of the customers. “I have been denied alcohol only twice. The rule was only on paper and there were no strict checks happening anyway,” he added. Mr. Aggarwal said that if the government actually wants to sensitise youth, they should organise more programmes to engage with students in schools and colleges. Fake Aadhaar cards Rabiya Ali, 24, a student, said that it is a good decision to reduce the age as people under 25 are anyway drinking and even making “fake” Aadhaar cards to get into clubs in the city. “Even I have one. Also, they don’t check ID cards at all pubs, but even if they check the fake card will work,” Ms. Ali said. “You can take a photo of your Aadhaar card and edit your date of birth. Most places are fine with a soft copy and it will be fine,” she added. Radhika Shrivastav, director (Health Promotion) at HRIDAY, an NGO, said that they oppose the decision. “As a civil society organisation working with teenage and young adults, we completely oppose the decision. The younger you are, more likely it is to get addicted,” she said. “I don’t see any rationale behind reducing the age bar. No one can say consuming alcohol is healthy. By exposing lakhs of individuals at the age of 21 to 25 to drinking, they are promoting drinking in a way,” Ms. Shrivastav said. “In such COVID-19 times, the focus of any government should be promoting healthy behaviour. There have been messages about not consuming tobacco and alcohol and now they have reduced the drinking age. There are contradictions,” she added. Parties criticise The lowering of minimum age drew attacks from the political parties too. The Delhi Congress said that the Capital was heading to become a “nashe ki rajdhani” (Capital of intoxication) and the BJP said that the “Kejriwal government is putting revenue and money ahead of the lives of the residents”. The AAP hit back and said that the minimum age is 21 in a few States and even 18 in other States ruled by the BJP. The party even challenged BJP leaders to increase the minimum age to 25 years in BJP-ruled States and added that the AAP will make it 30 years in Delhi, if the BJP makes it 25 years. A different cause Prince Singhal, founder Community Against Drunken Driving (CADD), said that the organisation was not against the age being reduced to 21, but the actual problem was different. “The CADD has always maintained that minimum age across the country should be 21 with a robust mechanism for age checks at points of sale,” Mr. Singhal said. “We had filed a PIL in the Delhi High Court in 2017 seeking mandatory age checks to be introduced at all points of sale. The court had directed the Delhi government to frame a policy within three months. However, still there are no proper checks,” he said. Parents’ worry Beena, mother of a 17-year-old and 12-year-old, said that it is “worrying”. “This is going to ruin the lives of a lot of 21-year-olds. It’s true that even students in schools are drinking, but this change will make alcohol accessible to them,” she said. Ashok Kumar, 50, whose son is in his early 20s said it is not going to change much. “The ones who want to drink will drink. What if the age was still 25 years and they buy booze for underage people?” he said. Neelam Ahuja and her husband Vijay Ahuja, 60, also did not approve bringing down the drinking age. “The government should not have done this. Now, youth will have a licence to drink and they’ll get hooked to it fast,” Ms. Ahuja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-decision-to-lower-drinking-age-met-with-cheers-and-jeers/article34181781.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. issues guidelines for protection of interfaith couples||The Delhi government has created and issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the protection of interfaith and intercaste couples from possible harassment and threats in the Capital. Distress calls made by such couples will be kept confidential. The SOP, issued by the Social Welfare Department, includes setting up of ‘special cells’ by Deputy Commissioners of Police of respective districts, round-the-clock helpline to assist such couples and safe houses to provide accommodation to them. In March 2018, the Supreme Court had directed the government to create a ‘special cell’ in every district comprising the Superintendent of Police, the district social welfare officers and others to receive petition or complaints of harassment and threats to intercaste and interfaith couples. As part of the initiative, the existing 181 toll-free women helpline operated by the Delhi Commission for Women will serve as a 24x7 helpline to receive complaints from harassed couples. “The telecallers, trained to handle distress calls and already aware about available services, can provide necessary assistance/advice to the couple in distress. If required, they can be further trained to handle such calls,” the SOP issued by the social welfare department states. Provide safe house After hearing the couple, the DCP of the area concerned, who will head the ‘special cell’, will bring the entire facts to the knowledge of the District Magistrate and convey their requirement for stay in a ‘safe house’. Transportation for such couples will also be provided by the police. Earlier this week, violence had erupted at south-east Delhi’s Harijan Basti over an interfaith marriage, following which the police arrested several persons for their alleged involvement in the incident. “Adequate security shall be provided to the couple in form of PSO (protective service officer) and the ‘safe house’ will also be secured by the DCP of the area concerned. The couple shall be briefed about the threat to them and in no case will be exposed till the issue is resolved,” the SOP also states. In case the couple doesn’t want to stay in the ‘safe house’, the special cell will provide protection to them at their chosen place of stay. If preliminary enquiry ascertains the authenticity of threats, the DCP concerned will direct an ACP or sub-division police officer to register an FIR against those threatening the couple.  The couple shall be briefed about the threat to them and in no case will be exposed till the issue is resolved   standard operating procedure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-issues-guidelines-for-protection-of-interfaith-couples/article34181590.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Violators of Holi restrictions will be punished’||The Delhi police on Monday said strict action will be taken against those who violate the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines for Holi celebrations. No gatherings Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said that people cannot gather in public spaces like parks and roads to celebrate the festival. “We appeal to people to celebrate the festival at home with their families. Those who violate the guidelines will be punished according to the law,” he added. Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava also directed all officers to ensure adherence of DDMA’s COVID-19 guidelines. Traffic violations Delhi Traffic Police has also made elaborate arrangements to ensure safety of motorists by checking incidents of drunken driving, speeding, reckless driving, red-light jumping, triple riding, driving by minor, driving without helmet, performing stunts on two-wheelers, among others. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary said that special checking teams will be deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/violators-of-holi-restrictions-will-be-punished/article34181591.ece
28 March 2021||new delhi,||Court appoints lawyer to oversee sealing of Pracha’s computer||A court here on Saturday appointed a Local Commissioner (LC) and directed the police to coordinate with him a visit to advocate Mehmood Pracha's office to seal his computer in a case of alleged tutoring of a witness in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. The sessions court, which stayed till the next date of hearing (April 28) a magistrate court’s order directing a search warrant against Mr. Pracha to be executed, gave the directions after Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad did not object to Mr. Pracha's proposal to appoint a Local Commissioner. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana directed the Investigating Officer (IO) to go to Mr. Pracha’s office and seize and seal the computer. It directed that the procedure be videographed in the presence of advocate Avneet Kaur who was appointed as the LC. The court, however, added that the computer will remain in Mr. Pracha's custody and directed him not to tamper with it. Mr. Pracha is representing some of the accused in cases related to the riots that took place in the national capital in February last year. The court was hearing an appeal by Mr. Pracha against a magistrate court order directing the search warrant against him be executed. No tampering During Saturday's hearing, the IO and Mr. Pracha stated that the computer in question has not been tampered with so far by either of them. Mr. Pracha's office was raided by Delhi Police in connection with an FIR alleging that the advocate tutored a witness to initiate a false riots case. He had moved the court seeking directions for retrieval of relevant information from his hard disk and raised concerns regarding the protection of his client's data. The magistrate court noted that collection of evidence was an intrinsic part of a probe and hands of investigators cannot be tied in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-appoints-lawyer-to-oversee-sealing-of-prachas-computer/article34181783.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Metro services to start at 2.30 p.m. tomorrow||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday said that metro services will be curtailed on Monday on account of Holi. Services on all the lines, including the Rapid Metro and Airport Express Line will not be available till 2.30 p.m. “Metro train services will thus, start at 2.30 p.m. from terminal stations on all lines on March 29 and will continue normally thereafter,” the DMRC said. Meanwhile, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said that metro services will not be available on the Noida-Greater Noida corridor till 2 p.m. “Train services on the Aqua Line will begin from 2 p.m. on Holi and train services will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes. Parking facility at the metro stations will also be available from 2 p.m.,” the NMRC said. Currently, five metro stations on the Aqua Line, including Noida Sector 51, Noida Sector 76, Knowledge Park II, Alpha I and Delta I, have parking facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/metro-services-to-start-at-230-pm-tomorrow/article34181592.ece
28 March 2021||new delhi,||Delhi zoo may get three more tigers for breeding||The Delhi zoo may soon get three tigers from Chennai and Nagpur for “breeding purposes” under an animal exchange programme, officials said on Saturday. Director Ramesh Pandey said they have proposed to bring a pair of tigers from Gorewada zoo in Nagpur, while another male tiger is likely to be brought in from Chennai. A Royal Bengal tigress was brought from Kanpur for breeding proposes in November last year. The Delhi zoo is a participating zoo for the ‘Conservation Breeding Programme’ of the Bengal Tiger. At present, the Delhi zoo has seven tigers, including five white tigers, he said. “A pair of Sloth Bears from the Nagpur facility is also on the cards,” the director said.   One pair each of ostriches and chinkaras will arrive from Chandigarh this month. The Delhi zoo is scheduled to reopen for public on April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-zoo-may-get-three-more-tigers-for-breeding/article34181785.ece
28 March 2021||new delhi,||JNUTA claims incongruity in process of ratifying appointment of new Registrar||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Saturday alleged there was incongruity in the process of ratifying Professor Anirban Chakraborti’s appointment as the university Registrar by the Executive Council (EC) during its meeting on Friday. The teachers’ body also alleged that JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar during Friday’s virtual meeting of the EC chose to mute two elected faculty representatives throughout the discussion on important agenda matters. ‘Manufacturng a row’ The V-C had appointed Mr. Chakraborti, a former Dean of the School of Computational and Integrative Sciences, as Registrar on March 17, following which the JNUTA alleged that there was no EC meeting to deliberate on the matter. The EC, in a statement after its 294th meeting on Friday, said a “few faculty members of JNU have tried to manufacture a controversy over an appointment which is otherwise a routine process”, and added that the EC has approved the appointment of Mr. Chakraborti as the new Registrar. In a statement, the JNUTA also sought to know how Mr. Chakraborti was allowed to chair an academic council meeting on March 22, before the ratification of his appointment by the executive council on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnuta-claims-incongruity-in-process-of-ratifying-appointment-of-new-registrar/article34181784.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 arrested for looting after posing as CBI officers||Three persons were arrested for allegedly posing as CBI officers and looting a doctor’s family in north west Delhi’s Maurya Enclave, the police said. DCP (North-West) Usha Rangnani said that the accused have been identified as Bittu (32), Surender (35) and Vibha (35). The looted cash worth over Rs. 36 lakh, jewellery have been recovered. The police said that the victim identified as Priyank Aggarwal said that on Friday when he came back from his clinic, five people, including a woman barged into his house, posing as CBI officials and took away their mobile phones and started searching the house for black money. They took all the cash and jewellery and asked Mr. Priyank’s driver to take them to the clinic in Maurya Enclave. On the way, the driver raised an alarm after which the accused fled. Three of them were arrested but two managed to escape. The accused allegedly told the police that they were inspired by a Bollywood movie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-arrested-for-looting-after-posing-as-cbi-officers/article34181782.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||For a brighter future||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/for-a-brighter-future/article34181787.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Bearers of tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bearers-of-tradition/article34181793.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||At 166, Maharashtra sees highest deaths this year||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 166 COVID-19 deaths, the highest so far this year, and the second-highest single-day surge of 35,726 cases. As many as 14,523 patients were discharged, taking the total tally of recoveries to 23,14,579. The State’s active case tally stands at 3,03,475. Of the 166 deaths, 101 occurred in the last 48 hours, 26 in the last week, and the remaining 39 deaths during a prior period. The latest spike in fatalities is also the highest reported in the State since October 23, when 184 deaths were recorded. The State’s death toll has now risen to 54,073. With Saturday’s surge, the total case tally has soared to 26,73,461. The State reported 36,902 fresh infections on Friday. Record spike in Mumbai Mumbai reported 6,130 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the city since the outbreak of the pandemic, pushing its case tally to 3,91,791. Twelve deaths took the city’s toll to 11,645. Neighbouring Thane city reported 939 new cases. Pune city and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 3,522 and 1,687 new cases, respectively. As many as 1,382 cases were reported in other areas of the Pune district. Nashik city recorded 2,422 cases, taking its tally to 10,08,050. In the rest of Nashik district, 1,068 new cases were reported. In the Marathwada region, Aurangabad city reported 1,040 new cases, while 702 cases were detected in Nanded city. Jalna district, which shares border with Aurangabad, reported 524 new cases. Nagpur city and Nagpur district added 2,675 and 1,066 fresh COVID-19 cases, respectively. As many as 1,57,311 tests were carried out, taking the total figure to 1,91,92,750.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/at-166-maharashtra-sees-highest-deaths-this-year/article34181499.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. questions NIA’s reluctance to probe Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra Congress on Saturday questioned the reluctance of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to interrogate former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the Antilia bomb scare case. The NIA arrested suspended police officer Sachin Vaze on March 13 in connection with the case. Mr. Vaze is also being probed for his alleged role in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Talking to reporters, State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said, “When Param Bir Singh was commissioner, the digital video recorder (DVR) of the Mumbai Police Commissionerate disappeared from his office. Why is the NIA not investigating this? The NIA has not taken the statement of any of Sachin Vaze’s senior officials in the past 18 days.” Mr. Sawant said the State Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) officially took the DVR for investigation on March 10. “Within two hours, Singh’s office felt it was a mistake. An official from the office called ATS chief Jaijeet Singh and said the DVR would be returned later as the visuals were poor. The DVR was taken into custody and since then it has disappeared,” he alleged. Mr. Sawant claimed that the DVR had visuals of the explosive-laden Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25 and the Innova that was tailing it. “It has also tracked the movements of Sachin Vaze and those in contact with him. The State government should investigate if Mr. Singh was behind the disappearance of the DVR, if the NIA is not doing so,” Mr. Sawant said. ‘BJP diverting attention’ The Congress leader pointed out that the BJP has now stopped demanding an inquiry against Mr. Singh. “The BJP brought up allegations of a transfer scam in the State Home Department as it wanted to divert attention from the Antilia bomb scare case and the Mansukh Hiren murder case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-questions-nias-reluctance-to-probe-param-bir-singh/article34181501.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||HC quashes jail superintendent’s order rejecting parole to convict||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has quashed an order issued by the superintendent of prisons of Amravati Central Jail, rejecting a convict’s application seeking parole on the grounds of COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote was hearing a criminal petition filed by Ayyaz Khan Zabaz Khan, who is serving a life sentence for murder. The plea challenged the order rejecting his parole application filed on October 6, 2020. The court said the superintendent should decide on releasing prisoners after assessing the COVID-19 situation in prisons. The court said prisons rules need to be looked into based on the COVID-19 situation, which requires decongesting prisons to curb the spread of the virus. “It is in the changed circumstances of the rules that implementation of the provision relating to release of convicts on COVID-19 parole has to be considered,” it said. The Bench said it would be necessary for the superintendent to assess from time to time the COVID-19 situation in prisons, measures to ensure social distancing in prisons, the number of COVID-19 inmates, whether they can be placed in isolation, the threat posed to other inmates, the number of inmates to be released to decongest the prison, the category of prisoners who can be released, and the COVID-19 situation in the locality they are likely to go. The Bench said it would be permissible for a convicted prisoner to move an application for parole only after the superintendent has considered these factors and arrived at the opinion that there is a need to decongest the prison to curb the spread of COVID-19. It said, “We are constrained to make the above observations for the reason that an impression has been created that a release on COVID-19 parole, is a matter of right, which it is not.” The Bench set aside the order and sent it back to the authorities suggesting fresh consideration of the convict’s application for parole.  An impression has been created that a release on COVID-19 parole, is a matter of right, which it is not Bombay High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-quashes-jail-superintendents-order-rejecting-parole-to-convict/article34181504.ece
28 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Couple held for cheating||The Vashi police have arrested a couple for allegedly duping shopkeepers by using a fake version of the Paytm application. Clothes worth Rs. 38,000 have been recovered from them. The accused have been identified as Prem Navrottam Solanki (31) and Preeti Rajesh Yadav alias Tanvi Sharma (23). According to the police, the accused would visit several shops, malls and restaurants and buy expensive items. They would then pretend to pay the bill using the fake Paytm app and show a fake message that the payment had been completed. However, no amount would have been deducted. It was only later that the shopkeepers realised they had been cheated. The police said the couple met each other at an interview and decided to team up to dupe people. On March 9, they bought clothes worth Rs. 38,000 from a boutique at Sector 11 in Vashi and paid the bill using the fake app. When the owner realised the fraud, she filed a police complaint. “We got the number the accused had provided to the shop, but it was registered in someone else’s name. With a lot of technical investigation, we finally nabbed the duo,” Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Dhage said. The police said the accused had divorced their respective partners and were planning to marry soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/couple-held-for-cheating/article34181502.ece
28 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai records new high of 770 cases||Navi Mumbai reported its highest single-day surge of 770 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, two days after reporting its previous highest spike of 681 cases. The city’s total case tally has now reached 63,056. With four more deaths, the toll has risen to 1,164, while 267 recoveries pushed the cumulative total to 56,899. The civic body issued a notice on Saturday prohibiting gatherings of over five people from 8 p.m. to 7 a.m. in public places. Public gardens will stay open only from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. Those flouting rules will be fined Rs. 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/navi-mumbai-records-new-high-of-770-cases/article34181503.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||China, Iran sign a 25-year ‘strategic pact’||China and Iran on Saturday signed what was described as a 25-year “strategic cooperation pact”, during Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s ongoing six-nation tour to West Asia. The deal, which has been in the works for five years, was signed between Mr. Wang and his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif, AFP reported from Tehran. Mr. Wang is visiting Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran, the UAE, Bahrain and Oman. Nuclear deal talks The agreement comes amid a major push from China to back Iran, which counts on Beijing, its largest trading partner, as it deals with the continuing weight of sanctions re-instated following then U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iranian nuclear deal. Earlier this week, China and Russia called for the U.S. to “unconditionally return to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) as soon as possible and revoke the unilateral sanctions against Iran” as their Foreign Ministers met in China. In this context, they proposed “the establishment of a regional security dialogue platform to converge a new consensus on resolving the security concerns of countries in the region”. Chinese and U.S. officials also held talks on the Iran nuclear deal on Thursday. Vice Foreign Minister Ma Zhaoxu, who held a phone conversation with U.S. Special Envoy for Iran Robert Malley, said that with “new changes in the Iranian nuclear situation, all parties need to increase the sense of urgency” and “the U.S. side should take concrete actions as soon as possible and both the U.S. and Iran need to meet each other half way for the latter’s return to compliance at an early date”. He added: “China will continue to play a constructive role in bringing the JCPOA back on track.” Five-point initiative While details of the new 25-year pact were not immediately available, it includes “political, strategic and economic” components, AFP reported, quoting Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Saeed Khatibzadeh as saying “this document can be very effective in deepening” relations and would establish a blueprint for “reciprocal investments in the fields of transport, ports, energy, industry and services”. In Riyadh, Mr. Wang proposed “a five-point initiative on achieving security and stability in the Middle East” advocating “mutual respect, upholding equity and justice, achieving non-proliferation, jointly fostering collective security, and accelerating development cooperation.” He said China was keen to deepen its Belt and Road Initiative in the region, “expand areas of growth such as high and new technologies”, as well as “look forward to early conclusion of a free trade agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council” with China’s trade with Arab States reaching $240 billion last year, establishing it as the region’s largest trading partner and a major buyer of crude oil that counts on the region for half of its imports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-iran-sign-a-25-year-strategic-pact/article34181080.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Perilous pursuits||The world of professional religious preachers is more competitive than pious in which the charismatic ones flourish, and the lesser mortals fade. Abbas Siddiqui’s Islamic discourses in Bengali pulled in massive crowds in the Muslim localities of south Bengal for years. This year, he himself is a convert. From religious sermons, he has transitioned to political combat. His new outfit, ambitiously named as the Indian Secular Front (ISF), is potentially a political platform for Muslims, who constitute more than one-fourth of the population of West Bengal. As a partner of the Congress-Left alliance in the election, Mr. Abbas’s aim is clear — bring down Mamata Banerjee and emerge as a leader of his own standing. He is the fourth generation descendant of Abu Bakr Siddiqui, a religious reformer whose mazaar (mausoleum) at Furfura Sharif in Hooghly district attracts millions of Bengali speaking Muslims from West Bengal, Assam and Bangladesh every year. The pir founded charitable institutes and also encouraged female education. He died in 1939, and his five sons inherited the reverence that he commanded among the followers. The followers believe he was the 31st descendant of the first Caliph, who had the same name, says Maidul Islam, Assistant Professor at Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Kolkata. Of all the current descendants — pirzada as they are called — Mr. Abbas emerged as the most popular. At 35, he has spent nearly two decades as a public speaker, in the age of Internet and social media. His sermons at jalsas — local congregations of Muslims — widely circulate on digital platforms. “Public speaking comes naturally to him. He has a rustic communication style, and draws imageries that people easily associate with,” said Sabir Ahamed, National Research Coordinator at Pratichi Institute in Kolkata, who has interacted with the cleric. He travels around the catchment area of the sect, which is now restricted to south Bengal and parts of Assam. Communication with Bangladesh is now restricted. Controversial comments Popular his speeches are, but they don’t sit well with the word ‘secular’ in his party’s title. During the Delhi riots of 2020, Mr. Abbas prayed that Allah sends a virus so that “10 to 20 to 50 crore people die in India”. He said Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan was “one who earns showing her body” and suggested that she should be tied to a tree and beaten up. He lauded the killers of a schoolteacher who had drawn a picture of Prophet Mohammad in France. He apologised for all the statements later, but his explanations have at times been no less incendiary. For instance, explaining his position on his statement about beating up Ms. Jahan, Mr. Abbas said in a recent interview that he would sanction it only under law. He has pleaded that all his speeches before the launch of the ISF in January be considered redundant, but his political opponents are not obliging. The Trinamool and the BJP accuse the Congress-Left combine of sheltering and nurturing a dangerous communalist; the urban intellectuals of West Bengal lament the fall of political standards in the State. While the Left Front defends Mr. Abbas as a reformed leader with a progressive outlook, the Congress is finding it difficult to fit him in. His entry into politics queered the pitch in West Bengal for Asaduddin Owaisi, who has been trying to expand his Hyderabab-based party AIMIM to Muslim pockets in other States. Mr. Owaisi had to abort his plans for the State. His appeal would have restricted only to the Urdu-speaking Muslims. Mr. Abbas disclaims any Muslim exclusivity of the ISF and claims that the party is a platform for all the dispossessed and the disadvantaged. His brother Naushad Siddiqui is the chairman of the party and Simal Soren, a tribal leader, is the president. The party has fielded several Hindu candidates, from across castes. “It is a spurious claim that the ISF is not communal. Regardless of all this façade,” says Prasenjit Bose, an economist and political analyst. Mr. Abbas also accuses Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of playing Muslim communal politics. He believes her schemes such as allowances for clerics damaged the community’s interests and created a divided between them and Hindus.  Rift in the family The pirzadas of Furfura Sharif were not distant from politics — they supported the national movement and opposed Partition — but were sceptical of direct involvement. In the rift between the Left Front and the peasant communities of West Bengal around 15 years ago was the occasion for a rethink. The Bengali-speaking Muslims are peasants, while the Urdu-speaking ones are largely urban, in West Bengal. It was Ms. Banerjee who drew out Toha Siddiqui, an uncle of Mr. Abbas, in her coalition against the Left Front. Mr. Toha became a fierce critic of the Left and a supporter of Ms. Banerjee. The Left Front, meanwhile, cultivated Mr. Abbas. “There is now chasm in the family and one cannot be sure how this will play out. The religious appeal may not easily convert to political appeal for Abbas,” says Mr. Islam. The followers of the sect are not sure about supporting him in the political field. “Bhaijan (as he is called) should have stayed away from politics. In Bihar, the split in Muslim votes contributed to the victory of the BJP last year,” said Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, a shopkeeper in Bhangore in South 24 Parganas, a stronghold of the Furfura Sharif.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/perilous-pursuits/article34181078.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Linking the East with the West||The last time the Suez Canal was closed for navigation was in 1967, after the Six-Day War between Israel and Arab nations broke out. Prior to that, the channel had been shut for less than a year during the Suez War of 1956 when Israel, France and Britain invaded Egypt. What wars did in the past was done by a container ship now. M.V. Ever Given got stuck in a dust storm and strong winds on March 23 and ran aground in the channel blocking off traffic. The 193-km-long canal across Egypt’s Isthmus of Suez connecting the Mediterranean Sea in the north and the Red Sea in south — thereby bringing the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean closer — has been a critical artery for global trade since the mid-19th century. If the channel is blocked, ships from Europe will have to sail around the Cape of Good Hope in southern Africa to reach Asia, and vice versa. Unsurprisingly, this single incident has turned the global spotlight to this man-made channel connecting two continents. The idea of linking the Mediterranean Sea to the Erythraean Sea (today’s Red Sea) had excited both Egypt’s rulers and colonisers from ancient to modern times. Pharaoh Senausret III (1887-1849 BC) built the first canal linking the Erythraean Sea in the south to the Nile river in the north and thereby opening a waterway to the Mediterranean. Pharaoh Necho II, who died in 595 BC, started building another canal from the Nile to the south. It was Persian Emperor Darius I who completed the canal. Over the centuries, the canal would be ignored by leaders particularly as navigation becomes impossible due to silt and reopened by some, including Ptolemy II Philadelphus in second century BC. Many geologists believe that the Red Sea receded over the centuries and its coastline moved southward away from the lakes in Suez. This, coupled with persistent accumulations of silt, made it difficult to keep the waterways open. So for centuries, the canal was abandoned by Egypt’s rulers — until the arrival of Napoleon Bonaparte. Napoleon invaded Egypt in 1798 as part of his global campaign to weaken the British Empire. He wanted to build a canal across Suez under the French control because he thought it would leave a twin blow to the British. One, it would provide the French a quicker and easier access to the Indian Ocean. Two, by opening a new trade route from Europe to Asia, France could hurt the British who controlled the existing route around the Cape of Good Hope. But a miscalculation in the geological study of the region prompted Napoleon to abandon the project. Napoleon gave up the project but the idea of the Suez canal outlived the emperor. In the mid-19th century, French diplomat and engineer Ferdinand de Lesseps won permission from Egypt’s Ottoman-appointed ruler Said Pasha to start building the canal. In 1858, Universal Suez Ship Canal Company was formed to execute the project and construction work began a year later. Britain, which controlled the route around the African continent, continued to oppose the project as a new waterway would hurt its interests. But in 1869, the canal was officially opened for traffic. Britain would move from being an adversary of the project to a key beneficiary in six years when the Egyptian government, straddled with financial problems, sold its stake in the canal to London in 1875. Since then, France and Britain operated the canal, until Egypt’s socialist President Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalised it in 1956. The Suez crisis On October 29, 1956, three months after Nasser nationalised the canal, Israeli troops attacked the Egyptian Sinai. French and British troops joined in later. The plan was to retake control of the canal and remove Nasser, who was being emboldened by the Soviet support. But the invasion did not go ahead as planned. Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev threatened Israel, Britain and France with rocket attacks unless they withdrew troops from the Sinai. U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower, partly upset that the British went ahead with the invasion without American approval and partly out of strategic concern that the invasion would play into the hands of the Soviet Union, threatened Britain and others with economic sanctions unless they withdrew the troops. By March 1957, the invading troops were fully withdrawn and Egypt’s authority over the canal was recognised. Interestingly, the Suez crisis also marked Great Britain’s dwindling influence in West Asia, a region it controlled since the fall of the Ottoman Empire, and the arrival of the U.S. as the new great power in the region. The canal was closed again during the 1967 war. It would be reopened only in 1975 after Egyptian-Israeli relations started warming following the 1973 Yom Kippur War. Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who came to power through a coup in 2013, launched an ambitious $8.5-billion expansion project at the canal in 2014 as part of which a second line was dug along its northern section, allowing two-way traffic. The canal is an important source of revenue for Egypt’s battered economy. Last year, Egypt generated $5.61 billion in revenues from the canal and the authorities expect this to double by 2023. About 19,000 ships passed through the channel in 2020 carrying 1.2 billion tonnes of cargo, according to the Suez Canal Authority. As much as 13% of all maritime trade, from oil to automobiles, pass through the canal every year. So a delay in reopening the channel will have a huge impact on export businesses, commodities, ship and cargo companies and even Egypt’s national economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/linking-the-east-with-the-west/article34181086.ece
28 March 2021||Washington/New Delhi,||Kerry to visit India in April ahead of Biden’s climate meet||U.S. President Joe Biden will host a virtual ‘Leaders Summit on Climate’ on April 22 and 23, with 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the run up to this, U.S. Special Envoy for Climate John Kerry will visit India in early April, sources told The Hindu . Other guests at the climate summit will include President Xi Jinping of China and President Vladimir Putin of Russia, both of whom have a challenging relationship with Mr. Biden. With America’s re-entry into the Paris Agreement on climate, the summit seeks to put Mr. Biden’s stamp on the fight against climate change, after the U.S. largely took itself out of the international dialogue on climate action when Mr. Trump, a climate-change sceptic, withdrew the U.S. from the Paris Agreement. The U.S. summit will highlight the urgent need to address climate change and the economic benefit of doing so, the White House said in a statement on Friday. It is also a prelude to the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26), which will be held in Glasgow in November, the White House said. The statement also sought to link climate action to better paying jobs and advancing the technological frontier — one of the themes of the Biden campaign. Mr. Kerry’s visit to India is part of the U.S.’s planning for Glasgow — he had said as much in February. “I look forward to coming to India before too long, COVID notwithstanding, and be able to plot and plan with the leaders of India how we are going to make Glasgow a success,” he had said at the (virtual) World Sustainable Development Summit, organised by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). The former Secretary of State had also said he intends to work “very, very closely” with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, Prime Minister Modi and others in India on climate change. Working with India Other U.S. officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken, have talked about working closely with India on climate. In July last year, Mr. Blinken had said that common global challenges cannot be solved “without India as part of the deal”. Earlier in March, the Quad leaders’ summit — also hosted by Mr. Biden — had set up a climate working group, one of whose objectives is to strengthen the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The climate summit will also bring Mr. Biden face to face (virtually) with Mr. Xi and Mr. Putin, a first since he assumed office (Mr. Biden has only had phone calls with these leaders since January 20). When asked on Friday if he had invited them, Mr. Biden said, “I haven’t yet, but they know they’re invited.” The two countries were on the list as per the White House statement. The Biden administration, which had an acrimonious diplomatic exchange with Chinese officials on March 18 at their first bilateral engagement, held in Alaska, has said it will cooperate where necessary with China, repeatedly citing climate action as an example. The long-term strains in the U.S.-Russia ties were reinforced in March when Mr. Biden agreed in an interview that he thought Mr. Putin was a “killer”, resulting in Moscow recalling its Ambassador to Washington. The Summit’s guest list is indicative of the priority the administration places on climate action and clean technology. “In his invitation, the President urged leaders to use the Summit as an opportunity to outline how their countries also will contribute to stronger climate ambition,” the White House said, adding the U.S. will announce a new “ambitious” 2030 emissions target as its Nationally Determined Contribution — all signatories of the Paris deal are required to update their targets before the Glasgow conference. Bhutan and Bangladesh are two other South Asian countries that have been invited to the summit. Bangladesh is a low-lying nation and at high risk due to climate change. Some island nations — such as Jamaica and the Marshall Islands — are also on the guest list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kerry-to-visit-india-in-april-ahead-of-bidens-climate-meet/article34181084.ece
28 March 2021||Washington,||Alternative to China’s BRI needed, Biden tells Boris||U.S. President Joe Biden said he told British Prime Minister Boris Johnson that democratic countries should provide an alternative to China’s infrastructure strategy, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). “One of the things I suggested we do is — we talked about China and the competition they’re engaging in the Belt and Road Initiative,” Mr. Biden said after he landed in Delaware for the weekend. “And I suggested we should have, essentially, a similar initiative coming from the democratic states, helping those communities around the world,” he said. Mr. Biden had spoken with Mr. Johnson on the phone earlier on Friday. The White House said the two leaders discussed COVID-19 and global health security, climate, China, Iran and the preservation of political stability in Northern Ireland. Earlier in March, theU.S. and its Quad partners (India, Australia and Japan)had committed to another initiative between democratic states — providing up to one billion vaccines in South East Asia and the Pacific.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/alternative-to-chinas-bri-needed-biden-tells-boris/article34181076.ece
28 March 2021||Beijing,||China sanctions U.S., Canadian individuals||China announced tit-for-tat sanctions against two Americans, a Canadian and a rights advocacy body late on Saturday, in response to sanctions imposed earlier this week by the two countries over Beijing’s treatment of Uighurs. Two members of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, Gayle Manchin and Tony Perkins, as well as Canadian MP Michael Chong and a Canadian parliamentary committee on human rights are prohibited from entering mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau, the Chinese foreign ministry said. At least one million Uighurs and people from other mostly Muslim groups have been held in camps in northwestern Xinjiang, according to rights groups, who accuse authorities of forcibly sterilising women and imposing forced labour. The European Union, Britain, Canada and the U.S. sanctioned several members of Xinjiang’s political and economic hierarchy this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-sanctions-us-canadian-individuals/article34181082.ece
28 March 2021||Dhaka,||Thousands protest in Bangladesh||Thousands of people demonstrated in Bangladesh on Saturday, a day after clashes between police and hardline Islamist protestors over a visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi left five dead. The violence, which began Friday at the main mosque in the capital Dhaka, rocked several key districts in the Muslim-majority nation of 168 million, leaving scores injured. Facebook has been restricted in the country, a company spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-protest-in-bangladesh/article34181081.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Divestment goal achievable; LIC IPO to fetch Rs. 1 lakh cr. : CEA||Asserting that the disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22 was ‘eminently achievable,’ Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) K. V. Subramanian on Saturday said the proposed initial public offering (IPO) by LIC itself could garner Rs. 1 lakh crore for the government. He also said targeting of retail inflation by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has helped bring down the volatility and level of inflation. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee has been mandated to maintain annual inflation at 4% until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6% and lower limit of 2%. Speaking at a virtual conference organised by Jana Small Finance Bank, the CEA said the disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for FY22 is actually a carry over of the Rs. 2.10 lakh crore target set for the current fiscal ending March 31. “Of this, BPCL privatisation and LIC listing itself were important contributors. There are estimates suggesting Rs. 75,000-Rs. 80,000 crore or even higher can just come from the privatisation of BPCL. LIC IPO could bring in Rs. 1 lakh crore approximately,” he said. With regard to LIC’s IPO, the Centre has already had amendments in the LIC Act passed through Finance Bill 2021 in Parliament. Mr. Subramanian also emphasised that India needed a lot more banks for meeting its growth potential. He cited the example of the U.S. which, with one-third the India’s population, has about 25,000-30,000 banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/divestment-goal-achievable-lic-ipo-to-fetch-rs-1-lakh-cr-cea/article34181046.ece
28 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Global shortage may inflate monitor, flat screen prices’||A worldwide shortage of monitors, flat TV screens, interactive panels, projector displays and other such devices may push up prices of display products globally by 10-20% in the next three to four months, as per BenQ India. “A serious shortage of display products is currently being felt across the globe as demand for such products grew at a record high post pandemic,” said Rajeev Singh, MD, BenQ India. “China, the biggest manufacturer of ICs and other key components for display systems was shut for several months, resulting in a large, pent-up demand and a subsequent supply mismatch in global markets,” he added. ‘10-20% rise in prices’ This would eventually lead to a 10% to 20% increase in prices of all electronics and computing- display products globally in the next three to four months, he added. BenQ India is a part of the $25-billion Taiwanese electronics firm, BenQ Corporation. Personal computer maker Acer, too, said the industry had been struggling, following a shortage of Integrated Circuits (ICs). “Global technology supply chains have been grappling with the shortage of components when the ‘stay-at-home economy’ of the pandemic began fuelling the demand for computers, gaming consoles and other devices” said Sudhir Goel, chief business officer, Acer India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/global-shortage-may-inflate-monitor-flat-screen-prices/article34181040.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai,||Pandemic spurs demand for second homes, say realtors||The COVID-19 pandemic seems to have spurred the demand for weekend and second homes in key markets, according to real estate developers and analysts. Mumbai-based Nirvana Realty said it recently sold more than 400 weekend homes at its Signature Resorts near the city. “We are also launching a project where we will develop custom-built Royale Pool Villas at Wollywood, Wada and Viroha, Dahanu,” said Punit Agarwal, MD and CEO. “The pandemic may give a new lease of life to the previously lacklustre second-home market,” said Santosh Kumar, vice-chairman, Anarock. He said while short breaks from city life, rental income and/or eventual retirement were the previous aspirations for owning a second home, COVID-19 has given rise to a more urgent motivation — the relative safety from infection of homes away from the urban hot zones. “For those with the financial means, it is certainly the optimal time for such an acquisition.” He said work-from-home options (WFH), now extensively available across many industries, the rock-bottom and often further negotiable property prices, the lowest home loan interest rates in two decades and significantly-reduced stamp duty and registration rates in some States have helped in creating demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-spurs-demand-for-second-homes-say-realtors/article34181042.ece
28 March 2021||WASHINGTON,||Chip shortage impacts Stellantis, Nissan, Nio||Stellantis NV and Chinese electric vehicle maker Nio became the latest carmakers to announce new production cuts as a result of a global semiconductor chip shortage. Stellantis said it would temporarily halt production at five North American plants next week because of the global microchip shortage. Nissan Motor Co. said it would halt production for two days starting April 1 at its Smyrna Vehicle and Canton Vehicle Assembly Plants and Mexico Aguascalientes plant. Normal production will resume April 6. Nio, which dominates the electric vehicle market in China, said it would halt production for five working days at its Hefei plant and cut its first-quarter delivery forecast by as much as 1,000 vehicles. Chip shortages have cost the global auto industry 1.3 lakhvehicles in lost production, research firm AutoForecast Solutions estimated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chip-shortage-impacts-stellantis-nissan-nio/article34181044.ece
28 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Unlisted stocks fetched higher returns’||‘Big Bull’ Rakesh Jhunjhunwala on Saturday said he has investments in private companies stretching back to more than a decade, and the returns he has seen on unlisted firms in his portfolio are higher than those from listed ones. Mr. Jhunjhunwala, reported to be the largest individual investor in Indian markets, also said the level of taxation on equity markets was ‘reasonable’ given socio-economic conditions in the country. “I am happy to inform you that my return on the unlisted portfolio is greater than the return on my listed portfolio,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/unlisted-stocks-fetched-higher-returns/article34181507.ece
28 March 2021||Chennai,||Mensa India inducted into global board||High IQ society Mensa International has inducted Mensa India into its board of directors. Gowri Shankar, president of Mensa India, who will join the board of Mensa International, said, “Attainment of Full National Mensa Status will help us tap funds worldwide and extend the outreach activities of Tribal Mensa and Project Dhruv to other parts of India.” Tribal Mensa and Project Dhruv are initiatives of Mensa India to identify and nurture gifted children among the rural and urban underprivileged population in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mensa-india-inducted-into-global-board/article34181038.ece
28 March 2021||MUMBAI,||ATL to buy Essel project for Rs. 3,370 cr.||Adani Transmission Ltd. (ATL) has signed definitive agreements with Essel Infraprojects Ltd. (EIL) for the acquisition of Warora-Kurnool Transmission Ltd. (WKTL) at an enterprise valuation of Rs. 3,370 crore. The regulatory approval for substitution of original awardee in the contract by ATL has already been received from Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. The lenders’ consent and other approvals shall be obtained before closure of the transaction, ATL said in a statement. With this deal, the cumulative network of ATL will reach 17,200 ckt km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/atl-to-buy-essel-project-for-rs-3370-cr/article34181041.ece
28 March 2021||PUNE,||Heavyweight slugfest goes down to the wire||The Test series was alive, albeit technically, until the last match. The T20I series went to a decider. Thanks to Jonny Bairstow and Ben Stokes’ exploits in game two, the ODI series, too, will have a mouthwatering finale, here at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium on Sunday. India will be keen to recover from the hammering and register a sweep across formats. England, on the other hand, will want to justify its world champion status and also ensure that the tour ends with at least one of the three trophies it aspired to win when it arrived on these shores in January. If England’s top-order — the in-form opening pair of Jason Roy and Bairstow followed by the swashbuckling Stokes at No. 3 — continues to fire, India will be under immense pressure. Potent combination The tourists will hope that Mark Wood, rested on Friday, takes the field come Sunday. Left-armer Reece Topley, after impressing in the second ODI, could form a potent new-ball combination with Wood; Tom Curran could possibly miss out. In the other camp, India has major concerns with its spin department. In the two games, Kuldeep Yadav and Krunal Pandya have conceded a whopping 283 runs off 35 overs combined, picking up just one wicket. As a result, the pace trio has been put under the pump. It will therefore be interesting to see whether Yuzvendra Chahal or Washington Sundar, or both, feature in the decider. Kuldeep has appeared woefully short of confidence, and in a crunch game, Chahal’s knack of picking up wickets during the middle overs may prove handy. And despite Krunal’s innings-changing fifty on debut, he has been largely insipid with the ball on the flat pitches here. Could Washington be preferred since he takes the ball away from the left-handers? As for the batting, given England’s swash-bang-clobber approach, India will have to modify its conventional blueprint of building an innings, especially if it bats first again. To put the England batsmen under pressure, India will have to optimise the middle overs by taking calculated chances with just four fielders allowed on the boundary, instead of milking the bowling and shifting gears only towards the end. If India doesn’t switch gears in time, it might just watch its home season end on an unwanted note.  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma (Vice-capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Shubman Gill, Suryakumar Yadav, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (wk), K.L. Rahul (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Krunal Pandya, Washington Sundar, T. Natarajan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Mohammed Siraj, Prasidh Krishna and Shardul Thakur.   England: Jos Buttler (Capt. & wk), Jonny Bairstow (wk), Sam Billings (wk), Dawid Malan, Moeen Ali, Sam Curran, Tom Curran, Liam Livingstone, Matt Parkinson, Adil Rashid, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Reece Topley and Mark Wood.   Match starts at 1.30 p.m.     Having played a number of IPLs, I have certainly got used to the conditions... this time, we also have one T20 World Cup here, so we will be prepared for that Jos Buttler   I would like to improve on how I’ve been starting with the new ball. All the runs I gave away were scored oﬀ bad balls, so I would go back and work on it Prasidh Krishna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heavyweights-brace-for-ultimate-slugfest/article34181191.ece
28 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Former internationals chip in||The city’s best known faces in the world of hockey, Olympians N. Mukesh Kumar and Alloysius Edwards, were back at the Gymkhana Ground, the venue where they learnt the basics many years ago. Recently, they were there for a cause. The two — in the company of Y. Soundarya, a former women’s international hockey player from Nizamabad — were watching the first day’s action of the Telangana senior inter-district hockey championship for women to pick the State team for the forthcoming senior Nationals. “We decided to chip in to help Alphonse Lazarus, the secretary of Telangana Hockey,” said the duo. “Eight districts are taking part in the tournament and the 30 best players will be picked to attend a long coaching camp as the exact date and venue of the Nationals is yet to be finalised,” said Alloysius, who is also the secretary of Medchal Hockey. Difficulties “It is never easy to host an event of this kind and especially of girls. But we are determined to show the way for the others,” said Alloysius. “With great difficulty we could manage eight teams as there are very few girls taking up hockey and we are keen they retain their interest,” he added. Soundarya feels it is great to see the girls out there on the field after the pandemic. “We need to host as many events as possible,” she said. Alphonse said it was sad that some in the State were impeding their efforts. “I appeal to the entire hockey fraternity to stand united and join us in our efforts to give the sport a new direction. Let them all come to Gymkhana and see how these three internationals are spending the whole day here,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-internationals-chip-in/article34181807.ece
28 March 2021||Kochi,||Mar Athanasius holds Blasters||Substitute K. Muhammed Fayis produced a gem of a goal as Kothamangalam’s Mar Athanasius Football Academy forced defending champion Kerala Blasters FC (reserves) to a 1-1 draw in the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football at the Maharaja's Stadium here on Saturday. After V.S. Sreekuttan had given Blasters the lead in the 56th minute, Fayis scored with a scorpion kick in the 73rd minute for the Mar Athanasius equaliser. He had come in a few minutes earlier. It was another fine result for Mar Athanasius, the lone college team in the KPL. The team had shocked former champion KSEB and defeated Golden Threads in its last two games and now has seven points while Kerala Blasters took its first point in the league with the draw. Blasters had lost to Kerala United FC earlier. Meanwhile, Gokulam Kerala FC (reserves) defeated Royal Basco 2-0 in Group-A at Thrissur's Corporation Stadium with the goals coming from Ganesan and Saliou Guindo in the space of two minutes midway through the second half.  The results: (Group A, at Thrissur): Gokulam Kerala FC, Koz 2 (Ganesan 71, Saliou Guindo 73) bt Royal Basco, Mlp 0.   (Group B, at Kochi): Kerala Blasters FC 1 (V.S. Sreekuttan 56) drew with Mar Athanasius FA, Kothamangalam 1 (K. Muhammed Fayis 73) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mar-athanasius-holds-blasters/article34181510.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tejaswani, Vijayveer taste success||There was no dearth of gold and silver for India, but the trap medals continued to elude the host in the shooting World Cup at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Saturday. With only two teams in the 25m rapid fire pistol team event, Tejaswani and Vijayveer Sidhu beat Abhidnya Patil and Gurpreet Singh to claim the gold. The international federation has introduced a series of team competitions, including mixed events, even though they will not be part of the Olympics. The lack of entries did not discourage the organisers from conducting these events, if only to gauge their quality and pace of competition. Pulling ahead With the addition of gold and silver, India went further ahead of the pack with 13 gold, eight silver and six bronze medals. USA is second with three gold, three silver and a bronze. Italy won its second gold through its mixed trap team of Alessia Iezzi and Valerio Grazzini who beat Slovak pair of Zuzana Stefecekova and Adrian Drobny 39-36. Denmark is the other team to have two gold medals. Kynan Chenai and Shreyasi Singh did well to make the bronze match, but were beaten 38-35 by Turkey in the single barrel competition. The other Indian team of Rajeshwari Kumari and Asian Games silver medallist Lakshay Sheoran shot 140 in qualification and missed a chance to fight for a medal by one point. Lakshay was good with 73 out of 75, while Kynan had a 72 in qualification but was not at his best in the bronze match. The team competition for men and women will provide another opportunity for the host to get its act right in trap on Sunday.  The results: Mixed team: 25m rapid fire pistol: 1. India-1 (Tejaswani, Vijayveer Sidhu) 9 (368) 568; 2. India-2 (Abhidnya Patil, Gurpreet Singh) 1 (370) 569.   Trap: 1. Italy (Alesia Iezzi, Valerio Grazini) 39 (145); 2. Slovakia (Zuzana Stefecekova, Adrian Drobny) 36 (143)3; 3. Turkey (Safiye Sariturk, Yavuz Ilnam) 38 (143)2; 4. India-2 (Shreyasi Singh, Kynan Chenai) 35 (141); 6. India-1 (Rajeshwari Kumari, Lakshay Sheoran) 140 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tejaswani-vijayveer-taste-success/article34181052.ece
28 March 2021||Kozhikode,||Shafali back where she belongs, on top||Summer days can be long in Jaipur. The sun shines brightly even past seven in the evening. It was on one such hot evening in 2019 that Shafali Verma announced her arrival on the cricketing stage. The 15-year-old from Rohtak was one of the ‘unknowns’ picked for the Women’s T20 Challenge. Rapid rise Less than a year later, shortly before the coronavirus shut the world down, she became World No. 1 batter in women’s T20. She achieved the feat during the Women’s T20 World Cup in Australia last year, when her big hits at the top of the order powered India into the final. The pandemic meant she got to play no international cricket for a year. When she finally did, she won her No. 1 ranking back. She returned to the top spot during the recent T20I series against South Africa at Lucknow earlier in the week. India may have lost the series, but Shafali ensured the fans who turned up at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Stadium had plenty to cheer about. Her 30-ball 60 in the final game, which helped India score a consolation win after losing the three-match series, was another reminder of her astonishing talent. It was brutal, yet beautiful. She is one of the hardest hitters in the women’s game. She is also one of the most fearless. That fearlessness was very much evident when she took on the experienced Trailblazers attack, featuring the likes of Sophie Ecclestone, Shakera Selman, Rajeshwari Gayakwad and Deepti Sharma, at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur two years ago. Opening the innings for Velocity, she scored 34 off 31 balls to help her side in a successful chase. Former India captain Shubhangi Kulkarni remembers that innings. “One could sense that Shafali was a special talent,” she said. “I was impressed by her temperament and timing.” Shubhangi believes the youngster needs to be drafted into the ODI team, too. “She should have been picked for the ODI series against South Africa,” she said. “Shafali’s batting is not mindless slogging. She could be an ideal partner for Smriti Mandhana in India’s ODI team, too.” That thought has probably crossed Shafali’s mind. Motivation “Not getting named in the one-day squad is a motivation for me to play even better,” the 17-year-old said. “I will keep on working hard to make the ODI team.” Those words may not sound sweet to the ODI bowlers around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shafali-back-where-she-belongs-on-top/article34181512.ece
28 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Knight Riders’ players begin training||Five Kolkata Knight Riders players — Varun Chakaravarthy, Rahul Tripathi, Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Sandeep Warrier and Vaibhav Arora — have begun their training after finishing the mandatory seven-day quarantine in Mumbai ahead of the 14th edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL). These five, along with support staff Abhishek Nayar and Omkar Salvi, had a light training session on Friday evening at the D.Y. Patil Stadium. Their main aim was to get used to the training again after spending a week inside hotel rooms. Several other players of the team are undergoing quarantine and will join the practice sessions in due course of time. “As a cricketer whenever you play in India, you grow a lot more. It's going to be great for the cricketers to come back to India,” assistant coach Nayar told www.kkr.in . Nayar expressed confidence in the potential of his side. “We have a very balanced side given the kind of skill-sets every player possesses. We need to ensure that every player is in the right frame of mind through the tournament to be able to perform. The likes of Nitish Rana, Shubman Gill and Prasidh Krishna have done it time and again. Prasidh, especially, is now doing it on the international arena. This will give him a lot of confidence,” said Nayar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kolkata-knight-riders-players-begin-training/article34181567.ece
28 March 2021||PUNE,||Crawford to meet Khan||Fourth seed Oliver Crawford of the US beat Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-2 in the semifinals of the KPIT $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Saturday. In the final, Oliver will challenge the eighth seed and the champion of the last two events in the country Zane Khan of the US. Arjun Kadhe won the doubles title with Luca Castelnuovo of Switzerland.  The results:   Semifinals: Zane Khan bt Jonathan Mridha 6-1, 7-5; Oliver Crawford (USA) bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-2.   Doubles: Final: Luca Castelnuovo (Sui) & Arjun Kadhe bt Simon Carr (Irl) & Alexander Kotzen (USA) 6-4, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/crawford-in-final/article34181570.ece
28 March 2021||CHENNAI,||PSA Challenger Tour squash tournamen postponed||India’s Abhishek Pradhan and Abhishek Agarwal tested positive for COVID-19, forcing the organisers of the HCL-SRFI Indian Tour to postpone the PSA Challenger Tour squash tournament here. The championship, which was originally scheduled to start on Saturday, may begin on Monday provided there are not many positive cases on Sunday. Reliable sources told The Hindu that Abhishek Pradhan and Abhishek Agarwal were tested at the official hotel on Friday. In a release, the SRFI said the two players have been removed from the draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psa-challenger-tour-event-postponed/article34181193.ece
28 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Rampant Gokulam Kerala claims title||Gokulam Kerala FC is the new I-League champion. The Kozhikode-based team came up with a fine second half performance to overwhelm challenger Tiddim Road Athletic Union (TRAU) FC of Imphal 4-1 in the final round of the championship leg at the Kishore Bharati Stadium on Saturday. TRAU FC scored once to lead the first half. Former champion Churchill Brothers also won its final round match against RoundGlass Punjab FC 3-2, at the Salt Lake Stadium, to form a two-way tie on 29 points with Gokulam Kerala at the top of the standings. But the Malabarians edged past the Red Machines with a better head-to-head record and became the first team from Kerala to win the title. TRAU FC took the third spot with 26 points while RoundGlass Punjab (22), Real Kashmir (21) and Mohammedan Sporting of Kolkata (20) completed the standings in the championship leg. The match saw Gokulam Kerala struggling in the first half when it came to converting chances. TRAU made better use of the opportunities and found the lead in the 23rd minute when Bidyashagar Singh finished with a nice solo effort. Transformed side Gokulam Kerala was a transformed side after the break and found the equaliser in the 69th minute when Afghanistan midfielder Sharif Mohammad’s chipped freekick nestled in the back of the TRAU FC net. The equaliser inspired the Malabarians to go for the kill. Under-22 forward Emil Benny fetched the lead with a nice effort in the 74th minute. Taking the cue from his young colleague Ghanaian forward Dennis Antwi made it 3-1 in the 77th minute before substitute Muhammad Rashid completed the scoring in the final minute of added time (90+6). Gokulam Kerala was reduced to 10 men in added time when midfielder Vincy Barretto received a second yellow card.  The results:   Gokulam Kerala FC 4 (Sharif Mohammad 69, Emil Benny 74, Dennis Antwi 77, Muhammad Rashid 90+6) bt TRAU FC 1 (Bidyashagar Singh 23).   Churchill Brothers 3 (Luka Majcen 8, Clayvin Zuniga 25, 45+3) bt RoundGlass Punjab FC 2 (Joseba Beitia 65, Papa Babacar Diawara 69).   Individual awards: Hero of the league (Rs. 5 lakh) and Highest goal-scorer (Rs. 2.5lakh): Bidyashagar Singh (TRAU); Best goalkeeper (Rs. 2.5 lakh ): Kiran Limbu (Punjab FC); Jarnail Singh Award for best defender (Rs. 2.5 lakh ): Hamza Kheir (Churchill); Best midfielder (Rs. 2.5 lakh): Phalguni Singh (TRAU); Best emerging player (U-22) (Rs. 2.5 lakh): Emil Benny (Gokulam); Syed Abdul Rahim Award for best coach: Nandakumar Singh (TRAU).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rampant-gokulam-kerala-claims-title/article34181048.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai:,||It’s Lagarde vs. Immortality in Indian Derby||Lagarde and Immortality should fight out the finish of the Kingfisher Ultra Indian Derby (Gr. 1), one of the prestigious events of the Indian racing calendar, to be staged at the Mahalaxmi race course on Sunday (March 28). The jockey for Hunting Goddess in Race No. 5 will be declared later. There will be no false rails. An amount of Rs. 50,000 will be added to the Win & Place Pool collection of all races of the day. Patrons permitted According to a notice issued by the RWITC on Saturday, the club has decided to allow patrons into the race course on Sunday, in accordance with the number of persons permitted by the Government, on a first-come first-served basis.  ZAVARAY S POONAWALLA MILLION (2,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.00 p.m.: 1. Arcadia (6) Chouhan 59, 2. Priceless Gold (2) S. John 58.5, 3. Athulya (1) Ajinkya 56.5, 4. Redoubtable (5) Akshay Kumar 52.5, 5. High Priestess (4) Dashrath 51.5 and 6. Justified (3) Zervan 51.  1. ARCADIA, 2. PRICELESS GOLD   C.N. WADIA GOLD CUP (Gr.2) (2,400m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over, 2.30: 1. My Opinion (6) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Psychic Force (4) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Caprisca (5) C.S. Jodha 56, 4. Salazaar (2) Sandesh 55, 5. Wizard Of Stocks (3) T.S. Jodha 50 and 6. Apsara Star (1) Nazil 46.5.  1. SALAZAAR,   2. WIZARD OF STOCKS   RUSI PATEL TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,600m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over, 3.05: 1. Trafalgar (2) S. John 59, 2. Well Connected (3) Trevor 57.5, 3. Bronx (4) Nazil 54, 4. Cosmic Ray (7) Sandesh 53, 5. Northern Alliance (8) Bhawani 53, 6. Truly Epic (6) C.S. Jodha 53, 7. Flying Visit (9) T.S. Jodha 52.5, 8. Sultan Suleiman (10) Akshay Kumar 52.5, 9. Victorious Sermon (5) Zervan 52.5 and 10. Shesmyscript (1) Dashrath 49.5.  1. TRAFALGAR,   2. COSMIC RAY,   3. SULTAN SULEIMAN   SIR HOMI MEHTA MILLION (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 3.40: 1. Alfayiz (1) Akshay 56, 2. Arc De Triomphe (7) Zervan 56, 3. Charming Star (5) J. Chinoy 56, 4. Hellbent (9) T.S. Jodha 56, 5. Rasputin (4) Sandesh 56, 6. Stockbridge (8) Suraj Narredu 56, 7. Supreme Runner (6) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Zarak (11) Dashrath 56, 9. Beastia (3) Bhawani 54.5, 10. Easy Rider (10) Nazil 54.5 and 11. Felicidad (2) C.S. Jodha 54.5.  1. ARC DE TRIOMPHE,   2. STOCKBRIDGE, 3. ALFAYIZ   B.K. RATTONSEY MEMORIAL MAIDEN MULTI-MILLION (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.15: 1. Ahead Of His Time (9) Trevor 56, 2. Buckley (10) Dashrath 56, 3. Columbian (12) Chouhan 56, 4. Farrell (5) Sandesh 56, 5. Indio (4) Antony Raj S 56, 6. Mogul (8) Zervan 56, 7. Abishola (3) J. Chinoy 54.5, 8. Camille (6) Kaviraj 54.5, 9. Ginsburg (7) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 10. Hela (2) Bhawani 54.5, 11. Hunting Goddess (1) (JWDL) 54.5, 12. Keystone (14) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 13. Lit (11) Nazil 54.5 and 14. My Treasure (13) T.S. Jodha 54.5.  1. AHEAD OF HIS TIME,   2. COLUMBIAN, 3. MOGUL .  KINGFISHER ULTRA INDIAN DERBY (Gr. 1) (2,400m), (Terms) Indian Horses 4-y-o only, 5.00: 1. Ansaldo (1) Antony Raj S 57, 2. Ashwa Bravo (3) A. Imran Khan 57, 3. Lagarde (12) Akshay Kumar 57, 4. North Star (4) T.S. Jodha 57, 5. Pissarro (—) (—) 57, 6. Roaring Tiger (10) Srinath 57, 7. Sporting Memories (2) S. John 57, 8. Storm Trigger (7) C.S. Jodha 57, 9. Taimur (11) Sandesh 57, 10. Alluring Silver (8) Chouhan 55.5, 11. Forest Flame (9) Trevor 55.5, 12. Immortality (6) Suraj Narredu 55.5 and 13. Successor (5) J. Chinoy 55.5.  1. LAGARDE, 2. IMMORTALITY,   3. FOREST FLAME   R M & RUKMANI GOCULDAS MILLION (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 5.45: 1. Tigrio (3) Srinath 59, 2. Makhtoob (1) C.S. Jodha 58.5, 3. One Wish (8) Sandesh 58.5, 4. Giant Star (5) Suraj Narredu 58, 5. Scramjet (4) S. John 56.5, 6. Sherwin (9) Antony Raj S 55, 7. Exotique (12) Kaviraj 54.5, 8. Live By Night (7) Zervan 54, 9. Tanhaiyaan (11) Chouhan 53, 10. Ashwa Shehanshah (10) Nazil 52, 11. The Sovereign Orb (2) Trevor 51 and 12. Rays Of Sun (6) T.S. Jodha 50.5.  1. THE SOVEREIGN ORB,   2. MAKHTOOB, 3. TIGRIO   MAHALAKSHMI MILLION (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 6.15: 1. Wild Fire (10) Kaviraj 60, 2. Endeavour (1) Srinath 59.5, 3. Fuhrer (14) Trevor 59.5, 4. Shivalik Queen (5) P. Vinod 59.5, 5. Super Girl (11) T.S. Jodha 59.5, 6. Desert Fire (7) J. Chinoy 58, 7. Jetfire (4) A. Imran Khan 57.5, 8. Decaprio (6) Vishal Bunde 56.5, 9. Mighty Warrior (12) Bhawani 56, 10. Enigma (8) Chouhan 54, 11. Excelerator (2) A. Prakash 53, 12. Power Of Neath (9) Peter 53, 13. Gold Charm (3) M.S. Deora 50.5 and 14. Anoushka (13) Dashrath 50.  1. ENIGMA, 2. FUHRER,   3. ENDEAVOUR . Day’s Best: ENIGMA  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-lagarde-vs-immortality-in-indian-derby/article34181049.ece
28 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Bellator obliges in Sonny Brar Trophy||Bellator, ridden by P. Trevor, won the Sonny Brar Trophy, the main event of Saturday’s (Mar. 27) races. The winner is owned by M/s. Marthand Singh Mahindra, James Mathews, P. Prabhakar Reddy & Rama Seshu Eyunni. S.S. Attaollahi trains the winner.  1. WASHINGTON IRVINE PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: SAFDAR (Shahrukh) 1, Thea’s Pet (Kaviraj) 2, Forever Free (M.S. Deora) 3 and About The Cloud (Santosh G) 4. 2, 1-1/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 00.03s. Rs. 53 (w), 19, 23 and 21 (p). SHP: 43, FP: 205, Q: 163, Tanala: 650 and 226. Favourite: Colosseum. Owners: M/s. M.N. Mirza, Rehanullah Khan, Sunil Anand, M.K. Mohan, Satish G. Kundapur & Adil M. Masalawalla. Trainer: Rehanullah Khan.  2. SONNY BRAR TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: BELLATOR (Trevor) 1, Majestic Warrior (J. Chinoy) 2, Bakhtawar (Nazil) 3 and Excellent Gold (Kaviraj) 4. 3, 5 and 3/4. 1m, 38.46s. Rs. 11 (w), 10 and 14 (p). SHP: 17, FP: 19, Q: 13, Tanala: 46 and 13. Favourite: Bellator. Owners: M/s. Marthand Singh Mahindra, James Mathews, P. Prabhakar Reddy & Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: S.S. Attaollahi.  3. WASHINGTON IRVINE PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: RISING BRAVE (Bhawani) 1, Dowsabel (Merchant) 2, Seniority (Aniket) 3 and Isinit (Peter) 4. 3, Nk and 1-1/4. 59.55s. Rs. 48 (w), 18, 20 and 57 (p). SHP: 44, FP: 113, Q: 64, Tanala: 3,548. Favourite: Divija. Owners: M/s. Rehanullah Khan, M.N. Mirza, Sunil Anand, Satish G. Kundapur, M.K. Mohan & Adil M. Masalawalla. Trainer: Rehanullah Khan.  4. MONET PLATE (2,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: MOON RIVER (Chouhan) 1, Shadows (S. Amit) 2, Kamaria (Bhawani) 3 and Touch Of Faith (A. Imran Khan) 4. 1/2, 2-1/2 and 4-3/4. 2m, 4.43s. Rs. 14 (w), 12, 76 and 25 (p). SHP: 219, FP: 244, Q: 105, Tanala: 767 and 159. Favourite: Moon River. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Bhupinder Singh. Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. BEHRAM A ENGINEER TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: VINCENZO (Sandesh) 1, Gilt Edge (Nazil) 2, Arabian Phoenix (Zervan) 3 and The Bawaji (P. Dhebe) 4. 1, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m, 24.56s. Rs. 44 (w), 18, 14 and 19 (p). SHP: 35, FP: 110, Q: 24, Tanala: 200 and 124. Favourite: Gilt Edge. Owners: M/s. Siddhanth Sanas, S.R. Sanas, Aditya P. Thackersey, Mrs. Charonne Nagpal & Mrs. Sarla P. Lala. Trainer: Sanjay Kolse.  6. OSMAN CHOTANI PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: MINX (K. Bhagat) 1, Irish Eyes (Nazil) 2, Aira (Bhawani) 3 and Chezza (Merchant) 4. 1-1/4, 4-3/4 and Lnk. 1m, 25.29s. Rs. 19 (w), 12, 20 and 18 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 107, Q: 77, Tanala: 212 and 59. Favourite: Minx. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. SPANIARDS INN PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: TASMAN (Trevor) 1, Ron (A. Imran Khan) 2, Pride’s Angel (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Black Cherry (J. Chinoy) 4. 3-1/2, 1-1/2 and Nk. 1m, 36.91s. Rs. 88 (w), 36, 44 and 24 (p). SHP: 99. FP: 542, Q: 248, Tanala: 9,924 and 4,253. Favourite: Black Cherry. Owners: M/s. Aditya P. Thackersey, Kishore P. Rungta & Chetan Shah. Trainer: Sanjay Kolse.  8. JIMMY BHARUCHA TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) 3-y-o only: BABY BAZOOKA (Zervan) 1, Alaistair (Chouhan) 2, Viktorina (Trevor) 3 and Lady Mimi (T.S. Jodha) 4. 5, Nk and 1. 1m, 10.65s. Rs. 29 (w), 14, 13 and 17 (p). SHP: 35, FP: 80, Q: 34, Tanala: 156 and 67. Favourite: Baby Bazooka. Owners: M/s. Chirag V. Shah & Shivam Mehra. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  9. OSMAN CHOTANI PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: RUBIK STAR (Bhawani) 1, Hioctane (K. Bhagat) 2, Immeasurable (Chouhan) 3 and Candescent Star (Zeeshan) 4. 4, 1/2 and 2-1/2. 1m, 25.68s. Rs. 124 (w), 24, 19 and 10 (p). SHP: 33, FP: 692, Q: 88, Tanala: 952 and 198. Favourite: Immeasurable. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy. Jackpot: (i): 70%: Rs. 400 (362 tkts.) and 30%: 73 (851 tkts.); (ii): 70%: 29,937 (14 tkts.) and 30%: 597 (301 tkts.). Treble: (i): 244 (19 tkts.); (ii): 574 (17 tkts.); (iii): 2,826 (3 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 21,600 (C/F) and 30%: 356 (26 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bellator-obliges-in-sonny-brar-trophy/article34181050.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sportstar Aces awards: jury explains the process||The 2021 edition of the Sportstar Aces Awards got off to a star-studded start on Saturday with the members of the jury — Sunil Gavaskar, M.M. Somaya, Bhaichung Bhutia, Viswanathan Anand, Anjali Bhagwat and Aparna Popat — sharing the details on the selection process for the awards this year. “Excellence at the international level and consistency over the decade were the two important factors for us. The conduct of the sportsperson, both on and off the field, was also important,” said Somaya. “You can do brilliantly as an individual but how you contribute to the success of your team is also equally important,” Gavaskar weighed in. “The selection process gave us a chance to relive the wonderful decade and not obsess about 2020,” said Anand. The awards ceremony, scheduled from April 1 to 4, is being held virtually due to COVID-19. Scan the QR code to watch the opening episode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sportstar-aces-awards-jury-explains-the-process/article34181183.ece
28 March 2021||SAKHIR,||Verstappen claims pole||Red Bull’s Max Verstappen claimed the season-opening pole for the Bahrain Grand Prix on Saturday ahead of seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton in the Mercedes. Verstappen took his fourth career pole ahead of Hamilton and Valtteri Bottas in the second Mercedes. It was the first time in the sport's V6 turbo hybrid era that began in 2013 that Mercedes, winner of the drivers’ and constructors’ championships for the past seven years, had not taken pole for the first race. “It all worked out perfectly,” said Verstappen, regarded as the biggest challenger to Hamilton’s quest for a record eighth title. Earlier in the day, the Dutchman had completed a clean sweep of the practice sessions.  The starting grid: Row 1: Verstappen (Red Bull), Hamilton (Mercedes); 2: Bottas (Mercedes), Leclerc (Ferrari); 3: Gasly (AlphaTauri), Ricciardo (McLaren); 4: Norris (McLaren), Sainz Jr. (Ferrari); 5: Alonso (Alpine), Stroll (Aston Martin); 6: Perez (Red Bull), Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo); 7: Tsunoda (AlphaTauri), Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); 8: Russell (Williams), Ocon (Alpine); 9: Latifi (Williams), Vettel (Aston Martin); 10: Mick Schumacher (Haas), Mazepin (Haas).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-claims-pole/article34181185.ece
28 March 2021||Pune,||Tendulkar tests positive||Legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has tested COVID-19 positive. Tendulkar recently featured in the Road Safety World Series, an exhibition tournament for veterans from five countries, in Raipur. Soon after returning to Mumbai, Tendulkar tested positive. He wrote on Twitter that he has “mild symptoms” and that all others at home had tested negative. “I want to thank all the healthcare professionals who are supporting me and many others across the country. Take care all of you,” he further wrote in his official statement. His son, Arjun, has joined the Mumbai Indians preparatory camp ahead of the Indian Premier League, starting April 9. Former India all-rounder Yusuf Pathan announced on Saturday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tendulkar-tests-positive/article34181195.ece
28 March 2021||PARIS,||Garaga and Panjala in final||Krishna Prasad Garaga and Vishnu Vardhan Goud Panjala kept India’s hopes alive by making the men’s doubles final, even as Saina Nehwal and other doubles pairs crashed out at the Orleans Masters badminton on Saturday. Garaga and Panjala posted a 21-17, 21-17 win over England’s Callum Hemming and Steven Stallwood to reach their maiden Super 100 final event. Saina lost 17-21, 17-21 to Denmark’s Line Christophersen, while Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy faltered 18-12, 9-21 against top-seeded Thai pair of Jongkolphan Kititharakul and Rawinda Prajongjai. In mixed doubles, Denmark’s Niclas Nohr and Amalie Magelund got past Ashwini Ponnappa and Dhruv Kapila 21-9, 21-23, 21-7 to enter the final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/garaga-and-panjala-in-final/article34181047.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sujith beats Uma Devi, makes semifinals||Sujith Koshy defeated Uma Devi 70-25, 44-0, 32-48, 70-18 in the quarterfinals of the C.I. George handicap snooker tournament at East Cultural Association here.  The results (quarterfinals): Adil Sherazi bt M. Ali 43-23, 1-74, 44-07, 74-25; S. Sreejith bt Arjun 13-33, 51-31, 36-32, 41-12; Sujith Koshy bt Uma Devi 70-25, 44-0, 32-48, 70-18; Shivaram bt Ranganath 41-47, 52-43, 68-27, 51-23 .    Harshil’s unbeaten 101 helped Swastic Union CC (2) defeat Sir Syed Cricketers in the KSCA under-16 inter-club semifinal here.  The scores (semifinals): Vultures CC 176 in 45.1 overs (Shatak Gunjal 50, K.P. Karthikeya 46 n.o., Ronith Iyengar 3/27, S. Monish 3/40, Sutej Simha 3/37) bt Herons CC 116 in 44.5 overs (Dhanush Gowda 3/28, Ansh Aima 3/17).   Sir Syed Cricketers 205/5 in 50 overs (Samith Prabhu 40, C. Prateek 34, Sanketh Yadav 42, Rahul Bellad 37 n.o.) lost to Swastic Union CC (2) 207/2 in 29.5 overs (M.B. Shivam 40, Harshil 101 n.o., K.N. Anish 41 n.o.).    The BDFA ‘B’ division football league will commence here on April 1. A total of 15 teams will compete in the ‘B’ league. The ‘A’ division, with nine teams, will commence on April 5.   Champions Chess Academy will hold an online chess summer camp, commencing on April 1. For details, call Balakrishna Prabhu (98454 66416).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sujith-beats-uma-devi-makes-semifinals/article34181186.ece
28 March 2021||MADURAI:,||Denim, Lakshanaya triumph||Denim Yadav and Lakshanya Vishwanath won the boys’ and girls’ titles respectively in the TVS ITF juniors tennis tournament at Madura College on Saturday. In the boys’ final, top seed Denim defeated Yuvan Nandal, the third seed, 6-3, 1-6, 6-2, while Lakshanya, the second seed, scripted a 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 win over qualifier Sonal Patil in the girls’ summit clash.         B. Gobi (five for 24) shone with the ball as St. Peter's defeated Samurai by eight wickets in the DDCA first division league on Saturday.  The scores: Samurai 79 in 17.3 overs (B. Gobi 5/24, M. Mohammed 3/14) lost to St. Peter’s 83/2 in 10.5 overs (M. Mohammed Raffik 47).   R. Balakrishnan claimed four for 21 as National College registered a 61-run win over Bishop Heber College-B in the Tiruchi DCA first division league on Saturday.  The scores: National College 155/9 in 41 overs (R. Rajiv 38, R. Harishkumar 45) bt Bishop Heber College-B 94 in 30.2 overs (R. Sathish 3/17, R. Balakrishnan 4/21) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/denim-lakshanaya-triumph/article34181319.ece
28 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA:,||Bhoomika sizzles||H.U. Bhoomika smashed 50 off 37 balls to power Sapphire to a six-wicket over Ruby in the opening match of the KCA Pink Challengers Women’s T20 tournament on Saturday. Later, Pearl defeated Amber by four wickets.  The scores:   Ruby 83/7 in 20 overs (S. Sajana 2/17) lost to Sapphire 84/4 in 15.5 overs (H.U. Bhoomika 50, A. Akshaya 2/17)   Amber 106/2 in 20 overs (J.S. Deepthi 54, M. Abina 26) lost to Pearl 107/6 in 19.5 overs (P. Akhila 33, I.V. Drishya 24, Diya Gireesh 3/27).    Kottayam boys retained the title while Thiruvananthapuram girls dethroned Kottayam in the 44th State junior basketball championships at the Carmel CMI Public School indoor hall here on Friday. Kottayam, with a couple of internationals in its ranks, drubbed Ernakulam 52-14 in the boys’ final. Thiruvananthapuram girls took a comfortable 11 point lead at half-time. However, Kottayam fought back to level the scores midway through the third quarter. Thiruvananthapuram led by its top-scorer Krishna Priya then wrested the advantage in the final quarter to win 72-60.  The results (finals): Boys: Kottayam 52 (Aaron Blessen 22, Subin 10) bt Ernakulam 14.   Girls: Thiruvananthapuram 72 (Krishna Priya 3, Ameesha Jose 15, Haleena Jan 14) bt Kottayam 60 (P.S. Jesly 36, Akshaya Philip 16).   Best players: Boys: Jerome Prince (Kottayam); Girls: Ameesha Jose (Thiruvananthapuram).   Promising players: Boys: Ananthu (Ernakulam); Girls: Akshaya Philip (Kottayam) .      Kottayam and Kozhikode girls reached the semifinals of the 37th Youth State basketball championships here on Saturday. Kottayam beat Kannur 52-23 while Kozhikode overcame Alappuzha 56-46 in the quarterfinals. In the boys’ section, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Kozhikode entered the quarterfinals  The results: Boys: Pre-quarterfinals: Idukki 57 (Manu 15, Aswin 12) bt Kasargod 23 (Ramda 12); Pathanamthitta 60 (Jordan Cherian 22, Jermy Sebastian 14, Thomas Saji 10) bt Kannur 38 (Donal George 11, Ashish 10); Kottayam 47 (Fiazz 10) bt Kollam 17.   Girls: Quarterfinals: Kottayam 52 (Irin Elsa John 18, Eldina 10) bt Kannur 23 (Tiyama Ann Philip 14); Kozhikode 56 (N. Avani 21, Malavika 11) bt Alappuzha 46 (Thammana 1, Aneeta 10).   Pre-quarterfinals: Thrissur 60 (Aleena Jaison 21, Hridaya 10) bt Kasargod 18; Kollam 48 (Hansa 12) bt Wayanad 10; Kannur bt Pathanamthitta 38-8; Ernakulam bt Malappuram 41-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhoomika-sizzles/article34181431.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TDCA league, I div., Fine Star CA vs FSCA (9.30 a.m.), Hindu ‘A’ ground; II div., Thiruthani CC vs Thiruvallur CC (1 p.m.), OCF; III div., SSCA vs Sriher RC (1 p.m.), Sriher (turf); IV div., IEC vs Lucas TVS (8 a.m.), OCF.   DCAC league, Seshadri Memorial vs Mani Memorial (7.30 a.m.); Asiatic CA vs Garnet (11 a.m.); Southern Railway Institute (Tbm) vs Little Hearts CA (2.30 p.m.), Danish Ahmed EC; CDCA annual day, S. Badrinath, former India cricketer, chief guest, Sumangali P4 indoor facility, Santhosapuram, 5.30 p.m.   Young Talents Grand Sports under-14 inter-academy tournament, Elite CA vs Asiatic Transformers (8 a.m.), Young Talents vs Cricket Drome (1 p.m.), Kabilan CA, Perumbakkam.   Snooker: Saleem Snooker Academy-Jhillmill all-india open tournament, final (3 p.m.), Prince Arcade, Cathedral Road.   Table Tennis: TNTTA felicitates Tokyo Olympic qualifiers, A. Sharath Kamal and G. Sathiyan, and National championships medal winners. V.R. Muthu, chairman, V.V.V. & Sons Edible Oils Ltd., Virudhunagar, chief guest, MMA Management Centre (Old Anand Theatre), 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34181238.ece
28 March 2021||BAHRAIN,||Daruvala begins well, takes second spot||India's Jehan Daruvala began his second season in the FIA Formula 2 championship with a second-place finish in the first sprint race of the season at the Sakhir here on Saturday. Starting fifth, the Indian driver gained a place at the start. After 10 laps, he started moving up the order and even closed in on leader Liam Lawson in the final few laps before finishing second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daruvala-begins-well-takes-double-podium/article34181187.ece
28 March 2021||PUNE,||MI unveils new jersey||Defending champion Mumbai Indians on Saturday unveiled its jersey for the Indian Premier League’s forthcoming edition which begins on April 9. The jersey, according to an MI statement, captures the composition of the five basic elements of the universe — earth, water, fire, air and sky — each signifying the essence of the five-time champion. The jersey is designed by fashion designers Shantanu and Nikhil. Fans can buy an official replica online ( thesouledstore.com).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mi-unveils-new-jersey/article34181189.ece
28 March 2021||Washington,||Harden on fire as Nets down Pistons||James Harden delivered game highs of 44 points, 14 rebounds and eight assists to power the Brooklyn Nets over Detroit Pistons 113-111 on Friday. Harden hit 14-of-30 from the floor, 4-of-11 three-pointers, and 12-of-14 free throws. It was Harden's highest-scoring performance since joining the Nets from Houston, helping Brooklyn improve to 31-15. Meanwhile, Boston's Jayson Tatum scored 34 points and Marcus Smart added 23 to spark the Celtics over host Milwaukee 122-114 after losing 10 of their prior 11 road contests.   The results: Lakers 100 bt Cavaliers 86; Raptors 100 lost to Suns 104; Pistons 111 lost to Nets 113; Timberwolves 107 bt Rockets 101; Pelicans 108 lost to Nuggets 113; Bucks 114 lost Celtics 122.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harden-on-fire-as-nets-down-pistons/article34181192.ece
28 March 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Karman loses in semifinals||Suzan Lamens of the Netherlands beat Karman Kaur Thandi 3-6, 6-4, 7-6(5) in the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-loses-in-semifinals/article34181196.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 08:40 IST,||Sudoku — March 28, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-28-2021/article34181936.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Speaking out. Period||“Why should periods be gross to talk about?” asks Tisca Chopra, mom to eight-year-old Tara. Her parents, says Tisca, never volunteered information and she picked up different versions of pubertal truths from cousins and friends. But with Tara, Tisca has chosen to be open because she realises growing up is a roller-coaster ride. “My husband and I do not hesitate to call the body parts by their biological names during conversations at home,” she says. “A breast is breast and a vagina is a vagina, why should basic physiology and biology be such a taboo to discuss?” It was the actor-director-author’s childhood friend, Vidhi Bhargava, who planted the seed in her to write on body changes so that young girls know what is coming their way. The lockdown gave Tisca time to research and pen a guide that gives practical suggestions to cope with physical and emotional upheavals during hormonal changes at puberty. “It is also about inclusivity,” she says. “Boys and girls should be scientifically taught to understand their bodies and also each other’s,” she says, taking time off for the interview while on a shoot in Jaipur for a web series. Tisca began writing a letter to her daughter about the biological events she would inevitably face, but the more she spoke with Tara and her friends, she felt the need to address several basic questions in detail in a language easy to comprehend. From Taare Zameen Par’s onscreen sensitive and silent mother, Tisca emerges as the bold and understanding mother off-screen who wishes to empower every girl with knowledge and the guts to laugh off anybody who hushes up discussions around body parts or menstruation. From hair growth over the body, to pimples and acne, pads and hygiene, emotions and self-worth, Tisca talks straight about them all, while drawing lessons from her personal experiences. “Every girl should feel how amazing she is because the onset of period prepares her to procreate life. There is nothing dirty or shameful about it; we only need to do away with the age-old programming of our minds and irrelevant superstitions,” she says. Excerpts from the interview: Has your daughter Tara read the book? Yes, she has, and her response is most memorable. She was my inspiration for writing this book. Her reactions to certain conversations, her thoughts and ideas shaped my approach to choosing various topics. How did she react to the book considering it is her generation it is aimed at? Tara took an hour of intent reading to finish the book, cover to cover, absorbing every word, I guess. I was surprised because suddenly I didn’t hear a peep from her, which is unusual for my active, chatty girl. Once done she said to me — “Mumma, you know we talk about boys!” That was enough for me to know that I have hit the right note. Frank discussions are at the core of understanding normal biological process. How challenging was it to demystify bodily changes and the angst they bring on in a growing girl?  Initially, I wondered how much detail to go into, but then I decided to stay true. In our home, we have honest conversations on every taboo topic. As the narrative took shape, I found myself talking about self-worth and building confidence in the young girls. Menstruation and puberty are natural progression into adulthood. It confounds me that this phase is so shrouded in mystery, and is such a tumultuous time. I want to tell them that they can do anything they want, and they are incredible. Having periods is in no way bad, rather not getting them is worrisome. What was your approach to the stigma of period shaming? When I looked back at my childhood, it struck me that my own learning and discovery of puberty, and the concepts and changes associated with it were fragmented, confusing and ambiguous. So I decided to put basic scientific facts in a fun, candid and empathetic manner for a complete rethink on traditional concepts of sexuality. By talking about sexual preferences, crushes, emotions that peak during puberty, I have tried to let go of the nudge-nudge wink-wink approach. I have simplified situations and feel the illustrations will appeal to young girls as much as my personal anecdotes. Changing a hardened mindset is the biggest challenge... Yes , my biggest hope is the book will bring about a mindset shift. A girl should be able to ask her father to buy her sanitary napkins and the chemist should stop wrapping them in newspapers. A girl should not feel embarrassed on her first bra-shopping [outing]. We should not use terms like “ mahamari ” and ostracise or demonise menstruation. Schools need to relook at how sex education is imparted — boys should know girls, and vice versa. A collective shift in thinking and a breaking down of societal pressures and narratives is still a way off. However, technology and multiple organisations, and movements are taking information on menstrual hygiene across the country and eventually we will be able to stop period shaming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/speaking-out-period/article34181485.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The third stage: Anger||The cliche, ‘Why me?’was my leading emotion. This stage lasted a long time till I had to be hospitalised again for a psychotic episode. When I was stabilised, I was determined to learn all I could about my illness and the treatments that were available. Becoming knowledgeable also helped me manage the condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-third-stage-anger/article34181478.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian weddings can be healthy?||Food served at 11 p.m., a lot of drinking, mostly out of boredom (because after catching up with old friends and relatives, by day 3 there is nothing else to do), very loud dhols, tempers at who was not ‘respected’ enough. The big Indian wedding is often laughed off as a time in life with lots of drama. What does it do to a) the emotional health of the couple with each family wanting to have things done their way?; b) to the financial health of families; c) to the health of the environment with all the waste generated across so many days; and d) (and very specifically) to the gut of all the attendees? I am trying not to be a killjoy here. Weddings are wonderful times in people’s lives if the main idea is the coming together of families and to have a day or two of fun. Instead, they become primarily about what ‘must be done’ because of tradition or satisfying the ego of a few people (often the oldest male or female member from the ‘boy’s’ side). They seldom focus on the fact that a new relationship is often fragile and the idea that family is meant to support and help build it up, rather than bring it down by taking up opposite positions, sulking, and laying the foundations of discordant relationships. These make for corrosive memories, often brought up years later, sometimes after grandchildren are born! Then there are the guests, who are often made to wait long hours — sometimes in the cold — with drinks on an empty stomach and deep-fried snacks that trickle in. Anyone who has attended a Delhi wedding knows that ‘shaadi wala khana’ is all about oily food that you cannot eat more than that one time. Karan Johar’s weddings may look lovely, but real life weddings imitating them feel like the actual shooting process that is neither pretty nor pleasant, and is actually about waiting around, long hours of make-up, and uncomfortable outfits. What if people picked comfort over discomfort? What if we made the couple — and not the outfits or the décor or who has to touch whose feet — the centre of the celebration? When we shift our focus to why we are doing something, so much falls into place. Everything, including the food and guest list, is likely to be thoughtfully done, the peripheral falls away as does the waste, and relationships take centre stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/indian-weddings-can-be-healthy/article34181475.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Breast milk as adult superfood||After Netflix’s 2020 docu-series,(Un)well’s third episode featured people who believed human milk was a superfood (for infants yes, but also for adults), and the women who donated their breast milk to them, Reddit threads on r/breastfeeding were abuzz. From bodybuilders looking for bulging muscle, people looking to boost their immunity, and a few moms discussing possible business ideas: the question was the same: was breast milk really ‘liquid gold’ for adults too? Nutritionists are quick to shut the idea down. “Breast milk is actually much lower in the proteins required for adults, as compared to cow’s milk. For every 250 grams, breast milk contains two grams of protein and cow’s milk, eight,” says Delhi-based sports nutritionist Lovneet Batra. Yet, a small subsection of people across the world swear by its nutritional benefits. Its supply and storage is made easier by pumps and refrigeration. So a few moms in the U.S. experiment with breast milk in cooking and in making soaps and lotions, to help with eczema. The main reason, believes Lovneet, is because colostrum — the first form of breast fluid released by any mammal after childbirth — is known for its special properties. “It is the best source of nutrients for an infant for overall growth: immunity, brain function, organ development. It contains immunoglobulins (antibodies) that can’t be found elsewhere,” she says. “But for muscle building and strengthening in adults, you need a whole different set of amino acids,” she adds. “Even when it comes to boosting immunity in adults, there is very limited research to back it up.” And then come the food safety issues in the supply chain: how the sample is collected, stored, and transported. “There is a good chance that the mother could be passing on infections, including HIV,” she says. For people looking for alternatives to cow milk, Lovneet suggests goat milk. “It has more protein than cow’s milk, so it’s better for your skin and nails, and also good for your immune system,” she says. In this column, we decode health trends and decide if it’s all just ‘hype’ or actually ‘happening’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/breast-milk-as-adult-superfood/article34181480.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Gated communities in Chennai’s Holi land giving up on the colours this year||At TVH Lumbini Square, a majority of the towers together form a hyoid-shaped arrangement that promotes fellowship. These towers overlook an open-to-sky amphitheatre. So, even the painfully-shy can take part in any community gathering out there, and still stick to their bubble of privacy. North Indian households making up a good part of it, the 435-unit gated community in Purasaiwalkam is aided by this feature, during Holi. Predictably, not this Holi though. (The two-day festival is from March 28 to 29) The community has unticked Day-2 festivities. No Holi-playing, says a spokesperson. Other aspects of the fete come with reduced duration and increased (social) distance. That applies to what is meant for the soul and the palate. “In the evening hours of Day One — March 28 — the Puja will be followed by Phoolon Ki Holi, which allows people to throw flowers at each other from a distance (the operative word being ‘distance’),” says Sharad Jalan, president of TVH Lumbini Square Owners Association. Sharad continues: “Every year, Lumbini Mitra Sangh, a club of around 40 like-minded residents from the Agarwal and Maheshwari communities organise Holi and Diwali celebrations for the entire gated community. This year, our gated community has cancelled the second day’s festivities. Following the Puja on the first day, Holi delicacies sponsored by the club will be offered for all residents.” A leader-influencer among Chennai’s Rajasthani community, Sanjay Bhansali underscores that many other housing societies in North Chennai with their significant North Indian populations are similarly keeping the festivities low-key. There is a touch of irony — and probably even a form of understated wisdom — to the communication Ranjit Apartments Flat Owners Welfare Association in Vepery has sent its residents. By not sending the regular message, it believes it has sent out a clear message to them. Ravi Kiran Hirani, the Association’s treasurer, explains: “The Association would usually plan an elaborate Holi-playing event, including the hire of a DJ. Residents could have their friends and relatives over for the event. This year, there are no plans to apprise residents of. So, no communication has been sent to them. The unsaid message is clear the Association is not organising any Holi-playing event.” Focus on the plate With Holi colours assumed to not besmear smiling faces on the usual scale — at least, in some of these gated communities — the plate holding Holi delicacies is bound to get heavier, having to bear the whole burden of offering an honest-to-goodness Holi experience. A lot rides on thandai, a sweet milk drink made rich by an assortment of nuts, spices and seeds. Popularised by Holi, thandai has in turn enriched the festival, being its gastronomic signature. With newer restaurants offering a thandai fare and businesses selling thandai powder, this drink’s fan base is threatening to get bigger than Cristiano Ronaldo’s Instagram following. What exactly is it that makes this sweet milk-drink tick? “Saffron, rose petals, almonds and poppy seeds are its main ingredients. These are grounded into a paste, along with fennel seeds, cardamom and black pepper. By adding this paste in milk, along with sugar, thandai is made. The drink is served very cold. There is a range of additional ingredients — in terms of nuts and spices — that can go into it,” explains Vishakha Agarwal, a resident of TVH Lumbini Square. “Holi also marks a change in season. Offered at the onset of summer, it is a body coolant apt for the season.” Ravi Kiran weighs in: “It is offered before and during Holi-playing, to help the reveller withstand the sweltering heat, and play Holi longer.” Vishakha says: “Other Holi specials include kanji-vada , halwa and dhai-vada. Kanji-vada is like medhu-vada. Only that it is made with moong dal and not urad dal . We soak it in water with mustard seeds in it. Grounded mustard seeds add a different flavour to it. Dhai-vada is the North Indian version of the thayir-vada . It is made with moong-dal , soaked in curd, and garnished with a variety of chutneys, including tamarind and mint chutney. Dal ka pakodi is another Holi speciality.” Vishakha reminds that authentic cuisine is a key factor amping up the festivity quotient. “Any other day, one can try out fusion cuisine. Not during a festival. So, we get a maharaj (caterer) to make these dishes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gated-communities-in-chennais-holi-land-giving-up-on-the-colours-this-year/article34180951.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The challenge of turning a home into a school||They are frontline workers in a broader sense of the term. They provide home-based training to the differently-abled in the age group of six to 18. They continued to do this work during the pandemic. A majority of the differently-abled persons they serve are from the under privileged sections of society. Under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan of the Department of School Education, there are around 40 special educators and 10 physiotherapists and caretakers each for the 10 educational zones in Chennai. The pandemic, especially the restriction imposed during the lockdown, signified a huge setback to these special-needs children. They could not get home-based intervention. Unless they had a support system at home, problems arising from their disabilities worsened. Based on their levels of disability, these children would require varying degrees of intervention every day, say special educators. “Catering to such special-needs children with severe disability is as much our need as theirs,” says S. Reegan, a special educator in Perambur educational zone. One of the first challenges that Reegan encountered was persuading caregivers/parents is letting him visit them. Reegan usually brings a female colleague along so that the family feels comfortable about it. “One family that we paid a visit to did not have enough space to accommodate us, so they shifted the child to the staircase leading to the neighbour’s house,” he says. Reegan says remedial classes to be offered to a child cannot be planned elaborately in advance. Everything can suddenly change, on the basis of their current state of mind. “If the child does not cooperate, sometimes we get only 10 minutes of fruitful time which is still important as these visits are not aimed at teaching new concepts, but reminding the child and the caregiver of what was taught earlier,” says Reegan, who did his BEd followed by a diploma programme in teaching for the deaf. During the Pre-COVID days, special-needs children — those with mild, moderate and extreme disabilities — visited the centre closest to their house for various intervention programmes. Now, due to the pandemic the focus is on home-based intervention with priority being given, factoring in the level of disability. Personalised teaching Since August, I. Lalitha, a special educator in Choolai, has been making three visits a day to some of her students’ home. Of the database of 322 special-needs children in the Periamet educational zone, 87 come under the Choolai region. “I choose students who are bedridden and those who have little means to get any intervention and whose parents need to be continually pushed,” says Lalitha. Some of these children have their house on the pavement and have no therapeutic tools to rely on. “The pandemic has taught me to innovate around the curriculum like never before and adapt to new situations,” says Lalitha, a special educator for the last 10 years. She says visiting the students’ homes was an eye-opener. Depending on the space and situation at home, we ask the caregiver to train the child in occupational therapy through things that are available. “For instance, channa dal and urad dal are mixed and the children are asked to sort them out, so that they are engaged. At the centre, we have a trampoline. At the home, we ask the caregiver to allow the child jump on the cot under their supervision,” says Lalitha. Even during the days when intense lockdown was in place, some of these educators interacted with the caregiver over phone and made sure some of the special children’s urgent needs were met. “One of our students from Perungudi lost his father last year and his mother struggled to run the family with a differently-abled child. In the pre-COVID days, we used to visit his house once a week for therapy but that got stopped for a few months, so I speak to the caregiver and keep motivating her not to give up,” says a special educator with the Mylapore zone. For many years, special educators with the the School Education Department have also been asking that their remuneration be increased and made on a par with government school teacher but no steps have been taken so far. There is bitterness that the Government has not recognised our efforts and we earn a meagre salary after toiling for so many years, but we forget our personal misery once we are with these differently-abled children, say educators. “Seeing a child recognise me with a smile or call me ‘miss’ is the biggest happiness I can get,” says Lalitha.  The pandemic has taught me to innovate around the curriculum like never before and adapt to new situations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-challenge-of-turning-a-home-into-a-school/article34180963.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||It leaves no stone unturned in locating a square meal||Amidst the unknowns and unknowables, these three constants give us a modicum of familiarity about this hugely inscrutable planet. One, Rishabh Pant will pull off eye-popping strokes and perish by that very same brilliance. Two, whenever India trumps the Opposition in a Test on a rank turner at home, the latter will cry hoarse, glossing over the fact that it also fielded as many spinners. And three, when a small stone pops into view, the Ruddy Turnstone is going to inspect it for prey, sometimes turning it over in the process. Andbirders will keep their eyes peeled for the Turnstone’s stone-turning moment. A Ruddy Turnstone immortalised in pixels, mid-meal, is on every lens-carrying birder’s wish-list. Scan Ruddy Turnstone entries from Adyar Estuary and Pulicat in eBird, and you would know. At Pulicat, Sidharth Srinivasan has had three Ruddy Turnstone sightings. Twice, he got swept into a free stone-maneuvering workshop by Turnstone Inc. Sidharth should count himself only half-lucky. The species scours for food in a more striking fashion, rummaging through green discards the sea would gorge on the shore. “They pull at vegetation, usually seaweeds, washed ashore and look for marine invertebrates,” says S. Balachandran, deputy director, BNHS Regional Migration Study Centre at Point Calimere, who has had the experience of ringing quite a number of Ruddy Turnstones at the centre. “The bird has a relatively short bill, and with it, would peck powerfully to break through bi-valves. The stone-turning maneuvere is just one aspect of how the bird forages.” Balachandran continues: “In rocky beaches, they would forage for prey on the rocks, cleaning up organisms such as molluscs attached to them. They would also take the prey found in the holes in rocks.” The ornithologist suggests that with its rocky growths, the Covelong beach may offer the possibility of such sightings. During the migratory season, the Ruddy Turnstone is known to occur on much of the East Coast, though existing records of the bird are largely those that have emerged from Adyar Estuary and Pulicat. The situation has to do with over-birding of these sections. The species is also found in noticeable numbers on less-frequented shores. With a reddish shine to its upperparts, the Ruddy Turnstone looks striking in its breeding plumage — the possibility of sighting this bird in this finery is present in April, and earlier in September. With most other species, it would be odd, even rude, to keep returning to their table manners. With the Ruddy Turnstone, it would be odd not to. It is said that how a Ruddy Turnstone seeks its prey depends on its position in the pecking order within the flock — ornithologist V. Santharam says more observations by citizen-science groups will throw greater light on this facet of the species’ behaviour. Santharam elaborates: “Even minor details about any bird’s behaviour have to be recorded as they could be holding the key to understanding the species better. Even members of the citizen science group have a vital role to play in these things, as they are out there and if they make these observations it would be useful. Though eBird offers a feature for birders to write notes about their bird sightings, it remains largely underutilised.” (Migrant Watch is a weekly column about the birds that visit Chennai during the migratory season)  “In rocky beaches, they would forage for prey on the rocks, cleaning up organisms such as molluscs attached to them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/it-leaves-no-stone-unturned-in-locating-a-square-meal/article34180956.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A new beginning||Diagnosed with moderate autism at the age of two, K. Deepak, now 21 years old, is taking the first step to financial independence. On March 10, an Aavin milk booth was opened in his name near Cycle Shop in Puzhal, where he lives. He manages the booth with the support of his family members. Deepak, who is non-verbal, has been able to make this stride due to the strong support system around him, including his younger sister Priyadarshini. Deepak’s parents K. Sasikala and G. Kumar realised their son had Autism Spectrum Disorder when he was two. “He would not make eye contact; nor was he speaking,” says Sasikala, a homemaker whose life until then had revolved around her house. Her husband is an autorickshaw driver. During therapy sessions, Sasikala learnt that each child was unique and parents need to make adaptations in the lessons to the level at which the child can imbibe them. “I was forced to learn new skills to teach my child at home,” says Sasikala. At age eight, Deepak started undergoing intervention at a Sarva Siksha Abhigyan (SSA) centre at Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar in Perambur. He was also enrolled in a Corporation School on the same campus. During the same time, a teacher encouraged Sasikala to take up a six-month foundation course in special education. These were turning points in the family’s journey. “By mainstreaming we could see some difference in Deepak. He started mingling with other children and he learnt how to behave in different social situations. My course helped me understand autism better and I was able to nurture him,” says Sasikala, who for the last 12 years has been working as a caretaker for the School Education Department. After going to a regular school till class VIII, Deepak took up a vocational course with the Navajyothi Trust in Ambattur. That went on for four years but it was found that Deepak could not be on his own. “Whatever you tell him, he will do but he cannot make a judgement of things on his own,” says Sasikala. After applying for guardianship at 18, his parents were on the lookout for an avenue to engage him as well as make him financially independent. They learnt that the District Differently-Abled Welfare Office at DMS sanctions a grant of Rs. 50,000 to help such individuals. “For the last one year, we been running behind different departments to help set up an Aavin booth, for which we had to identify a place and after due verification they would sanction the amount,” says Sasikala. Last year marked a tough phase for the family. Kumar was without work due to the lockdown and Deepak was getting frustrated doing nothing constructive at home. With the opening of the Aavin outlet, Sasikala says it is going to instil some confidence in him. “If I can see a smile planted on his face, then we are happy,” she adds. B. Santhalatha, former special educator with SSA, says Deepak’s journey is one that must be celebrated as he has come to this level due to the continual intervention and support around him. His mother is a source of inspiration as she is helping identify learning disabilities in other children. “Not many know about this grant given by the government and the family has opened a platform for him,” says Santhalatha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-beginning/article34180961.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A platform for the common man at Panagal Park||Here is a recurring image of the season. From a jacked-up platform on a modified vehicle, a leader towers roof and shoulders over the common man and seeks to win him over. It calls to mind another speaking platform, from another era, and serving a wholly different purpose. At 1.5 feet above terra firma , it was hardly an imposing platform. Its other dimensions — 3 feet long and 1.5 feet broad — did not make it any grander. No leader stood atop this makeshift wooden platform, only the common man. When actor Karan, as chief guest, inaugurated this speaking platform — Soap Box Exnora — on a Sunday at Panagal Park in July 1999, it promised the common man a 5-minute hearing, as long as he kept politics, religion and socially unacceptable ideas and discussions out of it. “Founder and Chairman of Exnora International MB Nirmal launched the initiative here, as he was impressed with how the Soap Box at Hyde Park, London had promoted a culture of public speaking and sharing of ideas in that land,” says Ponkalaimani, who was president of Panagal Park Soap Box Exnora, and also co-coordinator of Soap Box Exnora. The initiative engineered a broad definition of “the common man”. “Bureaucrats, film personalities, television actors, successful businessmen and professionals and educationists would step on to the platform at Panagal Park. So did shop-keepers from the pavement stores on Ranganathan Street. On some Sundays, when we kept the soap box going from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., those having shops on the pavements of Ranganathan Street would speak, making their visits in the morning, as they would rightly anticipate a rush in the evening. Their engagement with the speaking forum led to the formation of Ranganathan Street Vyabarigal Sangam Exnora,” recalls Ponkalaimani. Then domiciled at Singaram Street in T Nagar, Alka Sharma (principal of Linga Global School in srivilliputtur), was a regular at this Sunday speaking forum, along with her mother Aruna Sharma. Alka spotlights the inclusive aspect of the platform: “There was no hard and fast rule about the language. People could speak in any language they were comfortable with.” The Panagal Park Soap Box engineered turnarounds. “Once, a young rag-picker spoke about life as he saw it around Chennai in the dead of night, when he would go around the streets looking for recyclable discards. He shared how lumpen elements would break the law. He did not want to continue as a rag picker, and said if he found an opportunity to lead a better life, he would take it. One of the regulars at the Forum, Chandrasekaran Salem Ramadasan, who was at that time running a company that dealt in patient-handling equipment in T. Nagar, gave the rag-picker money to first have a haircut. He would later find a job for the rag-picker in his own company,” says Ponkalaimani. Now, this one takes the cake for surreality. One Sunday, a pick-pocket took to the platform. It had an O-Henrish ring to it, with this speaker confessing to the audience that he was at the park eyeing their pockets, but the speeches impacted and led him to wipe the slate clean and start afresh. Ponkalaimani narrates: “When we heard this speech, we were beside ourselves with disbelief. He was at the park hoping to pick the pocket of someone lost in listening to the speeches. But he never could do it. As he himself put it, he himself got lost in the speeches. Speakers’ accounts of how they surmounted their personal problems caused him to reconsider his life. Inspired, he kept returning to listen to more speeches. From there, continuing as a pick-pocket was an existential impossibility.” Alka, who spoke considerably on environment and women’s empowerment, points out how the diversity of ideas on offer benefitted youngsters. She explains: “For instance, Chandrasekaran with his experience running a business that made wheelchairs and stretchers for hospitals, would talk about how to start a business. It proved extremely helpful for youngsters.” Maharajan Mariappan, an acupressure professional, similarly thinks highly of the speaking forum’s contribution to youngsters’ self-development. “Back then, I was staying at a room on Natesan Street in T. Nagar, and was going through a low, and some of the Sunday speeches helped me deal with it effectively.”  On those Sundays when we kept the soap box going from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., those running shops on the pavements of Ranganathan Street would give speeches using the platform||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-platform-for-the-common-man-at-panagal-park/article34180937.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Work on bus shelter in Saidapet completed||Nearly a decade after it was demolished as part of the land acquisition exercise for Metro Rail construction in 2012, the bus-stop at Saidapet opposite the old police station on Anna Salai, is in a visibly good shape. The facility, which is being maintained by the State Highways Department, has a slew of features, which include LED lights, steel-seating arrangements and display boards with bus times. Further, the bus shelter is being run on solar power, thanks to 400 KW capacity solar-panel installation on the roof of the shelter. Chennai Metro Rail Limited took up this work more than two years ago, but it progressed at tardy pace, especially last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Bus Road Routes (BRR) Department officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), the new bus shelter was built by CMRL in accordance with an agreement it had inked in, with GCC. As per the agreement, CMRL is expected to reinstate the shelter it removed. “We find this shelter safe. It is necessary for the officials concerned to make sure autorickshaws are not allowed to be park here,” says S. Kavitha, a resident of West Mambalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/work-on-bus-shelter-in-saidapet-completed/article34180947.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Shopkeepers in T Nagar get vaccinated at school auditorium||When there is a shared sense of urgency, stakeholders meet half-way, with some of them putting a whole foot out of their comfort zone. The week that went by illustrated it — with school auditoriums and clubhouses turning into makeshift clinics. With the novel-Coronavirus infection rate going from a canter to a gallop, an increasing number of residents — in the vulnerable category — seem to have decided to not delay getting the jab any further. On the other end of the spectrum, the Greater Chennai Corporation wants the vaccination drive to pick up momentum. The most evocative picture of this shared urgency emerged from the auditorium at a school in T. Nagar, where “frontline workers are being vaccinated” at an impressive daily average. “We got permission from the Ramakrishna Mission School to use the auditorium for the purpose. The drive is primarily meant for vaccinating the shopkeepers from the T. Nagar commercial area. On an average, 400 people get vaccinated every day,” says Greater Chennai Corporation’s Kodambakkam zonal officer, TP Jai Beam. Vaccinations are also under way at another commercial centre of iconic proportions — the Koyambedu wholesale market. Says the zonal officer, “At Koyambedu, we are conducting a vaccination programme at the mini-clinic found inside, to cover the shopkeepers at the wholesale market.” These vaccination drives follow an official redefinition of “frontline workers”. A big help for seniors Earlier, the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) at Dasarathapuram had sent a tempo traveller to Appaswamy Orchards in Vadapalani to ferry seniors who opted to be vaccinated. On March 24, a team from the UPHC “pitched tent” for a good part of the day at the community to give the jab to those who meet the current criteria for vaccination. One hundred and fifty four people meeting the current criteria for vaccination got vaccinated. A library was among the many spaces at the gated community earmarked for the programme to ensure social distancing as residents waited and took the jab. “There are three wheelchairs at the community, and all of them were put to good use. Besides, with ramps everywhere at the community, the process was smooth for senior citizens,” explains Manikandan Venkataraman, secretary, Appaswamy Orchards Apartments Owners Association. “Our community has around 100 seniors and around 50 super-seniors. On the day of vaccination, around ten seniors had to use the wheelchair to come to the vaccination spot. The seniors are extremely happy that the Association organised this vaccination camp for the community,” says Association president D. Krishnamoorthy, who coordinated with the Saligramam UPHC and had the camp organised. “When I posted photos of the vaccination camp in a WhatsApp group that I share with office-bearers of other gated communities in the region, they wanted to know how it could be organised. I shared the details with them.” Manikanadan believes exercises of this nature would ensure more people seek vaccination faster than they would otherwise. Sharad Jalan, president, TVH Lumbini Square Owners Association, is on the same page. Now his observed reality is that a familiar environment, coupled with familiar faces, can be a hugely motivating factor in seeking vaccination quickly. “The vaccination drive at our community went on till March 26. Every day, 100 people meeting the criteria got vaccinated. Seeing so many people go in for vaccination, many others got motivated to seek it,” says Sharad. The Zone 10 (Kodambakkam) officer underlines that in the absence of a sizeable population seeking vaccination, a team cannot be sent to a gated community. “A significant number of people meeting the current criteria for vaccination is required for a team from a UPHC to be sent to a gated community for vaccination. For, such an exercise will consume anywhere from half-a-day to one day. If there are only a few people, we will exercise the option of bringing them to the nearest UPHC for vaccination by sending our vehicles. Our head office has allocated these vehicles across the zones for this purpose,” says Jai Beam.  “The seniors are extremely happy that the Association organised a vaccination camp for the community”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shopkeepers-in-t-nagar-get-vaccinated-at-school-auditorium/article34180944.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||New signal brings some respite to motorists||A traffic signal installed a month ago at the T-junction of Kaliamman Koil Street and Canal Road in Virugambakkam has brought some respite to motorists. But this is far from a complete solution. The new traffic signal has come up near the ramp of the narrow bridge on Kaliamman Koil Street. As this section of the road is still narrow, the intersection witnesses chaotic traffic, especially during rush hour. “Now, the traffic signal helps in better regulation of traffic at the T-junction. However, footpaths on the narrow bridge have to be raised from the existing road level to ensure safety,” says V. Satya, a resident of Virugambakkam. According to Greater Chennai Corporation officials, this narrow bridge was renovated more than a decade ago by raising its side walls and strengthening the carriageway with cement concrete and later with bitumen. The renovation of the bridge was constrained by the fact that the available space on this section was narrow. A section of the road — Koyambedu Wholesale Market and Koyambedu sewage treatment plant — has already been widened. The rest of the road, including the one with the narrow bridge, will be widened after land acquisition, the officials say.  It was installed more than a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-signal-brings-some-respite-to-motorists/article34180953.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Professor of a college in Ramapuram teaches a subject, out of syllabus||For M. Varshini (12), broomsticks serve a different purpose. She snips the bristles of one and places the material within a wooden nest box at her house in Royapuram. B. Sanjay (12) places twigs of trees and plants inside a nest box at his house in Royapuram. T. Sashwitha (13) and S.B.Mithra (13) — resident of Thiruvottriyur and Vannarapettai, respectively — have inspired their relatives, friends and neighbours to keep nest boxes at their homes. They are among the 17 children honoured by Koodugal Trust on this year’s World Sparrow Day (March 20) with Sparrow Saviour Award for their efforts to conserve the species. Koodugal Trust — founded in July 2020 by Ganeshan D, an assistant professor with the mechanical engineering department of SRM Institute of Science & Technology, Ramapuram — is engaged in house sparrow conservation. For the last two years, Ganeshan has been working with children in north Chennai. “Since 2014, I have been distributing nest boxes to residents of north Chennai. At first, I was mainly approaching grown-ups as part of this work. With many of them not displaying much interest in the cause, I started teaching children about sparrow conservation. School children, from Class V to IX are brought on board; nest boxes are distributed to them. This work is being done in nearly 10 schools in north Chennai. These 17 children were chosen for the Award for their consistent house-sparrow conservation efforts,” says, Ganeshan, a resident of Royapuram. Ganeshan’s initiative is supported by his colleagues Manoj Kumar. V, U. Poongundran, and C. Ayyanar, also assistant professors in the mechanical engineering department. “Together, we make nest boxes on weekends. Earlier, we would distribute wholly made nest boxes to students. As it was time-consuming and labour-intensive, we now cut the wooden planks to the required measurements and take them to the schools. Distributing the cut planks along with the nails to the students, we teach them how to fix the planks and make a nest box,” says Ganeshan Ganeshan and his team have set up 100 boxes in Revoor Padmanabha Chetty Matriculation Higher Secondary School and 50 each in Nehru Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Maharishi Vidya Mandir School and Sri Sankara Vidya Kendra Matric Higher Secondary School. “This exercise was carried out between June and September in 2020. We want to create a sparrow sanctuary in these schools. A good number of sparrows visit Revoor and Nehru schools. Our cause is funded by our well-wishers, including colleagues and friends,” says Ganeshan. For details about the initiative, visit www.koodugal.org, or call Ganeshan at 96004 99699.  Ganeshan and his team have set up 100 boxes in Revoor Padmanabha Chetty Matriculation Higher Secondary School. The aim of this exercise is to create a sparrow sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/professor-of-a-college-in-ramapuram-teaches-a-subject-out-of-syllabus/article34180959.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Stitching their way to financial independence||Forty women, who were part of a six-month tailoring course, are all set to stitch their way to financial independence. On March 25, Thakkar Bapa Vidyalaya Samithi conducted a convocation function for students who had completed the tailoring course sponsored by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited. A majority of these women are from the lower-income group and this free course will help them supplement the family’s income, says N. Hariharan, principal. He points out that at the convocation, two of the students, Bharathi and Esther, shared their experience being part of the course and their plans for the future.  C.K. Ravikumar, deputy general manager (admin), CPCL and B. Pradeep, senior manager, (admin), CPCL, congratulated the management for this initiative. Faculty member Lavanya who taught the students received a special mention. Thakkar Bapa Vidyalaya Samithi at T. Nagar conducts various skill-development courses. For details, call 044-24362103/24343302.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stitching-their-way-to-financial-independence/article34180932.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Painting workshops at Vadapalani, T Nagar||A workshop on Madhubani paintings will be conducted from April 1 to 10 at Ragamalika Apartments, 26 Kumaran Colony Main Road, Vadapalani. Classes in traditional painting like Pattachitra and Warli are also conducted. For details, contact Kanimozhi at 9381157831. Another exercise Another painting workshop will be held from March 29 to April 3 at No: 20, Cresent Park Street, T Nagar. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. According to a press release, various forms of painting including Kerala mural, Madubhani, coffee, fabric and water colour paintings will be covered in the workshop. For details, call 99402 69288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/painting-workshops-at-vadapalani-t-nagar/article34180931.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A virtual Holi||At Kences Brindhavan Apartments, this Holi may largely be celebrated from behind closed doors and in front of display-screens. Only a part of the festival is going to be observed outdoors, with social-distancing protocols in place. This decision is hugely out of alignment with what signifies the norm for this 202-unit gated community in Kilpauk. “Usually, one fourth of the community would be down there at the common area for Holi festivities,” says Amit Mardia, secretary, Kences Brindhavan Apartments Owners Welfare Association (KBAOWA). “We have thought of doing a Zoom meet for people to log in and wish each other,” says Amit. “In batches of four or five, residents who want to perform puja, can do so with a priest, at a temple on the premises. We have made arrangements for this.” Thandai will be door-delivered by the Association. “Usually, we hire a caterer and organise the entire lunch. This time, we will get some Thandai prepared somewhere hygienically and distribute it to all the households.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-virtual-holi/article34180948.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A sale of silk saris||A sale of handicrafts and handloom products is being held at Valluvarkottam hall in Nungambakkam. Called Hastashilpi, the sale will end on March 28. Time: From 10.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. Saris and dress materials are available in variety of silks, including Tassar, Eri, Mulberry, Muga, Arini, Chanderi, Baluchari, Banaras Jamdani and Pochampalli. For details, call 98844 46747 / 96008 96819||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-sale-of-silk-saris/article34180938.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A rising star||Adeesh Surana, a 10-year-old student of SJT Surana Jain Vidyalaya, has made the school proud. He became the most-decorated marksman in the 46th Tamilnadu 10 and 50 metres air pistol in the senior and junior category championship, says a press release. Adeesh is the only under-15 air pistol shooter teaming up with senior air pistol shooters in the team event, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-rising-star/article34180940.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Lambert Nagar residents seek underground electricity cables||We request the Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) to lay underground electricity cables at Lambert Nagar in Virugambakkam. Our neighbouring colony — Loganthan Street — received this facility two years ago. In contrast, we have been seeking in vain for it, for quite a long time now. Besides safety reasons, we seek underground electricity cables, because that would spare us the trouble and expense of continually pruning our avenue trees. S. Jayaraman is a resident of Lambert Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lambert-nagar-residents-seek-underground-electricity-cables/article34180941.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Vadapalani residents ‘present’ a list of issues to the candidates||The Federation of Welfare Associations of Vadapalani and Saligramam would like to place before a list of issues plaguing Vadapalani and Saligramam, before the candidates contesting from Virugambakkam constituency. One, we have been enduring flooding during rainy season and sewage overflow for the past many years. To tackle rainwater stagnation, we want stormwater drains to be widened and the necessary design alteration made. Further, the stormwater drain network should be maintained properly. Care should be taken to ensure that solid waste and sewage are not discharged into the stormwater drains. Two, the battered roads in these localities should be mended. Measures should be put in place to check unauthorised parking of vehicles on roads and footpaths Three, we want the electricity transformers to be fenced to ensure safety. Four, we need direct MTC services to Tambaram, Velachery, Poonamalle and Anna Square from Saligramam. Further, we need a small bus service providing connectivity to the nearby Vadapalani Metrorail station. We want an MTC terminus to be set up at Saligramam. At present, MTC buses on the 17E route are parked on an approach road to a school. J. Annai Jegan, president, and P. Murugaiyyan, general secretary, Federation of Welfare Associations of Vadapalani and Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vadapalani-residents-present-a-list-of-issues-to-the-candidates/article34180942.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Session on gardening in Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on gardening with special emphasis placed on raising medicinal plants. The session will be held on March 31 on the centre’s premises in Guidny. For details, call 044 - 2250 1960 / 2225 0511.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/session-on-gardening-in-guindy/article34180929.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Film contest at SRM Ramapuram||Vels University won Silver Frames 2021, an annual short-film contest conducted by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Ramapuram. The second and third place were secured by Loyola Arts & Science College and Sri Manakula Vinayagar College of Engineering, says a press release. While the aforementioned colleges won in the inter-college category, the commerce department of the host college won in the intra-college category. The second place was secured by the visual communication department, adds the release. Actors Rio Raj and Robo Shankar and film director Badri Venkatesh were the guests of honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/film-contest-at-srm-ramapuram/article34180930.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Soap making workshop in Nungambakkam||A workshop on making chemical-free soaps will be held on April 9 and 10 at No:1, A Mangadu Swamy Street in Nungambakkam. A press release says Nandini Gopinath will teach participants how to make soaps from natural oils, butter, aloevera, turmeric, coconut milk, nettle and turmeric. For details, call 9840490961 / 8667503102||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/soap-making-workshop-in-nungambakkam/article34180934.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Upskilling courses for teachers||Divyam Foundation Educational Trust, which caters to children from pre-school to kindergarten, is offering a range of vacation programmes in English. These are offered for children across age groups. The Foundation is also starting online short-term teacher training courses in Montessori education, phonics, technology in education and leadership. “These courses can be availed by those wanting to upskill or those planning to work in the early childhood education space,” said Archana Ranganathan, managing trustee of the Foundation. For details, call 9840253898; website:www.divyam.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/upskilling-courses-for-teachers/article34180933.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34180945.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Dying, slowly||Stretching before me is a vast expanse of a lake — only, it is dry, encrusted with salt. The bright sunshine lends a silvery sheen to the salt flats. As I crunch my way across a kyar (salt pan), I see a few birds wading in a little pool of water. I am at Rajasthan’s Sambhar Lake, India’s largest inland salt lake and the site of a recent avian tragedy. In late 2019, the lake bed had turned into a mass graveyard for migratory birds. An estimated 25,000 birds dropped dead: Kentish plovers, tufted ducks, northern shovelers, pied avocets, little ringed plovers, stilts and gadwalls, among 36 species. The Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly said avian botulism could be the culprit. As Sambhar Lake came under the international spotlight for this mass die-off, another phenomenon drew attention to the lake: rampant illegal salt mining and a shrinking wetland. Salt pans were proliferating and illegal borewells dotted the area, causing a massive degradation of the famous lake. Protection needed The 230 sq.km., shallow, elliptical wetland straddles the districts of Jaipur, Nagaur and Ajmer. Salt production in Sambhar is nothing new. It has taken place for centuries, but in a traditionally sustainable manner, providing livelihood to the local community. The Mughals, the British, and now Sambhar Salts Ltd (a subsidiary of Hindustan Salts Ltd, a public sector company) have all controlled salt production. But today, there is a mushrooming of illegal salt mining and that is grievously threatening the wetland ecosystem. Nawa, on the northern side of Sambhar Lake, is controlled by private salt manufacturers. It is notorious for the many illegal borewells that over-extract brine. The salt pans encroach upon the lake, and pipelines transport the brine, with unauthorised electric cables, across several kilometres, connecting the lake bed to villages. As I travel to Nawa I see mounds of salt even from a distance. Pumpsets are attached to the borewells dug deep inside the lake bed, and a mesh of wires, covered with mud, lies on top. Following a National Green Tribunal direction, some action against illegal borewells was initiated. Last year, 288 borewells, 32 submersible pumps, and 14 hectares of encroachment were cleared. “We have also cleared 8 sq.km. of pipelines and electric cables, and we keep monitoring the area. Our priority is protecting the habitat and ecology of Sambhar,” says Brahmlal Jat, Sub-Divisional Officer, Nawa Tehsil. Sucked away “Sambhar Lake’s future is totally dependent on the seasonal rivers that flow into it during the monsoon. But now this water is being sucked away before it reaches the lake, causing it to dry up,” says ecologist Harsh Vardhan. Mendha, Rupangarh, Kharain, Khandel and several such streams and rivulets used to recharge the lake. But the farmers in the 7,560 sq.km. catchment area of the lake have built surface embankments across the rivers, obstructing their downstream flow into the . They have sunk tubewells along the rivers and laid pipelines to transport water to their fields, choking the rivers and ultimately threatening the wetland ecosystem. The lake supports flamingos and migratory birds from as far away as Siberia that feed on the algae and micro-organisms found in the saline waters. Members of Wildlife Creature Organization, a local NGO, recall wistfully how the entire lake would turn pink with thousands of flamingos just a decade ago. Optimum use T.K. Roy, a conservationist, counted 1,004 birds belonging to 30 species during the annual Asian waterbird census this January. This is a dramatic decline from last year’s 43,510 birds. But 2020 might have been an exceptional year due to the rains; the last few years have shown an otherwise steady decline. “It is an issue of management. Sambhar Lake should be clearly demarcated and its uses defined taking all stakeholders into consideration,” says R.N. Mehrotra, former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Rajasthan, and member of an expert committee formed to give recommendations to the High Court on Sambhar. He adds that Sambhar, being on revenue land, was never scientifically managed as an ecosystem. “Sustainability will come only when there is optimum use. There is a habitat here for birds. Until the forest department is given an identified area for the habitat, they cannot make it sustainable.” To add to the wetland’s woes, a tented heritage resort has come up, and a 117-year-old, 11 km meter gauge train line was re-laid three years ago. As I stroll along the white earth, I wonder: what is the rationale of ecotourism if the wetland and its birds are themselves under threat? The writer searches for positive stories across the country.  The production of salt in Sambhar is nothing new. It has taken place for centuries, but in a traditionally sustainable manner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dying-slowly/article34181022.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Name the game||Would I like a cricket stadium named after me? Not that anyone has offered to do so, although, come to think if it, they should, since my contribution to Indian cricket is less than zero. But I wonder how I’d react if Sourav Ganguly comes to me with a special request. “Mr. Sampath, the BCCI has built a new cricket stadium in Gummidipoondi. Can we please name it after you?” Knowing me, I guess I’d be overwhelmed by modesty. “You seriously want to name Gummidipoondi’s largest ever cricket stadium after the world’s largest partly free democracy’s most renowned partly independent journalist?” “Absolutely.” “Mr. Ganguly, how many crores will you pay me for the privilege of splashing my brand name on the stadium walls?” Narcissistic practice Given the Board’s attachment to money, I’m sure the demand for compensation would squelch the possibility of Gummidipoondi ever getting a ‘Shri G. Sampath Cricket Stadium’. But frankly, I’m not the stadium type. My wife has a theory that everyone belongs to a particular ‘type’ when it comes to naming entities after themselves. Some people like to lend their name to perfumes. So you have perfumes named Paris Hilton, Britney Spears, Rihanna. Others give their names to businesses. So you have companies named after Adani, Tata, Birla. But not everyone is so conventional. Scientists, for example, give their names to effects, which is why you have the Raman Effect. When I was studying physics in school, I used to fantasise about discovering a Sampath Effect, or a sub-atomic particle, similar to the boson but better-looking, which would be named ‘sampathon’ in my honour despite my fervent pleas to end this narcissistic practice of naming natural phenomena after oneself. Unfortunately, my achievements in physics did not keep pace with my nomenclatural ambitions, and the world’s wait for the discovery of sampathons continues. But the honour that eluded me in physics sought me out in literature. The visionary R.K. Narayan was so ahead of his time that he named his greatest novel after me even though I wasn’t physically incarnated at the time of its publication. For those of you who don’t know, the novel is called, quite simply, Mr. Sampath — and unlike my annoying north Indian friends, he didn’t forget the ‘h’ at the end. When it comes to having your name on stuff, I’d say a literary classic beats a cricket stadium any day. Advantage, A-listers? The last time I gave so much thought to names was when I sat with Kattabomman for his online ‘oral recapitulation’. Students (and their parents) have to log in on Zoom and wait for their turn. When Katta’s turn didn’t come even after 45 minutes, I messaged his teacher, who told me I had to wait some more as they were going by alphabetical order. I had assumed there would be other kids whose turn would come after Katta’s but I was wrong. He was the last child to be called, and no wonder. Of the 25 kids in this class, 24 had names starting with ‘A’, Katta being the lone exception. There were three kids named Aarav, one Aarush, one Aarya, two ‘Aanya’s, two ‘Ayaan’s, three boys named Ayaansh, an Aradhya, an Aaradhya, three ‘Avni’s, an Anvi, Asvi and Aswathi each, an Aadil, two ‘Advik’s and an Aardvark. So this is how Indian parents have gamed the system so that their child’s name is at the top of every list, which would mean they get the first chance in everything — from giving attendance to oral recap. Now I am under pressure to make amends so that Kattabomman gets a level playing field with the ‘A-listers’ in his class. My father wants to change his name to ‘Aarumugam’, which he believes would propel him to the top of the attendance register. My wife, who is a bit of a Tiger Mom, wants to annihilate the competition. She has asked me to choose from three options: ‘Aaaaaaaditya’, ‘Aaaaaaaaahaan’ or ‘Aaaaaaaaatish’. On the face of it, changing the name seemed a reasonable course of action. Katta doesn’t even have an Aadhaar yet, and the only government document with his name on it is his birth certificate. If we change his name now, to say, “Aaaaaaaaaakash’, he would have the first mover’s advantage for the rest of his life. But I happened to mention this plan to a friend in Germany, and his reaction stopped us in our tracks. “Being the first name in every list could be a double-edged sword,” he said. He pointed out that it depends on the type of list, whether you want to be at the top or the bottom of the alphabetical order. As he put it, “What if they are picking names for the detention camp? You still want to be top of the list?” So, for the time being, we have decided to maintain status quo. Besides, there’s another thing we hadn’t taken into account — the sentiments of the man whose name Kattabomman bears.  Given the Board’s attachment to money, I’m sure the demand for compensation would squelch the possibility of Gummidipoondi ever getting a ‘Shri G. Sampath Cricket Stadium’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/name-the-game/article34181024.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Hog in the soup||One rainy afternoon in Jhargram, Medinipur, I was making my way home from work through runnels of rainwater on a muddy path with paddy fields on either side. I was cursing myself for not carrying an umbrella, and also for choosing this shortcut because it was picturesque. Suddenly, I remembered my days in Shillong where rain could come similarly unannounced, and longed for Kong Flody’s pig trotter soup. Before I go any further, let me tell you a little about Kong Flody and pig trotter soup. Kong Flody’s name (‘Kong’ in Khasi means ‘elder sister’) was on most people’s lips in Shillong in the early 1970s on account of her instinctive healing touch. She became a professional therapeutic masseuse almost by accident after she heard a sage’s prophecy and grew aware of her ability. When my mother had a severe case of frozen shoulder and muscle debilitation that did not respond to modern treatment, our neighbours suggested we call Kong Flody. Not only did she cure my mother over the course of the next six months, she also became a fast friend. Very often on my way back from college I would sight one of her daughters waiting for me at the head of the lane leading down to their house. She would whisper in her excitement, ‘Come quickly, Mother has just taken the pig trotter soup off the fire,’ or, ‘We saved some doh khlieh (pork brain salad) for you from lunch, come on’. Nutritious dish Pig trotter soup is a popular dish in the local cuisine of Shillong. It scores high both in nutritional value — it is recommended for pregnant women, children and the elderly — and taste. For that matter, my mother fed us trotter soup when we were children to build strong bones, but most of the time it was lamb trotter soup (tengrir soup in Bengali). It was good enough but from what I remember, it didn’t have the same rich taste or flavour as pig trotter soup. Kong Flody’s soup, a broth really, which we called ‘suruwa’, was cooked on a slow coal fire and left to simmer all day. There was no seasoning save salt, peppercorns and onions. By the time the soup was done, the trotters would have almost melted to the point that they could be chomped into a mash, and the marrow blended with the onion. I sat around the fire with Kong Flody’s three daughters in a small, cosy kitchen with a wooden floor while she ladled out the soup in large mugs. Transparent globules of fat floated on the surface of a steaming, thickish broth. She served this with hunks of crusty white bread, which I had, while her daughters preferred to drop red rice into their mugs to be spooned up. You dipped your bread slice into the mug for a moment, lifting it to your mouth just before it threatened to fall into the soup, then sucked it up, followed by a sip from the mug. It was rich and coated your lips as you drank. And you licked your lips off roundly. I remember the three girls and me laughing at each other as we did this while Kong Flody’s eyes twinkled and she beamed at us indulgently like a big mother cat. Winter treat That rainy afternoon in Jhargram I decided to try out Kong Flody’s soup. The only trouble was that I had no access to pig trotters. Well, I thought, lamb trotters would have to do. Incidentally, in the early 1980s in Jhargram when I was posted there, meat was unbelievably cheap, even for those times. Chicken and lamb sold for Rs. 13 a kilo while khashi (castrated goat) was Rs. 25. Trotters cost 25 paise each. There was radhuni pata, or wild celery, growing in patches all over the garden, so I decided to use it. In the absence of radhuni pata you could use celery stalks and leaves. This is my recipe. You could try it on a winter’s day. The writer is the author of the food memoir,Spiced, Smoked, Pickled, Preserved: Recipes and Reminiscences from India’s Eastern Hills.    You dipped your bread slice into the mug for a moment, lifting it to your mouth just before it threatened to fall into the soup, then sucked it up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hog-in-the-soup/article34180965.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We can no longer keep saying revolution is inevitable’||When he was arrested in 2009, headlines screamed ‘top Maoist nabbed’. Today, he’s juggling time between interviews and podcasts, after his book recounting his journey from London to Indian jails ( Fractured Freedom: A Prison Memoir ) has become a bestseller. In an interview, he talks about these experiences, the setbacks suffered by communism, and the need for socialists to build a system of values beyond economic issues. So, are you a Naxalite? What is a Naxalite? It’s a vague term. There are many parties and groups who are called Naxalite. Some participate in elections, others work underground. Among the protesting farmers’ groups too, a few are reported to be affiliated to Marxist-Leninist groups. I am for radical change and a socialist economic system. Capitalism has not given anything to the masses, while socialism all over the world has given enormous economic benefits to the people. But communist systems too have suffered setbacks; their weaknesses need to be rectified. In your book you write that ‘universal happiness’ must be the goal of any movement for change. What happened to the goal of reducing inequality? Of course, no one can be happy without the necessities of life. But to talk only about the economic aspect of change isn’t enough. After some time, power and ego start affecting people in the movement. But if you have a value system integrated into your goal, you can counter these influences. For example, I find people praising Anuradha [ his late wife, Anuradha Ghandy] for her organisational capacities, not her personal qualities of straightforwardness, honesty, etc. which were equally if not more valuable for a social activist and, in fact, for any human being. It’s true Freud came after Marx, but still I feel Marxists have ignored the importance of psychology. Just mechanically saying ‘social being determines consciousness’ doesn’t take into account the reality that people don’t change merely with a new ideology; their subconscious thinking inculcated in childhood continues to influence them. Socialism doesn’t automatically bring forth a ‘socialist person’. You have to struggle to become one. Have you seen this lack of a value system affect those in the struggle? Yes, and my book talks about it. With caste superiority coming ‘naturally’ to Indians, this is all the more important. I also saw it in Jharkhand’s jails. When the Naxalite inmates belonging to the Marxist Coordination Committee heard I was being brought there, they came running. The media had projected me as a top Maoist leader, and they thought that, like other Naxal leaders they knew, I’d have pots of money. When they saw I didn’t, they slunk away, refusing to help. It was a don who helped me get warm clothes in the Jharkhand winter! Some of these Naxalites were part of the jail mafia, and ran most of the lucrative wards. Jharkhand has such a heroic history of resistance to the British, starting from the 18th century. What are the Naxalites doing to their tradition? They seem totally different from the Bastar tribals who, I heard from Anuradha, have transformed themselves through the movement to become self-confident and creative, especially the women. I wonder how your comrades will react to this! Indian Marxists are terribly dogmatic. They are just not willing to discuss new concepts, nor are they willing to acknowledge that communism has suffered a severe setback worldwide. It should make them think. Economic and social conditions today are so atrocious, yet there is no alternative — unlike when we were young, when communism was the rage. Has communism failed or the people who implemented it?  The system has failed, not the ideology. History shows us that the socialist system is the most viable for the oppressed masses, while the existing system is destroying the lives not only of the poorest but now also of the middle classes. And the environment too. Only the 3,500-odd billionaires of the world are thriving. But how we go about achieving it needs to be discussed. We can no longer keep saying, ‘Revolution is inevitable’. In Andhra/ Telangana’s jails I saw that despite 40 years of the revolutionary movement there, the younger generation knew nothing about it. But all that senior leftists say is: ‘Revolution has its ups and downs, but finally it will come,’ without any analysis. Can we still say ‘the working class is the vanguard’? Where is the working class in India? Since the 90s, there’s only contract labour and sub-contracted labour. The workers are not on the factory floor, they are fractured. I was shocked to learn in Jharkhand that even the Railways contracts out the smallest job — say, cleaning train toilets — to 10 different contractors. An inmate told me he earned Rs. 10,000 from his job as a driver, but Rs. 30,000 from illegally selling diesel. So this worker is basically self-employed. Would such workers have a proletarian mentality? Where is the relationship between the proletariat and the capitalist? The workers are highly oppressed, but they have been socially de-proletarianised. Your observations on Islamists may also make you unpopular among your comrades. Identity politics is the in thing now.  I’ve written what I saw. Afzal Guru introduced me to the progressive concepts of Islam, but the Islamists only wanted to convert me, talking about jannat etc! Some of them even advocated bomb blasts in public places as the solution against injustice. Muslims who may die in such blasts would be collateral damage, they said. Identity politics leads to vote bank politics and makes it easier for Hindutva parties to get the sympathy of even ‘lower-caste’ Hindus, and to target Muslims and Dalits. You’ve described the Nirbhaya rapist as a “vile sort.” Can you elaborate?  He would lie at the drop of a hat. I never saw anyone as manipulative and hypocritical as him, with his pujas on the one hand and his vicious outbursts against Nirbhaya’s mother on the other. Whenever he heard about her interviews, he’d say she deserved to be raped. Physically you were not touched by the police. What restrained them?  I think they soon realised I couldn’t give them much information. They knew more than I did! Basically, they also knew that more than them, jail life would break me. Most people end up disillusioned in jail. I also did break, now and then. It’s not just the indignity of jail life, it’s the legal system too. You don’t know when you will be free or in what condition. Fortunately, I could keep myself sane through yoga and exercise, reading and writing, and Mainstream Weekly published my articles. My first phase in Tihar was very tough. I was very lucky that Afzal befriended me and cushioned the impact. He was jovial, educated; we could discuss so many things. The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist.  Born in Mumbai in 1951. Attended The Doon School and St. Xavier’s College, Mumbai. Went to study chartered accountancy in England but dropped out to pursue radical politics in India. Founding member of the Committee for the Protection of Democratic Rights. Arrested in Delhi in 2009. Spent 10 years in jails around the country before being released on bail in 2019.   I never saw anyone as manipulative and hypocritical as [the Nirbhaya rapist], with his pujas on the one hand and his vicious outbursts against Nirbhaya’s mother on the other||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/we-can-no-longer-keep-saying-revolution-is-inevitable/article34180967.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The search for roots||The news came as a surprise to Jyoti Weststrate even though she had been waiting for it for as long as she could remember. “I wasn’t expecting the Dutch government to go that far,” says Jyoti, 37, speaking from her home in Deventer in the Netherlands. On February 8, the Netherlands announced a total freeze on all international adoptions after an official inquiry exposed systemic abuses in the past, including baby theft, child trafficking, fraud and corruption. The Minister for Legal Protection, Sander Dekker, even apologised for the wrongdoings which, the investigation found, the government was aware of but had done nothing to stop. Soon, Sweden also decided to investigate international adoptions in the country, and more countries in the E.U. are likely to follow suit. Jyoti, who was adopted from India in 1985 as a two-year-old, is elated that intercountry adoption has been banned. “No child should have to end up rootless in an alien land, like me. Child trafficking must stop,” she says. She testified before the commission and offered evidence. Her cheer, however, is marred by a familiar despondency. “There is still no clarity on how I will find the answer to this one basic question — who am I?” Jyoti was hoping for some concrete action — damages for personal loss or financial help to help her search for her roots in India. But none came. Disappointed, she is now planning to take the legal route. “I am in talks with my lawyer to sue Dutch authorities and seek damages for the sufferings caused by my adoption, which actually amounted to child trafficking,” she says. She also plans to knock on the doors of Indian courts, to seek help to locate her biological parents. “I am stopping at nothing.” A ‘gift’ A church, high windows, a door, a priest coming in and going out — hazy mental snapshots from India have haunted Jyoti all her life. “Some images from the past are still clearly etched in my memory, and they keep coming back,” she says. “I always grew up with this feeling that my biological parents would come any moment and pick me up. Life has been an eternal wait.” However, it was only in 2015, after she broke up with her boyfriend, that she decided to search for her biological family. “It’s not that I was unhappy with my adoptive parents, who were motivated by a desire to uplift a needy child. I just need to know who I am and who my biological parents are and under what circumstances I was given up for adoption,” says Jyoti. She visited India twice after 2015, searching for her roots, but with no success. Jyoti, a carer and anti-adoption activist, was born in Bettiah in Bihar in December 1983, according to her Indian passport. She was under the care of nuns at the Holy Cross Orphanage in Fakirana before she was adopted by a Dutch couple. Her adoption papers say that she was found in a church before she was brought to the orphanage. In 2016, she met a Jesuit father in India who she believes was with the church where she was found. What he told her has remained with her as the most defining aspect of her life — “You were given to me as a gift.” At the same Fakirana orphanage, Utrecht-based psychiatrist Regina Schipper, 42, was an inmate some five years before Jyoti. When she was seven months old, she was brought to Palna orphanage in Delhi, where she was given up for adoption when she was 20 months old. Adopted into a well-to-do family, Regina got the best of everything, and went on to become a psychiatrist. “I was given every chance to do whatever I wanted,” she says, in a phone conversation. However, despite a privileged life, she grew up with the feeling that she did not belong. “Ever since I learnt to talk — I speak Dutch — I would keep saying that I have to go back,” she says. “I always knew I had to return to India. Nobody had asked me if I had wanted to be adopted.” Growing up as a person of colour in an all-white village, she always felt “different” in spite of being “well-integrated” with the local community and having lots of friends who made her feel loved. “I always felt this urge to explain what I was doing with this white family in the Netherlands.” At 18, she suffered a major bout of depression caused by an identity crisis and a feeling of rejection that arose from knowing her birth parents had given her away. Recurring mental health issues even forced her to give up her studies after she finished grammar school, which she resumed after her adoptive father’s death in 2003. Regina first came to India when she was 15 and has since visited the country several times. She interned at Patna’s Tripolia Hospital for two months in 2008. “I always live between these two countries,” she says. Her search for her roots during the many visits revealed facts that she hadn’t known before. She was born in Narkatiaganj in Bihar in June 1978, and not in Delhi as her Indian passport says. From the church in Narkatiaganj,  where she was baptised, she managed to get the names of her parents — James Peter and Monica D’Costa. “I was not an orphan!” she says. “I had parents. They were married, and my father was a teacher.” She even met her godmother in Bihar, whose name was mentioned in the baptism certificate she obtained from the church in 2008. The godmother remembered her as “a healthy child” but claimed not to know her parents. Regina had arrived at the orphanage a well-fed baby, and people remembered it. Her adoption documents even mention her fuss-free eating habits: “Regi eats everything.” Jyoti and Regina got to know each other in the Netherlands, as children, during the annual gettogethers of families with adopted children from India. They stayed in touch all their lives and are now together in the search for their roots. For Regina, more than her identity, her search is for the truth. “I want to meet my biological parents and find out why they let me go. I want to know what forced them.”  Files in the attic  On a Sunday afternoon in June 2017, Jyoti and Regina knocked on the door of the wife of the deceased head of the Dutch adoption agency, Stichting Bemiddeling Adoptie, which had processed their adoptions. The agency had closed down in the 1990s. They were shocked to find, in the attic of the house, documents related to 125 adoptions. “They were just lying there, in someone’s attic,” says Jyoti. “The files should have been handed over to the government.” The files contained correspondences of the adopting agency with their Indian counterparts. “In the files, I found that a girl, Sarita, had been adopted by my adoptive parents before me, but she died the day after she arrived from India. I was arranged as a replacement for Sarita. My parents paid 2,000 Dutch guilders to get me,” says Jyoti. “My whole file, I realise now, was a lie. How is it possible that all information belonging to Sarita and me are identical?” The women handed over the files to the government and they were placed before the committee investigating intercountry adoptions as evidence of the wrongdoings happening around adoptions from India. They even testified before the commission. The committee studied adoptions from various countries that took place between 1967 and 1998 and found examples of “illegal activities,” such as “corruption,” making it “impossible or more difficult to establish the origins and identity of adoptees by falsifying documents; causing children to be given up in return for payment or through coercion; child trafficking; baby farming and obscuring a child’s identity.” Though the report concerns mostly Brazil, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Colombia and Sri Lanka, India features prominently as one of the top ten source countries with 3,007 adoptions between 1970 and 2019. In the case of India, the report notes a high prevalence of “structural problems” such as shoddy, incomplete documentation, corruption, maladministration, fraud, state collision, child theft and child trafficking. In 1998, the Netherlands joined The Hague Adoption Convention, an international treaty that made adoption rules stricter with an aim to prevent crimes and corruption in adoptions. In spite of that, abuses have continued, the Dutch report reveals. Peter Daalmans, General Secretary of the committee, refused to comment, saying it is “not in the hands of the committee any more to answer any questions” since their report is already published and the committee will be dissolved because its task is over. The Dutch Ministry of Justice did not respond to email enquiries.  Face on milk carton  Last year, Jyoti and Regina launched the Milk Box Project, an initiative aimed at creating a network of adoptees in the Netherlands, Indian families who fear their missing children have been adopted, and NGOs and people connected with the adoption process. The drive is named after the American practice in the 1980s in which advertisements were put on milk boxes about missing children. The two have also been working on raising awareness, given that adoptees are often discouraged from searching for their roots. At the BredaPhoto International Photo Festival, Jyoti and Regina put together 125 milk cartons with photos of 10 Dutch adoptees taken at the time of their adoption. “There was a carton for every single file we recovered from the attic,” says Jyoti. The exhibition invited 11 people from different walks of life to make a statement through their photographs. Dagmar van Weeghel shot Jyoti in a black-and-gold saree and antique Indian gold jewellery with her adoption file by her side. “The idea was to create awareness around intercountry adoptions, what it entails, and why we want to know our roots,” she said. “It is not that we are unhappy where we are; it is just that we need to know who we are, where we come from.”   A long way home  Jyoti, Regina and other adoptees feel left to fend for themselves, in spite of the Dutch government’s admission of wrongdoing. An “expertise centrum,” some kind of agency to help adoptees with ‘knowledge sharing’, has been proposed, but not much else. “During our interaction with the minister (Sander Dekker) after the report was published and a ban announced, I asked him if the government will facilitate our search in India,” says Regina. “I got no convincing response. I have no hope at all from the government… We have to organise everything on our own.” Jyoti is working on taking the battle forward legally. Her lawyer, Lisa-Marie Komp says, “I have just taken on Jyoti’s case, so I cannot yet say anything about legal actions started or envisaged. The report published in the Netherlands confirms various forms of abuse have structurally occurred in intercountry adoptions and that the Dutch state was aware of this but failed to intervene.” Regina is not one for court battles. “For some adoptees, it is a way to express their anger about what was done to them — being ripped apart from your family, with no ways to trace them because every paper is a lie,” she says. “But for others, like me, that will not work. I’d like to use my fighting spirit not to fight the system but to find my family.” However, the search for roots is very complicated, long-drawn, and expensive. Arun Dohle, an Indian adoptee from Germany, fought a legal case in India for 17 years for judicial permission to access his mother’s files before he finally met his Indian mother; she had given him up because she was unwed when he was born. Dohle’s Pune-based organisation Against Child Trafficking has been working on conducting root searches for global adoptees from India. “We have helped locate the biological families of 52 adoptees since 2004,” says Dohle, currently based in India. “In many cases the mother was unwed when the child was born. Such mothers cannot be easily traced. One must understand the social context and the precarious position of such women wherever they are, whether married or single. Only trained and skilled social workers can do this work with the sensitivity it deserves.” Dohle and his organisation have long been campaigning against the “demand-driven market” of intercountry adoptions. They also provided evidence to the Dutch committee against the malpractices rampant in India. “Intercountry adoptions are human and child rights violations, even without malpractices like baby theft, corruption and forgery,” says Dohle, welcoming the Dutch ban. Others question this stance. Studies estimate that India has approximately 30 million abandoned/ orphaned children, but in-country adoptions for 2017-18, according to Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) statistics, were as low as 3,276. With adoption still not popular in India, it is foreign families who often step in, more so for some categories like disabled children. What is not disputed is the long history of malpractice and the crying need for far better record-keeping. (CARA did not respond to emails.) In spite of the challenges, Jyoti is hopeful of finding her biological parents someday. “I am sure, somewhere, in some file or the other, there must be my chit of paper. I couldn’t have been just ‘given as a gift’.” The Siliguri-based independent journalist writes on politics and culture.  It’s not that I was unhappy with my adoptive parents, who were motivated by a desire to uplift a needy child. I just need to know who I am and who my biological parents are and why I was given up for adoption, says Jyoti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-search-for-roots/article34180990.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Leaving myself unfinished||It can feel charmingly anachronistic to read a writer who steadfastly believed in poetry as humanising and restorative — convictions rendered quaint by the deconstructive force of today’s identity politics as well as capitalism’s undermining of the sublime. But Jnanpith-winning Hindi writer Kunwar Narain, who passed away in 2017 at the age of 90, shows that there is life in these ideals yet, if only because the voice in which they are spoken has what Seamus Heaney once described, talking about the potential of lyric poetry, as “the ring of truth”. Selections from Narain’s several books of poetry have appeared in No Other World from 2008 and in the just-published Witnesses of Remembrance, both translations by his son, Apurva Narain. Apurva notes that for his father, writing has been “like loving or praying, a personal act.” His poems seem to ask the question: How to live?  Turning back There is a search for an inner context, one often created through identification with the outside. The poet reads human qualities into trees, wind, sunlight, flowers while also tending to see the human self as disembodied, immanent in nature, best experienced through an exhilarating expansiveness. “It is always from there that I have turned back,” starts the poem ‘A Fish of the Sea’, “leaving myself unfinished — where there is deceit, injustice, cowardice, folly [...] somehow to begin again.” The poem ends with this marvellous image: “to surround himself with some new expanse/ and become tiny, like a fish/ and so inaugurate another sea...” Narain’s reclusiveness has often been remarked upon — he’s been called the Buddha of contemporary Hindi poetry — and his poems seem to create a distinction between life and world: an abiding, insistent fascination with life and a recognition of the world’s increasing degradation. And so despite his turning to nature, there is none of that Romantic hope in a fresh beginning. (In contrast to, say, William Blake’s excitement — “a new heaven is begun” — over his own birth, Narain says, “I reached this world a little late.”) Practising anonymity He is a modernist in his view of urban civilisation — concrete jungles in which people prey on people “in the most modern and evolved of ways” — and he writes, after Brecht, of the dark times, which poetry does not redress. Yet the life force animating Narain’s poetry makes it hopeful. He speaks with dignity and, often, directness and it is in this manner of speaking that his greatest appeal lies. Apurva quotes journalist Ravish Kumar on the debasement of public language and how Narain’s style is a respite. “His language urges gentleness, and makes us practice anonymity. How I wish that our politics, our society, all of us, would establish a poet’s language publicly.” Narain’s way of renouncing authority — that anonymity Kumar mentions — is by freeing his poems of the sort of cloying autobiographical detail that is increasingly the stuff of lyric poetry.  Personal history is overrated, Narain seems to be saying. In his treatment of larger histories too he keeps returning to the Indian past — mythic, ancient, medieval, recent: there is the same breaking away from the facts and putting the poetic emphasis elsewhere. Heavy heart The poet repeatedly finds himself at historical sites — Fatehpur Sikri, Ayodhya, Golconda, or at that point in the northwest of the subcontinent from where Alexander turned back. But these are less wide-eyed tourist visits, more preordained returns in the manner of one trapped in a labyrinth or chakravyahu, the title of Narain’s debut collection. History through its retelling becomes myth, the archetypal event, captured for instance in the lines “[...] return I must/ with a heavy heart/ from the dusty blood-sodden fields/ of the same Kurukshetra —/ the same Panipat — the same Plassey” from the poem ‘A World Under My Feet’. If new myths are created in the imagination of the poet, it is also he who sees how existing ones have started to ring hollow: Ayodhya is corrupted, no longer Ram’s realm, and Dwarka is not Krishna’s home but a suburb of Delhi. Narain’s exemplary tone of voice is very frequently, even if not always, captured by these consistently painstaking and erudite translations. So he also lives in English now, and one hopes that the special weirdness of our literary culture, in which a writer could be a proven stalwart in one language but virtually unknown in another, is redeemed through these two books and other forthcoming translations of Narain’s huge oeuvre. The writer’s latest book is the collection of storiesA Day in the Life.  Witnesses of Remembrance: Selected Newer Poems Kunwar Narain, trs Apurva Narain  Eka  Rs. 599    The poet reads human qualities into trees, wind, sunlight, flowers while also tending to see the human self as disembodied, immanent in nature, best experienced through an exhilarating expansiveness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/leaving-myself-unfinished/article34180997.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The paradoxical status of OBCs||The term ‘Other Backward Classes’, or OBCs, is an administrative category. It is typically deployed in the context of public policy and academic research. Is it advisable to construe the hundreds of sub-castes in the OBC category as a singular political community? Kancha Ilaiah Shepherd and Karthik Raja Karupusamy, political theorists and the editors of The Shudras: Vision for a New Path , seem to think so. While they acknowledge it could be problematic to see the Shudras/OBCs as a “monolithic unit,” it is this conceptual framing that informs the essays in this volume.  The narrative argument that emerges from this anthology can be summarised as follows: Majority of Indians are Shudras. Over millennia, it was the Shudras who performed the labour involved in the production of food and material goods. But they were denied the prestige and wealth that accrues from productive work. Thanks to their social and spiritual slavery under Hinduism’s varnashrama dharma , the non-productive, minority Dwija (twice-born) elite comprising the Brahmins, Kshatriyas, and Vaishyas exploited them for centuries. When colonial modernity and democracy enabled social mobility for the Shudras, the Dwijas came up with Hindutva. Funded by Brahmin-Bania monopoly capital, Hindutva politics is about tightening the Dwijas’ grip over every node of power that has a bearing on education, employment and political representation. Paradoxically, it is the Shudras who are the biggest enforcers of an ideology whose biggest beneficiaries are their oppressors. This narrative raises two questions: What explains this “Shudra conundrum,” of turkeys voting for Christmas, as it were? And how do the Shudras forge a coherent politics of social transformation? On the first question, the contributors do a fine job of delineating why Hindutva — which appears to target only non-Hindus — cannot possibly end well for Shudras and Dalits. But there is no convincing explanation for why something that’s so obvious to these writers makes no impression on the millions of Shudras who are in thrall to an ideology that sanctions their degradation. Ilaiah suggests this is due to the Shudras’ intellectual backwardness and spiritual slavery — both rooted in the ritual denial of access to learning and resources by their Dwija oppressors. While this is certainly a major factor, it doesn’t explain why even the relatively ‘advanced’ OBC communities, who have had avenues of learning open to them for quite some time, are seemingly keen to embrace their own “socio-spiritual slavery” by supporting Hindutva. Putting all the blame on the Dwijas alone is a theoretical dead end — the byproduct of treating Shudras as a unitary group abstracted from socio-historical context. In trying to circumvent this dead end, the anthology raises more questions than it answers. Objecting to a tag For starters, how to build a politics around ‘Shudra’ identity when influential Shudra communities think of themselves as Kshatriyas and would object to the ‘Shudra’ tag? It is undeniable that historically, oppressed communities have had to ‘ethnicise’ and reinvent their identity as a precursor to emancipation. That’s what the Dravidian movement did, and it’s why the ‘Untouchables’ became ‘Dalits’. And yet, would self-identification as ‘Shudras’ sharpen or bridge the already violent fissures between Shudras and Dalits? Further, given Hindutva’s proven capability to capture power by using ‘Hindu’ identity as a lever to both transcend caste and offer status elevation within the caste order, it is no longer obvious to the OBCs that supporting a Hindutva party is against their self-interest. From a Shudra perspective, the suggestion that they should support one Brahminical national party instead of another Brahminical national party because the former is ‘secular’ and the latter is not, makes little sense. While neither party would be progressive from a Shudra perspective, there is a case to be made for supporting the one that’s more likely to offer the marginal rewards of representation simply because it’s more likely to win. In today’s India, this would make the BJP the national party of choice for many Shudras, and so it has. Alternative to Ram Rajya The Breitbart doctrine holds that “politics is downstream from culture”, and to change a people’s politics, you must change their culture first. The rightwing knows this, which is why it’s displacing India’s plural traditions with Hindutva. The authors in this volume recognise it too. Therefore, they contend that Hindutva cannot be stopped unless Shudras are de-brahminised. They believe Shudra de-brahminisation requires them to rediscover and embrace autonomous Shudra traditions. Drawing on the work of Jyotirao Phule, they see an alternative to Ram Rajya in the kingdom of Baliraja, a deity of Maharashtra’s peasantry. Shudras in other regions have their own versions of Baliraja, which brings us to the final contradiction: Should the regionally fragmented Shudras take on a homogenising national force by building an alternative homogenous politics around ‘Shudra’ identity? Or does it make better sense to fight an oppressive homogeneity with a renewed and fiercely federated pluralism? Notwithstanding the analytical problems attending the ‘Shudra’ category, this anthology brings the spotlight on the challenges facing a people who form not only the majority of India’s population but also the majority among Hindus. The Shudras is a timely intervention that ought to be read by anyone exercised by the paradoxical status of OBC communities in a country facing Hindutva hegemony.  The Shudras: Vision for a New Path Edited by Kancha Ilaiah Shepherd & Karthik Raja Karuppasamy Penguin Random House  Rs. 699    From a Shudra perspective, the suggestion that they should support one Brahminical national party instead of another Brahminical national party because the former is ‘secular’ and the latter is not, makes little sense||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-paradoxical-status-of-obcs/article34181008.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Birhor and the jungle fowl||As a former Indian Forest Service officer, my father, S.E.H. Kazmi, is a treasure trove of anecdotes and stories from his days as a conservator. On his way to a routine forest inspection with an Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF), a Range Officer and Bahadur, the driver, he suddenly saw this Birhor man — he can recognise them anywhere in the world with their incredibly swift and yet acutely alert walk — walking hurriedly on one side of the kutcha road, a hapless jungle fowl hanging upside down on his shoulder. The foresters pulled over and stopped him to inquire where exactly was he headed to and what plans he had for that fowl. “I’m going to the weekly market to sell this jungle fowl for some rice,” he said. Before my father could ask another question, the ACF butted in with a terse, “Do you even know who the sahab is? He is the DFO [Divisional Forest Officer]. Don’t you know that hunting a jungle fowl is illegal? Do you want me now to put you in jail for killing this jungle fowl?” The Birhor looked them up and down for a few seconds, thoroughly unimpressed with the ACF’s proclamation of the so-called high official status. Then, with an absolute look of contempt and disbelief followed by a short sigh, he said: “And do you know who I am? My tribe here is dying out, and your government is putting in so many efforts to save us, building us houses so that we prosper [referring to the Indira Awas and later Birsa Awas Yojana]. There are already so few of us left and you want to put such a threatened man in jail and that too for a damned fowl.” The ACF and the RO were red-faced, as the Birhor’s astute comeback had left them dumbfounded. My father couldn’t help but let out a laugh, the ingenuity of his reply and the look of exasperation and disapproval on his face as he blurted it out was hilarious and poignant at the same time. He gestured to the officers to get back, and with a smile he put his arm around this man. “Ok, tell me, how much do you plan to sell this fowl for,” he asked. “I will get 35-40 rupees for it.” My father pulled out a Rs. 50 note from his pocket, gave it to him and said, “In that case, here, I am buying the fowl from you. Now, release this fowl here in the jungle itself and you go and buy yourself the rice from the market.” The Birhor took the money, gave my father a perplexed look, pulled down the fowl from his shoulder and freed it. The forest team got back into the vehicle, with my father’s colleagues grumpy at how the entire thing had come to pass. Bahadur, a chirpy man who had surprisingly been quiet until now, finally muttered: “That damned man, he took the money from us, and now he will go and again catch that fowl.” My father smiled, as they drove on. raza.kazmi17@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-birhor-and-the-jungle-fowl/article34180982.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Let there be Urmagon Beta||The visionary author Brian Aldiss once said that “for the majority of readers new to science fiction, a landing on another planet… must be their peak experiences of the genre”. Sri Lankan author Yudhanjaya Wijeratne’s The Salvage Crew brings a new wrinkle to this hallowed sub-genre. We are propelled into a recognisable future where World War III and climate change have done a number on poor old Earth and it is imperative for humans to seek their destiny elsewhere. The United Nations takes over and starts colonising the stars, followed by mega-corporations. One of the starships carrying colonists crash-lands onto the distant planet of Urmagon Beta. A century later, a salvage contract is won by the predatory Planetary Crusade Services (PCS), which offers “end to end interstellar colonization support”. Valuable tech can still be harvested from the crashed ship, so PCS sends a team to strip it. Wijeratne introduces his first twist here. Instead of jut-jawed heroes in sharp haircuts, the crew is made up of three scruffy, washed-up salvagers, who are borderline sociopaths — the “Wrong Stuff” — if you will. Rose for your thoughts All three human characters are in thrall to various personal demons, from alcoholism to PTSD, and the tensions that arise as they try to execute their mission in an increasingly hostile world form the narrative drive. This operation is supervised, and the story narrated, by AMBER ROSE 348, an Overseer, a kind of hybrid AI, who was once human but is now ‘digitised’ and the property of the corporation. This is space opera for the gig economy, where the “cost of doing business” is the limitation, not something old-fashioned like the speed of light. As another machine-mind tells Amber Rose, “everything in the universe is a function of budget and power”. Amber Rose dreams, writes poetry, and is adept at jugaad. Pop culture references fly as fast as neutrinos and Wijeratne sets up a distinct, snarky voice for the AI, making full use of the possibilities of a non-human narrator. For instance, after the team lands on the planet, Amber Rose opens up her solar panels saying, “I unfold, like some kind of two-ton metal tree stretching out its leaves, and catch the sunlight. The tingle of voltage runs through my cells.” Neural nets Later on, an android mulls that storytelling “is to assemble given universe of facts into sequential output that is pleasurable for end recipient”. Indeed, The Salvage Crew itself is a human-machine collaborative effort. As Wijeratne explains in the introduction, he has created Urmagon Beta using something called the Zarkonnen planet generator, a software that basically keeps spitting out bespoke planets with various qualities, which you can download from a website. The weather, the character’s emotional states too, even the frequency of their quarrelling is machine generated. The poems have been constructed using GPT-2, an open source AI — “the Arts, once considered immune, are now slowly waking up to the reality of neural nets,” as Wijeratne says. We live in a world where, instead of nation states or research organisations, the likes of Musk and Bezos are the prime drivers of space explorations. Their plutocratic outlook could irrevocably mould the manner in which our species makes the leap to the stars. Target value  The Salvage Crew posits a world where exploration is not driven by a sense of wonder but yoked to insurance companies and profit allocations, where unless a salvage crew meets its “target value” it’ll simply be abandoned on the planet. This is a corporatised future, where even a machine thinks “living isn’t for the poor. Not anymore.” This bleak Weltanschauung is amplified by the extreme violence that Wijeratne suffuses the text with. The default setting, whenever any lifeform encounters another, seems to be to immediately open fire, stab, devour, or tear each other apart. Between these bloodbaths, there are ideas and technologies to ponder, ranging from Terraforming to Wittgenstein’s “language-game”, from John Searle’s Chinese Room argument to the nature of Sentience. Amidst all this, there is also a yearning for a simpler life, to find a planet, a place “where they could live without bowing to the ceaseless beehive that humanity was turning into.” The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  The Salvage Crew Yudhanjaya Wijeratne  Aethon Books  Rs. 222 (Kindle price)    Pop culture references fly as fast as neutrinos and Wijeratne sets up a distinct, snarky voice for the AI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/let-there-be-urmagon-beta/article34180994.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||I Saw Ramallah by Mourid Barghouti||When Palestinian poet Mourid Barghouti died last month in Amman after spending most of his life in exile, tributes poured in from across the world. He has 12 poetry collections to his name, on love, loss, homeland, memory, but readers in English discovered him when Ahdaf Soueif translated his memoir, I Saw Ramallah , in 2000. Banned from his homeland after the 1967 Six Day War, he spent 30 years as one of the naziheen or the displaced ones, till the summer of 1996, when in the aftermath of the Oslo Accords, Barghouti travelled to Ramallah and his childhood home at Deir Ghassanah. Speak, memory The crossing to Ramallah begins at the bridge on the Jordan river. It is a hot day, a drop of sweat mists his spectacles and blurs what he sees, expects and remembers. He walks towards Ramallah, “behind me the world, ahead of me my world.” A short bus ride takes him to Jericho, from where taxis queue to carry the “arrivals” to cities like Ramallah, Nablus, Jenin, Tulkarm, al-Khalil, Gaza and Jerusalem. Finally in a cab, he sees the “bare and chalky” hills and remembers telling his friends in Egypt (where he went to university and lived) that Palestine “was green and covered with trees and shrubs and wild flowers.” Did he paint an ideal picture of Palestine because he had lost it? Barghouti is at a loss for words, has a lump in his throat and feels let down. He is overwhelmed by a rush of emotions — joy, sadness, disappointment, regret, anger too. Politics confronts him at every turn. When Barghouti spots an Israeli flag in “our areas”, he realises it is a settlement, “buildings of white stone… solid where they stand,” and wonders what life looks like on the inside. Returning to the city of his childhood and youth, Barghouti tries to “coax joy” into his heart “as you would coax chickens to the barley.” He is constantly reminded of his older brother Mounif, who died under tragic circumstances, and Barghouti treads the paths his brother could not. In the “window of joy,” he is overcome by the “memory of elegies.” Barghouti narrates the story of a newspaperman, Abu al-Habayib, who was killed by shrapnel in June 1967. “Where had Abu al-Habayib come from? Where were his people? Everybody knew him and nobody knew him,” writes Barghouti, opening up another strand in West Bank politics. Distant beloved The people of the West Bank treated “our own people, banished by Israel from coastal cities in 1948… people who came to live in our cities and towns,” as refugees. It is not enough only to count the faults of the occupier: “we too have our faults, our share of shortsightedness.” Before Israeli occupation, life was not paradise, he admits, “but we managed our affairs in our own way.” Occupation, on the other hand, “interferes in every aspect of life and death; it interferes with longing and anger and desire and walking in the street.” The Occupation has created “generations of us that have to adore an unknown beloved: distant, difficult, surrounded by guards, by walls, by nuclear missiles, by sheer terror.” There are mahsuns (the Hebrew word for barrier) everywhere. Barghouti, wanting to take all of Ramallah with him before he leaves, talks to friends, listens to them and asks many questions. Long silences At his childhood home in Deir Ghassanah, a missing fig tree, solid in his memory, leads to more queries. His widowed aunt answers: “People have emigrated and people have died. To whom should I feed the figs, my son? It wearied me and I cut it down.” There are poignant moments and long silences when he meets mothers who lost their children during the Intifada. At a poetry reading at the village square, he begins with an elegy for his brother: “A motherly man/ Whose motherliness shaded his mother/ To see her smile,/ Who feared that in the wool of her coat/ There might be one sad thread./ Who dared to send this tremor/ Into the air around his shoulders?/ Who dared to kill beauty’s last cry for help?” In his foreword, Edward Said writes that the lyrical narrative “is one of the finest existential accounts of Palestinian displacement.” I Saw Ramallah won the Naguib Mahfouz Medal for Literature, and prepared the way for I Was Born There, I Was Born Here, where Barghouti returns to the Occupied Territories in 1998 with his Cairo-born son, Tamim, to introduce him to his Palestinian family. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Did he paint an ideal picture of Palestine because he had lost it? Barghouti is at a loss for words, has a lump in his throat and feels let down||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-saw-ramallah-by-mourid-barghouti/article34180995.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||From Gujarat to Delhi, the impact of militant Hindu nationalism||A song American pop-jazz artist Billy Joel sang in 1986 makes so much sense now, when we cannot trust anything or anyone. “It’s hard when you’re always afraid, you just recover when another belief is betrayed, so break my heart if you must, ‘coz it’s always been a matter of trust.” In such times, a book titled Undercover is bound to make you ask who is telling the story, how and where. This is the narrative of a journalist whose work led to the conviction of some of the most heinous criminals who took part in the anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002. All of his undercover investigations formed part of the court evidence and despite the best attempts of defence lawyers and Hindutva actors of various stripes to discredit and sabotage his work, the evidence stuck and led to convictions. Even if the orders in court were later reversed, the evidence was never successfully challenged. So when Ashish Khetan strung together all his undercover investigations, they tell one unified story. Mountain of evidence It’s a difficult story being told, but one that you should get as a handbook to counter the vitriol coming your way with something that cannot be disputed because it’s now court record. It tells you why Khetan and so many other journalists believe that the Gujarat government turned a blind eye or may have been complicit in various ways in letting the mobs ‘do their thing’ and what evidence they are marshalling in support of these claims. It also tells the story of how the courts, the police, various people in investigating agencies have failed us as a people and in what precise ways and with what consequences and how the dots join from those acts of violence, complicity and lies to the Delhi riots of 2020. In telling it as a personal memoir, Khetan makes you feel like you are sitting inside the story, watching the action up close. “...he reached into his drawer and pulled out his licensed revolver...’I always keep this revolver loaded,’ he said. ‘If ever a Tehelka undercover  reporter comes in front of me, I will shoot him dead.” The person saying this to Khetan had no idea that he was being filmed secretly by the very journalist from the very organisation he threatens to kill. Dealing with facts As a reckoner of how and why we have become a flimsy, barely functioning democracy, this book works well. If you’ve already been keeping track, however, you may find, as I did, that there aren’t any fresh insights. Yes, we know things have come apart and there are various people at various levels that have ‘unwoven’ our fabric, some sat on the ‘un-loom’ and some hacked away at it with scissors. Why did we let that happen, the deeper political questions underlying this unspooling are not addressed. But then, Khetan could argue that they are not meant to be. He deals with facts. The text is plain-speak and does for the present what Ram Guha’s voluminous India After Gandhi did. Both are dry, both are textbook like in their matter-of-factness — ‘this happened and then that.’ You may come away feeling like you wanted some perspective, some insight. The way Romila Thapar’s writing of history offers for instance or the way journalist K.S. Komireddi’s Malevolent Republic does. But that is perhaps an aesthetic preference and there is a place for the unfussy, say-it-as-it-is book, in a world too full of rhetoric and noisy opinion. I return to the question of trust. That counts above all else. Every last contention in this book is double and triple backed up not just by Khetan himself, but by our courts. As Joel said and Khetan would probably agree, “This time you’ve got nothing to lose you can take it, you can leave it, whatever you choose. I won’t hold back anything, and I’ll walk away a fool or a king.”  The reviewer is an independent journalist and author ofThe Anatomy of Hate. She lives and works in Shamli, Uttar Pradesh.  Undercover: My Journey into the Darkness of Hindutva  Ashish Khetan  Context/Westland  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-gujarat-to-delhi-the-impact-of-militant-hindu-nationalism/article34181012.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On March 28, 1794, this museum opened to the public after being open for a few months only for members. Originally built as a grand fortress in Paris, it was then turned into a palace before becoming the largest museum in the world. It is so big that even if you spent just 30 seconds with each piece, it would take 100 days to see all of them. What is the name of this museum, the origin of which no one can correctly determine? 2The word museum comes from the Greek “mouseion,” the temples dedicated to the Muses and the arts they inspired. The earliest known mention of such an institution is from around the 4th century BC, when a certain Greek Philosopher founded a mouseion at his Lyceum school for the collection of specimens for his zoological studies. Who was this legendary polymath who was the teacher for Alexander the Great? 3The Museum of Endangered Sounds exists online to allow streaming of once popular technological sounds that are now no longer heard, such as VCR loading noises, CD skipping noises, Windows 95 startup etc. One of the most popular sounds is a particular noise that used to be jokingly referred to as ‘whale song’. This was a reference to the variety of noises when a certain technological function was carried out. What sound is this which should bring back many memories to 90s kids? 4Sue is the nickname for FMNH PR2081, which is the largest and best-preserved dinosaur fossil. Sue was going to be put in a private collection before companies including Disney and McDonald’s helped fund $8.3 million for the Chicago Field Museum to purchase her for display to the public. Named after Susan Hendrikson who discovered it, what type of dinosaur was Sue? 5Avant-garde Danish artist Arthur Koepcke had loaned his $116k artwork to the Neues Museum in Nuremberg, Germany. In 2016, a 91-year-old woman who was visiting the museum looked at the exhibit and proceeded to spoil the artwork unknowingly. She used a ballpoint pen to carry out the work of vandalism and her enthusiasm was attributed to her being a cruciverbalist. What work of art was this that you would probably find in another part of this newspaper? 6The Kentucky Coal Mining Museum focuses on the history of the coal industry in Eastern Kentucky. Built in the 1920s, it features many exhibits including an underground mine tour in which visitors can ride a rail car through a coal mine. In 2017 they decided to switch to a different power source, and in the process save up to $10,000 a year. What is the source of power for the Kentucky Coal Mining museum that makes it a very ironic but logical choice? 7The Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in Washington DC is the fifth most visited museum in the world. It showcases mankind’s greatest achievements in aviation and spaceflight including the Wright Brothers’ aeroplane, Apollo 11 module, the Bell X-1 and a model of the starship Enterprise . On April 1, 2013, they displayed an invisible jet that they reportedly took on loan from Lieutenant Diana Prince. Whose plane was this? 8The Muzej prekinutih veza in Croatia is a collection of personal items, each of which has a story and a description. This innovative museum was started by two artists who, after a particularly tumultuous time in their lives, jokingly decided to set up a museum to store the things they didn’t want to see in their lives. The collection grew as people started volunteering. What is this museum dedicated to which is also a theme in many songs and films? 9There is a small museum in the middle of the barren Jornada del Muerto desert in New Mexico, which is only open for 12 hours each year — six in spring and six in autumn. The displays are a few pebbles of glass, a chunk of concrete and an abandoned ranch house. Admission is free but visitors are strictly warned not to overstay their time. Known as Trinity Site, what world-first event does this museum commemorate? 10Two hours north of Tokyo in a town called Chichibu, there is a one-of-a-kind museum called ‘Chinsekikan’ that houses over 1,700 exhibits. It is devoted to collecting and displaying ‘jinmenseki’, which are items of a certain type that happen to look like human faces. In English, this phenomenon is known as ‘pareidolia’, where there is an incorrect perception of a pattern. This museum houses exhibits that look like ET, Donkey Kong, Nemo and rockstars such as Elvis. What are these items, which you might find yourself? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34181028.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Mandu||I was in Mandu, Madhya Pradesh, last month as part of the Mandu Festival. The historic city buzzed with tourists enjoying the great outdoors after months of lockdown. Decked with fluttering pennants, dream-catchers and fairy lights, the famed baobab trees looked alive. With some 3,000 historic monuments scattered all over, Mandu has stories at every corner. But the tale that intrigued me the most was the 16th century romance of Rani Roopmati and Baz Bahadur, the sultan of Malwa. I sought out the monuments connected to them and so met Deepak Gadvi, a local guide, who regaled me with stories. For the love of the river Roopmati was a beautiful shepherdess with a lovely voice. Baz Bahadur, the last independent ruler of Mandu, heard her singing and fell in love. He invited her over to Mandu. While Roopmati too was smitten, she refused to go with the sultan because she venerated the Narmada river, which wasn’t visible from Mandu. “That is when Baz Bahadur had two pavilions constructed atop the Roopmati palace in just 48 hours, so that she could catch a glimpse of the gleaming Narmada miles away,” said Deepak, accompanying me to Rani Roopmati Mahal, situated at an elevation. Originally envisaged as an army post, the pavilion’s upper level offers bird’s eye view of the city. Close by is Rewa Kund (Rewa is another name for Narmada and kund means tank), believed to have also been constructed around Roopmati’s time. According to local lore, Narmada was so impressed by Roopmati’s devotion that she appeared to her in her dreams and asked her to dig the place near the foothills of Baz Bahadur’s palace. Water sprang up when the ground was dug. The tank probably is fed by Narmada’s water from an underground natural fissure. Light-and-sound show Baz Bahadur spent a life of music and poetry with Roopmati — hymns and paintings speak of their legendary love. On one of the evenings of the festival, I managed to catch a light-and-sound show, which continued with the love story. Besotted with Roopmati, Baz Bahadur started neglecting the affairs of his kingdom and was soon defeated by Akbar’s Mughal army led by Adham Khan. Baz Bahadur fled to save himself. Adham Khan, who had heard much about Roopmati’s beauty, wanted her for himself. She refused, he persisted. Roopmati invited him over to her palace. When Adham Khan reached the mahal, she was dead, having poisoned herself. Is the tragic story true or folklore? Nobody knows for certain. But this romance between a Muslim ruler and his Hindu queen is still hailed as way ahead of its time. The freelance writer and photographer from Bengaluru seeks offbeat experiences through travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-mandu/article34181030.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Trust the eight?||Hard Luck Louie did well to play in clubs rather than spades. Game in spades would have been easy enough, but 12 tricks would not have been possible on this lie of the cards with a heart lead. Could he take 12 tricks in clubs? East won the opening heart lead with the king and shifted to the tricky eight of spades. Louie won with his ace, drew three rounds of trumps ending in dummy, and led the 10 of spades. East played low and Louie had a key decision to make. He decided that East’ s eight of spades shift was an honest card, probably from two or three small, and rose with his king of spades. Alas for Louie, he could no longer make his contract. He could ruff the spades good, but with only one entry back to his hand – the ace of diamonds – he could never enjoy them. Lucky Larry also reached six clubs from his side. He also won the spade shift at trick two, but he decided not to rely on any spade position at all. He cashed the ace of diamonds and ruffed a heart in dummy. He then ruffed a diamond with the ace of clubs and ruffed his last heart in dummy. He ruffed dummy’s remaining small diamond with the king of clubs, led the five of clubs to dummy, and drew the outstanding trumps. He claimed the balance with the king of spades, the king of diamonds, and the long trump. Well played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/trust-the-eight/article34181033.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Black, white and shades of grey||Think Guru Dutt, and we are immediately transported into the fabulous trinity of Pyaasa (1957) Kaagaz Ke Phool (1959) and Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam (1962). We think of the poetry of light in Kaagaz Ke Phool , the “crucifixion” shot of Pyaasa and the limpid beauty of Meena Kumari’s bottomless eyes in Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam . Guru Dutt made other films too that were highly entertaining with lovely songs and deft little touches. For all his angst of the schism between art and commerce, Guru Dutt was intensely aware of the need for films to be commercially successful. He ran a production house and was deeply mindful of the fact that others depended on him for their livelihood. Ode to cinema The director’s too short life lends itself easily to countless iterations in print and other media. Television journalist and film biographer Yasser Usman’s Guru Dutt: An Unfinished Story is the latest in the many tomes on him. Quoting extensively from books including My Son Gurudutt by Vasanthi Padukone, Guru Dutt: A Life in Cinema by Nasreen Munni Kabir and Ten Years with Guru Dutt: Abrar Alvi’s Journey by Sathya Saran, and articles, Usman puts together an accessible portrait of a filmmaker who fought many an inner demon to leave behind an extraordinary body of work. Starting in Berlin, 1963 where Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam was India’s official entry at the 13th Berlin International Film Festival, the book follows Dutt’s childhood as his artistically inclined father chafed under the need to do soul-crushing jobs to provide for his young, growing family. His uncle and mentor, B.B. Benegal, encouraged Guru Dutt to follow his dreams, and study dance. He later got him a job at Prabhat Studios in Poona (as it was then called). The book is divided into 15 sections — with the title Building of a Dream alternating with Destruction of a Dream. The final section is simply called 1964, the year Guru Dutt died of a suspected overdose, at the age of 39. Guru Dutt’s tempestuous marriage with singer Geeta Roy, his relationship with Waheeda Rehman as well as his lifelong friendships with actors Dev Anand and Johnny Walker and writer Abrar Alvi find mention. His struggles with depression and alcoholism are detailed. While a psychiatrist was consulted (only once because he was considered too expensive at Rs. 500 for a session!), the family seems to have gone with the commonly held belief of the time that one can will oneself to get better of mental illness. There are interesting nuggets in the book such as Gurudutt being a single word till the director put a space between them to make Dutt seem like his surname. He sent cinematographer V.K. Murthy to London to learn the latest techniques and Murthy had the chance of working on The Guns of Navarone . Also interesting is the fact that Guru Dutt was planning to adapt Wilkie Collins’ seminal work of detective fiction The Woman in White into a film called Raaz with Sunil Dutt and Waheeda Rehman. He abandoned the film after shooting two songs by R.D. Burman (It would have been Pancham’s debut...) Usman, who has written biographies of Rajesh Khanna, Rekha and Sanjay Dutt, has peppered the book with many touching remembrances from Guru Dutt’s sister, the artist Lalitha Lajmi. Usman’s book with its short chapters and easy prose is a perfect introduction to one of our most important filmmakers. Wish the book had been edited more carefully though, the spelling and grammatical errors are quite an eyesore.  Guru Dutt: An Unfinished Story  Yasser Usman  Simon & Schuster India  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/black-white-and-shades-of-grey/article34181010.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Golden rule No. 1||Dear AA,  I have been reading your column since the beginning, ever since Mr. Mathrubootham quit writing his letters (did you read them?), and they’ve gotten much funnier as time goes on. I am also a newbie blog writer, and I want some tips on how to get that beautiful flow you have. Maybe then I will get more popular on social media. Desires Emergency Advice Report   Dear DEAR,  This is the ideal place for me to insert an emoji with rolling eyes, but will the print medium allow me to do so? Heaven forbid! Which is why more and more people are simply reading WhatsApp these days. In fact, I am a big fan of WhatsApp. Sometimes people talk and talk and there is nothing you want to say in reply. You just want them to go away. What should you do? You should simply send them one Thumb’s Up, and conversation is over. Or if someone keeps boasting about his son and dog and house? Send one yellow face with round eyes that is supposed to be ‘Wow’. Enough. Nothing else is needed. Imagine if this was IRL? You have to keep nodding and saying, ‘my god!’ and ‘excellent!’ and ‘congrats!’ and the person will keep talking nonstop. But to get back to your question, this is really too much. Not only do I have to write one advice column, now you want me to give writing tips also so that you can become rich and famous? I am a fool or what? I have many talents and every one of my near and dear friends and relations and building residents knows this. If anything happens means they will always say, go to Akka, she will give solution. Why, only last week the neighbouring building’s watchman’s cycle got stolen. Lot of hue and cry happened. I heard it from my balcony and immediately went down. I told everybody how to complain to police, how to lock cycle, gate etc. I gave watchman a good lecture about careless habits. Everybody calmed down immediately. That is why this newspaper has asked me to write a column. They have seen my talent. But if you think I am going to share writing tips with you, you have another think coming. You want to take over my column or what? Why you people don’t like to see a good woman prospering I don’t know. Just like Jacob, my first-floor neighbour. All I have to do is tell him about my new 55” TV set, and he will immediately launch into one long story about how TV watching is bad for the eyes and how we must all read books. And if I tell him I made a fantastic salad for lunch, within 24 hours he is bound to send me a long WhatsApp forward about how somebody in Nashville in U.S.A. ate a lettuce salad and how there was a worm in the lettuce leaf and how the worm travelled into his brain. Golden rule in life is that we must ignore all such Jacob-type people. Like that, there are many, many golden rules about writing also. Foremost among these is that it is impossible to share writing tips. Writing is like Chennai corporation water, either it will flow or it will not flow. And there is nothing you can do about it. Meanwhile, who is this Mathrubootham you are dragging into the conversation? I don’t know him. Perhaps he was another Jacob? Always giving doomsday advice? Maybe he will give you writing tips. But on this mail ID, there is only myself, Akka. — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/golden-rule-no-1/article34181026.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The changing contours of cricket||I can’t think of any game which has changed as much over the past three or four decades as the game of cricket. The radio commentaries (television was some way off) of Anant Setalvad, Pearson Surita, Suresh Saraiya, Tony Cozier, Henry Blofeld and Richie Benaud still ring fresh in my mind. I remember that even a quarter century by an Indian batsman those days was applauded as a milestone, and a six by a Salim Durrani or a ‘Tiger’ Pataudi was received with rapturous applause, for sixes those days were rare. I still recollect the thrill that Eknath Solkar’s sixer gave me even when the entire Indian team was bundled out for a mere 42 runs by the Englishmen in the summer of 1974. The white flannel trousers and full shirts, the nature of the pitches, or the kind of stumps, shoes, pads, gloves, bats and balls of then may appear antediluvian to today’s cricketer. Physical fitness had nowhere assumed the importance it has today! Spare a thought for an Indian batsman, without any of the protective gear that is available to the modern batsmen and conditioned on a diet of spin and flat pitches, having to face bowlers of the pace of Lillee, Thompson, Hadlee or the formidable quicks from the West Indies. Commercialisation of cricket, which perhaps started with the Kerry Packer series, in the late 1970s, was viewed by most purists with suspicion and even disdain. The advent of T20, the IPL and the gravitational shift of the power centre of cricket to India with the Board of Control for Cricket in India becoming one of the world’s richest sports bodies, the coloured clothing, the logos and the brands, the day-night matches, the sponsors and the money, the advancement of technology, the cameras, the Decision Review System, the emergence of trainers and sports psychologists, the “democratisation” of the game and the emergence of young cricketers from the remote plains and places of India driven by a fierce will to “make it”, have made this game almost unrecognisable from what it used to be! The languid grace of a straight drive past the bowler, or the classical run-up of a fast bowler to deliver his lethal inswingers and outswingers with deadly accuracy, or the guile and skill of a slow left arm or right arm spinner might still be there, but these appear to have been largely eclipsed by “360 degree” batsmen who can play the “ramp shot” and “switch-hits” at will, fast bowlers who bowl “slow” bouncers and “cutters”, “knuckle” balls and toe-crushing yorkers, spinners who can confuse and confound batsmen with “doosras” and the “carrom ball” and fielders who can defy laws of gravity in plucking catches while being airborne. The fact that the game has changed over the years is something that is axiomatic. The purist might not like a “ramp shot” or a “switch-hit”, but the crew-cut, gum-chewing cricketer of today might tell him that it fetches him and the team runs and well, can one argue with that? ashokwarrier27@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-changing-contours-of-cricket/article34180984.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3143||Across  1 Book, slim part of Bible, poetry without rhyme (5,5) 6 Man perhaps somewhat misleading (4) 9 Where you can bet sailors will give you a purgative (5,5) 10 Tense? Regularly take garlic powder (4) 12 Leg at start of exercise being given circular motion and elevation? (9,2) 15 Everyman is taking speed in Elvis’ home (7) 16 Translation of ‘Danger!’ before tip of epée is seen? (2,5) 17 Chemists use these witty comebacks (7) 19 Prime Minister that is 7-10 year-old (7) 20 Trophy from a ceramics moulding held aloft (8,3) 23 Native Americans seeing bear-like characters every so often (4) 24 Amassed much water and industrial kit (4-6) 25 Empty kettle and glass vessels (4) 26 Wayward youth is behind fiery eruption somewhere in C Europe (10)  Down  1 Auntie looking up and down (4) 2 In despair, looking up, seeing part of church (4) 3 Imminent White House inhabitant treated shark malaria (6,6) 4 Theologian enthralled by opera’s musicality (7) 5 Primarily, something offered to herald ending (rude expression!) (2,5) 7 Amazing seeing the Queen in second act of vandalism (10) 8 In disguise, he’d creep in sneakily (10) 11 Struggle in France to order foie gras pies (5,2,5) 13 Jumped-up master, having absorbed a smattering of learning, extremely ‘clever Dick’! (5,5) 14 Parenting where ‘son comes first’ is suffocating (10) 18 Wound up about one that’s more fearsome (7) 19 His most famous character is never performed in modern theatre (7) 21 Whereby type of light starts to enter animals? (4) 22 Topic like ‘Bigger Moustaches in EastEnders’ (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3143/article34181036.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||We abstain||The United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a resolution to investigate and prosecute war crimes in Sri Lanka, with 22 countries voting in favour to 11 against. India was among 14 members that abstained, but it outlined its “two fundamental considerations” in a statement: “support to the Tamils” and “the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka”. The Sri Lankan government rejected the resolution as “politically motivated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/we-abstain/article34180970.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||National film awards||The 67th National Film Awards saw Dhanush (Asuran, Tamil) and Manoj Bajpayee (Bhonsle, Hindi)(pix below)share the prize for Best Actor, while Kangana Ranaut (PangaandManikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi, Hindi) bagged Best Actress. Priyadarshan’sMarakkar: Arabikkadalinte Simham, a Malayalam historical drama starring Mohanlal, won Best Feature Film, and Sanjay Pooran Singh Chauhan was named Best Director for the Hindi filmBahattar Hoorain, a dark comedy about extremism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/national-film-awards/article34180972.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai crisis||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh petitioned the Bombay High Court for a CBI probe into Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. He had first approached the Supreme Court, which asked him to move the High Court. Singh made explosive allegations, accusing Deshmukh of asking Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore monthly, among other crimes. Amid a political storm, Deshmukh met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and denied the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mumbai-crisis/article34180974.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Deadlock doldrums||Israelis went to the polls in the fourth parliamentary election in two years, and early results suggested a deadlock. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s (above) right-wing Likud party was in the lead, but even with coalition partners factored in, both he and the opposition led by Yair Lapid looked likely to fall short of the 61 seats needed for a majority. Both blocs scrambled for the support of a few swing factions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/deadlock-doldrums/article34180976.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Scent of Happiness||R. Vatsala, trs K. Srilata   & Kaamya Sharma  Ratna Sagar Rs. 499 Prema leaves her abusive husband to bring up her daughter on her own while fighting oppression at the workplace and forging strong bonds with women. This critique of gender politics is about new ways of being a woman and of re-thinking the self.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-scent-of-happiness/article34180992.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Death in Colaba Bay: A Colonial Bombay Mystery||Ambika Subramanian  Rupa Rs. 195 Bombay 1898. Three young girls go missing from a prominent ‘native’ school. Soon, one of them is found dead. Tara Bai, a young widow and heiress, is an alumnus of the school. At the behest of the school principal, she agrees to help the grieving parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/death-in-colaba-bay-a-colonial-bombay-mystery/article34180999.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Life in the Clock Tower Valley||Shakoor Rather  Speaking Tiger Rs. 350 The plot travels between Kashmir’s pristine past, its grievous present and its uncertain future through the stories of Samar, a college student; Sheikh Mubarak, Samar’s neighbour; and Sana, Mubarak’s five-year-old daughter. Offers an insider’s view of everyday life in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/life-in-the-clock-tower-valley/article34181001.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Elegy for the East||Dhrubajyoti Bora  Thornbird Rs. 595 The sylvian countryside of Assam, with its rolling green paddy fields, hides memories of bloodshed, death, rape, and terror. But the ravaged people continue with their lives amidst all this, as they must, while hoping and dreaming of peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/elegy-for-the-east/article34181003.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||How India Votes and What it Means||Pradeep Gupta  Juggernaut  Rs. 499 Does polarisation help win elections? How have smartphones changed Indian politics? Why are women a distinct voting bloc in some States but not others? Based on years of field interviews and analysis, a pollster gives an overview on how and why Indians choose their leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-india-votes-and-what-it-means/article34181005.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Soumitra Chatterjee: A Life in Cinema, Theatre, Poetry & Painting||Arjun Sengupta, Partha Mukherjee  Niyogi Books  Rs. 1,250 This book explores the life and work of Soumitra Chatterjee through his early years and his relationships with Sisir Kumar Bhaduri and Satyajit Ray. As an actor he constantly looked out for fresh challenges, and he had diverse interests, from theatre to art.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/soumitra-chatterjee-a-life-in-cinema-theatre-poetry-painting/article34181014.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Execution of Bhagat Singh||Satvinder Singh Juss  HarperCollins  Rs. 699 A law professor looks at flaws in the legal process followed leading to the execution of Bhagat Singh in 1931. Through a comparison of the case-law in the U.K. with what was decided in the trial, he gives fresh insights into the use of colonial power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-execution-of-bhagat-singh/article34181016.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A World without Email||Cal Newport  Penguin Random House  Rs. 699 Drawing on sociology, behavioural economics and fascinating case studies of thriving email-free companies, Newport explains how this tool does not work for our ancient brains and provides solutions we can implement today to transform a workday into one without constant, distracting pings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-world-without-email/article34181018.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article34180969.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Will intranasal vaccine give sterilising immunity?||While all COVID-19 vaccines administered through the intramuscular route have been found to reduce the chances of symptomatic disease and death, attempts are being made to develop vaccines that can potentially prevent or at least greatly reduce the chances of being infected and also stop the spread of the virus. Such vaccines are typically administered at the site of infection, and the most efforts are at developing vaccines that can be administered intranasally either as drops or as a spray. Developed by Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, the vaccine has been licensed to Bharat Biotech to carry out human clinical trials, manufacture the vaccine and distribute them in all countries except the U.S., Japan and Europe. Bharat Biotech has already begun the phase-1 clinical trials at four sites in India – Hyderabad, Nagpur, Patna and Chennai. Clinical trial According to details posted on the U.S. clinical trial registry, the vaccine will be tested on 175 participants as single and double doses in the phase-1 trial. There will be three arms – single dose, double dose and placebo. There will be 70 participants each who will get a single dose and double dose (day 0 and 28), and the placebo arm will have 35 participants. Much like the Oxford vaccine, the intranasal vaccine has been developed using the vector-based platform and uses a chimpanzee adenovirus (Ad 36) to ferry the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 virus. A single dose of the intranasal vaccine has been found to induce robust mucosal immunity, which prevents SARS-CoV-2 infection in the upper and lower respiratory tracts of mice when challenged with the virus a few weeks after vaccination. Robust humoral and cell-mediated immune responses were also seen. In the case of hamsters, a single dose of the vaccine provided “superior protection” of the nasal cavity and upper respiratory tract, which may confer protection against both infection and transmission. Even in the case of rhesus monkeys, a single intranasal dose of the vaccine induced neutralising antibodies and T cell responses and was found to limit or prevent infection in the upper and lower respiratory tract once challenged with the virus. Even if the vaccine is unlikely to confer sterilising immunity, the local mucosal immunity is likely to reduce the possibility of infection and in all probability might prevent transmission. “Whether it confers sterilising immunity or not will become clear only during human trials. But it is more likely to reduce infection though the extent of reduction remains to be seen,” says immunologist Dr. Satyajit Rath, formerly with the National Institute of Immunology, Delhi and now a visiting faculty at IISER Pune. “The intranasal vaccine is very unlikely to confer sterilising immunity. So far, only the HPV vaccine has been found to confer sterilising immunity,” says virologist Dr. Jacob John, formerly with CMC Vellore. “The vaccine may also not prevent infection but can surely reduce the speed of transmission.” Duration of protection While Dr. Rath is unsure how long the duration of protection conferred by local mucosal immunity might last and thinks that it might be the same as when the vaccine is administered through intramuscular route, Dr. John says the local mucosal immunity will be short-lived, perhaps for months to a year. Dr. John also points out that for diseases where transmission is either by respiratory or faecal-oral route, vaccines administered through the intramuscular route have been equally effective in either preventing infection or disease onset. In contrast, the oral polio vaccine has to be administered repeatedly to confer continued protection. A typical example is HPV, where sterilising immunity at the site of infection is achieved even though it is an intramuscular vaccine. “Even if one cell is infected, the process of chronic infection and malignancy continue. This is the only vaccine that prevents even one cell from getting infected, and it is due to sterilising immunity,” says Dr. John. Case of measles In the case of measles, which is highly contagious, a vaccinated child can get infected but may not suffer from disease. “Measles spreads only after disease sets in. Since the vaccinated child does not suffer from disease the child does not spread the virus through the nasal route,” he explains. In the case of whooping cough, it’s the toxin and not the bacteria per se that causes disease. A child can get infected despite being vaccinated intramuscularly, but the vaccine-induced immunity reduces the chances of disease even when infected, says Dr. John. In the case of diphtheria, where the infection will be sub-clinical, for the disease to get worse large-scale multiplication of the bacteria on the mucosal surface is needed, which is facilitated by the toxin. When the toxin is not effective due to the presence of toxin antibodies, the growth of the bacteria is compromised and disease onset is prevented. The biggest advantage that intranasal vaccine offers is the ease of vaccine administration, particularly when the vaccine is administered as drops. There will be no need for trained health workers for intramuscular administration. Just like in the case of oral polio vaccination, the use of a cheap dropper to administer the vaccine to multiple people will make the vaccination drive easy, simple and cost-effective. If any intranasal vaccine is found to be safe and highly efficacious even against variants, and if the vaccine is available in large quantities, the possibility of administering the vaccine to large populations within a short time to check the spread of the virus may be possible. Dr. John is even optimistic of eradicating the virus if the world comes together to administer an efficacious intranasal vaccine within a short time frame. “It all boils down to a design issue for eradication,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/will-intranasal-vaccine-give-sterilising-immunity/article34181146.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the LHC on the brink of discovering new physics?||Once in a way, the world of physics is in a state of upheaval – experiments are carried out that reveal limitations to older, established theories, and new physics is born. In this manner, on March 23, a wave of excitement propagated through the particle physics community when researchers from the LHCb experiment at CERN, situated in the Franco-Swiss border, announced the results of their latest analysis of data. Verge of discovery While the findings were not sufficiently strong to be counted as a discovery, CERN scientists were excited enough to reveal that if the anomaly they had detected was confirmed, “It would require a new physical process, such as the existence of new fundamental particles or interactions.” Spokesperson for LHCb, Professor Chris Parkes from the University of Manchester and CERN qualified this by saying, “More studies on related processes are under way using the existing LHCb data. We will be excited to see if they strengthen the intriguing hints in the current results.” What was this excitement all about? It is necessary to delve into the world of elementary particles to understand this. Particle zoo Broadly speaking, elementary particles are classified into the particles called baryons – which include protons, neutrons and their antiparticles the antiprotons etc. The “middle mass” particles, roughly speaking, are called the mesons and they include members such as the K and B particles. You then have the leptons, which include the electron and its cousins the muon and tau particles and the anti-particles. At a still smaller scale, there are tiny particles called quarks and gluons. There are six flavours of quarks: up, down, truth, beauty, charm and strange. They too have antiquarks associated with them. In this particle zoo, while the baryons are made up of combinations of three quarks, the mesons contain two quarks, more accurately a quark and antiquark pair, and the leptons are truly fundamental and are thought to be indivisible.  Until now it is believed that the electron, muon and tauon and their antiparticles, though they differ in mass, behave similarly in particle interactions. Colliding particle beams By interactions here, is meant the following: If a huge particle accelerator such as the LHC were to accelerate beams of hadrons (such as protons) to very high speeds, a fraction of that of light, and then cause them to collide. Basically, smash through the repulsive nuclear forces and shatter them, the hadrons would break up into constituents which would recombine to form short-lived particles, which would decay into stabler states. Roughly speaking, during this process, they are imaged in a huge multistorey detector and the number of specific processes and particles are counted. One such process that was measured was the decay of a meson B (which contained the beauty quark) into K-meson (which contains the strange quark) and a muon-antimuon pair, and this was compared with the decay of B into K and an electron-antielectron pair. The expectation is that the ratio of the strengths of these two sets of interactions would be just one. This is because the muons are not essentially different from the electrons as per the Standard Model, the presently accepted theoretical model of all elementary particle interactions. This is called the lepton universality principle. Anomaly or fluke? However, what the LHCb has seen is that the ratio is not 1, but it is approximately 0.846. However, the discrepancy is only at the level of 3.1 sigma, which is a measure of the chances that it might be due to a fluke. Scientists have agreed that in order to declare something a discovery, it should have a significance of 5 sigma or more (which is a much lower chance of a fluke). Commenting on what would happen if, with analysis of more data, this significance was found to increase, Prof. Rahul Sinha of The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, says, “The standard model will no longer be a complete description of particles and their interactions. It assumes as a starting point that electron, muon and tau interactions are universal and hence of the same strength.” Prof. Rahul Sinha and collaborators have worked on these so-called flavour-changing neutral current penguin decays since the mid 1990s. “These interactions are highly suppressed in the standard model, and they were understood to be important even in the late 1970s,” he says. According to Prof. Sinha, “It was realised by mid-1990s that they are small but not vanishingly small because of the very heavy top quark… In 1996, we realised that the decay b (quark) to s (quark) and lepton-antilepton pair can result in many observables because of the rich kinematics. Hence, we realised that this was great mode to look for new physics. It took several more years before they were observed.”  In 1996, we realised that the decay b quark to s quark and lepton-antilepton pair can result in many observables ... that this was great mode to look for new physics. Rahul Sinha IMSc, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/is-the-lhc-on-the-brink-of-discovering-new-physics/article34181137.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||New species of red algae seen in west, south east Indian coast||Two new species of seaweed have been discovered by a group of marine biologists from Central University of Punjab, Bathinda. Named Hypnea indica (after India) and Hypnea bullata (because of the blisterlike marks on its body – bullate), the seaweeds are part of the genus Hypnea or red seaweeds. They grow in the intertidal regions of the coast, namely the area that is submerged during the high tide and exposed during low tides. The discovery was recorded in the journal Botanica Marina.  Adding to the number The genus Hypnea consists of calcareous, erect, branched red seaweeds. “There are 61 species of which 10 were reported in India. With our two new species, the total number of species now would be 63,” says Felix Bast, from the Department of Botany, in the University, who led the research.  While Hypnea indica was discovered Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, and Somnath Pathan and Sivrajpur in Gujarat, Hypnea bullata was discovered from Kanyakumari and Diu island of Daman and Diu. To rule out the possibility that the species had been around earlier, but that now had been documented, the researchers compared characteristics of these specimens with all the 61 currently accepted species of Hypnea one by one. “Comparison not only included morphology, but also DNA sequences. Such a polyphasic approach combining morphology (traditional) with DNA sequencing (modern) is the gold standard in species discoveries in taxonomy these days,” says Dr. Bast. Chance discovery The researchers were on a routine survey and collected a large number of species. “Our heuristics involve making a checklist of obviously known species (by carefully examining the morphology) and shortlisting unique specimens that do not conform to existing species descriptions. Such unique specimens would be subjected to DNA barcoding to check homology with other sequences worldwide (to reduce the costs).” Dr. Bast explains.    Food industry Species of Hypnea contain the biomolecule carrageenan, which is widely used in the food industry. As the two species have been found on the west and south east coasts of India, it suggests good prospects for their cultivation which can be put to good use economically.  The study also reports one other species of Hypnea for the first time in Indian coasts, Hypnea nidifica.  The extensive calcareous deposits on the body that has been observed also provides room for thought. Several recent studies have shown that algae with calcareous mineral deposits are prone for the damage from ocean acidification – an aftermath of climate change. As carbon dioxide in the atmosphere gets dissolved in ocean waters, the seawater becomes more acidic. Algae like Hypnea cannot survive in acidic seawater, hence, the only way to help these species is to reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide levels by adopting sustainable lifestyle choices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-species-of-red-algae-seen-in-west-south-east-indian-coast/article34181135.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Ingenious squids||How do squids tune colour and brightness of iridescence of their skin? Squids adeptly change the colour and patterns on their skin for camouflage and communication. Earlier, researchers have found that proteins called reflectins are responsible for their iridescence. Now, researchers from the University of California, Santa Barbara, have found (Applied Physics Letters) what allows squids to tune the reflected light. Daniel Morse’s team from the University had already found that structures (subwavelength-wide grooves) and mechanisms by which light-reflecting cells (iridocytes) in the skin can take on virtually every colour of the rainbow. The grooves are formed by a cell membrane that folds into nanoscale accordion-like structures called lamellae. The width of the grooves can be changed – widened or narrowed – at will by the action of “osmotic motor” driven by reflectin proteins. The researchers then found that the reflectin proteins can not only tune the colour but can also tune the brightness using the same mechanism. Aggregations of the reflectins exert osmotic pressure on the lamellae causing water release from the cells. The release of water in turn collapses the accordion so the thickness in spacing between the folds gets reduced. This causes the light that is reflected to shift progressively from red to green to blue, says a release. At the same time, the membrane's collapse also concentrates the reflectins, causing an increase in their refractive index, amplifying brightness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ingenious-squids/article34181133.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Questions around COVID-19 virus mutants||The story so far: The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), a unit of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, reported this week that a unique “double mutant” variant of the novel coronavirus had been found in India. It was reported in about 200 cases in Maharashtra, and some in Delhi and Punjab. The NCDC also said about 771 cases of variants of concern (VOCs) were detected in over 10,000 samples shared by States and Union Territories. When did mutations start emerging? The emergence of new mutations in the novel coronavirus is par for the course. Variants pique scientific interest when scientists sequence the genomes of the virus sourced from RT-PCR-positive samples from a diverse population and compare changes in the genetic structure to the original strains from the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Often, there are changes in the genetic alphabet that appear to give the virus a better evolutionary advantage in being able to continue spreading in the population. Some of these changes confer a massive advantage and become the dominant variant. Thus, a mutation called D614G in the early stages of the pandemic emerged last year, involving aspartic acid (D) in the 614th position of the amino acid being replaced with glycine (G). This gave the virus a significant advantage in gaining more efficient entry into the body. It emerged that while before March 1, 2020, only 10% of 997 global genome sequences had the mutation, 67% of sequences between March 1 and March 31 and 78% of the sequences between April 1 and May 18 had it. What are the existing mutant combinations? As new variants evolve, scientists start assessing if certain combinations of mutations are more likely. A mutation N501Y last year was independently reported in South Africa and Australia, and in the United Kingdom it was correlated with a threefold spike in cases last December, where half the cases carried it. The N501Y allowed the spike protein of the virus to take hold better. The ‘UK variant’ (B.1.1.7), as it eventually came to be known, had at least 14 key mutations. However, another key mutation, E484K, which helped the virus dodge the immune system more frequently, also began to gain ground. Both these mutations together started to appear frequently in South Africa and were correlated with a large spike. That became the ‘South African’ variant, B.1.351. These two variants, along with another called the Brazilian variant (P.1), given their spread, infectivity and ability to somewhat reduce the efficacy of vaccines are the only ones internationally termed as ‘Variants of Concern’ (VOC). How significant is the ‘double mutant’ variant? The double mutant variant reported by the NCDC has the simultaneous presence of two mutations — E484Q and L452R — that have been independently found in other variants in several countries associated with local outbreaks. The latter mutation has been individually linked to local outbreaks in California, United States, and has been shown to evade monoclonal antibodies (antibodies made in a lab with a niche targeting mechanism) produced in response to COVID-19 infection. It has also been linked to increased infectivity. The E484Q can escape four kinds of monoclonal antibodies and even some polyclonal antibodies  derived from COVID-19 patients’ blood serum. So far, nobody knows how the combined presence of these mutations would work. About 10,787 Indian genomes have been sequenced so far and around 200 samples in Maharashtra have been found to contain the variant with the mutation, as do a handful in Delhi and Punjab. The spike in cases — now over 60,000 a day — particularly in these States has led to the speculation that whether it is due to mutant strains. But not enough has been done to establish that. For that, genome samples from a district or a cluster reporting a spike in cases have to be sequenced and then compared to whether a significant fraction of them has the mutations of interest. However, experts say the U.K. variant (B.1.1.7) may be of greater concern. As of March 23, the variant had spread to a total of 125 countries across all six WHO regions and is the dominant strain in Britain. It has also been reported to have over 60% higher mortality rate, the WHO says. Earlier this week, the NCDC said about 81% of 401 samples sent for genome sequencing from Punjab were found to have the U.K. variant. “This variant is more likely to contribute to an intense second wave,” Jeremy Kamil, a virologist at Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center Shreveport, toldBBCrecently. What does this mean for public health? Very little so far. As the NCDC and the Health Ministry underline, the standard prescription of wearing masks, avoiding potential super-spreading events and getting a vaccine, if eligible, remains the best defence against the virus variants. Threatening variants emerge from the increased opportunity for the virus to replicate and reducing opportunities for this continues to be the best defence. A consortium of 10 labs in India, called the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG), has been sequencing a proportion of RT-PCR-positive samples and 771 have been found positive for three VOCs — the U.K., South African and Brazilian strains. The new variant combination in India is yet to be assigned a formal lineage name. Once that is done, there will be studies that seek to establish its frequency and association with spurts in cases. Then there will be studies that will check if the variant causes available vaccines to be less effective, or whether they are linked to severe disease. Based on what they reveal, we may have a ‘variant of concern’ uniquely associated with India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/questions-around-covid-19-virus-mutants/article34181074.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||4 held over septic tank deaths in east Delhi||Four persons have been arrested in connection with the death of two men while cleaning a septic tank in a banquet hall in east Delhi’s Patparganj on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said the accused have been identified as Rahul, Amir, Johit and Girish who were arrested on Friday night. Johir and Girish are directors of the banquet hall while Amir is the general manager and Rahul is a hospitality employee who had allegedly called the workers for the job, the police said. “Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, has been invoked against Amir, Girish and Johit,” an officer said, adding it has not invoked against Rahul as he belongs to the community. Two waiters, identified as Lokesh Kumar and Prem Chand, both residents of Trilokpuri, died inside the septic tank of the banquet hall on Thursday when they were allegedly forced to clean it. Their families claimed that the two were told that they would not be paid for the day’s work if they didn’t clean the tank. The police had registered a case under Section 304A of the IPC and Section 9 of Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act. BJP demands relief Earlier in the day, the BJP termed the deaths “sad and unfortunate”. Demanding Rs. 10 lakh each as compensation for the kin of the victims, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal demanding that the practice of manual cleaning of septic tanks be stopped. “It is regretful that despite tall claims by the AAP government before the elections that manual cleaning of sewers would be eliminated and everything will be done through machines, manual cleaning of septic tanks and sewer lines continues to be carried out, which is shameful and needs to be condemned,” Mr. Bidhuri wrote. The Delhi government, Mr. Bidhuri pointed out, had held a “big show” to showcase machines for sewer cleaning. Despite that, nothing has changed and the event was “only a publicity stunt” to mislead the people. “The government had also announced that it would provide proper safety kits to the workers involved in this work but that has remained on paper,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-held-over-septic-tank-deaths-in-east-delhi/article34181488.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Permanent commission for women in Army||The story so far: The Supreme Court in Secretary, Ministry of Defence vs. Babita Puniya last February directed the government to ensure that women officers in the Army are granted permanent commission (PC) as well as command postings in all services other than combat. Later, questioning the compliance of the Army with the directions in the judgment, around 80 women short service commission officers approached the Supreme Court challenging the arbitrary process, including unjust medical standards, applied to deny permanent commission to women officers. On March 25, the Supreme Court in Lt. Col. Nitisha vs. Union of India held that the Army’s selective evaluation process discriminated against and disproportionately affected women officers seeking permanent commission. What did the Supreme Court observe? A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed that the pattern of evaluation inherently caused economic and psychological harm to women short service commission officers. The judgment, authored by Justice Chandrachud, said the evaluation criteria set by the Army constituted “systemic discrimination” against the petitioners. The Bench found several deviations in the standards adopted by the Army for evaluating women officers. “This disproportionate impact is attributable to the structural discrimination against women, by dint of which the facially neutral criteria of selective ACR [annual confidential reports] evaluation and fulfilling the medical criteria to be in SHAPE-1 at a belated stage, to secure PC [permanent commission] disproportionately impacts them vis-à-vis their male counterparts,” the court said in its judgment. Fitness is assessed under five categories, under the code letter SHAPE that includes psychological including cognitive function abnormalities, hearing, appendages, physical capacity and eyesight. The court observed that the reliance placed on women officers’ ACRs for determining the grant of permanent commission was unfair. What is the procedure for granting permanent commission? In 1992, the Union Government issued a notification making women eligible for appointment as officers in select non-combat branches. In 2008, the government extended the permanent commission to women in two branches — Judge Advocate General (JAG) and Army Educational Corps (AEC). In a long legal battle for equality, 322 women officers had approached the top court for granting permanent commission, and the Supreme Court delivered its landmark verdict in February 2020. In July 2020, the Defence Ministry issued the government sanction letter, specifying grant of permanent commission to women officers in all streams in which they are presently serving — Army Air Defence (AAD), Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME), Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) and Intelligence Corps.  How did the Army respond to the sanction letter? Following the sanction letter, the Army constituted a special selection board for screening women officers for grant of permanent commission who joined the service through the Women Special Entry Scheme (WSES) and Short Service Commission Women (SSCW). Of the 365 optee officers who were considered fit for permanent commission by the Special No. 5 Selection Board, 277 women short service commission officers (WSSCOs) were granted permanent commission after medical scrutiny. However, some petitioners said the process followed was arbitrary and challenged it in the top court. What are the fresh directives? The Supreme Court noted that the Army’s process of benchmarking women officers against the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch is “irrational and arbitrary”, and said this requirement should be removed. All women officers who have fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60% in the Special Selection Board held in September 2020 shall be entitled to the grant of permanent commission, the judgment said, subject to their meeting the prescribed medical criteria and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance. “In the spirit of true equality with their male counterparts in the corresponding batches, the WSSCOs must be considered medically fit for grant of PC by reliance on their medical fitness, as recorded in the 5th or 10th year of their service,” the court said. Other than “non-optees”, the cases of all WSSCOs, including the petitioners who have been rejected on medical grounds, shall be reconsidered within a month and orders for the grant of permanent commission must be issued within two months. Further, the court directed that the method of evaluation of ACRs and the cut-off must be reviewed for future batches to assess a disproportionate impact on WSSCOs who became eligible for the grant of permanent commission in the subsequent years of their service. Also, for theBabita Puniyacase, the court held that for officers within the service bracket of 10 to 14 years who have been denied permanent commission, it has allowed them to continue in service till they attain 20 years of pensionable service.  The Bench noted that the Army process, of benchmarking women officers against the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch, is ‘arbitrary and irrational’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/permanent-commission-for-women-in-army/article34181072.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The interval between Covishield jabs||The story so far: The Union Health Ministry, based on a recommendation from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), decided to increase the interval between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), to eight weeks, from the earlier specification of a maximum of six weeks. The Union Health Secretary wrote to all States urging them to follow the new interval span. Why was the interval increased? Therapeutics or vaccination for COVID-19 appears to be a work in progress, with new information emerging periodically. The Indian Covishield is AstraZeneca’s AZD1222 vaccine developed in collaboration with the University of Oxford. In February, data from three single-blind randomised control trials was published in The Lancet . In participants who received two standard doses, after the second dose, efficacy was higher in those with a longer interval between the first dose and second dose (at 12 or more weeks) than in those who had a shorter interval (under six weeks). This was bolstered by immunogenicity data that showed antibody-binding responses were over two-fold higher after an interval of 12 or more weeks, compared with an interval of less than 6 weeks in the 18-55 age group. This prompted the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency to suggest a broad interval of 4-12 weeks, while the WHO’s recommendation is 8-12 weeks. The increased spacing would also allow more people access to a single dose of the vaccine, giving them some measure of protection against COVID-19. In countries that have problems regarding supply of adequate doses of vaccines, this study seemed to support decisions to increase the interval. NTAGI and NEGVAC reportedly considered this data, apart from the SII’s bridging study for Covishield in India. The data showed an enhanced efficacy when the interval was increased up to 8 weeks, but no specific benefit was derived after 8 weeks.   What have States done? States have increased the interval between the prime and booster dose to eight weeks, while allowing people to get the second shot anywhere between the fourth week and the eighth. This pertains only to Covishield, which was given emergency use approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January. According to government data, Covishield has been the preferred vaccine so far against Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. What benefit does this confer? With the number of cases increasing steadily, the new spacing policy will allow more people to take at least one dose of the vaccine. While it is believed that India is unlikely to face a scarcity of vaccines with two indigenous manufacturers and a temporary brake on the export of Covishied jabs as a precaution, experts reason that the rising graph, nevertheless, makes it imperative that more people receive at least one dose of the vaccine sooner and have some protection against infection. On the other hand, experts critique the move, believing it might lead to a rash of infections before people get the second dose since the first dose only offers partial protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-interval-between-covishield-jabs/article34181075.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Jain tells DJB to prioritise cleaning of waterbodies, lakes in Capital||Water Minister and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Chairman Satyendar Jain conducted a meeting to review the situation of 600 waterbodies and lakes in Delhi. He directed officials concerned to give priority to cleaning of the waterbodies and lakes. The arrangement for treated water, however, should go on in parallel, he instructed. Officials were also told by the Minister to complete the work on time. To get the desired quantity of water of 10-12MGD to Paschim Vihar lake area and other green belts, the Minister ordered laying of a dedicated pipeline from Keshopur STP to the point of Paschim Vihar lake. He instructed that the ordinance forest near Shakurpur railway station should be supplied with treated water from Mangolpuri Common Effluent Treating Plant (CETP). Mr. Jain also reviewed the work of Iradat Nagar lake, which will receive 25MGD water from Rithala STP. The project is expected to be completed in one year and will help in groundwater recharge in north Delhi. He also directed that the DJB should complete the Najafgarh lake rejuvenation project and develop it as a polishing pond to improve the incoming 5MGD water from Najafgarh STP using natural wetlands and aeration to BOD 3mg/L. Instructions were also issued to speed up the work of construction of the lake at Dwarka WTP that was delayed due to various administrative reasons. The lake will be spread over an area of 10-12 acres. Creation of two lakes The Minister instructed to create two lakes in addition to the existing lake of 7 acres at Pappankalan STP. Cleaning up of 200 waterbodies and all lakes under the DJB, has been ordered, before the monsoon Mr. Jain strictly directed senior officials of the DJB to ensure that no sewerage line should be connected to a strong water drain and no sewage should enter a strong water drain. The DJB has been directed to submit a report on this by April 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jain-tells-djb-to-prioritise-cleaning-of-waterbodies-lakes-in-capital/article34181497.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Afghan endgame||The story so far: As the May 1 deadline for pulling out all American troops from Afghanistan nears, United States President Joe Biden faces some difficult decisions. The U.S. could abide by the promise made in the U.S.-Taliban agreement signed in February 2020 to withdraw the last of the around 2,500 American marines stationed in Afghanistan, but Mr. Biden has said it would be tough given the levels of violence there. The U.S. could negotiate with the Taliban for an extension of the agreement, offering other incentives like the release of more prisoners and the delisting of sanctioned Taliban terrorists, although the Taliban has thus far rejected that suggestion. The other option is that the U.S. could scrap the 2020 agreement and back the Ashraf Ghani government to continue towards a negotiated settlement, even as U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan to stabilise the security situation. What is the U.S. likely to do? During his visit to Delhi last week, U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said an extensive review of the U.S.’s plans for Afghanistan is still under way and that “no decision on the length of stay or troop numbers have been made to this point”. At a press conference, Mr. Biden said he did not foresee U.S. troops staying in Afghanistan “for a long time” or until 2022, but that adhering to the May 1 commitment at this point would be “hard”. No U.S. troops have been targeted by Taliban militants in the past year, but violence against Afghan civilians, particularly women, journalists, students and activists has gone up manifold, and despite the peace agreement, more than 3,000 civilians were killed in 2020. The U.S. has shown some impatience with the Ghani government as well, believing that it is dragging its feet on intra-Afghan negotiations that began last year in Doha but have stalled for the moment. U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrote in a letter, which has been leaked and not denied, that Mr. Ghani must understand the “urgency of [his] tone” as he proposed a new peace plan. The plan proposes that Mr. Ghani step up negotiations with the Taliban for “power-sharing”, discuss principles of future governance with the Taliban, and step aside eventually for a “more inclusive” or interim government. The tone of the letter seems to make it clear that the U.S. is not in favour of completely scrapping the 2020 agreement. Therefore, it is most likely to pursue the option of negotiating for an extension of the agreement, according to experts, as it builds other dialogue platforms. What are those platforms? Apart from the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, the U.S. revealed this month that it has been part of a “Troika” with Russia and China that have met several times since March 2019 along with Pakistan in search of a regional solution. The extended Troika met last on March 18 in Moscow, where Turkey, Qatar and Afghan and Taliban leaders were also invited. In his letter, Mr. Blinken proposed another mechanism for regional envoys to be led by the United Nations, which would include India and Iran as well. The next round of intra-Afghan Negotiations will be hosted in Istanbul in April, according to Mr. Blinken’s proposal. What is President Ghani’s plan? Mr. Ghani has proposed his own peace plan. The plan was announced by Afghan Foreign Minister Haneef Atmar during his visit to Delhi this week, where he reached out for support. It would involve a full ceasefire, inviting the Taliban to participate in early elections in Afghanistan, and then for Mr. Ghani to hand over power to the elected government. Mr. Atmar told The Hindu that the proposal was a “generous” offer from Mr. Ghani, who has completed just a little over a year in his present term as President. He also said no regional talks could be successful if they did not include India, which is a development partner and a stakeholder, and called the Troika meet in Moscow that did not include India, ostensibly due to objections from Pakistan and China, a mistake. Where does India stand? India’s position has been to back an “Afghan-owned, Afghan-led, Afghan-controlled” peace process, backing the elected government in Kabul, and it has not yet held talks with the Taliban directly. As a result, its option remains to stand with the Ghani government and support the constitution that guarantees a democratic process and rights of women and minorities, over any plans the Taliban might have if they come to power. At the same time, India has not foreclosed the option of talking to the Taliban if it does join the government in Afghanistan, and, in a first step, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar addressed the Doha inauguration of intra-Afghan talks last year. The government has not yet announced a special envoy on Afghanistan who could be a part of the UN-led process for regional countries, but it has made it clear that it seeks to be an integral part of the process, as the outcomes will have a deep impact on India’s security matrix as well.  On a visit to India, Afghan Foreign Minister Haneef Atmar said no regional talks could be successful if they didn’t include India, a development partner and a stakeholder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-afghan-endgame/article34181070.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 positivity rate lowest in north-east Delhi||The North-East district in Delhi has recorded the lowest rate of positivity of COVID-19 cases, which is the percentage of positive cases of the total tests conducted, on most days in March, stated official data shared with The Hindu . All 11 districts of the city have shown a gradual increase in positivity, as number of cases has been rising in March, which is currently at a three-month high. While in North-East district lesser number of people are testing positive per 100 tests, compared to other districts, North-West, South-West and South districts are on the higher side with more people testing positive per 100 tests. Officials said that the area from where samples are collected, the profile of the people, and other factors can lead to this. “North-East district has been showing low positivity for a while now and it is interesting. But we cannot name an exact reason behind the same. A study should be done if we need to find the exact cause,” a Delhi government official said. For instance, on March 24, the lowest positivity of 0.54% was recorded in North-East district, while the highest of 3% was in North-West, followed by 2.41% in South-East district. Similarly on March 5, the lowest positivity of 0.10% was in North-East district, while the highest of 1.34% was in South-West district, followed by 0.93% in East. Doctor’s opinion “In North-East district, there is a lot of migratory population and many overcrowded areas. So, a lot of people might have been infected earlier. This might be leading to lesser positive cases now,” Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-positivity-rate-lowest-in-north-east-delhi/article34181491.ece
28 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT asks Chief Secretary to look into plea on water for park maintenance||Following a plea filed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) seeking directions to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to provide treated water for the maintenance of parks, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to look into the issue. The Tribunal also said that matter should be resolved at an administrative level taking into account availability of funds and other practical considerations. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We are of the view that inter se dispute of municipal corporation and the Jal Board can be better resolved at the higher level in the administration, taking into account all practical considerations, including availability of funds and need for conserving scarce resource of drinking water, in accordance with the directions of this Tribunal already issued in the subject.” The SDMC, in its application, had stated that around 6,822 parks were maintained by the civic body and that borewells for irrigation of the parks had been closed following orders of the Tribunal. Taking into account submissions made by the SDMC, the Bench noted, “It is stated that the DJB is in the process of providing pipe network from sewage treatment plant to the parks. But till such pipelines are laid, there is need for tankers for supply of water to 5,357 parks. Hiring of tankers is the responsibility of the DJB and not of the municipal corporation.” Earlier, the green panel had directed authorities to ensure that fresh water was not used for gardening in public parks by the DDA or the SDMC and instead only treated water was to be used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-asks-chief-secretary-to-look-into-plea-on-water-for-park-maintenance/article34181493.ece
28 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: AAP and BJP spar over compensation||The AAP on Saturday said that the Delhi government has not only given a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the family of Ankit Sharma, an IB official who died during the riots here last year, but has also offered a job to his brother. “Whenever there is a murder, BJP gives it a communal colour and incites hatred among people, but does nothing to help anyone. The IB comes under the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. AAP wants to know what the BJP and the Central government have done for late Ankit Sharma and his family over the last one year,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj. The party also said that compensation of around Rs. 26 crore has been provided to 2,221 citizens who suffered due to the riots, which broke out in February last. Responding to AAP’s allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the BJP stood by the families of all those killed in the riots, including Ankit Sharma, immediately after tragedy struck them. “We, as a political party, also extended emotional support to all bereaved families, including that of Ankit Sharma, at a time when AAP was standing with Sharma’s killer, Councilor Tahir Hussain. Our sister organisations of Sangh Parivar extended material support to all families,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-riots-aap-and-bjp-spar-over-compensation/article34181489.ece
28 March 2021||March 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Net practice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/net-practice/article34181495.ece
