30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||India registers 53,250 new cases||Following a five-month high of 68,020 new cases and 291 deaths on Sunday, the number of cases and deaths recorded on Monday fell to 53,250 and 242, largely due to a reduced number of tests. A total of 9.13 lakh samples were tested on Sunday (compared to 11.81 lakh on Saturday), for which results were made available by the State Health Departments on Monday. Data for Monday was as of 10.06 p.m. The Health Ministry noted that eight States — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh — contributed to 84.5% of the new cases on Sunday. These cases furthered the second wave of infections in the country that began in the middle of February 2021 and has shown no signs of easing as yet. Maharashtra registered 40,414 and 31,643 new cases and 108 and 102 deaths on Sunday and Monday respectively. Punjab registered 69 and 59 deaths, the second highest among the States. The cumulative case load increased to 1,20,92,460, with active cases going up to 5,35,502 and recoveries reaching 1,13,89,993. The total registered death toll is now 1,62,123. India has the third highest case load in the world (behind the U.S. and Brazil) and the fourth highest registered death toll (behind the U.S., Brazil and Mexico). According to the Ministry, over 6.05 crore vaccine doses have been administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-registers-53250-new-cases/article34194434.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records nearly 32,000 fresh COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported another big spike of 31,643 COVID-19 cases on Monday, as its active case tally climbed to 3,36,584. As many as 20,854 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours during which 1.37 lakh samples were tested. The State’s recovery rate has dipped to 85.71%. A high fatality spike of 102 deaths pushed the total death toll to 54,283. While the total case tally has reached 27,45,518, the cumulative recoveries stand at 23,53,307. “Of a total of 1,94,95,189 laboratory samples tested thus far, 27,45,518 (with the case positivity rising to 14.08%) have returned positive with over 1.37 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had dipped to 1.98%. 5,000 cases in Pune Pune district reported 5,000 new cases to take its total case tally to 5,21,427. As per State Health Department figures, three deaths were reported as the total death toll rose to 8,283. As per district authorities, the active case tally has surged past 59,000 and the toll has gone beyond 9,850 with 31 deaths. Alarmed at the district’s relentless case spike, the Pune civic authorities have requisitioned 80% of the beds in private hospitals to cater to increasing numbers of patients. Mumbai reported another new high of 5,890 new cases, taking its total case tally to 4,04,614, of which 46,248 are active. Twelve fatalities took the city’s death toll to 11,665. Spike in MMR Cases continued to mount in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, with the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reporting 934 cases to take its total tally to 81,957. Five deaths were reported taking the total toll to 1,111. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 3,100 cases as its total case tally reached 2,25,856, of which 45,322 are active. As per the State Health Department figures, the district reported 14 deaths to take its death toll to 3,807. Aurangabad in Marathwada reported 929 new cases to take its total tally to 81,181, of which 21,282 were active. Just one death was reported, taking the toll to 1,339. Nanded in Marathwada recorded more than 1,000 cases and eight deaths to take its tally to 40,916, of which 15,171 are active while its death toll has risen to 747. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported more than 2,700 new cases, taking its total tally to 1,62,144, of which 20,568 are active while seven deaths pushed its total death toll to 2,190. Attributing the spike to a high level of sample testing, District Collector Suraj Mandhare said that while 10,055 samples had been tested in the district for the entire month of June last year, the same number was being tested daily over the last few days. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported nearly 900 fresh cases and a single death, taking its total cases to 80,724, of which 6,613 are active. Its death toll stayed at 1,576. Atotal of 16,07,415 people across the State are in home quarantine and 16,614 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-records-nearly-32000-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34194887.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,||State govt. bans protests and rallies for two weeks||In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, the State government has banned all protests and rallies for the next two weeks. From Tuesday, strict action will be initiated against those who do not follow COVID-19 protocols, such as wearing masks. Besides, all common area facilities in apartment complexes such as gyms, swimming pools and party halls will also be closed for the next two weeks in the city. These decisions were taken by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa after a marathon review meeting on COVID-19 with Ministers, experts, and members of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) as well as top officials of the Health Department and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on Monday. Although the TAC had recommended restricting seating in cinemas to 50% and suspension of classes for students from I to IX and shifting to online teaching for colleges with batches/semesters that do not have ongoing exams, no decision has been taken on this. Although the subject of 50% seating in cinemas was raised at the meeting, it was not discussed. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar is learnt to have sought a day’s time to discuss the subject of suspending classes with officials from his department, sources said. Ruling out a lockdown in the State, the Chief Minister told presspersons that the surging cases in Bengaluru was definitely a cause for concern. Bengaluru Urban has been identified as one of the 46 high burden districts in the country. The test positivity rate that stood at 0.94% in Bengaluru in February had shot up to 1.94% this month. While the city had 15,882 active cases, 6.61 lakh people had been vaccinated so far, he said. Contact tracing To check rapid transmission, the Health Department would rope in personnel from the departments of Revenue and Education to intensify contact-tracing measures. Officials had been asked to trace at least 30 contacts for every positive case and test them within 72 hours, the Chief Minister said. While listing out the preparedness in government hospitals in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts, he said 1,166 beds were available as of now in these hospitals. “Measures will be initiated to increase COVID-19 beds in these hospitals based on the requirement in the coming days. We have also asked private hospitals to be ready to handle the situation, if required. Senior IAS officials have been appointed as nodal officers in each of the eight BBMP zones to coordinate COVID control measures,” he said. Appealing to all eligible people to get vaccinated, the Chief Minister said the government would soon write to the Centre seeking permission to vaccinate all teachers. Besides, vaccination sites would also be set up in apartment complexes and densely populated areas to vaccinate the eligible, the Chief Minister added. TAC’s recommendations In its list of recommendations submitted to the Chief Minister on Monday, the TAC clearly said that seating should be restricted to 50% (alternate seating) in cinemas for the next four weeks. Listing this as one of the main public health measures to be strictly enforced to arrest the spread in the next four weeks, the TAC also mentioned that classes in schools ---- except X and XII standards --- should be suspended. Besides, colleges – all non-examinations batches/semesters classes should be done though online mode, except for health sciences courses. While recommending that public transport should not exceed prescribed seating capacity, the TAC stated that strict enforcement of social distancing should be done in pubs, restaurants, shopping malls, and closed markets. There has been no decision on this. Home isolation The other recommendations included timely shifting of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients to COVID care centres, proper triaging and monitoring of patients under home isolation, restarting the centralised e-distribution of hospital beds, adequate supply of drugs to all hospitals, planned duty roster of healthcare workers to ensure their adequacy round the clock and efficient ambulance services. “Notified restrictions under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act --- like compulsory mask wearing, compliance to permitted numbers in various events like marriages, other ceremonies and functions; preventing public assemblies/celebrations in the coming days like for Ugadi, Good Friday, Ambedkar Jayanti, Ramanavami, Mahaveer Jayanti and others --- should be enforced on priority,” added the TAC’s letter of recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-state-govt-bans-protests-rallies-for-two-weeks/article34194482.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Less than 6% of houses under PMAY-G completed this year||Less than 6% of houses sanctioned under the Centre’s flagship rural housing scheme in 2020-21 have reached completion so far this year, with COVID-19 stalling progress, the Rural Development Ministry told a Parliamentary Standing Committee last month. However, some States, such as Odisha and Jharkhand, used the scheme to provide employment opportunities for migrant workers, who returned to their villages during the crisis. With a little over a year left to achieve its goal of ‘Housing for All’, the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) has only completed 55% of its construction target. However, money has been sanctioned for almost 85% of beneficiaries. Of the 2.28 crore houses to be built for the rural poor under the Yojana, less than 1.27 crore had been completed by January 28, 2021, according to the Committee’s report presented to the Lok Sabha earlier this month. Another 61 lakh are under construction. The PMAY-G was launched in April 2016 and aims to provide a pucca house with basic amenities to all rural families who are homeless or living in kutcha or dilapidated houses by the end of March 2022. Long delays According to data provided by the Ministry in 2019, it takes an average of 114 days to construct a house under the scheme. However, the advent of the pandemic caused long delays at every stage. Implementation was “affected at the ground level due to unavailability of construction materials, labour, delay in inspection of stages of house construction etc,” the Ministry told the Committee. Although the nationwide lockdown in March 2020 brought work to a complete standstill, the Ministry issued an advisory to all States to start house construction activities from April 20, 2020, while adhering to safety protocols such as mask wearing and distancing. “Front loading of work of construction of PMAY-G houses and engagement of migrant workers in house construction activities in the rural areas was done. The initiative helped in creation of jobs for migrant workers involved in masonry and labour work in the rural sector and thereby ensuring regular income to the workers during COVID-19 crisis,” the Ministry said. Going by the Ministry’s data, some States which are the source of large migrant worker populations took advantage of their extra work force. Odisha completed construction of 10.5% of its 2020-21 target and began work on at least 85% of those for which money was sanctioned this year. Jharkhand completed 7.25% of the target and started work on more than 91% of houses sanctioned this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-54-of-houses-under-pmay-g-completed-this-year/article34194438.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||997 infections, 5 deaths in State||For the fourth day in a row, the State reported close to a thousand new COVID infections in a day. It also witnessed five deaths, the highest single-day toll in four months. In the 24 hours ending Monday morning, 997 infections were reported taking the cumulative tally to 8,99,812, a couple of hundreds less than nine lakh, and the toll reached 7,210. Active cases crossed six thousand and reached 6,104, while the number of recoveries and recovery rate stands at 8,86,498 and 98.52% respectively. The number of samples tested so far crossed 1.5 crore mark and reached 1,50,21,364 including the 31,325 samples tested in the past day. Ten-lakh samples were tested in the past 25 days and 50 lakh tests were conducted in the past four months. The number of tests conducted is equivalent to 28.13% of the State’s population and the tests per million ratio was at 2.81 lakh. The State began testing in February 2020 by sending samples to Hyderabad and later developed infrastructure to test about 80,000 samples per day. The highest number of samples tested in a day was 88,780 on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/997-infections-5-deaths-in-state/article34194439.ece
30 March 2021||Bodinayakkanur,||Vanniyar quota is only provisional, says Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam||AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Monday told The Hindu that the law providing 10.5% exclusive reservation for Vanniakula Kshatriyas in government jobs and higher education within the 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBC) was only a “provisional arrangement”. The State government had in February enacted the legislation in the last session of the Legislative Assembly, and also notified it in the gazette. In recent days, there have been reports that AIADMK candidates, including some Ministers in south Tamil Nadu, feared an electoral backlash from other MBC groups upset over the exclusive reservation for the Vanniyars. “The present order is only provisional. Once the caste-wise census is over, there will be a final and permanent order. This is the crux of the matter. The 10.5% quota is not a final decision. It may go up or down in proportion to the population … after the commission, set up to hold the caste-wise census, submits its report. A law will be enacted in this regard,” Mr. Panneerselvam asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vanniyar-quota-is-only-provisional-says-deputy-cm-o-panneerselvam/article34194544.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||TRS picks Nomula Bhagat for Sagar bypoll||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has favoured the sympathy factor one more time by picking up Nomula Bhagat Kumar, son of deceased legislator Nomula Narasimhaiah who passed away on December 1 last following a brief illness, as the party candidate for the Nagarjunasagar Assembly by-election. Party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has finalised the name of Mr. Bhagat following several rounds of consultations with the erstwhile Nalgonda district leaders of the party and handed over the B-Form to Mr. Bhagat in Telangana Bhavan here on Monday. The 36-year-old Mr. Bhagat is highly educated and a degree holder in multiple disciplines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trs-picks-nomula-bhagat-for-sagar-bypoll/article34194709.ece
30 March 2021||Srinagar,||Mufti denied passport after ‘adverse’ CID report||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti has been denied a passport after an “adverse” report by the CID of the J&K police. The J&K High Court dismissed the plea of Ms. Mufti, who had sought expedition of the process to issue her a passport. “I am of the considered view that no direction can be issued by this court for issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner. The scope of this court in the matter of grant or otherwise of passport in favour of an individual is very limited,” judge Ali Mohammad Magrey said. The court “can only direct the concerned authorities to expeditiously consider the case of an individual in the light of the mandate of the scheme of law governing the subject,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mufti-denied-passport-after-adverse-cid-report/article34194436.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||Sharad Pawar to undergo surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar will undergo surgery at Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai on Wednesday after being diagnosed with a gall bladder issue. He underwent a check-up at the hospital after complaining of abdominal pain on Sunday evening. “Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was feeling a little uneasy due to pain in his abdomen last evening and was therefore taken to Breach Candy Hospital for a check-up. Upon diagnosis, it came to light that he has a problem in his gall bladder,” NCP leader and State Minister Nawab Malik said on Monday. “He will be admitted to the hospital on March 31 and an endoscopy and surgery will be performed. Hence, all his programmes stand cancelled until further notice,” he added. Mr. Malik said the NCP chief is on blood thinning medication which is now being stopped due to the issue. Several top leaders such as Shiv Sena chief and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena president Raj Thackeray, and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis wished him a speedy recovery. Mr. Pawar was set to travel to West Bengal to campaign in support of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s party, the All India Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sharad-pawar-to-undergo-surgery/article34194892.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking free||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/breaking-free/article34194444.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Paddy to be procured in villages again||In view of surge in coronavirus cases and the health hazard for farmers, the State government has decided to procure paddy cultivated in the ongoing second crop at 6,408 centres in villages like last year. This was finalised at a meeting of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with senior officials of Agriculture, Marketing and Civil Supplies on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paddy-to-be-procured-in-villages-again/article34194710.ece
30 March 2021||Udhagamandalam,||A. Raja apologises for remarks on Palaniswami||DMK leader A. Raja on Monday apologised for his remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, but reitera-ted that his words were “taken out of context”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-raja-apologises-for-remarks-on-palaniswami/article34194547.ece
30 March 2021||New Delhi,||Ascendas trust signs Rs. 1,441-cr. IT park deal||Ascendas India Trust (a-iTrust) will acquire 1.65 million sq. ft area at an IT park in Bengaluru for an estimated deal value of Rs. 1,441 crore, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ascendas-trust-signs-rs-1441-cr-it-park-deal/article34194483.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: SIT issues notice to woman again||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Monday issued another notice to the woman seeking her cooperation in the probe into CD scandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cd-scandal-sit-issues-notice-to-woman-again/article34194485.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,||Police arrest conman||The Kankanady Town Police have arrested Prasad (40) on the charge of defrauding a Mangalore University professor of Rs. 17 lakh promising him to get the post of Vice-Chancellor of a university. Professor in Microbiology M. Jayashankar, who is also Director of College Development Council on the university’s Konaje campus, has lodged a complaint with the police in this connection. Prof. Jayashankar has in his complaint said that he got to know Prasad through Vivek Acharya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-arrest-conman/article34194857.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||Pandharpur bypoll: NCP, BJP announce names||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday announced Bhagirath Bhalke, son of former MLA late Bharat Bhalke, as its candidate for the Pandharpur Assembly bypoll on April 17. The BJP declared the candidature of Samadhan Awatade. NCP State president Jayant Patil said that the party had decided to field Mr. Bhalke after party president Sharad Pawar approved the name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pandharpur-bypoll-ncp-bjp-announce-names/article34194890.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: SIT issues another notice to woman||The SIT probing the CD scandal allegedly involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Monday issued another notice to the woman, seeking her cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cd-scandal-sit-issues-another-notice-to-woman/article34194895.ece
30 March 2021||Mysuru,||Property tax to go up by 15 per cent from April 1||Property owners in Mysuru will now have to bear a hike of 15 per cent in property tax. A resolution this effect was adopted in the recent Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Council meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/property-tax-to-go-up-by-15-per-cent-from-april-1/article34194897.ece
30 March 2021||Chennai,||2,279 persons test COVID-19 positive in T. N.||A total of 2,279 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 14 persons died in the State on Monday. Chennai’s daily count stood at 815.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2279-persons-test-covid-19-positive-in-tn/article34194546.ece
30 March 2021||AIZAWL,||Manipur against camps for those from Myanmar||Given the instances of Myanmar nationals trying to enter India through the border as a “fallout of the events taking place” there, the Manipur government has directed officials that the district administration or civil society organisations should not open any camps for food and shelter and those seeking refuge should be “politely turned away”. A report on action taken may kindly be submitted by March 30, 2021, the letter added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-against-camps-for-those-from-myanmar/article34194809.ece
30 March 2021||KALABURAGI,||Tension prevails after murder in Kalaburagi||Tension prevailed in Sundar Nagar area in the heart of the city after a 35-year-old man was killed by an unidentified gang on Monday. Veerta Upadhaya, a resident of Sundar Nagar, was killed at on Monday. The deceased was a rowdy-sheeter, facing several cases, and was lodged in jail for a few months. Following his death, a mob, which included his relatives and friends, damaged cars and vehicles parked outside houses in the locality and threw stones at a few houses. The situation came under control after police officials arrested a few of them. A team of police personnel has been deployed to avoid untoward incidents. Police kept a strict vigil in the area and surrounding localities which were gripped by tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-prevails-after-murder-in-kalaburagi/article34194680.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: SIT issues another notice to woman||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Monday issued another notice to the woman seeking her cooperation in the probe into the sex CD scandal. The notice was issued to seek her assistance in investigations and to inform her that the desired security would be provided, sources said. The woman, who has so far remained elusive and made appearances only via videos from undisclosed locations, has alleged that the SIT was siding with the accused and not providing security. She also accused the SIT of forcing her parents to give a statement favouring the accused. However, SIT officials said that they were ready to record her statement according to her convenience and ready to provide security of her choice. After a high drama on Monday, advocate Jagadish Kumar claimed that the court had granted permission to record her statement. However, a senior counsel stated that it was not possible for the the court to grant permission to record her statement under Section 164 Cr. PC as it was not as per rules. Earlier in the day, heavy security was deployed at the magistrate court here in anticipation of the woman to appear before the magistrate to give a statement. She, however, did not appear.  The woman in question has shot off letters to the Chief Justices of the Supreme Court of India and the High Court of Karnataka appealing for justice and protection as well as supervision of the investigations. She also made a slew of allegations. In the letter, she said that she was a rape victim and filed a complaint against the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. She alleged that he was highly influential and had already threatened her with dire consequences. “He may go to any extent to clear the charges levelled against him. I have already expressed my serious apprehension about frequent threats being caused to me and my parents by Ramesh Jarkiholi and his followers . I have also expressed my apprehension that there have been threats to myself and my parents from Jarkiholi. And, I have requested the Special Investigation Team seeking protection for myself and my parents,” she said, alleging that despite repeated requests and her apprehensions, the SIT had not given any protection to her parents and to her. Jarkiholi questioned Meanwhile, Mr. Jarkiholi, along with his advocate, appeared before the SIT for questioning. The SIT officials questioned him about his complaint that someone was trying to blackmail him. Another team of officials questioned him about the woman’s allegation, accusing him of sexual exploitation and cheating on the pretext of offering her a job. This is the third time that Mr. Jarkiholi has been questioned by the SIT. According to sources, the former Minister denied having any knowledge for most of the questions despite the SIT confronting him with the evidence they had gathered in the course of investigation. Members of the Congress staged a protest in front of the technical cell at Adugodi where Mr. Jarkiholi was being questioned. The protesters shouted slogans against him demanding that the police arrest him. The police detained over 50 persons and brought the situation under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cd-scandal-sit-issues-another-notice-to-woman/article34194369.ece
30 March 2021||Kolkata,||Battle for Nandigram turns personal||As the battle for Nandigram reaches fever pitch, the attacks levelled by leaders of both the Trinamool Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have turned personal. The constituency is going to the polls on April 1. Trinamool chief and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who held an eight-kilometre roadshow in Nandigram on a wheelchair on Monday, blamed BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari for the attack that left her injured. “The (attack) could not have happened without his involvement. Not a single person from Nandigram was involved — all were outsiders,” Ms. Banerjee said. She was injured on March 10 while campaigning in Nandigram, which has forced her to use a wheelchair. ‘Wrong person’ Addressing the gathering after the roadshow from Reyapara Khudiram More to Thakurchowk, Ms. Banerjee said she had put her trust in the wrong person. “I am to be blamed. I nurtured a cobra, fed it milk.. Now it is out to bite me,” she said. Without naming Mr. Adhikari, Ms. Banerjee said she had made him a Minister and given portfolios, including irrigation, environment and forests and transport. “What did I not give you,” she asked. She also alleged that the BJP was attempting to incite communal riots in Nandigram, and that outsiders in police uniform were waiting in the constituency to create trouble on polling day. However, Ms. Banerjee also exuded confidence and said the people of Nandigram were strong enough to resist any attempt to loot votes. Former Trinamool leader and BJP candidate for Nandigram, Suvendu Adhikari, alleged that Ms. Banerjee only visited Nandigram during elections. In a tit-for-tat campaign, while the Chief Minister addressed four public meetings, Mr. Adhikari went one up with five meetings. At a public meeting on Sunday, Ms. Banerjee had accused both Mr. Adhikari and his father (Sisir Adhikari) of allowing the police to enter Nandigram in 2007. Old wounds exposed  She had accused the duo of allowing “police wearing slippers” to enter the village. 14 villagers were killed in police firing and subsequent violence when the police opened fire at farmers protesting against land acquisition on March 14, 2007. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) had reacted strongly to these developments with Ms. Banerjee accusing her former colleagues of helping the police. The CPI(M) leadership said the conspiracy relating to Nandigram violence has been exposed.  The (attack) could not have happened without his (Suvendu’s) involvement. Not a single person from Nandigram was involved — all were outsiders Mamata Banerjee Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/battle-for-nandigram-turns-personal/article34194386.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. variant not more contagious: study||The UK variant (B.1.1.7) of the coronavirus did not appear to be more transmissible than the variant of the virus most common in India, according to a study by scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The study was based on tests on Syrian hamsters, a commonly employed laboratory animal, and is yet to be formally peer-reviewed. B.1.1.7, the variant of the coronavirus has mutations that enable it to spread more readily among people and was linked to a sharp spike in cases in the United Kingdom last December. Some vaccine trials have also shown reduced efficacy in those affected with the variant. India has registered 771 cases of the three ‘variants of concern’ reported internationally. Of these 736 have been from B.1.1.7. Health authorities in Punjab said about 80% of the cases of recent tranche of coronavirus positive samples were of the B.1.1.7 variety and, therefore, were likely linked to the spurt in the State. To establish how quickly the strain spread, NIV scientists infected two groups of nine hamsters, with one group given the B.1.1.7 and the other the dominant SARS-CoV-2 strain in India. The latter is characterised by a mutation called D614G. Small groups The hamsters were further broken into smaller groups and compared with other sets of hamsters to see if those inoculated with the variants spread their germs. This was done by housing the hamsters in close proximity in cages and analysing virus levels in the faeces. To study the spread of virus via ‘fomites’ (surfaces), viral particles on the surfaces that the hamsters had been in contact with such as beddings, water nozzle, cage surfaces, were also evaluated. “The day-wise comparison of the body weight loss and the viral shedding pattern in contact hamsters by both variants... did not show any statistical significance. Also the comparison of different routes of transmission by each variant... also did not show any statistical significance,” the authors reported. In an earlier study, the NIV scientists had reported that hamsters with the B.1.1.7 shed more virus particles as determined from measuring virus samples in their nasal fluids. “The study demonstrated comparable transmission efficiency of both UK and D614G variants of SARS-CoV-2 in Syrian hamsters,” the more recent study said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-variant-not-more-contagious-study/article34194407.ece
30 March 2021||SIDDIPET,||Donors help girl continue studies||Gudla Bhavana, a native of Tunki Khalsa, completed her Class X exam with 10 GPA. For any meritorious student like her, the next step would have been to pursue further education with the same zeal and make a mark in life. However, situation in her household was different. Having lost her father Santosh Goud in August 2019, she was told by her mother not to study further as it would be a burden on the family. Her mother, a housewife who took to farming after her husband’s death, has two other daughters, who are studying in Class X and Class VIII respectively, to support. Fortunately, Puli Raju, a primary school teacher and Srilatha, her high school headmistress, and some others in the village encouraged Bhavana to continue her education. They pooled in resources and paid the first term fee of Rs. 13,000 and got her admitted in the Agriculture Polytechnic at Tornala, about 10 km from Siddipet, in November 2020. Help also came in the form of district agriculture officer P. Shravan Kumar, who offered to pay her semester fees till she completes her education. Mr Shravan Kumar said that the assistance is being extended through Agri-doctors Association and any help to her will be extended by them. As Bhavana is staying in the hostel attached to the polytechnic, she is incurring about Rs. 3,000 per month as hostel charges, which is presently being met by her mother Hemalatha. But, it has been a huge burden for the family, Bhavana told The Hindu . Informing that one of his friends Raja Goud, RDO of Banswada, came forward and extended some financial help to Bhavana, Mr. Puli Raju said that they are trying to identify some philanthropists who can help her in completing her education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/donors-help-girl-continue-studies/article34194377.ece
30 March 2021||bengaluru,||As cases soar, Karnataka bans protests for 15 days||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday said the State had decided to ban all protests for 15 days, while ruling out a lockdown for now. Asking people to wear face masks and maintain social distancing, he said officials would take strict action on violations from Tuesday. The Chief Minister reviewed the situation in Bengaluru and other important districts. “COVID cases are rising in Bengaluru at an alarming rate, which is cause for concern. Daily average cases are around 1,377 and positive cases are 16,921 in the last 14 days,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The protocol for testing, tracing and treatment was being strengthened. Karnataka on Monday reported 2,792 new cases and 16 fatalities. For the fourth day, Andhra Pradesh reported close to 1,000 cases. It also reported five deaths, the highest single-day toll in four months. On Monday, 997 infections were reported. One death each occurred in Anantapur, Chittoor, Kurnool, Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts. Chittoor reported the highest single-day tally of 181 infections. Patients in ICUs across hospitals in Telangana shot up by 100% in about two weeks. Many requests for plasma from recovered persons were received. From March 1 to 14 this year, around 340 to 375 patients were admitted in ICUs of government and private hospitals everyday. On March 28, however, 767 patients were admitted to ICUs. Kerala reported 1,549 new cases on Monday, from 37,377 samples. The test positivity rate was 4.14%. The toll rose with 11 more deaths. Kozhikode reported four deaths, Thiruvananthapuram two, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Ernakulam, Malappuram and Kannur one death each. Kannur district reported the maximum of 249 cases and Ernakulam 184. Two people from South Africa who reached Kerala tested positive. Among Karnataka’s 16 deaths, Bengaluru Urban saw 9, Gadag 3, Mysuru 2 and Bidar and Mandya with one each. For the third day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported more than 2,000 fresh cases of COVID-19. A total of 2,279 persons tested positive for the infection and 14 persons died in the State. Of the 14 fatalities, Chengalpattu recorded four deaths, while Chennai and Coimbatore registered two deaths each. Cuddalore, Karur, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur recorded one death each. This took the toll to 12,684.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-cases-soar-karnataka-bans-protests-for-15-days/article34194382.ece
30 March 2021||New Delhi,||U.S. opposes Rana plea to delay extradition process||The U.S. government has opposed yet another plea by Tahawwur Rana, a key accused in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, to file additional reply in a U.S. court that would delay the extradition proceedings slated to begin on April 22. Rana is wanted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the 2008 terror attack case that claimed 166 lives, including six Americans. Rana, who was lodged in a U.S prison, was released in June last year after an Illinois court commuted his jail sentence (scheduled to get over in September 2021) after he tested positive for COVID-19. Los Angles prison Following his release he was provisionally arrested by the federal police in the wake of the pending extradition request from India and is currently lodged in a Los Angles prison. Assistant U.S. State Attorney John J. Lulejian submitted before a court in Los Angeles that “Rana’s assertion that he needs a sur-reply (additional reply ) is without merit”. “Rana already had the opportunity to address, and did address, Article 6 in his opposition brief. Indeed, Rana’s belief that the United States ‘put the issue in play’ in its opening memorandum only further confirms that he should have fully addressed Article 6 in his response brief. Without any explanation of what issues he was unable to address previously, his motion falls flat,” the note submitted by U.S attorney says. Article 6 Rana submitted in court on February 6 that his extradition is barred under Article 6 of the United States-India extradition treaty as he had previously been acquitted of the offences for which his extradition is sought. The U.S. attorney’s submission also said, “Rana should not be given the opportunity to file a sur-reply simply because the United States submitted more pages, particularly where Rana otherwise had a full opportunity to brief the contested issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-opposes-rana-plea-to-delay-extradition-process/article34194391.ece
30 March 2021||New Delhi,||Parties play mind games in Assam over first phase tally||The heavy polling in the first phase of Assembly election in Assam has triggered a psychological warfare among political parties ahead of the next two phases, on April 1 and April 6. Hours after all prominent newspapers in Assam carried advertisements claiming that the BJP would win all the 47 seats that went to the poll on Saturday, All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal, an ally of the Congress, tweeted that the Congress-led alliance would win 30 seats. “I am very happy to hear from my friends in upper Assam that the Congress led #Mahajot has swept the first phase. The lowest figure I am hearing from anyone is 30 seats. AIUDF looks forward to supporting a Congress Chief Minister after May 2,” Mr. Ajmal tweeted. In the 2016 Assembly election, the BJP swept the Upper Assam region and the North Bank areas, winning most of the seats. The BJP alliance won 41 of the phase I seats, while the Congress only managed six. Claiming that the advertisements were a sign of “nervousness” in the BJP camp, a senior Congress leader told The Hindu that even Union Home Minister Amit Shah had conceded 10 seats to the Opposition as he put the BJP figure at 37. “The idea of the advertisement is to tell the voters that we will win all the seats in phase I, so don’t waste your vote in the subsequent phases. It’s a sign of desperation,” a Congress strategist said.   While the Congress-led Mahajot (grand alliance) is hoping to make a fight in many of the 39 seats in phase II, covering the Barak Valley, parts of lower Assam such as Nalbari and Rangiya, the central Assam seats of Nagaon, Hojai, Jamunamukh and the hill district seats of Haflong and Diphu, the 40 seats in the last phase are believed to a stronghold of the Mahajot . The Muslim community is a determining factor in many of the seats in the last phase and is overwhelmingly supporting the grand alliance. “Our alliance will sweep the seats in Barak Valley where Bengali Hindus are dominant, score big in Bodoland region and win all the urban seats. The Congress will find out the reality on May 2,” a top BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parties-play-mind-games-in-assam-over-first-phase-tally/article34194384.ece
30 March 2021||Srinagar,||Councillor, policeman killed in Valley||A municipal councillor and a policeman were killed and another councillor was injured in a militant firing attack in Sopore on Sunday. Four policemen were suspended after the incident. “Councillors Reyaz Ahmad Pir and Shams-ud-din Pir, and a police personnel, Shafqat Nazir, were injured. Mr. Reyaz and Mr. Shafqat succumbed to their injuries,” a police spokesman said. It’s for the first time that elected councillors came under attack from militants in the Valley. Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, said preliminary investigation indicated that a local terrorist, Mudasir Pandit, of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and a foreign terrorist were involved in the attack. “We have taken a serious note of the poor and inappropriate retaliation by the Personal Security Officers (PSOs) of the protected persons present on the spot. I have directed the SSP, Sopore, to put four PSOs under suspension,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar, who visited the spot, has chaired a security review meeting with Army’s Commander 5-Sector, CRPF and police officials. “It is of crucial importance to enhance the security of vulnerable persons and take all necessary measures to thwart the nefarious designs of terrorists,” the IGP said. Political parties, cutting across the political divide, condemned the attack. “My unequivocal condemnation of this attack. Brutality has no place in any emancipated society,” National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah said. The Apni Party, the CPI(M), the BJP, the Congress and the Peoples Conference also condemned the attack. “I strongly condemn the killings. The perpetrators of this heinous act of violence will be brought to justice very soon,” said J&K L-G Manoj Sinha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/councillor-policeman-killed-in-sopore-militant-attack/article34194393.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||BMC to release asymptomatic COVID-19 patients||As COVID-19 cases are rising rapidly in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday decided to discharge asymptomatic COVID-19 patients to vacate beds for patients with more serious symptoms. The civic body has also decided to order 1.5 lakh injections of antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medical equipment to avoid potential shortage of medicines at hospitals, a senior official said. In its order, the BMC said no asymptomatic patient without comorbidities will be allotted a bed in any public or private hospital. It described the “needy” patient as the one with “mild or serious symptoms or a patient with comorbidities”.  BMC Commissioner I.S. Chahal has empowered assistant commissioners to take decisions at the ward level and stressed activation of war rooms at the ward level for better management of available beds, ICU beds, ventilators among others, as per the order. Mr. Chahal said all admissions should be routed through the ward level war rooms to avoid chaos experienced during the first wave of coronavirus when several patients ran from the pillar to post to get a bed. The civic chief also pointed out that direct admission in any COVID Care Centre or private hospitals will not be permitted without intimation to the ward war room. “No asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patient without any co-morbidities be allotted COVID bed in any public/private hospital to ensure prompt availability of beds to the needy. Urgently discharge any asymptomatic COVID positive patients admitted to any COVID hospital to vacate the beds,” he said. Beds to be reserved The order said 80% of total beds and 100% of ICU beds in private hospitals shall be reserved for allotment through the ward war rooms for COVID-19 patients. “No direct admissions on these reserved beds to be taken by hospitals,” the order said. Mr. Chahal directed all hospitals in the city to charge patients as per the rates notified by the Maharashtra government. “All the bills will be audited by the municipal auditors,” the commissioner said. Mr. Chahal also directed officials to immediately assess the structural stability and fire audit of all COVID facilities. As on March 25, there are 8,466 non-ICU beds and 931 ICU beds being operationalised at the hospitals run by the government and the BMC, the order said. A senior official said a sizeable number of new cases are being reported from high-rise buildings. “We are worried due to the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city. To treat positive patients, we need to buy as many 1.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir injection so that we can cover maximum patients. “We want to avoid any shortage of medicines by hospitals or treatment centres,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC. In a meeting held with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, principal secretary to State Health Department Dr. Pradeep Vyas had predicted a “tremendous stress” on the availability of beds, oxygen supply, and ventilators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bmc-to-release-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients/article34194893.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,||Reports of attack on nuns in U.P. baseless: Piyush Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal has said Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lied about an alleged attack on a few nuns on a train recently in Uttar Pradesh. Speaking to presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Goyal said the reports were found to be baseless. When a complaint came up, the U.P. Police inquired about it. The passengers were let off after verifying their credentials, he said. He was replying to reporters who pointed out that there were reports that Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists attacked the nuns. The alleged incident involving two nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation took place on March 19. Incidentally, some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from the State had written to the U.P. government seeking an inquiry into the alleged incident. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, while campaigning for the BJP in the State a few days ago, had stated that the culprits behind the incident would be brought to justice. Referring to the statements of Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Goyal said the Chief Minister tried to appease the minorities and was playing vote bank politics. ‘CAA not an issue’ The BJP did not raise the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Kerala as it did in West Bengal as the amendment was not a major issue in the State. It would not hurt anyone here. The BJP was not at all apologetic about the CAA, he said. The State government, he said, was pursuing politics of appeasement of minorities and persecution of Hindus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reports-of-attack-on-nuns-in-up-baseless-piyush-goyal/article34194373.ece
30 March 2021||Kolkata,||In West Bengal, CPI(M) bets on fresh blood for reversal of political fortunes||Pritha Tah was 19 years old when her father Pradip Tah, a former MLA of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), was killed allegedly by Trinamool Congress activists in 2012. At 28, Ms. Tah, a leader of the Students Federation of India, is contesting the Assembly election in West Bengal from Bardhaman Dakshin as the Samyukta Morcha-supported CPI(M) candidate. “The death of my father and others in political violence is a result of nexus of criminals and politicians. Never before has Bengal witnessed a political regime when criminals would kill with such impunity,” Ms. Tah says as she campaigns in 33 wards, primarily urban areas that make up the Bardhaman Dakshin Assembly seat. ‘New meaning’ Srijan Bhattacharya was 13 years old when Singur was on the boil and at 27, the SFI leader is the CPI(M) candidate from the constituency, trying to give a new meaning to the ‘industry versus agriculture’ debate. “In Singur, it was never about agriculture vs industry, it was about industry that can be built on the success of agriculture,” Mr. Bhattacharya often reflects in his campaign. Minakshi Mukherjee, the 33-year-old State president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, who has generated attention in Nandigram, was also 19 when violence erupted in Nandigram. By raising the issue of livelihood and jobs, Ms. Mukherjee has made an impact on a constituency which is witnessing a clash between political titans, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. There are at least more than half a dozen CPI(M) candidates in their 20s and 30s in the poll fray in West Bengal who have given the campaign a fresh lease of life. Aishe Ghosh, 26, sitting president of the Jawaharal Nehru University Students Union, is contesting from Jamuria in Paschim Bardhaman. “I am the daughter of Paschim Bardhaman. My father worked in the collieries. I want to stay here and work for the people of Jamuria, that is what I am telling the people here,” she says. While Ms. Ghosh, who came to prominence after sustaining injuries in the attack on the JNU campus in January 2020, talks against the privatisation of Coal India and other PSUs, Dipsita Dhar, another CPI(M) candidate from Bally and former JNUSU leader in Howrah, is also making the right noises. “Hindus and Muslims all feel hungry in the same manner. Hunger does not distinguish between communities,” Ms. Dhar, 27, says. There are a number of other young candidates who have got seats — DYFI State secretary Sayandip Mitra is contesting from Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas; SFI State president Pratikur Rehman from Diamond Harbour;Saptarshi Deb (former Minister Gautam Deb’s son) from Rajarhat Newtown and Shatarup Ghosh from Kasba in Kolkata. While the young leaders are aware of the responsibility on their shoulders, some say they were not aware that they would have to contest the election till their names were announced. Image change CPI(M) leader and Polit Bureau member Mohd. Salim says the decision to field young candidates was a conscious one as the critics of the party were referring to it as an “old age home.” Mr. Salim adds that new crop of leaders comes up every few years for the CPI(M) from universities and colleges. The CPI(M) leadership maintains that along with the young faces, the party has fielded senior leaders such as Kanti Ganguly and Ashok Bhattacharya, who will content from Raidighi and Siliguri respectively. CPI(M) Legislature Party leader Sujan Chakraborty will contest from Jadavpur, while Mr. Salim will content from the Chanditala. The Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership have dismissed the move, calling it nothing more than a “publicity stunt”. They say these young candidates would not be able to win any seats. Paradigm shift Political observers feel that fielding candidates in their 20s and 30s is part of the future planning of the Left parties, particularly the CPI(M). “The new candidates have brought a paradigm shift in the way the Left, particularly the CPI(M), is campaigning with the people. This initiative, where the party has done away not only with old faces, but also old means of mass connect and allowing the new candidates and new forms of public outreach will pay dividends to the party in future,” says Biswanath Chakraborty, professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-west-bengal-cpim-bets-on-fresh-blood-for-reversal-of-political-fortunes/article34194389.ece
30 March 2021||PUNE,||Will oppose Maharashtra lockdown: BJP||A day after Maharashtra’s highest single-day tally of over 40,000 COVID-19 cases prompted Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to direct the authorities to prepare for a possible lockdown, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made it clear that it would strongly oppose such a move. Speaking in Pune on Monday, BJP State president Chandrakant Patil said that a stringent lockdown would be calamitous for the lakhs eking out a precarious existence in the State’s unorganised sector. “Lockdown is not an option at this stage. We [the BJP] are going to oppose such a move with all our might. And not only us, but ordinary traders and labourers will be vehemently oppose it. You can take whatever steps you may wish to check the spread of the contagion, but those living a hand-to-mouth existence will fight this measure tooth and nail,” Mr. Patil said. Such a move would be counter-productive at a time when the State’s beleaguered economy was picking the pieces, the BJP leader reiterated. While precautionary curbs were in order, a stringent lockdown was out of the question. “And if the government is bent on imposing one, it must make provisions to give a minimum monthly stipend of Rs. 5,000 per labourer working in the unorganised sector. Only if the State government can deposit this amount directly to their bank accounts, should it think of urging labourers to sit at home,” said the MLA from Kothrud in Pune. Meanwhile, reacting to the buzz over an alleged meeting between Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Ahmedabad, Mr. Patil said the strenuous clarifications being issued by senior leaders of the Uddhav Thackeray-led tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi about “smooth relations” between the three allies were proof that all was not well with the government. ‘No clarity over meeting’ Mr. Patil said that it was not unusual in the country’s political tradition for leaders of opposite parties to share moments of bonhomie. At the same time, he disclaimed knowledge of what had transpired in the alleged meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-oppose-maharashtra-lockdown-bjp/article34194411.ece
30 March 2021||New Delhi,||SC lays down time frame for accident information reports||The Supreme Court has directed police stations to send accident information reports to Motor Accident Claims Tribunals and insurers within 48 hours of a road accident. “The jurisdictional police station shall report the accident under Section 158(6) of the Motor Vehicle Act (Section 159 post 2019 amendment) to the tribunal and insurer within first 48 hours either over email or a dedicated website,” the Supreme Court directed. This is part of a set of eight directions issued by the court to prevent delays in disbursement of compensations to victims. These directions should be uniformly practised by the police, motor accident claims tribunals and insurers across the country. A Bench of Justices S.K. Kaul and R. Subhash Reddy ordered the Centre to launch a national online platform, which could be operated and accessed across the country for submission of accident reports, claims and responses to claims, etc. This would end the distress felt by victims when accidents happened in places other than their native State. The recent order came on a suggestion from Narasimha Vijayaraghavan and advocate Vipin Nair, who highlighted the independent online platforms already in existence in Tamil Nadu and Delhi for the purpose. However, the court said every State having its own online system would hamper efficient adjudication of claims.  Additional Solicitor General Jayant Sud, for the Centre, said the government would discuss and report back to the court a deadline for the implementation of the national online platform. The court scheduled a hearing on May 4 for passing further directions in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-lays-down-timeline-for-accident-information-reports/article34194409.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to allow reopening of stone mining, crusher units||The Karnataka government has decided to allow resumption of operations in stone mining and crusher units, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani said on Monday. He said the State exchequer suffered a loss of more than Rs. 300 crore due to closure of quarries and crusher units following the recent blasts. The Mines and Geology Department issued a circular allowing stone mining in quarries, an official press release said here. For resuming the units, the owners of quarries and stone crushers have to give an undertaking to the authorities by stating they would abide by the rules and submit an NoC (no- objection certificate) from the Centre’s Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) to use explosives within 90 days, the release said. “Owners of stone quarries and crusher units must obtain permits from the DGMS. They must also submit an undertaking to the authorities over safe use of explosives in the mining areas,” the Minister said. He said the closure of stone quarries and crusher units resulted in revenue loss. Almost all stone quarries and crusher units stopped operating following tragic incidents in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur districts, Mr. Nirani said. Noting that it was mandatory to obtain permits from the DGMS but the owners were finding it difficult to purchase, store, use explosives due to tough conditions, Mr. Nirani said the Mines and Geology Department had decided to ease the process by changing the present guidelines and obtaining undertaking for resuming operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-allow-reopening-of-stone-mining-crusher-units/article34194379.ece
30 March 2021||Pune,||Rare Marathi films make way to NFAI vaults||In a major acquisition of vernacular cinema classics, the vaults of the city-based National Film Archive of India (NFAI) have added 89 film prints, a significant number of them from the ‘Golden Age’ of Marathi cinema. The highlight of this collection is two rare Marathi films — the historical Tai Teleen (1953) and Pavanakathcha Dhondi (1966) which were hitherto believed to have been lost, said Prakash Magdum, Director, NFAI.  Tai Teleen , directed by K.P. Bhave, starred renowned artistes like Shanta Apte, Sudha Apte, Nalini Borkar and Zuzarrao Pawar, while Pavanakathcha Dhondi , directed by Anant Thakur had bagged the ‘Best Marathi Film’ at the 1966 National Film awards. Thakur had earlier directed the Raj Kapoor starrer Chori Chori in 1956 and this was his first film in Marathi,” informed Mr. Magdum. Siblings on screen  Pavanakathcha Dhondi was notable for being produced by Usha Mangeshkar and had starred renowned Marathi stars Jayashree Gadkar, along with brothers Chandrakant and Suryakant, who played on-screen brothers in a rare instance. The film was based on the popular novel by eminent litterateur G. N. Dandekar and the music was composed by Hridayanath Mangeshkar. Another highlight of the collection is a famous Ram Gabale directed film, Dev Pavala (1950). The film starring D. Malavankar and Vishnupant Jog was shot at the iconic Prabhat Studio in Pune. The prints, which are in the 16mm and 35mm format, also contain some important Hindi films. “The collection includes 23 black-and-white Hindi films, a number of which are aesthetically and culturally significant. These include Shakti Samanta’s Naughty Boy (1962) with Kishore Kumar as the Hero, Mohan Kumar’s Aman (1967), which features rare cameo appearances by Ghazal maestro Jagjit Singh and philosopher Bertrand Russell. Other notable titles include Guest House (1959) by Ravindra Dave and Taj Mahal (1963) by M. Sadiq,” said Mr. Magdum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rare-marathi-films-make-way-to-nfai-vaults/article34194395.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||India registers 53,250 new COVID-19 cases||Those vaccinated include 81,56,997 healthcare workers, who have taken the first dose, and 51,78,065 who have taken the second dose. A total of 89,12,113 frontline workers (FLWs) have also taken the first dose and 36,92,136 FLWs have taken the second dose. Besides, 67,31,223 beneficiaries aged above 45 with comorbidities and 2,78,59,901 persons above 60 have also been administered the first dose. Eight states — Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra — account for 60% of the cumulative vaccine doses administered so far in India.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-registers-53250-new-cases/article34194360.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Public-private partnership for public health is vital’||A public-private partnership for research in public health to tackle future pandemics is the need of the hour. Indian biotechnology and vaccine research can be leapfrogged only with more collaborative work with various industries and new technologies, because of import restrictions of vital materials by countries like the United States, said Bharat Biotech International chairman and managing director Krishna M. Ella on Monday. “Public-private partnerships seem to be working well in infrastructure so why not in public health? Let us partner. We need to trust other more. We have extremely good scientists in the country but we need focus. Our indigenous vaccine model has been deliberate based on long term cell mediated T-cell response over the Chinese model. We licensed a patent from the US and got the vital chemical from CSIR -IICT. Our scientists worked day and night,” he said. The ‘missing chemicals’ within the country are presently sourced from countries like Germany and Sweden which are used for preservation, purification, micro-carriers and so on. “We are importing a lot of materials, so we need to anticipate such situations. This is not just for us but for the entire country but we are just starting the game,” he said. Mr Ella was addressing a meeting after signing the joint ‘Master Collaborative Agreement (MCA) to collaborate on development of novel platform technologies for bio-therapeutics and vaccines to support indigenous and affordable health care solutions for both humans and animals with CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT), Biovet, and Sapigen Biologix. BBIL executive director Krishna Mohan, Biovet director Jalachari Ella and Sapigen Biologix director Raches Ella participated. CSIR-IICT has already worked with Bharat Biotech in making the crucial adjuvant molecule ‘TLR 7/8’ for manufacture of ‘Covaxin’ within a short span of time and the present collaboration is also to identify next generation adjuvants, said its director S. Chandrasekhar at the ceremony done conducted in the presence of CSIR director-general Shekhar C. Mande. “Bharat Biotech has been a great collaborator working with us since 1983. They would have gone anywhere but trusted us and it has also helped us scale our own processes,” he said. The institute would be given financial support by the industry collaborators for developing key raw materials and perform studies for further development of potential vaccine candidates and bio-therapeutics formulations,” he said. “We look forward to interact with the industry closely. The pact to collaborate is to make us ready for future pandemics. We want vaccine and therapeutic research across all diseases in the country,” said Dr. Mande.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/public-private-collaboration-for-public-health-is-vital/article34194487.ece
30 March 2021||BELAGAVI,||Woman’s parents blame it on D.K. Shivakumar||The parents of the woman who accused former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi of sexual harassment held a snap press conference in Belagavi on Monday, when top Congress leaders, including D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, were in the city to accompany the party candidate while filing nomination for the Lok Sabha bypoll. The father said he would not favour his daughter appearing before the judge directly. Even if she appears, the judge should send her home for at least four days. Now, she is under the influence of her captors, he said. Her opinion will be coloured if she were to tell the judge something directly, without the police investigating the case, he said. He also alleged that his daughter would come to the court after being coached by Mr. Shivakumar who, he suspects has kidnapped her. He repeatedly clarified that he would not try to influence his daughter’s thoughts. The couple alleged that Mr. Shivkumar had held their daughter against her will and was forcing her to give statements against Mr. Jarkiholi. They urged the government to release her and give them her custody. “I am an ex-service man and I can protect and take care of my daughter. I will make sure that she faces no harm. The government should ensure that she is liberated from the clutches of her captors and is sent home to us,” the father said. He said he would not influence her to change her statements, if she were to come home. He reiterated his allegation that his daughter was being turned into a pawn in a political game. He said he was happy that the complaint he filed with the Belagavi city police was transferred to the Special Investigation Team in Bengaluru. “I was afraid of filing the complaint in Bengaluru. If I had filed the complaint in Kanakapura, I would have been kidnapped too,” he said angrily. He alleged that Mr. Shivakumar had whisked his daughter away to Goa. “We only know that she was working in Bengaluru and her brother stayed with her for some time. After the CD incident, we have not heard from her. Among the various persons being said to be involved in the incident, we know only Akash. We have no acquaintance of others like Naresh,” he said. The couple claimed that they would bring her to the police station or court later. They clarified that they were not under any threat, pressure or duress from anyone. To a query, they said they disagreed with the woman’s claim that some police officers were coaching them to give statements tailored to protect Mr. Jarkiholi. The mother said the woman had suffered psychologically as she was in captivity for 25 days. “She has told us that her kidnappers have snatched her phone away. She needs psychological counselling. She also needs to stay home and rest,” the mother said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/womans-parents-blame-it-on-dk-shivakumar/article34194370.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong.: Central agencies reluctant to book CM||The Centre seems strikingly disinclined to register a First Information Report (FIR) against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the UAE consulate-linked gold- smuggling case, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) has said. AICC general secretaries Randeep Singh Surjewala and Pawan Khera alleged on Monday that the “hesitation” betrayed the “special relationship” shared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Vijayan. They alleged that the Gujurat-based Adani group had emerged as the bridge between the leaders. The Left Democratic Front government had recently entered into a power purchase agreement with the Adani group. It was a quid pro quo. The AICC leaders alleged that the LDF government had hugely helped the Adani group. In connivance with the Centre, the Kerala government had allegedly slashed its quota of cheaper solar power to buy 300 MW of wind-generated electricity at an exaggerated tariff rate per unit from the ‘Adani Green Power’ group. The purchase agreement would set the public exchequer back by Rs. 8,758 crore. The LDF government had also facilitated Adani’s takeover of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to curry favour with the Centre. The State ‘s opposition to the airport takeover was mere tokenism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-central-agencies-reluctant-to-book-cm/article34194768.ece
30 March 2021||Kolkata,||Death of elderly woman after assault sparks row||Politics has erupted over the death of an 82-year-old woman in the Nimta area of West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, with the BJP leadership alleging that assault by Trinamool Congress supporters resulted in her death. The woman, Shova Majumdar, and her son, Gopal, were allegedly assaulted by Trinamool supporters on February 27 in the North Dumdum area, under the Nimta police station jurisdiction. Photographs of the elderly woman with injuries on her face had led to furore on social media. She was admitted to hospital a few days ago. Mr. Majumdar had said his mother was assaulted by Trinamool goons but refused to identify those behind the attack. BJP workers on Monday staged a protest in front of the Nimta police station and burnt tyres on M.B. Road. Shah tweets Through the day, senior BJP leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, raised the issue and targeted the Trinamool over the incident. “Anguished over the demise of Bengal’s daughter Shova Majumdar ji , who was brutally beaten by Trinamool goons,” Mr Shah tweeted. “The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers,” he added. BJP president J.P. Nadda also took to social media and said “her sacrifice will be remembered forever. She was also mother of Bengal, daughter of Bengal. The BJP always fights for security of mothers and daughters”. Adding to the controversy, the death certificate of Ms. Majumdar was signed by BJP candidate Archana Majumdar, who is also a medical practitioner. Trinamool counters Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee responded to the incident and to the BJP’s allegations by saying that any death is unfortunate. However, she added that while the Home Minister was pointing at incidents in West Bengal, he had “put a leucoplast [band aid] when incidents happen in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras”. Senior Trinamool leaders also questioned the narrative spread by the BJP. “The death of Shova Majumdar is a tragedy. What is totally unfortunate though is the Home Min peddling a narrative when the incident is under investigation. He heads a Police Force & multiple Central Agencies. Shouldn’t he show some respect to the investigative process of India!” Trinamool leader and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’ Brien said on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-of-elderly-woman-after-assault-sparks-row/article34194387.ece
30 March 2021||AIZAWL,||Manipur against camps for those from Myanmar||Given the instances of Myanmar nationals trying to enter India through the border as a “fallout of the events taking place” there, the Manipur government has directed officials that the district administration or civil society organisations should not open any camps for food and shelter and those seeking refuge should be “politely turned away.” “In case of grievous injuries, medical attention may be provided on humanitarian considerations. People trying to enter, seek refuge should be politely turned away,” M. Gyan Prakash, Special Secretary (Home), Manipur, said in a March 26 letter to Deputy Commissioners of Chandel, Tengnoupal, Kamjong and Ukhrul. “Aadhaar enrolment should be stopped immediately and Aadhaar enrolment kits taken into safe custody.” A report on action taken may kindly be submitted by March 30, 2021, the letter added. While that is the official position, ‘we are doing everything to help the refugees on humanitarian considerations’, a Manipur government official said on the letter, speaking on condition of anonymity. Earlier, the Mizoram government had issued guidelines directing officials to provide shelter to those crossing the border following the coup in Myanmar but they were withdrawn after intervention by the Union Home Ministry. Women soldiers Riflewoman Jagriti, dressed in combat uniform and holding an AK-47, is among several women soldiers deployed with 3 Assam Rifles in Mizoram on the Myanmar border. With increasing smuggling and illegal crossings along the border, Assam Rifles, the designated border guarding force here, is looking to increase the number of women riflemen in service. Women have made a huge difference in increasing the recovery of narcotics and contraband as they have been able to check women carrying narcotics and contraband, an official on the ground said. “I have completed four years of service. Earlier, I was deployed in Nagaland and Jammu and Kashmir, and took part in counter-insurgency operations,” said riflewoman Jagriti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-against-camps-for-those-from-myanmar/article34194404.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Mufti denied passport after ‘adverse’ CID report||“The scope of this court in the matter of grant or otherwise of passport in favour of an individual is very limited,” judge Ali Mohammad Magrey said. The court “can only direct the authorities concerned to expeditiously consider the case of an individual in the light of the mandate of the scheme of law governing the subject,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Passport Officer, Srinagar, submitted to the High Court that the ADGP, CID, J&K, has categorised Ms. Mufti’s application as “not recommended passport case”. “As per norms, clear Police Verification Report (PVR) is mandatory [for issuance of a passport]. The PVR received from the ADGP, CID, does not favour issuance of passport and [was] returned as ‘not recommended for passport case’. “In view of the CID report, your case was found to attract refusal under the provision Section 6(2) (c) of the Passport Act, 1967,” the officer’s submission reads. Ms. Mufti had applied for a fresh passport on December 11, 2020. She has now been asked to appeal before the Joint Secretary (PSP) and the Chief Passport Officer, Ministry of External Affairs, Patiala House, New Delhi, within 30 days “in case of any grievance against the decision”. Reacting to the decision, Ms. Mufti, in a tweet, said, “[The] Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID’s report citing it as ‘detrimental to the security of India’. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since August 2019 that an ex-Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation.” Ms. Mufti was among dozens of mainstream leaders arrested a day before the Centre ended J&K’s special constitutional position on August 5, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mufti-denied-passport-after-adverse-cid-report/article34194361.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Only 5.4% of houses under PMAY-G finished this year||However, money has been sanctioned for almost 85% of beneficiaries. Of the 2.28 crore houses to be built for the rural poor under the Yojana, less than 1.27 crore had been completed by January 28, 2021, according to the Committee’s report presented to the Lok Sabha earlier this month. Another 61 lakh are under construction. The PMAY-G was launched in April 2016 and aims to provide a pucca house with basic amenities to all rural families who are homeless or living in kutcha or dilapidated houses by the end of March 2022. According to data provided by the Ministry in 2019, it takes an average of 114 days to construct a house under the scheme. However, the advent of the pandemic caused long delays at every stage. Implementation was “affected at the ground level due to unavailability of construction materials, labour, delay in inspection of stages of house construction etc,” the Ministry told the Committee. Although the nationwide lockdown in March 2020 brought work to a complete standstill, the Ministry issued an advisory to all States to start house construction activities from April 20, 2020, while adhering to safety protocols such as mask wearing and distancing. “Front loading of work of construction of PMAY-G houses and engagement of migrant workers in house construction activities in the rural areas was done. The initiative helped in creation of jobs for migrant workers involved in masonry and labour work in the rural sector and thereby ensuring regular income to the workers during COVID-19 crisis,” the Ministry said. Going by the Ministry’s data, some States which are the source of large migrant worker populations took advantage of their extra work force. Odisha completed construction of 10.5% of its 2020-21 target and began work on at least 85% of those for which money was sanctioned this year. Jharkhand completed 7.25% of the target and started work on more than 91% of houses sanctioned this year. A number of other States such as Assam, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka did not see completed construction of even a single house sanctioned during the year. Nationwide, the Ministry’s target was to sanction 63 lakh houses this year. Only 34 lakh were actually sanctioned, and only 1.9 lakh of those had reached completion at the end of January. Almost 19 lakh houses reached the lintel level while six lakh reached the later stages of construction with roofs ready to be added, the data presented to the Committee showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-54-of-houses-under-pmay-g-finished-this-year/article34194362.ece
30 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Pregnant woman without helmet made to walk 3 km||A police inspector in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district was placed under suspension for making a pregnant woman walk three km in scorching heat for not wearing a helmet. Bikram Biruli was taking his eight-month pregnant wife for a check-up on his bike when he was stopped by police personnel under the Sarat police limits on Sunday. While Mr. Biruli was wearing a helmet, his wife Gurubari Biruli was not. Police imposed a fine, but Mr. Biruli did not have the money. He said he told the police he would pay the amount online, but the police did not agree. There was a heated exchange between Mr. Biruli and Sarat police officer-in-charge Reena Baxala. Subsequently, the police team took Mr. Biruli to the police station leaving his pregnant wife alone on the road. “I requested the police officer to take me with my husband, she did not listen,” said Ms. Biruli, who then walked to the station. At the police station, they were allegedly made to wait for close to two hours. Smit Parmar, Mayurbhanj Superintendent of Police, placed Ms. Baxala under suspension for misconduct and dereliction of duty. “It was an insensitive act,” Mr. Parmar said.  Last year, the Odisha government had declared wearing of helmets mandatory for pillion riders too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-woman-without-helmet-made-to-walk/article34194402.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘Kerala has no right to ink fishing deal’||Accusing the Kerala government of betraying the fishing community, Union Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Giriraj Singh on Monday said the State had no right to ink the deep-sea fishing deal with U.S.-based EMCC International. The Centre will reject any such agreement, he said. “The State government had no right to ink such an agreement. Beyond the 12-nautical-mile mark, sea-related activities are regulated by the Central government. Whatever agreement Kerala has entered into with the foreign company, the Government of India will reject it,” Mr. Singh told a press conference here. Mr. Singh, who is in the State as part of a National Democratic Alliance election campaign, said fishermen have been approaching him wherever he went with the demand that they be rescued from the deal. The concerns of the Church in this regard were shared by the Bishop of Alappuzha of the Catholic Church James Anaparambil when the Minister called on him on Sunday. Mr. Singh said that Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has not contacted him even once in her official capacity. The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation’s (KSINC) Rs. 2,950-crore pact with EMCC International, which included the construction of 400 deep-sea trawlers, had kicked up a political controversy. However, the State government had been forced to cancel the agreement in the face of stiff opposition. The 222 notified fishing villages on the Kerala coast will be developed as smart villages in a phased manner, the Union Minister said. Efforts are also on to increase the incomes of the fishermen, while at the same time reducing the risk they face at sea. As part of this cage culture will be promoted in the near-shore waters along the Kerala coast and also the backwaters, he said. Mr. Singh said voters in Kerala are yearning for a change from the LDF and the UDF. The LDF government in Kerala is nothing but a ‘commission government’ that has been encouraging goondaism, love jihad and smuggling, he alleged. Likening the LDF and UDF to ‘nagnath’ (cobra) and ‘saampnath’ (snake), Mr. Singh said what Kerala needed is ‘Vikasnath’ (NDA).  Union Minister says voters in Kerala are yearning for a change from the LDF and the UDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-has-no-right-to-ink-fishing-deal/article34194374.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Playing it safe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/playing-it-safe/article34194398.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Mega Lok Adalat settles over 3 lakh pending cases in a day||Breaking its own earlier national record, the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) set a new record of settling 3,32,936 cases in a day at the mega Lok Adalat on March 27. A record 2,63,215 cases were settled at the mega Lok Adalat on December 19, 2020. Of the 3,32,936 cases settled, 3,13,823 were pending in courts and 19,113 are pre-litigation cases. While Rs. 1,033 crore has been paid to litigants as compensation in cases related to land acquisition, cheque bounce, motor vehicle accidents claims, Rs. 18.19 crore has been collected in fine towards compounding of offences, including traffic violations. New national record Justice Aravind Kumar, a judge of the Karnataka HC and executive chairperson of KSLSA, told presspersons on Monday that the KSLSA has set a new national record with the cooperation of advocates, litigants, judicial officers and staff of trial courts, and publicity given to the adalat by media. A salient feature of this adalat was the settlement of 3,853 partition suits and 486 matrimonial disputes related to payment of maintenance and child custody as main focus of the previous one was cases related motor accident claims, cheque bounces, etc. Amicable settlement of disputes involving a private company for a mutually agreed payment of Rs. 21 crore and payment of Rs. 58 lakh as compensation by an insurance company to a victim of motor vehicle accident were among the cases involving high financial stakes put to rest in the Lok Adalat, he said. Justice Kumar said that the Rs. 122 crore has been saved for the state exchequer in the form of salary payable for judges and court staff due to settlement of cases on a single day. It would have taken 1,04,231 man days for the 1,100 judges and around 6,600 court staff in the State to dispose of these 3.13 lakh cases considering that a judge disposes an average three cases per day, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mega-lok-adalat-settles-over-3-lakh-pending-cases-in-a-day/article34194532.ece
30 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||32 students in Odisha college test positive||As many as 32 students and employees of a college in Bhawanipatna in Odisha tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. “After a person from the private college tested positive, we started contact tracing. As many as 32 students and employees have been found infected by the virus. The testing is going on,” Chief District Medical Officer of Kalahandi Pratap Kumar Behera told The Hindu over phone. Dr. Behera said one person in Kendriya Vidyalaya in Bhawanipatna also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32-students-in-odisha-college-test-positive/article34194396.ece
30 March 2021||New Delhi,||CBI books tax official for seeking bribe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a Superintendent of the Central Excise & Central Tax in Bengaluru for allegedly demanding money from a content provider for television serials to waive the tax on his earnings and the penalty. The complainant, Jagadish Subray Bhave, who earns Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 15,000 per episode, alleged that Superintendent of Central Excise and Central Tax (Goods & Services Tax), Jitendra K. Dagur demanded Rs. 50,000 as bribe to waive Rs. 150,000 accrued as tax and penalty. When Mr. Bhave expressed inability to pay, the official even agreed to take it in two instalments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-tax-official-for-seeking-bribe/article34194405.ece
30 March 2021||New Delhi,||Anticipatory bail given to rape accused||A Vacation Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice Ashok Bhushan on Monday granted anticipatory bail to Goa-based restaurateur Jude Lobo in a complaint filed by a Delhi woman, accusing him of rape. The Bench sat on an urgent basis on Holi to hear Mr. Lobo’s case for protection against arrest after the Delhi High Court refused the Calangute-based Souza Lobo restaurant owner any relief. “It is a perfect example of a cock-and-bull story. An FIR was lodged by the woman in December 2020, and the rape allegations are of 2009. She wanted to host a party at my restaurant and I refused,” senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Mr. Lobo, said. The court said that it was satisfied that there was a case for anticipatory bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anticipatory-bail-given-to-rape-accused/article34194413.ece
30 March 2021||Srinagar,||Former PDP, NC leaders join Lone’s party||Peoples Conference (PC) chief Sajad Lone, whose party saw the crossover of three prominent politicians from the Peoples Democratic Party in Srinagar on Sunday, said the time has come to engage people of the country and clear the misconceptions. “We need to engage with the people of India by removing all bottlenecks of miscommunication. There are misconceptions. We need to meet the Opposition, people in government and the civil society. Irritating them will take us nowhere. The mission is difficult but not impossible,” Mr. Lone told reporters, in reply to a question on the pre-August 5, 2019 status of J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/need-to-engage-with-people-lone/article34194414.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,||Date of RS polls soon: EC to HC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that it would take a decision shortly on the dates of elections for the three Rajya Sabha (RS) seats falling vacant on April 21. Counsel for the ECI said the election process would commence in accordance with the statutory schedule. The submission was made when a writ petition filed by the Kerala Legislative Assembly Secretary and others challenging the ECI’s decision to keep in abeyance the proceedings for the election came up for hearing. The ECI’s press note on March 17 was only an advance announcement on the date of the proposed notification for the election, the ECI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/date-of-rs-polls-soon-ec-to-hc/article34194767.ece
30 March 2021||Palghar,||Maha: Man held for stealing ATM cards of bank customers||Police have arrested a 30-year- old man in Maharashtra for allegedly stealing ATM cards of bank customers during their visits for cash withdrawal, an official said. A victim recently lodged a police complaint saying his ATM card was stolen by a man at an ATM centre and later money was withdrawn from his account by the accused.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maha-man-held-for-stealing-atm-cards-of-bank-customers/article34194810.ece
30 March 2021||Gadchiroli,||5 ultras killed in anti-Naxal operation||Five Naxals, including two women cadres, who all were carrying a collective reward of Rs. 43 lakh on their heads, were killed on Monday morning in an operation conducted by C-60 commandos in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district, a senior police officer said. A cache of arms and ammunition, including an AK-47 rifle, a 12-bore rifle, a 303 rifle, an 8 mm rifle, and some electronic items, was recovered from the spot located in Khobramenda forest area. Police suspect that at least four to five ultras were injured in the exchange of fire. Gadchiroli SP Ankit Goyal told reporters that C-60 commandos had received the information that Naxals were gathering in a large number in Tipagarh forest area against the backdrop of ‘Naxal week’ being observed by them with the possibility of a planned ambush. “The Gadchiroli police’s C-60 commandos conducted the operation on Monday morning in Khobramenda forest area where they were attacked by 40 to 50 ultras. The exchange of fire lasted for two to two-and-a-half hours in which five Naxals were killed,” he said. A release issued by the office of the SP in Gadchiroli identified one of the slain Naxals as Rushi Raoji alias Bhaskar Hichami(46) of North Gadchiroli division carrying a bounty of Rs. 25 lakh on his head. He had a total of 155 offences registered against him, including 41 cases of murder, 78 encounters with police, and other offences, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-ultras-killed-in-anti-naxal-operation/article34194383.ece
30 March 2021||Nanded,||Policemen injured in attack by mob of Sikhs in Nanded||A mob of sword-wielding people belonging to the Sikh community on Monday attacked policemen, injuring at least four of them, after being refused permission to hold a religious procession amid the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said. A viral video of the incident showed the mob storming a gurdwara, breaking barricades and attacking the policemen.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policemen-injured-in-attack-by-mob-of-sikhs-in-nanded/article34194430.ece
30 March 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Ship crew tests positive for COVID-19 at Paradip||Fourteen crew members of a cargo ship, which was to transport coal from Paradip Port, have tested positive for COVID-19. The port authorities said the members of the ship have not had any interaction with the locals. “Of the 28 members, 14 were found to be infected. They were shifted to Bhubaneswar for treatment and quarantined. The rest of the crew were isolated in the ship,” said Rajendra Panigrahi, a port doctor. The ship A.P. Kayas had originated from Tuticorin Port and was scheduled to load coal at Paradip Port. Dr. Panigrahi said the ship had been sanitised twice and it would be allowed to load coal after 14 days of self-quarantine by the ship employees. Odisha reported 208 new COVID-19 cases and one death on Monday. Western Odisha district of Nuapada reported the most cases at 36, followed by Khordha with 33. The government on Sunday sealed a coaching institute in Bhubaneswar after 20 students tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ship-crew-tests-positive-for-covid-19-at-paradip/article34194400.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Army donates 1 lakh vaccine doses to Nepal||The Indian Army has gifted one lakh doses of India-made anti-COVID-19 vaccines to the Nepal Army as part of the efforts of the militaries of the two neighbours to enhance bilateral cooperation. The vaccines were handed over by the Indian Army officials to their counterparts from the Nepal Army at the Tribhuvan International Airport on Sunday, the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu tweeted. "1,00,000 doses of #MadeInIndia COVID-19 vaccine gifted by Indian Army to the Nepali Army were received at Tribhuvan Airport," the mission tweeted. India has previously gifted one million doses of ‘Made in India’ COVID-19 vaccines to Nepal for the immediate requirement of Nepal’s healthcare and front-line workers. Meanwhile, China on Monday donated 8,00,000 doses of anti-COVID-19 vaccines to Nepal, according to media reports.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-donates-1-lakh-vaccine-doses-to-nepal/article34194401.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai HC mulls special masks for disabled||The Bombay High Court recently remarked that with the coronavirus pandemic here to stay, how will those with hearing and speech disability be recognised with their masks. On March 24, a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by Lokshahivadi Balasaheb Sarode Smruti Prabodhan Upakram in Pune through advocate Ajinkya Udane. The petition said since wearing masks had been made mandatory and fines were being imposed on those violating the order, “the PIL requests for a uniformity of fines, accountability and transparency in the use of such collected funds”. The petitioners also sought that the government provide masks free of cost to those who cannot afford to buy them and said, “the huge amounts collected by [way of fines] shall be utilised in providing stickers for the deaf and mute people on their masks so to help them in better communication and identification”. Advocate Asim Sarode also appearing for the NGO informed the court that various authorities like the police, municipal corporation, nagar parishad and even solid waste management committees are collecting fines ranging from Rs. 100 to Rs. 1,000 and crores of rupees have been collected in the form of fines. He urged the bench to pass a direction for all government authorities to submit before the court the total amount collected as fines. He said when the authorities impose fines on people for not wearing masks at public places they should also immediately provide them with masks. Citing the seminal book Everybody loves good drought by renowned journalist P. Sainath, Mr Sarode said the government seems to be exploiting the pandemic situation to mint money. The court then remarked, “The pandemic is here to stay. We have completely forgotten that there should be some special mask for these persons. How would you otherwise recognise them?” The court directed the State government to file its reply in the plea and posted the matter to be heard next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-hc-mulls-special-masks-for-disabled/article34194412.ece
30 March 2021||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Melur farmers want an impetus to make agriculture rewarding||Agriculture, the primary occupation of the people of Melur Assembly constituency in Madurai district, has suffered in recent times. Not only are people looking at other avenues, some have moved to cities in search of better prospects. Former Agriculture Minister P. Kakkan was from Melur taluk. “Though there were good rains last year, it did not come to the aid of farmers. The yield in sugarcane, which is one of the predominant crops of the region, was low,” says the State president of Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers Association N. Palanisamy. Farmers had to sell their produce for low profits. Delay in payments from the National Cooperative Sugar Mills added to the misery of farmers, he says. Use of latest technology to improve paddy productivity has not been explored here, says president of Periyar Single Crop Association M. Murugan. Moreover, since water from the Periyar Main Canal does not reach the tail-end areas, many agricultural lands have turned fallow. Waterbodies must also be rejuvenated to improve water storage, says Mr. Palanisamy. But for a handful of big industries, Melur region does not have many avenues for employment. Given that Melur is an agriculture-based region, agro-food and processing units could be set up, says an academician. Vocational training and skill-based training centres should be established here. Government schools and college in the region need better infrastructure to arrest dropout rate, he says. Melavalavu massacre Melavalavu near Melur witnessed the massacre of six members of a Scheduled Caste by Caste Hindus in 1997. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, last year, expressed pain over media reports on a group of Scheduled Caste people in Melur who carried a dead body through an agricultural field due to lack of pathway to the burial ground. “We have to hang our heads in shame,” the court said and directed the authorities to immediately look into the issue and to address the grievance. Arittapatti, a place of historical and ecological significance, is located in Melur constituency. Tamil Brahmi stone inscriptions, Jain vestiges, natural waterbodies and a rock-cut temple are important spots in the area. The residents say Arittapatti is rich in biodiversity and should be protected. As for Melur town, narrow roads lead to traffic snarls. The Melur daily market is also in a dilapidated condition for many years and it needs an immediate repairs, says B. Stalin, a resident. R. Samy, a close aide of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran was a three time MLA from Melur constituency. He won as an AIADMK candidate in 2001, 2006 and 2011 Assembly elections and was part of the AMMK when the party was launched in 2018, in Melur. He died the same year after a long battle with cancer. While the farmers say their grievances were not looked into, sitting MLA Periyapullan alias P. Selvam of the AIADMK says he will address issues raised by the farmers. The AIADMK has won the seat in the past four elections. It has fielded the incumbent while the Congress, an ally of the DMK, has fielded T. Ravichandran. K. Kathiresan of Makkal Needhi Maiam, P. Karuppusamy of Naam Tamilar Katchi and A. Selvaraj of AMMK are also in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/melur-farmers-want-an-impetus-to-make-agriculture-rewarding/article34194848.ece
30 March 2021||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Voters being misled on free washing machines: Vaiko||When the AIADMK government had left behind Rs. 9-lakh crore debt, it was misleading the electorate of giving free washing machines, said MDMK general secretary Vaiko here on Monday. Speaking at a public meeting in support of the secular candidates in the four Assembly Constituencies, he said that the people were fed up with the AIADMK and its allies for having ruined the State into a financial turmoil. The time had come for the DMK to give a new Tamil Nadu. The DMK president M K Stalin would bring back the sheen, he hoped. When the state had no resources to mobilise, it would be impossible to give washing machines free of cost to the people, he said and cautioned the voters not to fall prey to such sugar coated promises, which were nothing but misleading. The AIADMK should be sent home as otherwise, the State would turn into a graveyard. The MDMK leader said that the AIADMK had emptied the treasury. About 90 lakh youths were waiting to get jobs in the State. Five lakh people, who were working in tiny and small units, had lost their jobs in Tamil Nadu due to the Centre's GST and other decisions. To put an end to all these ‘anti-people’ measures, the people have to elect the DMK and its allies in all the 234 Assembly Constituencies, he added. The Citizenship Amendment Act was ‘anti-minorities.’ The BJP had tabled it with the motive of terrorising the minorities in the country. Secular parties in Parliament opposed it tooth and nail. However, the AIADMK and its allies, including the PMK, supported the Bill, which had come as a weapon to the minorities, Mr Vaiko claimed and wanted the people to be guarded before casting their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voters-being-misled-on-free-washing-machines-vaiko/article34194651.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. reports 2,279 new COVID-19 cases||For the third day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported more than 2,000 fresh cases of COVID-19. A total of 2,279 persons had tested positive for the COVID-19 infection and 14 persons died in Tamil Nadu. Of the 14 fatalities, Chengalpattu recorded four deaths, while Chennai and Coimbatore registered two deaths each. Cuddalore, Karur, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Tiruvallur and Tiruppur recorded one death each. This took the toll to 12,684. Among the deceased was a 38-year-old man who had systemic hypertension. A resident of Coimbatore, he died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on March 26 due to bilateral bronchopneumonia. No co-morbidities Two of the deceased had no co-morbidities — a 55-year-old man from Madurai who was admitted to a private hospital on March 16 with complaints of fever, cough for four days and difficulty in breathing for three days died on March 28 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and COVID-19 pneumonia and a 50-year-old woman from Chengalpattu who was admitted to the Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital in Chennai with complaints of fever for three days and cough for two days died on March 28 due to ARDS and COVID-19 pneumonia. New cases Chennai’s daily count stood at 815, while the cases exceeded 200 in both Chengalpattu and Coimbatore. A total of 202 persons tested positive in Chengalpattu and 211 in Coimbatore. Thanjavur and Tiruvallur reported 130 and 129 cases respectively. There were 80 new cases in Kancheepuram. The cases in other districts were: Cuddalore (57), Nagapattinam (56), Tiruvarur (58), Tiruppur (52), Tiruchi (58) and Salem (49). A total of nine districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. Eight returnees – five from West Bengal and one each from UAE, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka – were among those who tested positive for COVID-19.  Overall tally The State’s overall tally of cases stood at 8,81,752. The fresh cases pushed the active cases to 13,983 with Chennai alone accounting for 5,541 persons. Another 1,352 persons were discharged after treatment in the State, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 8,55,085. A total of 80,253 persons were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of individuals tested to 1,91,05,807.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-clocks-815-new-covid-19-cases/article34194567.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We are pious and cultured: CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday appealed to the electorate in Chennai to vote for his party’s candidate and their allies, contending that they were “pious and cultured”. “DMK president Mr. Stalin wiped off the vibuthi [sacred ash] when he visited Muthuramalinga Thevar’s memorial. But we are truly pious people. There will be kindness and culture in those who are pious. Our candidate has them all,” he said while seeking votes for B. Sathyanarayanan in the T. Nagar Assembly constituency. In Anna Nagar, where the party has fielded S. Gokula Indira, he said the DMK must be taught a lesson as some of its members had made disgusting remarks against women. “Dindigul I. Leoni passed some very distasteful remarks against women. Mr. Stalin has not even condemned it as yet. Even without being in power, they are so arrogant,” he said, adding that he was witness to DMK MLAs physically attacking J. Jayalalithaa, the then Leader of Opposition, in the Assembly in 1989. Accusing Mr. Stalin of spreading misinformation during campaigns, he said the DMK leader could only dream of winning in 234 seats but he would never succeed. Mr. Palaniswami reiterated his challenge to Mr. Stalin for a one-on-one debate on corruption charges and governance. The residents of Anna Nagar had benefited from the Metro Rail and Anna Arch flyover, he said. Campaigning for BJP candidate Kushboo in the Thousand Lights Assembly constituency near Independence Day park, Mr. Palaniswami said a State could develop only if it shared cordial ties with the Central government. “Be it the BJP or the AIADMK, we are democratic parties that grant party posts for those who truly work for the party,” he said while calling the DMK a “dynastic” party, where only family members were given positions. In Mylapore, where R. Nataraj is seeking re-election, the Chief Minister said women would not have protection under the DMK regime. During the erstwhile DMK regimes, there was no peace in Tamil Nadu. Instead, there were cases of murder,  dacoity, robbery and land-grabbing, he said. The AIADMK government had installed over 2.5 lakh CCTV cameras in Chennai and it had helped solve criminal cases, he said. The AIADMK government had also improved civic infrastructure to prevent flooding, he said, while questioning what Mr. Stalin had done for the city as the Local Administration Minister and as Mayor. While campaigning for AIADMK candidate Saidai Duraisamy in Saidapet, Mr. Palaniswami wanted the people to compare his performance with that of the DMK candidate, Ma. Subramanian, both of whom were former Chennai Mayors. If the desalination projects were implemented in Minjur and Nemili, there would not be any drinking water scarcity for the people in Chennai, he said. He also campaigned for Paattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) candidate A.V.A. Kasali in the Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-are-pious-and-cultured-cm/article34194600.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alandur holds special significance for AIADMK||The Alandur constituency has been swaying between the AIADMK and the DMK every five years since 1991. In 2011, Panruti S. Ramachandran won the seat on a DMDK ticket, in alliance with the AIADMK. However, in 2014, as Mr. Ramachandran quit the DMDK and joined the AIADMK, V.N.P. Venkataraman was given the ticket and he won against DMK’s R.S. Bharathi. In this Assembly election, MLA T.M. Anbarasan of the DMK is taking on B. Valarmathi of the AIADMK, who won the seat in 2001. The other two important candidates are E. Sarathbabu of Makkal Needhi Maiam and R. Karthikeyan of Naam Tamizhar Katchi. Alandur has a symbiotic relationship with the AIADMK as party founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran started his political career by winning the Parangimalai constituency in 1967 and again in 1971. The constituency was later merged with the Alandur constituency. The constituency is spread across Nanganallur, Palavanthangal, Vanuvampet, Iyyappanthangal, Mugalivakkam, Manapakkam, St. Thomas Mount and Nandambakkam. The localities were brought under the limits of the Greater Chennai Corporation in 2014 but are yet to see the fruits of improved amenities, such as piped drinking water supply, underground drainage system, and good roads. Civic work on flood mitigation has been completed. Nanganallur and Palavanthangal have undergone a sea change as grid roads have been laid. The thickly-populated areas of Palavanthangal, Vanuvampet and Nanganallur had been provided piped drinking water supply and UGD even before they were brought under the Corporation limits but the people expect more civic infrastructure. Long-pending demands V. Rama Rao, secretary, People Awareness Association, says the long-pending demands include an overbridge replacing the leaky Thillai Ganga Nagar subway, linking the Palavanthangal subway with the 5th Main Road for easing traffic congestion, speeding up the construction of the Mass Rapid Transit System line from Velachery to St. Thomas Mount and renovation of the Adambakkam lake. K. Balachandar, a resident of Palavanthangal, says the area needs an 110 kV substation on the lines of those in Velachery and Guindy to tackle low voltage and erratic power supply. While a section of the residents has reaped the benefits of being included in the Corporation limits, a major section of Mugalivakkam, Manapakkam, Iyyappanthangal and Nandambakkam are still struggling for civic infrastructure. K. Ravindran, a resident of Mugalivakkam, says it has been more than six years but the residents had not seen any major improvement in civic facilities. Mr. Ravindran lists poor approach roads, flooding problem during rain, lack of piped drinking water supply and UGD and bad maintenance of storm-water drains as major problems affecting the areas. Mr. Ravindran, an office-bearer of the RGL Dream Bungalows Residents Welfare Association, says the residents have been paying water and sewage taxes although the area does not have both, forcing them to spend on hiring sewage lorries regularly for removing grey water. The residents of Manapakkam and Mugalivakkam complain about poor bus facilities to reach Mount Poonamallee Road, bad roads, particularly Mugalivakkam Bypass, and the release of sewage into storm-water drains. MLA’s achievements The former Labour Minister and two-time MLA T.M. Anbarasan of the DMK has been nursing the constituency well by securing allocation of funds and executing several civic infrastructure works, including the macro canal to carry excess rainwater from Manapakkam and Mugalivakkam to the Adyar. Mr. Anbarasan has been given credit for commissioning of a new sewage pumping station at Neelamangai Nagar in Adambakkam at a cost of Rs. 24.52 crore, construction of a bridge across the Adyar to link Gerugambakkam with Cowl Bazaar at a cost of Rs. 7 crore, execution of the drinking water supply scheme and UGD in Mugalivakkam, Manapakkam and Nandambakkam, on an outlay of more than Rs. 100 crore and renovation of the Moovarasampet pond by paving the footpath and constructing a compound wall at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh. He has installed reverse osmosis water plants for the benefit of residents at Iyyappanthangal, Baranipudhur, Koovoor, Moulivakkam, Konapakkam, Gerugambakkam and Moovarasampet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alandur-holds-special-significance-for-aiadmk/article34194585.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior citizens, people with disabilities cast postal vote||With the Election Commission allowing postal ballots for those aged above 80, people with disabilities, and COVID-19 patients, these voters have been casting heir votes in the last few days for the Assembly election from home. On Tuesday, I. Krishnammal, 86, and her husband P. Iswaran, 91, cast their votes from their home in Anna Nagar. “I wanted to vote this time without any hassle and am happy that I could do so from my home,” she said. Mr. Iswaran said he was happy to have voted from home and not missed out on exercising his franchise. A resident of Thiruporur, V. Saravanan, said his father K. Veerappan, 86, would be casting his vote through the postal ballot. “My father needs quick access to rest rooms and we were initially worried this year as to how he would manage. We are happy now that he can vote from home,” he said. The Chennai District Election Office has received around 50% of postal ballots from senior citizens and persons with disabilities in 16 Assembly constituencies as on March 28. The process was expected to be completed in two days, officials said. Seventy teams of the Greater Chennai Corporation, polling officials and the police have received postal ballots from 3,004 people. Thyagaraya Nagar has polled the highest number of postal ballots so far. Of the 536 postal ballots issued to senior citizens and persons with disabilities in the Thyagaraya Nagar Assembly constituency, officials have received 491 postal ballots. Thiru Vi Ka Nagar received just 42 postal ballots so far. As many as 9,000 people applied for postal ballots in 16 Assembly constituencies of the city, and election officials found that 7,300 were eligible. As many as 114 persons with disabilities cast their votes through postal ballot. The largest number of postal votes from persons with disabilities was received from Mylapore constituency. Better coverage needed Disability rights activists raised concerns about the number of eligible voters receiving Form 12 D when it was being distributed earlier this month. In a representation to the Disability Commissioner, they said they were not approached by the BLOs with the form and had asked for the need to engage with disability groups to disseminate information better about the election process. “There should have been better coverage with regard to reaching out to voters with disabilities in the city. We are not aware of how many persons with disabilities across the city had visits from officials and were given Form 12 D,” said D. Gnana Bharathi, president, Spinal Injured Persons Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-citizens-people-with-disabilities-cast-postal-vote/article34194569.ece
30 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Only 14 prisoners in Tamil Nadu will be voting||Only 14 prisoners out of the the total 15,416 convicts and undertrials lodged in nine central prisons and sub-jails will be going to exercise their franchise two days ahead of the assembly poll in the State. Jail officials said most of them were not eligible to cast their votes as per settled law. However, those detained under preventive detention laws were given the right to vote. “Most of them – convicts and undertrials – do not have the right to vote as per the settled law. However. the detenues under preventive detention laws such as Goondas and National Securities Act are allowed to cast their votes through postal ballots,” said a senior officer of the Prison Department. As many as 1,571 detenues could vote but only 14 had expressed their willingness. “We have sent their willingness to the government. After verifying the addresses and other eligibility details, the returning officers will send the postal ballots,” the officer said. As per the records of the Prison Department, 368 detenues are lodged in Central Prison-II, Puzhal, 225 in Tiruchi, 201 in Vellore, 147 in Coimbatore, 178 in Madurai, 205 in Palayamkottai, 106 in Cuddalore, and 141 in Salem. Among them, those who are detained for the first time are eligible to cast their votes. Only five detenues in Central Prison, Coimbatore, seven in Cuddalore, one each in Palayamkottai and Puzhal are going to vote now. RP Act As per sub-section (5) of section 62 of the Representation of the People Act, any person who is confined in prison while serving a sentence for any offence or is under lawful confinement in a prison or in a police custody for any reason is not entitled to vote. In 1997, the Supreme Court rejected a plea for voting rights to prisoners citing resource crunch. Permitting every prisoner to vote would require deployment of a much larger police force, it had said. But activists demand that voting rights be given to all prisoners including convicts and undertrials. Senior advocate Sudha Ramalingam said, “On the face of it, the reason given is that prisoners are incarcerated due to their criminal acts and so they are confined in prisons depriving their fundamental right to live anywhere they like which includes the right to vote. But as the most basic premise of criminal jurisprudence is that one is deemed innocent unless found guilty, those undergoing preventive detention and undertrial prisoners ought not to be treated on a par with convicts.” According to the U.N., prisoners should be given the right to vote, she said. A number of countries had allowed it. “Our Supreme Court and the high courts have upheld section 62 (5) of the RP Act which deprives prisoners of the right to vote. I feel adult franchises should be universal,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-14-prisoners-in-tn-will-be-voting/article34194623.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC closes contempt petition moved against CEO||The Madras High Court on Monday closed a contempt of court petition filed against Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo for having allegedly disobeyed orders passed by the court on March 10 to ensure that all government servants on poll duty get to exercise their franchise during the forthcoming Assembly election. The court had earlier directed Mr. Sahoo to try and ensure that incidents of omission were below 10%. Disposing of the contempt plea now, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said they were satisfied with the efforts taken to implement the court orders and there was no reason to pursue the plea moved by the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Schools Graduate Teachers Association. The court would not conduct a witch hunt if there were a few accidental slips despite best efforts taken in a mammoth exercise, it said. The decision was taken after Election Commission of India (ECI) counsel Niranjan Rajagopalan submitted a counter-affidavit on the day when the contempt petition was listed for admission. In the counter-affidavit, the CEO said the voters on election duty were allowed to exercise their franchise either through postal ballot, if they were deputed outside the Assembly constituency where they reside, or through electronic voting machines (EVMs) if the deputation was within their home constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-closes-contempt-plea-moved-against-ceo/article34194598.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Choose candidates for their honesty’||BJP spokesperson and Prasar Bharati board member Shaina N.C. on Monday campaigned for Khushbu Sundar and Vinoj P. Selvam, the BJP candidates in the Thousand Lights and Harbour constituencies respectively. She urged the voters to choose the candidates for their honesty, humility and commitment to the welfare of the people. “The people must go beyond caste, creed and community and vote for the people-friendly policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami,” she said. Campaigning for Ms. Sundar, she said it was important to have women representatives, especially in a society such as India. Ms. Shaina met leaders of the Bohra community in the Harbour constituency at the Moore Street Bohra Mosque and sought their support for the party candidates. “Their association with Mr. Modiji goes back to Gujarat. They are known supporters of the Prime Minister,” she said. A spokesperson of the Dawoodi Bohra Jamat Trust Chennai said that she met leaders of the community, including their president Sheik Ishaq. “Leaders of various political parties are coming over to meet us seeking support. We welcome all and listen to them. We are urging our members to cast their votes and exercise their democratic right. The community has around 8,000 members in Royapuram, Madharavam and Parry’s Corner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/choose-candidates-for-their-honesty/article34194577.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK a slave government of the BJP’||Alleging that the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu is a “slave government” of the BJP government at the Centre, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Prakash Karat on Monday warned that any vote for the AIADMK in the Assembly election will be a vote for the BJP and the RSS. Campaigning for M.K. Mohan, the DMK candidate for Anna Nagar, he said though Prime Minister Narendra Modi was heading the BJP government, the actual control was in the hands of the RSS, which was trying to impose its goal of a “Hindu rashtra”. “It is trying to target all the minorities, reducing them to the status of second-class citizens and imposing all upper caste order in India. In many parts of the country where the BJP is running the State governments, the Hindu rashtra goal is being implemented. There is an active discrimination against religious minorities in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other BJP-ruled States,” he said. ‘Indiscriminately arrest’ Mr. Karat said new laws were being passed in those States in the name of “love jihad” and the “cow slaughter ban” to indiscriminately arrest people and put them behind bars. “Anybody who raises his voice of opposition or dissent is declared an anti-national. Laws like the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act [UAPA] are used to arrest hundreds of people... This is the type of fascist attack that has started,” he said. Mr. Karat said while Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were imposing one party dictatorship in the country, the AIADMK, an ally of the BJP, was in no position to take up any policy matter that was not to the liking of Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. “The AIADMK government is not independent and it is an adimai arasangam [slave government]. Any vote for the AIADMK will be a vote for the BJP and the RSS,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-a-slave-government-of-the-bjp/article34194594.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M Research Scholars Day to be held online||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras will hold its Research Scholars Day from April 2 to 4. The annual festival, the theme for which is “Shunya: nanos to cosmos” will be an online event. Ashok Kumar Mishra, dean (Academic Research), said the Research Scholars Day is a platform to share knowledge among research scholars, academicians, industrialists and entrepreneurs. The institute launched the Research Scholars Day in 2012 to celebrate academic research and innovation. Ninth edition In its ninth edition, RSD 2021 will feature 40 events, including lectures, competitions, workshops and a research expo. Prominent speakers include Jim Cantrell, founder and CEO, Phantom Space Corporation; Kallol Roy, former CMD, Bhavani, DAE; Arjita Sethi, founder and CEO, Equally, theschoolofgames.org. Details about the event and registration are available at www.rsdiitmadras.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-research-scholars-day-to-be-held-online/article34194578.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Only latest EVMs will be used’||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday dispelled the fears of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) that Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) manufactured about 15 years ago might be used for the forthcoming Assembly election. The commission told the Madras High Court that only machines manufactured and supplied between 2017 and 2019 would be used for the election since only they were compatible with Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) system. Replying to a case seized of by the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, the ECI said the DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi’s apprehension regarding use of old EVMs was unfounded. After the advent of VVPAT, all EVMs must be compatible with the new system and therefore there was no question of using previous generation EVMs, a counter affidavit filed by Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo stated. Senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the writ petitioner, told the Bench on Monday that the counter affidavit had been served upon him and urged it to take up the case on Tuesday. The judges accepted the request. In the counter affidavit, the CEO said there have been several technical advancements over the previous generation EVMs and that the new machines had facilities, such as automated self-diagnostics and digital certification for identification of genuine units. He said M3 EVMs alone would be used for the ensuing Assembly election. Listing out the security measures taken by the commission to ensure fool-proof voting through EVMs, the CEO said the machines were stored in exclusive warehouses during non-election period. Entry to such warehouses was secured by double lock and protected with police security round-the-clock. Further, the District Election Officers (DEOs) conduct annual physical verification of the machines at the warehouses. Further, the CEO said that an initial meeting, as per court directions, was conducted with the political parties on March 26 to identify critical polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-latest-evms-will-be-used-poll-panel-tells-hc/article34194582.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials, activists discuss strategy for inclusive sports ecosystems||The U.S. Consulate-General Chennai, in collaboration with the New Delhi-based non-profit organisation Pravah, sponsored a virtual workshop on “Creating Disability-Friendly Sports Ecosystems”. Around 30 participants, including officials, educators, representatives from NGOs, and individuals working towards inclusive development, discussed and developed strategies to promote inclusive sports ecosystems, tools and action plans. Besides Pravah, the workshop was led by the Indian alumni of the Department of State’s professional exchange programmes — International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP) and Global Sports Mentoring Program. U.S. exchange alumni Justin Jesudas, CEO of The Spinal Foundation, and Simy T.A., Vidya Sagar Special Education Centre paediatric physiotherapist, co-designed the workshop to increase awareness and commitment to an inclusive and disability-friendly sports ecosystem in India. “Supporting inclusive and equal access to opportunities are important shared values between our two democracies. I am inspired by the work of our local partners to advance disability rights in India in spite of the challenges of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic,” said Moulik Berkana, cultural affairs officer at the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai. Mr. Jesudas emphasised that para sports raised awareness about the importance of a barrier-free sports environment for people with disabilities. “To create an inclusive world, I am creating adaptive games to match the abilities and difficulties of each player so that equal participation is ensured,” said Ms. Simy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-activists-discuss-strategy-for-inclusive-sports-ecosystems/article34194579.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 2.48 crore cash, 4 kg gold seized in city||Election flying squads and static surveillance teams, in association with the city police, seized Rs. 2.48 crore unaccounted cash from four places on Monday. On the orders of Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, the police personnel, along with the flying squads and static surveillance teams, have been conducting vehicle checks round the clock in the city limits. A special team, led by inspector Charles of the Royapettah police station, intercepted a car on Dr. Besant Road and seized Rs. 1.62 crore from the car. The cash and the carriers, along with the driver, were handed over to the returning officer of Chepauk- Thiruvallikeni constituency. Another team, led by the inspector attached to the Menambakkam police station, seized Rs. 56.75 lakh from a vehicle, which was transporting the cash without valid documents. A similar cash seizure was made in the Adambakkam and Mylapore police station limits. Sources said 4 kg of gold was seized by the police on Monday evening. The gold was being transported by a leading jewellery shop, and it was seized for want of documents. The flying squad team seized 173 g of gold jewellery from a motorist, who was carrying it without any documents on NSC Bose Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-248-crore-cash-4-kg-gold-seized-in-city/article34194581.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tumour removed from Kolkata man’s maxilla at city hospital||A 32-year-old man from Kolkata with a massive swelling in his right jaw approached doctors at MGM Healthcare for treatment. The swelling had destroyed the symmetry of his face and he complained of not being able to swallow for the past year. A clinical examination revealed an 8 x 10cm swelling on the right side of the face. As the skin over the swelling was stretched, he could not open his mouth. The patient said he had delayed seeking medical care due to COVID-19 restrictions on travel. Doctors did a CT scan of the paranasal sinuses and also a biopsy of the lesion as they suspected it to be ameloblastoma, a locally aggressive benign tumour that affects the mandible and less commonly the maxilla. Sanjeeve Mohanty, senior consultant and head, Institute of ENT, Head and Neck Surgery, said ameloblastomas rarely affect the maxillary bone. Maxillary ameloblastomas are notorious in secondarily invading through the nasal and paranasal sinuses, giving rise to increased morbidity and discomfort to the patients in day-to-day activities. Dr. Mohanty excised the tumour completely and ensured that the margins were also disease-free. The patient had an uneventful post-operative period. Doctors ensured that the patient’s vision was intact, and he could open his mouth normally. A CT scan three weeks after the surgery revealed no evidence of recurrent or residual lesion. Dr. Mohanty attributed the success of the surgery to innovative endoscopic techniques that had resulted in a less radical surgery with lowered complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tumour-removed-from-kolkata-mans-maxilla-at-city-hospital/article34194586.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rela does dual live-donor transplant on 3-year-old||Doctors at Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC) here have performed simultaneous liver and kidney transplants from two live donors for a three-year-old girl from the Sultanate of Oman. A release from the hospital said the child was suffering from primary hyperoxaluria, a rare condition in which the problem is primarily with the liver but manifests as renal failure due to damage of kidneys caused by the presence of oxalates. The child was initially diagnosed with renal failure and was on dialysis since she was 10 months old. Later, her condition was diagnosed as primary hyperoxaluria that results in oxalate deposits in different parts of the body. Patient underweight When the child was brought to the hospital, she was severely underweight (8.2 kg) and the doctors initially decided to wait till she weighed 10 kg. However, considering the urgency, the doctors went ahead with the transplant by the end of January, the release added. A team of doctors, led by Mohamed Rela, performed the dual transplant with a segment of liver donated by the child’s uncle and left kidney by her mother. The child was doing well post surgery, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rela-does-dual-live-donor-transplant-on-3-year-old/article34194580.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mercury set to soar in T.N. from April 2||The mercury levels are set to increase in many parts of Tamil Nadu. The maximum temperature will begin to soar by two to three degrees Celsius above normal from April 2, the Meteorological Department has predicted. The day temperature in Puducherry and 20 districts of the State, including Chennai and neighbouring districts, Cuddalore, Tiruchi, Karur and Krishnagiri, is likely to soar and set the stage for an intense summer. While most parts of the State and Puducherry will experience dry weather for the next four days, districts along the Western Ghats — Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi — will get a respite from the summer heat for one or two days. Light rain Officials of the Meteorological Department said light rain was possible over these few districts till Wednesday. In the past 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Tenkasi received 3 cm of rainfall, followed by Bodinayakanur in Theni district and Sengottai in Tenkasi with 2 cm each. Surulacode in Kanniyakumari district and Ayikudi in Tenkasi district, too, recorded 1 cm each of rainfall. Wet weather continued in Theni district and Kodaikanal till 5.30 p.m. on Monday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said such light rain could be described as pre-monsoon showers that occur between March and May. With the seasonal change, land winds from the northwest direction will begin to prevail over the State from April 2. The northern parts of Tamil Nadu will start feeling the summer heat. However, this is not a heatwave condition as the day temperature will soar four degree Celsius above normal temperature during such weather, he added. In Chennai, the day temperature is likely to be around 35 degree Celsius till Wednesday, after which the mercury level is set to escalate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mercury-levels-set-to-soar-in-tn-from-april-2/article34194622.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dyslexia association to hold online musical event||The Madras Dyslexia Association will present an online musical event — Dyslexicon’21 — on April 3 to raise funds for the welfare of dyslexic children. Dyslexicon ’21 will feature livestreaming of musical performances orchestrated and mentored by Pioneer Suresh. It is being put together by ‘Timber Tones’, a group of amateurs. MDA founder-president D. Chandrasekar said the organisation strived to sensitise people on the condition “so that no child with dyslexia falls through the cracks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dyslexia-association-to-hold-online-musical-event/article34194572.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,19,885 persons vaccinated||On Monday, 1,19,885 persons received the COVID-19 vaccines across the State. The overall vaccination coverage reached 28,73,708. Among those vaccinated were 47,078 persons aged 45 to 59 with co-morbidities and 46,915 senior citizens. As many as 9,485 healthcare workers and 16,407 frontline workers were also vaccinated, according to the daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Vaccination was held in 4,761 sessions. A total of 7,821 healthcare workers, 14,147 frontline workers, 41,226 persons with co-morbidities and 41,154 senior citizens received Covishield. Among those who received Covaxin were 5,852 persons with co-morbidities and 5,761 senior citizens, the report said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/119885-persons-vaccinated-across-state/article34194624.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Independent accuses DMK candidate of distributing gifts||The Madras High Court on Monday asked an independent candidate contesting from Tiruchuli Assembly constituency to approach the Election Commission of India (ECI) with his complaint that DMK candidate and former Minister Thangam Thennarasu had allegedly distributed free gifts and silver wares with stickers containing his photo and name to a section of voters in the constituency. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the ECI was the appropriate authority to deal with complaints of corruption and malpractices in the electoral process. Since the petitioner M. Thirupathy had wrongly included the State Election Commissioner as a respondent to the case, the judges suo motu included the ECI as a respondent and said it was the sole authority to deal with the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/independent-accuses-dmk-candidate-of-distributing-gifts/article34194647.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teacher suspended for rule violation||A schoolteacher has been placed under suspension in Tenkasi district after she posted a picture of her postal ballot on social media. According to official sources, election authorities received a complaint that Sahara Arockia Anushtal, graduate teacher, R.C. Middle School, Surandai, had posted her casting vote through a postal ballot on social media. The complaint was lodged by S. Palani Nadar, Congress candidate contesting from the Tenkasi Assembly constituency. Preliminary enquires revealed that the teacher took a photo of the ballot paper after casting her vote and shared it on WhatsApp and Facebook, thereby violating provisions under the Tamil Nadu Election Conduct Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-suspended-for-rule-violation/article34194550.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will bring education into State list’||The DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu will work to bring education into the State list and ensure a good future for students in the State who have been affected by the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the National Education Policy (NEP), Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said on Monday. Mr. Alagiri said only through a change in the regime after the Assembly election would students in the State be free from the problems caused by NEET and the NEP. ‘No interference’ “Before NEET was implemented, 456 students got the opportunity to join medical courses in medical colleges in 2015-16, and 438 students in 2016-17. After NEET was implemented, only seven students were able to join medical colleges in 2017, only five in 2018 and only one in 2019. As far as education is concerned, the Centre cannot force the States,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said once the alliance headed by DMK president M.K. Stalin comes to power, it would take all efforts to bring education into the State list. “The Centre should not interfere in education. Only if education is brought under the State list will such problems [NEET and NEP] be resolved. The Central government is taking revenge on the students in Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-bring-education-into-state-list-alagiri/article34194597.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMC gets advanced MRI||An advanced “3 Tesla MRI” was commissioned at the Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre (SRMC). According to Venkata Sai, head of department, radiology, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, it was equipped with dedicated imaging coils and provided high-end imaging services, such as epilepsy imaging, paediatric neuroimaging, advanced nerve fibre tracking in the brain and functional MRI imaging. V.R. Venkataachalam, managing director of SRMC, inaugurated the equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmc-gets-advanced-mri/article34194570.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||136 get degrees at LIBA||A total of 135 graduands and one Ph.D scholar received their degrees at the 42nd convocation of the Loyola Institute of Business Administration (LIBA). K. Moses, managing director, Allison Transmissions, was the chief guest. LIBA chairperson Jebamalai Irudayaraj and director Joe Arun participated. Mr. Moses, who gave away the certificates, urged the candidates to be focused on goals that could lead to a win-win situation for all stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/136-get-degrees-at-liba/article34194571.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 530 booths identified as ‘critical’: Sahoo||Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said here on Monday that 537 polling booths in the State are critical and over 10,800 are vulnerable. However, the figures would be revised if there was a need, and based on the representation from political parties. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sahoo said the respective District Election Officers and Superintendents of Police would take action in case there was any violation of the model code of conduct. “They would analyse video clips and decide whether sections of the IPC or Cr.PC have to be invoked. In case of violation, they will take it up with the Election Commission,” he added. Over 1.55 lakh ballot units, 1.14 lakh counting units and 1.2 lakh VVPATs were kept ready for the April 6 Assembly poll, he said. After randomisation, the EVMs would go to the respective polling stations. As for the postal ballots for government officials involved in election work, he said relevant forms had been issued to over 1.85 lakh people and they were yet to be issued to over 1.45 lakh voters, he said. More than 89,100 postal ballot votes had so far been received, Mr. Sahoo added. Seizures across the State were to the tune of Rs. 319 crore, including Rs. 142.29 crore in cash, liquor valued at Rs. 2.4 crore and precious metals valued at Rs. 156.19 crore, he added. Mr. Sahoo also said the distribution of voter information slips to electors had commenced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-530-booths-in-tn-identified-as-critical-sahoo/article34194587.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||What is the ideology of MNM, asks D. Raja||No one should fight elections for the sake of fighting elections, Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D. Raja told presspersons here on Monday when asked about Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) contesting the Assembly elections this year in the State with a promise to bring about a change. Mr. Raja said, “CPI has an ideology, CPI (M) has an ideology, DMK does have an ideology. What is the ideology of the so-called Makkal Needhi Maiam ? What is Makkal Needhi ? It is not something new,” he said. In fact, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was the first to speak on the question of justice. One should not indulge in fighting elections for the sake of fighting elections. There should be a serious agenda, ideology, and commitment to people, he said. On the election results in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Raja said, “We hope it will be an overwhelming victory (for the DMK-led front).” As pointed out by many, it could be a sweep, maybe a landslide victory for the DMK-led front. Tamil Nadu was preparing for a change in government. People wanted to remove the AIADMK from power and not allow the BJP to gain foothold in the State. The AIADMK had failed to defend the interests and rights of the State. It had become a kind of an appendage to the BJP. It did not have an independent position and the courage to express its dissent on policies pursued by the Union government, Mr. Raja said. The results of the elections in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, West Bengal, and Assam would be the beginning of the defeat of BJP’s rule at the Centre. The Indian Constitution defined Indian State as a secular and welfare State. The BJP was neglecting both these. It was not a political party, but the political wing of the RSS, which aimed at destroying the democracy, he said. The Election Commission had the mandate from the Constitution to conduct free and fair elections. “Money power plays a dirty role in the electoral process in our country.” The BJP was the only party that had made money using electoral bonds. The concept of electoral bonds itself was wrong. Now, the BJP was taking advantage of it, he alleged. On Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that he had done satyagraha for the freedom of Bangladesh, Mr. Raja asked, “Where was the BJP in 1971? Fascists always believe in lies and spread lies and they think if lies are repeated, people will be forced to take it as truth. Mr. Modi is the Prime Minister. He should not speak falsehood,” Mr. Raja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/what-is-the-ideology-of-mnm-asks-d-raja/article34194665.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vanathi releases manifesto for Coimbatore South||Free wi-fi service in Coimbatore South Assembly constituency, geographical indication tag for jewellery manufactured in Coimbatore, a biodiversity park, and a multi-storeyed car parking were among the promises that BJP candidate Vanathi Srinivasan had promised in her manifesto. Releasing the manifesto in the presence of BJP National General Secretary C.T. Ravi, Ms. Srinivasan said the free wi-fi across the 19 wards in the constituency was a part of the move to make Coimbatore South a digital constituency. The BJP candidate had promised to build a new T.K. Market to ease traffic congestion in and around Raja Street, modernise the Ukkadam fish market, multi-storeyed car parking facilities, relocation of the Coimbatore Central Prison and establishment of a biodiversity park there, paved streets across the constituency and pedestrian subways near the Gandhipuram bus stands. She had also promised to set up MLA start-up incubation fund, facilitate disbursement of more MUDRA loans, GI tag for jewellery manufactured in Coimbatore, a jewellery institute, a state-of-the art flower market, improved hygiene, underground drainage connection, establishment of a library , a job portal, career guidance centres and construction of 100 public toilet s in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanathi-releases-manifesto-for-coimbatore-south/article34194610.ece
30 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Demand for civic amenities tops voters’ wish list in Singanallur||A completely urban Assembly constituency without the civic amenities that is expected of such an area is perhaps the description that best fits Singanallur. Spread over 19 wards of the Coimbatore Municipal Corporation, the constituency covers the central eastern parts of the city and includes airport, a number of education institutions, hospitals and industrial units. Demographically the constituency has mostly middle and lower income group people and a sizeable chunk of Telugu-speaking Naidu voters. Members of the Kongu Vellalars, Kurumba Gowder and Kongu Chettiars make up for the rest. Incumbent N. Karthik of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is in a triangular contest this time, as he is pitted against K.R. Jayaram of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and R. Mahendran of the Makkal Needhi Maiam. The three, along with independents, are contesting the constituency, where voters in the last six elections had thrice voted the AIADMK (1991, 2006 and 2011), twice voted the DMK (1996 and 2016) and the CPI(M) once in 2001. In this election, the demand for civic amenities on a par with the well-developed parts of the city tops the voters’ wish list. Civic activist and Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore Honorary Secretary R. Raveendran said the voters wanted the next MLA to solve the imbroglio in the completion of the bridge over railway crossings in Neelikonampalayam, SIHS Colony and Thanneerpandal. That the projects were not completed in the last 10 years and the residents north and south of the railway line were forced into hardships put the demand on top of the wish list, he added. Continuing on the demand for infrastructure front, the voters wanted the next government to develop two scheme roads, as an alternative to the arterial Avinashi Road and Trichy Road and widen the Sowripalayam Road, perhaps one of the narrowest bus routes in the city. Mr. Raveendran said the voters also expected the development of the scheme road west of the Coimbatore airport to serve as an alternative to the Kamarajar Road that connected Avinashi Road with Trichy Road. Another example of the poor infrastructure that they experienced in the constituency was that in the last 11 years they had no underground drainage service, even though it was provided in other parts of the city. Likewise, water supply continued to remain poor and worse than other parts of the city, residents said. In the Singanallur Housing Unit, the residents want new houses as theirs were dilapidated and declared unsafe for habitation. That the government made all the right noises but did very little even after Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam visited the place over a year ago had left them helpless, the residents added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-civic-amenities-tops-voters-wish-list-in-singanallur/article34194618.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan an immature politician, says C.T. Ravi||Kamal Haasan is an immature politician, Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary C.T. Ravi said here on Monday while participating in a function organised to release the manifesto for Coimbatore South Assembly constituency. Mr. Ravi’s remark was in response to a question on Mr. Haasan’s comment that he would prefer a debate with the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister and not a ‘tukda’ politician like Vanathi Srinivasan, who is the national Mahila Morcha president of the BJP and the party’s candidate for Coimbatore South constituency. The contest in Coimbatore South was between a politician who had a Coimbatore address and one who did not, he said, without naming Mr. Haasan. Vote for the DMK would bring back the kangaroo court culture and power cuts in the State. It would also be a vote for a party that was anti-Hindu, Mr. Ravi said and asked DMK president M.K. Stalin to clarify whether he was a theist or atheist. And, he should also clarify why his party was against Hindus. Introduction of NEET It was the United Progressive Alliance government, of which the DMK was a part, that had paved the way for the introduction of NEET and the ban on jallikattu. Mr. Ravi charged the DMK with being not only anti-women but also anti-Dalit, as party MP R.S. Bharathi had recently remarked that reservation was a charity that the DMK had given the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-an-immature-politician-says-ct-ravi/article34194663.ece
30 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Weekly special trains announced||The Salem Division of Southern Railway on Monday announced weekly special trains between Okha in Gujarat and Thoothukudi and between Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh and Coimbatore from April. According to a release, Train No. 09568 weekly special train will leave Okha at 12.55 a.m. on Fridays from April 2 to reach Thoothukudi at 4.45 a.m. on the third day. Similarly, Train No. 09567 weekly special train will leave Thoothukudi at 10 p.m. on Sundays from April 4 to reach Okha at 3.35 a.m. on the fourth day. These trains will stop at Dwaraka, Jamnagar, Hapa, Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Nadiad, Anand, Vadodara, Bharuch, Surat, Valsad, Vapi, Vasai Road, Kalyan, Pune, Solapur, Kalaburagi, Wadi, Raichur, Mantralayam, Adoni, Guntakal, Anantapur, Dharmavaram, Hindupur, Krishnarajapuram, Bangarapet, Salem, Erode, Karur, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar and Sattur. Train No. 02198 weekly super fast festival special train will leave Jabalpur at 11 a.m. on Saturdays from April 3 to May 29 to reach Coimbatore Junction at 4.10 a.m. on Mondays. Train No. 02197 weekly super fast festival special train will leave Coimbatore at 5.10 p.m. on Mondays from April 5 to May 31 to reach Jabalpur at 8 a.m. on Wednesdays. The stoppages for these trains will be at Narsinghpur, Gadarwara, Pipariya, Itarsi, Harda, Khandwa, Bhusaval, Nasik Road, Panvel, Roha, Khed, Chiplun, Ratnagiri, Kankavali, Kudal, Thivim, Madgaon, Karwar, Kumta, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Kundapura, Udupi, Mulki, Mangaluru, Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Shoranur and Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekly-special-trains-announced/article34194666.ece
30 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore-based bus conductor finds place in PM’s radio address||Coimbatore-based bus conductor M. Yoganathan, known for his efforts in tree plantation and distribution of free saplings to passengers, added another feather to his cap as Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated his efforts in ‘Mann Ki Baat’ monthly radio address on Sunday. In his address, the Prime Minister said that by distributing saplings free of cost to the passengers along with tickets, Mr. Yoganathan has “helped plant so many trees”. The conductor “has been spending a significant portion of his salary on this work.” “I heartily congratulate him for his efforts and his inspirational work,” Mr. Modi said. He is posted as the conductor in Route No. 70 bus operated by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation between Gandhipuram and Marudhamalai. “I must have received at least 1,000 calls [since Sunday],” he said on Monday. Having planted around 3 lakh saplings in the past three decades and distributed around 1 lakh saplings free of cost, the 50-year-old Yoganathan has received awards from the Central and State governments and from various organisations for his efforts. He said that many of his regular passengers specify the saplings they want in advance. “These days, I usually bring around 10 saplings with me to work,” he said. At present he has around 10,000 saplings in his nursery at Alandurai. He recalled how he obtained special permission from the Coimbatore District Administration to visit his nursery during the 2020 COVID-19 lockdown. Anyone can visit his nursery and take home the saplings of their choice free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-based-bus-conductor-finds-place-in-pms-radio-address/article34194613.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Measures to restrict yarn exports sought||Garment exporters have appealed to the Union government to restrict yarn exports so that the domestic garment manufacturers have adequate supply of yarn. The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has sought quantitative restrictions and export duty on export of cotton yarn from India. Despite several efforts by the government to reduce the price of cotton yarn, it has increased during the last four months and was affecting the entire value chain. “We request your kind immediate intervention to increase the supply of yarn to domestic manufacturers. We suggest that quantitative restrictions should be imposed on exports of cotton yarn, specifically on cotton yarn of 26 counts and above,” said A. Sakthivel, chairman of AEPC in a letter to the Union Textile Minister Smriti Irani. The rate of increase in yarn prices exceeds that of cotton prices. The steep increase in prices and unpredictability in availability of yarn means that garment exporters cannot honour commitments to their customers, he said. The AEPC also suggested introduction of export duty on cotton yarn. Raja M Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association, said in a release that international cotton prices have started coming down. Indian cotton prices have also been gradually reduced and there is hope of cotton prices touching the normal price range in the near future. In a meeting with the textile mill associations, he had requested them to consider the plea of garment manufacturers for reduction of yarn prices, as MSMEs are in large numbers and also ensuring supply of yarn on time as per the commitment given to the garment units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-to-restrict-yarn-exports-sought/article34194662.ece
30 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Weekend special trains to be operated again in NMR section||The weekend special trains between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam that were operated on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section prior to the lockdown in 2020 will be resumed in April for tourists. According to a release from the Salem Division of Southern Railway issued on Monday, train No. 06171 will leave Mettupalayam at 9.10 a.m. on Saturdays from April 3 to July 3 (14 services) will reach Udhagamandalam at 2.25 p.m. on the same day. Similarly, Train No. 06172 will leave Udhagamandalam at 11.25 hrs. on Sundays from April 4 to July 4 (14 services) will reach Mettupalayam at 4.20 p.m. on the same day. Both the trains will stop en route at Coonoor Junction. There will be four coaches – one first class, two first class-cum-second class and one second class – with a combined seating capacity of 72 seats in the first class and 100 seats in the second class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekend-special-trains-to-be-operated-again-in-nmr-section/article34194667.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police book 13 persons for AIADMK-DMK clash||The Vadakkipalayam police in Coimbatore rural on Monday registered two separate cases against 13 persons, including Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman and his son Pravin, in connection with a clash that took place between AIADMK and DMK cadres on Sunday evening. As per the FIR registered against Mr. Jayaraman, his son and six others, the DMK workers had arranged a meeting at Okkilipalayam for the campaigning of its Pollachi constituency candidate K. Varadarajan. Mr. Pravin, Mr. Jayaraman’s personal assistant Veerasamy, Ramagiriraj, Sathishkumar, Nagamanickam, Udayakumar and Jagadeeswaran came to the Makali Amman temple and raised slogans against the DMK. The DMK functionaries, led by Okkilipalayam panchayat president N. Parthasarathy, questioned it. The FIR said the AIADMK men abused Mr. Parathasarathy and the other DMK workers . It said Mr Pravin attempted to run his vehicle over Mr. Parathasarathy, while those whoe accompanied him issued death threats. Mr Parathasarathy, in his complaint, said Mr. Pravin and six others came to disrupt the meeting on the instruction of Mr. Jayaraman, the AIADMK’s Pollachi candidate. The Vadakkipalayam police said the second FIR was registered against teacher A. Sabrimala of anti-NEET protest fame, and four DMK workers, Chinnan, Kumar, Saminathan and Suresh, based on a complaint lodged by Ramagiriraj, the AIADMK branch secretary at Okkilipalayam. The complainant said Ms. Sabrimala had made slanderous remarks about the Pollachi sexual assault case and some leaders at the meeting. The AIADMK workers questioned it. Chinnan, Kumar, Saminathan and Suresh assaulted them, alleged the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-book-13-persons-for-aiadmk-dmk-clash/article34194645.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized, three arrested||The Podanur police arrested three youths with a total of 8.3 kg of ganja on Sunday. C. Hariharan (22), a native of Ammapettai in Salem, was arrested first by the police near a private college on Pollachi Main Road around 10 a.m., and seized 3.1 kg of ganja from him. Based on inputs received from the youth, a police team apprehended two others, namely D. Vigneswaran (23) of Thirumalairayapuram in Dindigul and Mohammed Asarudeen (22) of Chinna Salem in Villupuram, from a vacant place behind the housing unit at Vellalore. The police seized 2.5 kg of ganja and Rs. 9,200 from Vigneswaran and 2.7 kg of the contraband and Rs. 7,550 from Asarudeen. Two motorcycles were also seized. The police said all the three youths had been staying in a hostel at Eachanari. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-seized-three-arrested/article34194607.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NGOs seek accountability from contestants||The Joint Action Committee of Non-government Organisations of Coimbatore has sent a memorandum of 10 points to contestants of major political parties in the seven Assembly constituencies. The Committee’s convener N.K. Velu said it had sent the memorandum to contestants from well-known alliances and political parties in Singanallur, Sulur, Kinathukadavu, Kavundampalayam, Coimbatore North, Thondamuthur and Coimbatore South constituencies with the aim of making them accountable, if elected MLAs. The 10 points included elimination of corruption, diligent use of government money, making government employees accountable for their actions, prohibition, conservation of water bodies, use of MLA fund for constituency development, periodical meeting of voters in constituency and not misusing position for personal benefit or that of family. Mr. Velu said after the Committee had sent the memorandum to candidates, MNM candidate in Singanallur Assembly constituency R. Mahendran had signed the same. It expected other contestants to follow suit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-seek-accountability-from-contestants/article34194612.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Report poll code violation||The district administration has asked people to either dial the election control room or use the cVIGIL mobile application to report complaints on poll code violations. In a release issued here on Monday, Collector S. Nagarajan said those looking to report violations could dial either 1800 425 4757 or 0422-2201097. Alternatively, they could use the Election Commission of India’s cVIGIL mobile application. Thus far, the administration had received 132 complaints at the control room and 583 through the mobile application. Of these, it had resolved 539 complaints, rejected 175 and was reviewing the rest for further action, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-poll-code-violation/article34194606.ece
30 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents present demands to Haasan||Race Course and Neighbourhood Association on Monday presented a memorandum of demands to Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan, who is contesting the Assembly election from the Coimbatore South constituency. Waste management The Association said it wanted Mr. Haasan, if elected, to initiate steps to solve the garbage collection problem, study and resolve the parking problem in the area and check illegal construction, particularly by small commercial establishments that had cordoned off the area in front their premises to expand business. The Association also expressed its opposition to the setting up of kiosks to house eateries as it would increase street dog menace and steps to take underground utility cables. The Association members had met Mr. Haasan on Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-present-demands-to-haasan/article34194611.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 4.83 lakh cash seized||Static surveillance teams and flying squads in the 10 Assembly constituencies (ACs) in the district on Monday seized nearly Rs. 4.83 lakh. A release from the district administration said teams in Mettupalayam AC seized Rs. 1.32 lakh, SulurRs. 54,350, Coimbatore South Rs. 1.98 lakh and Valparai Rs. 98,570. Thus far, the teams and squads had seized Rs. 53.08 lakh cash, liquor worth Rs. 61.96 lakh and other items worthRs. 47.92 lakh, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-483-lakh-cash-seized/article34194619.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Co-morbidities||V.S. Palaniappan   While having co-morbidities makes you eligible for vaccination, it seems to be the biggest excuse to get out of poll-related work. Officials drafted for poll duty are sending requests seeking exemption, citing hypertension and diabetes. For the 4,427 polling booths, 22,000 personnel have been drafted and already, the number of requests seeking exemption have crossed the 500-mark, and a steady flow continues every day. Rejection of such requests will leave even genuine ones in the lurch, say officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-morbidities/article34194557.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gods||Karthik Madhavan   MNM president Kamal Haasan called on the pontiff of Perur Aadheenam Maruthachala Adigalar in Coimbatore on Monday. In a video, the pontiff is seen telling the actor-turned politician that while he was conveying several issues to voters, he should also put those to implementation. On the other hand, his niece and actor Suhasini Maniratnam, also in Coimbatore campaigning for him, performed an archanai for Mr. Haasan at a temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gods/article34194559.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Amrita university launches mask||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham has launched a three-ply N96 mask. A release from the institution said the mask launched by the scientists at Centre for Nanosciences and Molecular Medicine offered superior filtration and breathability. The mask was cost-effective, washable upto 30 times and skin-friendly. The university had tested the mask and it showed 99.9% bacterial and virus aerosol filtration, and 96% particle filtration of more than three micron, the release claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amrita-university-launches-mask/article34194605.ece
30 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dry days||All kinds of liquor shops and bars would remain closed from 10 a.m. on April 4 to the midnight of April 6 on account of the Assembly election, said a release from the district administration. Likewise, May 2, when votes would be counted, would also be a dry day, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dry-days/article34194609.ece
30 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Water management remains a key poll issue in Kattumannarkoil||Geographically located at the tail-end of the delta basin, the Kattumannarkoil (Reserved) Assembly constituency is known for its large-scale cultivation of paddy and the Veeranam tank that is key to quenching the drinking water needs of Chennai. The economy is agrarian and though surplus water flows from the Kollidam and Paravanar, poor management and lack of water for both irrigation and drinking supply are key issues facing the electorate. The demand for setting up a perfume factory and agro-based units to manufacture products from farm produce have remained non-starters over the years. After a multi-cornered battle in 2016, the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) and the AIADMK are again facing each other, representing their respective coalitions, while the AMMK remains the third force. M. Sinthanai Selvan of the VCK is the candidate of the DMK-led alliance while the AIADMK has fielded sitting MLA N. Murugamaran, who won in the 2011 and 2016 elections. The AMMK has fielded Narayanamoorthy. While the AIADMK is aiming at a hat-trick, the VCK is aiming to wrest the seat after a gap of 10 years. In the 2019 Parliamentary election, the VCK had an upper hand in the Assembly segment with party president and candidate Thol. Thirumavalavan polling 31,232 votes, defeating his nearest rival M. Chandrakasi of the AIADMK. In the 2016 Assembly poll, Mr. Thirumavalavan lost the seat by a slender margin of 87 votes. While the AIADMK polled 29.33% of the votes, the VCK polled 29.28%. AIADMK campaigners believe that the agrarian belt is happy with the government for declaring the delta region a Protected Agricultural Zone, and this will work in their favour. Declining margin However, the DMK-led front is banking on the declining victory margin of the AIADMK. The AIADMK’s victory margin, which stood at 31,725 in the 2011 election, was reduced to a meagre 87 votes in the 2016 election. Despite serving as MLA for two consecutive terms, the constituency presents a picture of neglect and Mr. Murugamaran has failed to address the developmental needs of the region, locals charge. Mr. Murugamaran’s promise to set up a scent factory for jasmine farmers has not been fulfilled. According to K.V. Elangeeran, president of the Cauvery Delta Farmers Federation, the Veeranam tank, one of the vital sources of water supply to Chennai, remains heavily silted. He pointed out that poor management had resulted in nearly 2 tmc of water wasted as run-off annually. The PWD should evolve a strategy and release the surplus water into irrigation channels. “Farmers are up in arms against the tapping of water from Veeranam tank to meet the drinking water needs of Chennai. The water from Veeranam should be supplied to Chennai only after meeting the irrigation and drinking water requirements of the farmers and locals,” he said. The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Drainage Board should provide royalty or suitable compensation for water tapped from the tank. The royalty could be fixed at the rate of one paise a litre, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-management-remains-a-key-poll-issue-in-kattumannarkoil/article34194950.ece
30 March 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Need to address inadequate facilities||Pennagaram constituency hosts some of the most backward parts of Dharmapuri district dogged by poor health and gender indicators. Eriyur, Pennagaram and Paaparapatty are areas in that order of backwardness crying for attention on basic governance-enabled amenities such as drinking water, primary health care, education and employment avenues. Child and early marriages, multiple pregnancies, preferences for male child, distress migration for seasonable employment are among the many issues that demand systemic intervention. Vanniyars constitute 66.8 % of the constituency followed by 8.3% of Adi Dravidars. However, the Vanniyar population is split between the major parties. The PMK has always viewed Pennagaram as its citadel for its predominantly Vanniyar population. Its candidate G.K. Mani, one of the State leaders of the party had won from this constituency in 1996 and 2001. DMK has fielded its sitting MLA P.N.P. Inbasekaran, a two term-MLA, whose foray into electoral politics began with the death of his father and the then sitting DMK MLA P.N. Periyannan, necessitating a hotly contested by-election in 2010. Mr. Inbasekaran won the seat against the PMK candidate in 2010. In 2016, Mr. Inbasekaran beat the high-profile PMK candidate Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss, who fought the election as the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate. CPI has a reckonable presence in the constituency, winning a seat in 2011. The alliance between the DMK and the CPI is expected to benefit Mr. Inbasekaran here. Backed by the legacy of his father Periyannan, who was an erstwhile PMK man before he moved to the DMK carrying along a loyal following, Mr. Inbasekaran is a contender to reckon with. Besides, he is playing the ‘insider’ card, wooing the voters that as a resident he would stay in the constituency unlike the PMK’s Mr. Mani. Mr. Mani’s contest is fraught with the outsider label on the one hand, which is being played up as Vanniyar subcaste power struggles in a Vanniyar majority constituency, and on the other by the resentment with the AIADMK over non-allocation of seat. There is visible disengagement of the AIADMK cadre from the campaign over the allocation of the seat to the PMK. The seat was vied by the AIADMK’s T.R. Anbalagan, chairman, Aavin, Krishnagiri but was ceded to the PMK. What followed was a string of protests by the AIADMK. As if to countenance the PMK’s positioning itself as a vanguard of the community, the DMK has roped in the late Vanniyar Sangam leader Kaaduvetti Guru’s family members for campaign in each of the PMK contested constituencies here. Kaaduvetti Guru’s family’s estrangement with the PMK’s founders came to fore in the run up to the Lok Sabha elections. This time, the DMK roped in the daughter, and sister of late Guru to undercut the PMK campaign in the party’s panchayats. Late Guru is a revered name in the villages here and the involvement of the family members in an anti-PMK campaign is also likely to dent the PMK’s campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-address-inadequate-facilities/article34194674.ece
30 March 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Athoor Constituency witnesses a multi-corner contest||The Athoor Assembly Constituency in Dindigul district is witnessing a multi-corner contest. I Periasami, the former Revenue Minister and deputy general secretary in the DMK, has been successfully elected from this constituency consecutively since 2006, 2011 and 2016. The most crucial election for Mr Periasami was in 2016, when the AIADMK fielded its heavy-weight Natham R Viswanathan. However, the DMK registered a landslide victory then by defeating its rival by a huge margin of 27,147 votes. This time, the AIADMK had given the ticket to its ally - Pattali Makkal Katchi, which has fielded its treasurer Thilaga Bama. Considering Mr Periasami's clout in the region, the DMK hopes it would be an easy win for him. However, Ms Bama says she is confident of emerging victorious. The PMK candidate told reporters at Athoor recently that the PMK was well placed as the people have decided to reject the DMK this time. " Only Mr Periasami had become wealthier, while the people here were poverty stricken," she claimed. According to her, the MLA had done nothing tangible for the people. “With his rich experience in public life, he could have brought in agro-based industries. The constituency could have been given an arts/science college. The MLA, who himself had huge cultivable lands, could have solved the water related issues faced by the farmers in Sempatti, Sittayankottai and Seevalseeragu," she aid. Mr Periasami, however, told The Hindu that it was the AIADMK, which has been in power for the last 10 years. Remaining calm for the last nine and half years, now the party and their allies have suddenly woken up and realised that the farmers were up in arms. Not in a position to solve, the AIADMK members were trying to twist the issue and pass the buck on the DMK. As an elected MLA, he said that he had from his own resources laid pipelines for drawing water from Marudanadhi to hundreds of villages in the belt. Likewise, he had raised funds and mobilised JCP, cranes and other equipment with which tanks in and around Kudaganaru were desilted. The Cauvery Integrated Drinking Water project was finalised by the DMK government in the early 2000. However, when AIADMK came to power in 2006, the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa shelved the project to Athoor as the AIADMK was defeated in the constituency, the DMK members alleged. Though farmers appeared to be divided on supporting the DMK this time, the campaign managers of Mr Periasami were sure of romping home victory by a huge margin this time. Not in a mood to accept the popularity wave behind Mr Periasami, the PMK candidate, sure of giving a shocking defeat to the DMK strong man, challenged him for a debate on the Kudaganar water issue. However, Mr Periasami played it down saying that he would be ready for a debate only with people who understood the issue. Yet another issue revolving with high expectation in the constituency is the weavers from Chinnalapatti, which is a part of the segment, had been demanding for a treatment plant. The dying units here also have other logistics issues. The constituency has a good number of youth going to other towns to pursue higher education. Hence, a government arts/science college here would be welcome. The farmers' here produced the highest volume of paddy, followed by other commodities. However, lack of storage facilities and absence of agro-based units had kept the farmers to always look at subsidies and waivers. If the standards of living of the farmers were to improve, more and more industries alone would be the answer. Apart from the DMK and PMK, the AMMK has fielded Selvakumar, who is set to take away ' majority' of the votes that may go in favour of the PMK. With the absence of the AIADMK functionaries in the constituency, the DMK looks like having an edge. The NTK and MNM are also in the race.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/athoor-constituency-witnesses-a-multi-corner-contest/article34194655.ece
30 March 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Four killed in road accident near Batlagundu, eight critical||Four persons including a van driver and two women workers were killed in a road accident at Sevugampatti Pass on the Batlagundu-Dindigul highway on Monday. The van, which was heading to a private mill with about 15 workers, collided with a TNSTC bus bound for Theni from Dindigul. Police said that eight others travelling in the van were said to be critical and have been rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital Madurai, while 54 passengers in the bus were taken to Batlagundu GH for first aid and later transported to the Government Medical College Hospital, Theni. Nilakottai DSP Murugan, Tahsildar Subbiah and police from Pattiveeranpatti station, along with Batlagundu Station Fire Officer Vivekanandan and emergency ambulance services helped the passengers to get out of the bus. The bodies of the four workers including the van driver were sent to the GH for post-mortem examinations. The victims who were killed were identified as Suresh (van driver), Latha, Suguna and Kalidas, a police officer said. Preliminary inquiries with some of the passengers indicated that a possible burst of a tyre in the bus may have led to loss of control of the vehicle. Being a working day, the TNSTC bus had a full complement of passengers. The workers were heading to a mill in Singarakottai, near Batlagundu. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-killed-in-road-accident/article34194588.ece
30 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Campaigning in hilly areas a challenging task||Reaching out to the electors in hilly areas is always a major challenge for the contestants as they have to travel long distances to meet a few electors when compared to reaching more electors in the plains. A total of 104 polling stations are located in the hilly areas of Talavadi, Talamalai, Hasanur, Kadambur and Gundri in the Bhavanisagar Assembly constituency that has 66,498 voters. Likewise, 21 polling stations are located in Bargur Hills and Kathirimalai that have a total of 14,410 voters. Sujilkarai, Kottamalam and Vaidiyanathapuram villages are located 22 km away from Kadambur while Germalam is located 42 km away from Kadambur. “It takes over one-and-a-half hours to reach these villages where there are less than 5,000 voters. But reaching out to them and listening to their problems is a must”, said P.L. Sundaram of Communist Party of India who is contesting in the constituency. While other contestants keep themselves away from campaigning in hilly areas as they can cover only less electors when compared to the plains, Mr. Sundaram and his supporters were on a whirlwind campaign covering over 40 villages in a day on Monday. S. Mohan Kumar, District Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, said that of the total 2,60,249 electors in the constituency, less than 70,000 electors live in the hill areas of Talavadi, Talamalai, Hasanur and Kadambur. “It would take four days to reach most of the electors as many hamlets are inaccessible by road”, he added. Many hamlets with less than 25 families are located inside forest areas that take about an hour to reach from the tar-topped road. Makkampalayam and Gundri villages can be reached only by traversing through the forest road for over 15 km. “It takes over two hours to reach the village from Kadambur”, he said and added that reaching on foot and travelling takes much time in hill areas to reach the electors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaigning-in-hilly-areas-a-challenging-task/article34194673.ece
30 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tough battle on the cards||The hand-woven Bhavani jamakkalam (carpet) and the Sangameswarar temple at Kooduthurai makes the town known to people across the country. But, jamakkalam which was recognised as a Geographical Indication in 2005, is unable to overcome the challenges and the industry is on the verge of closure. Though jamakkalams should be produced only in handlooms, it is currently made in power looms and sold at a lower price in the market. Also, carpets made in Solapur in Maharashtra were marketed as Bhavani jamakkalams across the country. Piling of stock at societies, 5% Goods and Service Tax on the carpet and poor earnings for the weavers forced two-thirds of the weaving community to give up weaving. The temple is located at the confluence point of River Cauvery, River Bhavani and the invisible Amritha River and is visited by people from across the country for performing rites for the departed souls. However, absence of basic amenities continues to be a major demand for the devotees that remains unattended. Another major issue is the absence of bypass road for the town leading to frequent traffic congestion worrying the visitors. Inordinate delay in land acquisition for the bypass road is a major concern for the people and the devotees. Farming is a major activity in the region that is facing problems due to pollution, implementation of the high-tension electric line project that traverse over farmlands and illegal sand mining in River Bhavani. The promise of establishing a common effluent treatment plant remains only in papers in the all these years while the demand for converting Nerinjipettai as a tourist spot where boat service across River Cauvery connecting it with Poolampatti in Salem district is yet to take shape. In the past election, AIADMK had won seven times, Indian National Congress had won three times, DMK twice and Tamil Manila Congress and Pattali Makkal Katchi one time each. In 1989, G.G. Gurumoorthy, an independent won the election. Sitting MLA and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan takes on K.P. Durairaj of DMK while other prominent candidates in the fray are K. Sadhanandham of Makkal Needhi Maiam, M. Radhakrishnan of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and M. Sathya of Naam Tamilar Katchi. Vanniyars and Kongu Vellalar Goundars form the major vote base in the constituency and the battle is expected to be tough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-battle-on-the-cards/article34194678.ece
30 March 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Aravakurichi constituency gears up for mega duel||With K. Annamalai, a former IPS officer of the Karnataka cadre, making his debut as a candidate of the BJP in the State elections, Aravakurichi constituency has emerged as one of the star constituencies in the State. It is yet another election festival for voters of the constituency as they get ready to exercise their franchise in the Assembly election for the third time since 2016. The constituency extends from Velayuthampalayam in the north to Aravakurichi and Pallapatti in the south and K. Paramathi in the west. Most parts of Aravakurichi and K. Paramathi unions are characterised by rocky terrain and parched lands. Although there are some bus body building units, blue metal units and dyeing units, besides the Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Paper Ltd at Pugalur, in the constituency, there is a strong grouse among the voters that industrialisation, which is the main characteristic of Karur and its suburbs, has not spread its wings to Aravakurichi. Drumstick raised on the arid land of Aravakurichi has markets in north, east, and west of the country including Maharashtra, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. But being a perishable commodity, the shelf life of the produce is limited and farmers have no option but to market the vegetable as early as possible. There is lack of proper facility for storage or value addition and farmers are forced to depend upon the prices offered by middlemen, who often eat into the profit. Though the constituency has elected influential personalities in the past, farmers are sore that their demands are yet to be fulfilled. Most of the villages, including town panchayats such as Aravakruchi, K. Paramathi, Pallapatti, face an acute shortage of drinking water. They get water once in five days to seven days. “Water scarcity is not new in the constituency. It has been issue for more than 30 years. We hope the new Cauvery combined drinking water scheme announced by the State government will solve it soon,” says A. Manoharan of Aravakurichi. Environmentalists express concern over the unmindful discharge of effluents by dyeing units in the Amaravathi and the Noyyal rivers. While BJP has fielded Mr. Annamalai, who hails from Thottampatti, DMK has nominated Monjanur R. Elango, son of former MLA Monjanur Ramasamy. Makkal Needhi Maiam, AMMK and NTK have fielded their candidates, but an intense fight is on mainly between Mr. Annamalai and Elango. Since 1971, the AIADMK and DMK has won here five times eac and Congress and Indian Union Muslim League once each. Kongu Vellala Gounder and the people who belong to the Scheduled Castes dominate the constituency. Amid allegations of attempts to polarise the voters on religious lines, Mr.Annamalai is also trying to win over the confidence of minority voters by promising houses for all of them. Mr. Elango, who is also the son of the soil, enjoys the goodwill of his father. He banks on the committed votes of the DMK. He feels that the minority voters in Pallapatti will support his endeavour to mantle the role of MLA of the constituency. Both Mr.Annamalai and Mr.Elango are on a whirlwind tour of the constituency to win over the confidence of the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aravakurichi-constituency-gears-up-for-mega-duel/article34194636.ece
30 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns parties against safety norm violations||In view of the spike in COVID-19 cases, District Election Officer and Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has warned of action against political parties for violation of precautionary measures in the course of the campaigning. Dr. Reddy has urged political parties and independents on the campaign turf to ensure masks as COVID-19 regulations are intact, and as directed by the Election Commission of India. According to the district administration, no campaigns shall be carried out without prior permission. All state and national parties and candidates shall ensure that masks are worn by all concerned and strict physical distancing is maintained during rallies, door-to-door and street campaigns, and pubic meetings. Parties are forbidden from flaunting weapons as part of the campaign. All the aforementioned rules will be in place till May 5, 2021. All violations are liable for action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-parties-against-safety-norm-violations/article34194670.ece
30 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Historical spots not in the radar of political parties||Madurai is hailed as one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world and the cultural capital of Tamil Nadu. The excavations at Keeladi and its surrounding villages prove that an urban civilisation existed in the Sangam era on the banks of river Vaigai. Despite Madurai having many archaeological and historical spots, there is not much focus given towards their preservation and promotion by the candidates of political parties who are contesting in the Assembly elections. K. P. Bharathi, Programme Leader, Dhan Foundation, says spots with historical importance in Madurai can be categorised as those within Madurai city, on the banks of the Vaigai, traditional trade routes, Jain monuments, and sites with ecological importance. “The Brahmi inscriptions found at the Jain monuments are unique and are more than 2,000 years old,” he says. V. Vedachalam, former Senior Epigraphist of State Archaeology Department, says Madurai was one of the important ancient trade routes. “Madurai is a city that has all the features to be declared ‘Heritage and Cultural capital of Tamil Nadu,” he says. Even irrigation tanks such as Madakulam, that are part of the old irrigation structure, can be transformed into places of tourist significance because of their rich history, he adds. However, promotion and preservation of these spots with historical significance is not the priority of the political leaders, says Mr. Bharathi. Promotion of such spots is also important to preserve these monuments. “One of the major issues is that these historical sites do not have basic infrastructure like toilets, approach roads, drinking water and information centres,” he says. Stops with Keeladi The experts say every time a significant artefact is discovered at Keeladi and the cluster villages, political leaders of all parties speak highly about the ancient civilisation along the Vaigai. “However, it is disappointing that the majority of the political parties are not focusing on the preservation of other heritage spots,” says K.T. Gandhirajan, an art historian. The candidates contesting in Madurai are canvassing votes with a promise that job opportunities would be created by setting up new industries. However, promoting tourism at spots with historical importance would also help in creating job opportunities, says B. George, Principal (in charge) and Head, Department of Tourism Management of Madurai Kamaraj University College. “There are many potential tourist spots in rural areas that would attract foreign tourists. They will be interested in visiting rural places, interacting with villagers, and tasting the local cuisine. This will definitely generate livelihood opportunities for local residents,” he says.  Madurai is a city that has all the features to be declared Heritage and Cultural capital of Tamil Nadu V. Vedachalam Former Senior Epigraphist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/historical-spots-not-in-the-radar-of-political-parties/article34194855.ece
30 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Holi revellers paint the town red||Many areas in the heart of the city turned colourful on Monday morning as a groups of residents came together to celebrate Holi. They made merry, throwing colour powder and water on one another, the highlight of Holi celebration,at Anna Nagar, Mahal Vadampokki Street, West Masi Street and Vilakkuthoon. Ashok Jirawala Jain, secretary of an association formed by residents who are from Rajasthan, said that the Holi celebrations were comparatively a low-key affair this year owing to COVID-19 pandemic. “People of Rajasthan, who’ve settled down here, have been celebrating the festival for almost 40 years now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holi-revellers-paint-the-town-red/article34194850.ece
30 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Don’t get swayed by freebies: AMMK||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T. T. V. Dinakaran warned the voters not to get swayed by freebies that the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) have promised in their election manifestos. Speaking at a public campaign at Munichalai here on Monday evening, Mr. Dinakaran questioned how the AIADMK and DMK could financially manage to distribute all the freebies that they have promised in their election manifestos. He alleged that both the parties were distributing money to voters. “Both the parties misguide voters. Be cautious of their false promises,” he said. Criticising the manner in which Smart City projects were implemented in Madurai, Mr. Dinakaran said that if AMMK was voted to power, it will transform Madurai into a ‘real smart city.’ He also alleged that both the DMK and AIADMK used inappropriate words that portrayed women in poor light. Once AMMK is voted to power, one youth in every household will be offered a job. Loans will also be given to new entrepreneurs. This will ensure development of the State, said Mr. Dinakaran. He also campaigned in Usilampatti, Chekkanoorani and Tirupparankundram, canvassing votes for AMMK candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-get-swayed-by-freebies/article34194649.ece
30 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Now, Madurai hospital deploys health robots||Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC) here has deployed 16 mobile health robots by Teladoc Health for the purpose of clinical examinations, diagnosis and monitoring health parameters of patients. MMHRC was the first healthcare institution in India to deploy the health robots, said its Chairman S. Gurushankar. He said that the robots had empowered the doctors to treat patients anywhere and any time. An expert opinion from a specialist anywhere in the world could be easily obtained and doctors from different disciplines can come together to treat a patient. They can also monitor patients and this capability helped save many lives during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. The robots could carry out basic clinical examinations on their own, as instructed by the doctors. Applying artificial intelligence, the robots could collect and process data from other diagnostic equipment and present it to doctors to help them make precise clinical decisions. The adoption of such health robots would not take away the jobs of the paramedical staff. The primary objective was to augment the diagnostic abilities of doctors and improve access, quality, and efficiency of healthcare delivery for the patients, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-madurai-hospital-deploys-health-robots/article34194849.ece
30 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||13 injured as bus fall on its side||Thirteen persons, including the driver, sustained injuries when a city bus fell on to its side after hitting the median on Tirupparankundram Road around midnight of Sunday. The police said that the bus from Tirumangalam depot was proceeding to Arapalayam when the driver lost control of the bus and hit the median near Alagappa Nagar railway gate. In the impact, the front axle of the bus got snapped and the vehicle got upset. The injured were rushed to the hospital in an ambulance. Traffic Investigation Wing police personnel are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-injured/article34194648.ece
30 March 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Tough contest in the southernmost district||When the AIADMK, under Jayalalithaa, won a second consecutive term in 2016, Kanniyakumari bucked the trend by electing the candidates of the DMK-Congress combine in all six Assembly constituencies in the district. In four segments, the BJP pushed the AIADMK to the third place. A simple arithmetic, taking into consideration the votes polled by the AIADMK and the BJP separately in 2016, should give an edge to the AIADMK-BJP alliance. However, the fact that the BJP’s candidate for the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha seat, Pon. Radhakrishnan, was defeated by the Congress’s H. Vasanthakumar by a margin of over 2.5 lakh votes in 2019, though the AIADMK and the BJP faced the election together, tells a different story. “Simple arithmetic calculations will not work in politics. You should keep in mind that when the BJP and the AIADMK contested the polls separately, the AIADMK’s candidates were Christians in three constituencies. A substantial chunk of the Christian votes would have gone in their favour. Now, the votes of the Christians are unlikely to go to BJP and AIADMK candidates,” argued M. Ahamed Hussain, district executive member of the CPI(M). In 2016, AIADMK’s N. Thalavai Sundaram was defeated by DMK’s S. Austin by a margin of over 6,000 votes, while BJP candidate Meena Dev polled 24,638 votes. Former DMK Minister N. Suresh Rajan won the Nagercoil constituency, securing 67,369 votes. BJP veteran M.R. Gandhi came second with 46,413 votes, while the AIADMK’s Nanjil Murugesan polled 45,828 votes. In Colachel, BJP candidate Ramesh got the second place, polling 41,167 votes. The votes polled by AIADMK candidate K.T. Patchamal were 39,218. BJP’s C. Dharmaraj secured the second place in Vilavancode with 35,646 votes and AIADMK’s Nanjil Dominic Savio George got 24,801 votes. In the Killiyur and Padmanabhapuram constituencies, the performance of Congress candidates Rajeshkumar and Mano Thangaraj respectively was too good to be matched by the AIADMK-BJP alliance. This time, since the AIADMK candidates for Kanniyakumari, Nagercoil and Colachel are Hindus, the DMK-Congress alliance is facing a tough challenge. Mr. Hussain contended that the consolidation of the Hindu votes had already reached its peak, and the BJP’s hope to further the trend would not fructify in this election. In a district where religion plays a predominant role in politics, the open support extended by the Tamil Nadu Bishops' Council (TNBC) to the DMK-Congress alliance could make a difference. “Though there are many secular forces in the fray, we have a duty to support the force that would defeat the communal forces,” said Rev. Antony Pappusamy, president of TNBC. The BJP’s youth wing vice-president, R. Savarkar, however, maintained that the arithmetic points to an easy victory for the AIADMK’s candidate in the Kanniyakumari constituency and the BJP’s candidate in Nagercoil. C. Madhavan alias Murgan of the DMK’s advocates’ wing said, “The presence of the two Communist parties, the VCK and the MDMK will help neutralise new votes that are expected to go to the AIADMK-BJP alliance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-contest-in-the-southernmost-district/article34194554.ece
30 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK candidate for Karaikal tests positive||A.U. Asana, AIADMK candidate for the Karaikal (South) constituency for the April 6 Assembly election, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. A Health Department official said the rapid antigen test had been conducted as a precautionary measure as the candidate was expecting to participate in the political rally attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Mr. Asana has been kept under observation. Meanwhile, Puducherry recorded a COVID-19 death in Mahe, taking the cumulative toll to 681. A 67-year-old man, who died at the GH in Mahe, had diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. With this, the toll in Mahe ticked up to 11. The region-wise toll is 550 in Puducherry, 75 in Karaikal and 45 in Yanam. The active cases mounted to 991 with the addition of 125 new cases in the last 24 hours. The new infections were reported from Puducherry (91), Karaikal (28) and Mahe (six). The test positivity rate was 8.53%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 95.94%. Currently, there are 282 patients in hospitals across the Union Territory and 709 patients in home isolation. Of an estimated 6.67 lakh tests, about 6.17 lakh came back negative. Meanwhile, the number of persons vaccinated against COVID-19 stood at 62,799. The toll in Cuddalore district rose to 290 on Monday, with one more death reported in Chidambaram, while 57 fresh cases took the overall tally to 25,618. According to a Health Department bulletin, a 63-year-old man from Chidambaram died of the infection at a private hospital in Tiruchi. While 25,093 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 187. In Villupuram district, 27 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,471. Kallakurichi district reported five positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,943.  The toll in Cuddalore district rose to 290, with one more death reported in Chidambaram, while 57 fresh cases took the tally to 25,618||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-candidate-for-karaikal-tests-positive/article34194643.ece
30 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Never trade votes for cash: Kamal||Actor-politician and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan took time off the heated campaigning in his constituency of Coimbatore (south) to lead a roadshow for MNM candidates in Puducherry on Monday. The MNM is fielding 22 candidates in the April 6 election. Mr. Haasan launched the roadshow from S.V. Patel Salai to canvas votes for MNM candidate contesting in the Raj Bhavan constituency S. Paruvadha Vardhini. Though a microphone snag on the campaign vehicle prevented him from addressing voters at the initial rally points, he addressed voters at other places after the problem was sorted out. Mr. Haasan emphasised his core message to the electors to never trade their invaluable votes for cash, the nefarious influence of money on politics and the practice of horse-trading to make or mar elected governments. The MNM stood for returning the public service ethos to politics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/never-trade-votes-for-cash-kamal/article34194953.ece
30 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Prohibitory orders; no fly zone over city for Prime Minister’s visit today||The administration has imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC and declared a no-fly zone over Puducherry airport in connection with security measures for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on Tuesday. Collector Purva Garg in an order said the measures to ensure protection of the visiting dignitary were necessitated by the peak period of electioneering. The ‘No Fly Zone’ declaration prohibiting the flying of any kind of aviation devices, including UAVs and drones, in the region took effect on Monday and will continue on Tuesday. Any violation of this order is punishable by legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other relevant provisions, the Collector said. “The emergent nature of case and circumstances do not permit serving of notice to the concerned in due time and hence this order is passed ex-parte u/s 144(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibitory-orders-no-fly-zone-over-city-for-prime-ministers-visit-today/article34194955.ece
30 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Will take up any responsibility that Congress deems fit for me’||Former Minister M. Kandasamy on Monday said he would take up any responsibility the Congress leadership deemed fit for him. “First of all, the Congress party does not announce the Chief Minister [candidate] before the election. It is the party high command and the Congress Legislature Party that decides after the election,” he told The Hindu during his campaign from the reserved Embalam constituency. Mr. Kandasamy was responding to a query on whether he was in the fray for the Chief Minister’s post in the absence of senior leaders. “First, our aim is to win the election. The Congress and alliance party candidates have to win the poll and then we will decide. As a worker, I will take up any responsibility the party gives me,” he said. People would vote for the Congress and the alliance parties as there was anger against the BJP for toppling an elected government using nominated legislators, he felt. “Similarly, people were also against the AINRC and the AIADMK on the issue. Both parties could have saved the government by not supporting the BJP’s move. Some of the members, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP, have moved away from their sitting seats after they realised the anger of the people,” he added. People are also aware of the obstructions created by previous Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi in running the government, he said, adding that several of the schemes were not executed due to her interference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-take-up-any-responsibility-that-congress-deems-fit-for-me/article34194948.ece
30 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal fishermen call on L-G||The 16 fishermen from Karaikal, who were held by the Sri Lankan Navy for “illegal fishing” on their territorial waters and later released, called on Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Nivas on Monday. The fishermen from Karaikal were part of a larger group of about 54 Indian fishermen apprehended by the Sri Lankan Navy for territorial violations and detained on three islands. The fishermen wanted to convey their gratitude to the Lt. Governor, the Ministry of External Affairs and the authorities for the prompt efforts in securing their release. The families of the fishermen said they were comforted by the personal efforts taken by the Lt. Governor in the matter. The Lt. Governor advised the fishermen to be safe at all times when they venture into the sea. It is also important for them to take proper care of the family, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-fishermen-call-on-l-g/article34194951.ece
30 March 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||BJP||M. Dinesh Varma   It was a sobriquet fest at the campaign event of the BJP Mahila Morcha held here recently. It was headlined by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. From ‘ Thanga thamarai’ and ‘ Thanga thamarai singam’ to ‘ Singa penn’ and ‘ Irumbu penmani’ , the instant coinages flew thick and fast. When it was her turn to address the rally, Ms. Sitharaman took note of the forceful speeches and praises made by those who preceded her. “But I will definitely not roar,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp/article34194556.ece
30 March 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Gold||L. Srikrishna   Displaying his gold jewellery, Panangaadu Katchi coordinator Hari Nadar and founder ‘Rocket’ Raja arrived at the Ramanathapuram helipad by a special helicopter from Thoothukudi for campaigning. Mr. Nadar told reporters that he wanted to convey the message that anyone can fly, not just big leaders or film stars. As news spread, many women came to have a look and wanted to click selfies. Most, though, were just trying to count his gold chains!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold/article34194561.ece
30 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Opportunity to turn Modi-EPS counterfeit currency’||DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin said that the upcoming elections are an opportunity for the people to turn Modi-EPS alliance a counterfeit currency. He said this waving a demonetised Rs. 1000 note at a campaigning in Rasipuram. When demonetisation was announced three years ago, one of the reasons Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed to justify the exercise was that a new India would be born. “I have been searching for three years but could not find a new India anywhere,” he said. “The DMK is the third largest party in Parliament and you (people) gave this victory. Hence, Modi is angry towards the people here (in the State)”, he said. Mr. Udhayanidhi charged the Centre with not providing anything for Tamil Nadu. Despite collecting Rs. .15,000 crores in GST from the State, the Centre said funds could not be provided to Tamil Nadu owing to insufficient funds. Mr. Udhayanidhi said that every vote for the AIADMK’s ‘Two leaves’ symbol would be a vote for Narendra Modi. He wanted the people to realise that the late DMK chief M. Karunanidhi was contesting from all the 234 constituencies, and that Mr. Modi was pitted against him. “Let us see whether it is Kalaignar or Modi”, he said. Mr. Udhayanidhi said there was no safety for women under the present regime, pointing at the Pollachi sexual assault case and the sexual harassment complaint filed by a woman IPS officer. Mr. Udhayanidhi accused Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja of corruption even in the procurement of masks for COVID-19 prevention. The late Jayalalithaa was a strong leader who stood up to the BJP. But, some in the AIADMK now referred to Mr. Modi as “daddy”. Mr. Udhayanidhi said that if the DMK candidate was elected, the underground drainage works would be completed in Rasipuram and drinking water issues addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opportunity-to-turn-modi-eps-counterfeit-currency/article34194669.ece
30 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||Election surveillance officials have seized Rs. 1.80 crore from a vehicle near Kondalampatti here. According to officials, the vehicle was carrying cash for a private bank from Coimbatore to Salem. Since the personnel in the vehicle did not possess the required documents, officials seized the cash and handed it over to the returning officer. Similarly, during vehicle check near Salem GH, officials seized Rs. 35.72 lakh from a collection agent of a private bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized/article34194679.ece
30 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 49 cases in Salem||As many as 49 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Monday. According to health officials, 39 cases have been reported in Salem Corporation limits. Erode district reported 39 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,291. While 25 persons were discharged, 186 continue to be under treatment.In Namakkal, 21 cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-49-cases-in-salem/article34194675.ece
30 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||A former judicial officer trying his hand in election||After having served in Tamil Nadu Judicial services for two decades, a former District Judge, K. Guruviah, is testing his waters on political front by contesting in Srivilliputtur Reserved constituency. Sixty-three years old, Mr. Guruviah, had earlier served as Government advocate when he was with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam before joining the judicial services. He had also been successful in cooperative elections earlier. However, after retiring as district judge, Mr. Guruviah chose to join Makkal Needhi Maiam and not his parent party AIADMK. “If only one can pay huge amount of money, one can get party ticket in AIADMK,” said Mr. Guruviah. Stating that MNM was a party with difference, he joined it. Mr. Guruviah had earlier contested from Nagapattinam Parliamentary constituency in 2019. “Since our party had worked a lot in the district during Cyclone Gaja, I decided to contest from there,” he said. He had got around 14,500 votes. When asked whether he had enough resources to fight an election when electioneering has become too costly, Mr. Guruviah said that his expenditure is only Rs. 1 lakh. “That electioneering would cost us huge money is only a deceit by the political parties. I am reaching out voters with the pamphlets that contain my poll promises,” he added. Stating that he was distributing the pamphlets door-to-door on foot, Mr. Guruviah said other candidates from political parties were meeting the voters from top of their vehicles. He believed that this simple exercise was enough for him to talk about himself and his promises. “People will know about his promises by reading them,” he said. Prominent among his poll promises is execution of a long-pending Azhagar dam drinking water scheme for the constituency. He has promised to be honest, if elected, and would not be after money. Stating that both the Dravidian parties were only doing lip services, he said both the Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, and Leader of Opposition, M.K. Stalin, do not know what it meant social justice, economic justice and political justice. “Both the parties were fielding only affluent people and those who were from dominant castes in all constituencies year after year. Where is social justice and political justice? But MNM is different,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-former-judicial-officer-trying-his-hand-in-election/article34194658.ece
30 March 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Teacher suspended for posting postal ballot on social media||A woman teacher has been placed under suspension for allegedly posting her postal ballot on social media. After Sahaya Arockiya Anushta, a teacher working with RC Middle School, Surandai in the district, reportedly posted her postal ballot on social media, Congress candidate for Tenkasi Assembly constituency Palani Nadar filed a complaint with Collector G.S. Sameeran, who ordered Chief Educational Officer Karuppasamy to look into this complaint. As the complaint was found to be true, Mr. Karuppasamy placed Ms. Sahaya Arockiya Anushta under suspension for having violated the election norms. Meanwhile, the office-bearers of Tamil Nadu Primary School Teachers’ Association have submitted a petition to the Collector. They have said Ms. Sahaya Arockiya Anushta, who has been posted as the presiding officer of a polling booth in Sankarankovil (Reserved) Assembly constituency, had not received her postal ballot formally from the officials. “However, the postal ballot of Ms. Sahaya Arockiya Anushta has been given to an outsider, who has cast the postal ballot and posted it on social media. Hence, the Collector should order an inquiry to unmask the official who had handed over the postal ballot to the outsider and the person who had posted it on the social media to take action,” Marimuthu, district secretary of the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-suspended-for-posting-postal-ballot-on-social-media/article34194997.ece
30 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Turmeric seized||In a pre-dawn operation, the Q Branch police have seized Rs. 4-lakh worth turmeric even as it was about to be smuggled to Sri Lanka from Thoothukudi coast. As five persons were seen loading the bags containing turmeric in a boat at Muththaraiyar Colony near Terespuram around 2.30 a.m. on Monday, the police surrounded them. While 4 of them – Dandapani, 25, of Thottiyam in Tiruchi district, Noorul Amin, 37, of Mettupatti, Tiruchi, Murugesh, 24, of RKC Thottam in Tirupur and Jayakumar, 49, of Thaalamuthu Nagar near Thoothukudi - were nabbed, the remaining one, identified as Vijayakumar, escaped. The police also seized 2,300 kg turmeric packed in 70 bags and the mini lorry which had brought it to Muththaraiyar Colony beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turmeric-seized/article34194659.ece
30 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Postal ballot voting for elders begins||Physically challenged and the voters above the age of 80 have started casting their votes in the district. As the Election Commission of India has allowed postal ballots for the physically challenged and the voters above 80 years of age, 3,503 persons have opted to have this facility in the district. Hence, collection of postal ballots from these voters started in the district by 39 teams commenced on Monday. Each of these teams with a micro observer, a police officer, a regional officer, a regional assistant and a videographer visit the voters’ houses, hand over the ballot to the voter and receive the postal ballot after the voter casting the vote. The sealed cover with the ballot was kept in another cover before being dropped in the box even as the agents of the candidates watching it from a distance. “This exercise will go on up to March 31. The boxes with the postal ballots will be kept in the Offices of the Returning Officer concerned till May 2,” Collector K. Senthil Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-ballot-voting-for-elders-begins/article34194996.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic woes a drag on Tourism Minister’s constituency||Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan who, at the age of 66, secured a handsome victory on his debut in the Tiruchi East Assembly segment in 2016, is now facing a tricky, multi-cornered contest in his bid to get a second term. Spread around the city’s famous landmark, the Rock Fort, the constituency comprises 25 wards of Tiruchi Corporation. The constituency’s civic infrastructure has come under severe strain in recent years, given the high population density and notorious traffic congestion. Unplanned commercial development, teeming residential settlements and narrow roads characterise the constituency. The quadrangle of the West Boulevard Road, Singarathope, the Big Bazaar Street and the NSB Road, which comprise the city’s central business district, is reeling from traffic woes. Even protected monuments like the Rock Fort and the Mainguard Gate are facing the threat of encroachments. The East Boulevard Road and its adjoining areas remain cut off from public transport due to congestion and encroachments. Cramped residential colonies without proper stormwater drains and underground sewers pollute Uyyakondan canal. The simmering row over shifting the wholesale section of the Gandhi Market to a newly built market complex at Kallikudi, on the city’s outskirts, remains a major poll issue. While civic activists have long been demanding the relocation of the market, the strong traders’ lobby has stalled the move. Faced with a backlash from traders, Mr. Natarajan has promised to ensure that the market is retained at the existing location. But not many are convinced. “No party supports us genuinely, and they pay only lip service to protecting our interests,” says M.K. Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam. Though Tiruchi Corporation has opted for retrofitting the Rock Fort area under the Centre’s Smart City Mission, the constituency is yet to reap the benefits. Just a handful of projects have taken off so far, and the slow pace of works has drawn residents’ ire. Small businesses in the constituency are still struggling to recover from the blow dealt by the COVID-19 lockdown. This could add to the anti-incumbency sentiment. The DMK, which has had a greater share of victories in the constituency since the 1960s, ceded ground to the AIADMK in the past two polls. Seeking to leverage the substantial Christian and Muslim populations this time, the DMK has nominated a party outsider — S. Inigo Irudayaraj, founder of the Christuva Nallenna Iyakkam. The businessman is contesting on the DMK’s symbol and has promised civic amenities. But queering the pitch for Mr. Natarajan is the AMMK’s R. Manoharan, who won here on an AIADMK ticket in 2011. A known face, Mr. Manoharan says he will strive to bring about a solution to the constituency’s traffic woes. “The delay in conducting the urban local body election has led to a deterioration in civic amenities. If elected, I will address the problems of poor roads, drainage and streetlights,” he said. With their potential to split votes, R. Prabu of the NTK and D. Veera Sakthi of the MNM could make the upcoming election a close one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-woes-a-drag-on-tourism-ministers-constituency/article34194552.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Panguni car festival attracts devotees||Devotees in large numbers pulled the temple car carrying the idol of Namperumal of Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple on the occasion of car festival on Monday celebrated as part of the 11-dayPanguni Thirunaal Vaibhavamon Monday. The processional deity Sri Namperumal was taken in a procession in the morning from theSerthi Mandapamnear Sri Thayaar Sannidhi to the temple car. Devotees assembled at the spot pulled the temple car with the deity around the four Chithira Veedhis before returning back to the same spot from where it started. ThePanguni Vaibhavamconcludes on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panguni-car-festival-attracts-devotees/article34194629.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IT team seizes Rs. 1 crore from driver’s house||In an yet another major seizure of unclaimed money in Tiruchi district, officials of the Income Tax Department seized around Rs. 1 crore in cash from the house of an earthmover driver, Azhagarsamy, at Valasupatti village near Thuvarankurichi on Sunday night. Mr. Azhagarsamy is said to have worked for Manapparai AIADMK MLA R. Chandrasekar, who is seeking re-election from the same constituency in the Assembly election. Official sources said the IT teams, led by a senior officer in the rank of Deputy Director, arrived at the house, acting on a tip off. The search led to seizure of the cash allegedly found in a box. However, it was not clear whether the money was seized inside the house. Some unconfirmed reports said the cash was seized near a haystack a few metres away from the residence of Mr. Azhagarsamy. A flying squad, which was informed about the IT operation came to the spot later. The operation lasted over three hours and concluded in the early hours on Monday. The Income Tax department counted the unaccounted money in the denomination of Rs. 500 notes at the residence of Azhagarsamy and conducted inquiry with him regarding the source of the money. The IT officials took the seized cash with them. This is the second major seizure of unaccounted cash in Tiruchi district in recent days. A few days ago, Rs. 99.73 lakh in cash was seized at Pettavaithalai. The Income Tax Department conducted an inquiry into the matter and, subsequently, asked Tiruchi Rural Police to conduct further investigation into the case to ascertain the owner of the seized cash. Pettavaithalai Police have booked a case under Section 102 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following a report from the Income Tax Department and are conducting an investigation. More searches In Karur, IT officials on Monday conducted searches on the premises of Rajesh Kannan, an Independent candidate of Karur constituency. About 10 officers from Karur and Coimbatore began the searches on the office of a textile export unit on M.G. Road. The searches continued late in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-teams-seizes-rs-1-crore-from-drivers-house/article34194631.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID takes over ‘cash for cops’ case||The Tiruchi City Police have formally handed over the case relating to “cash for cops” to the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) following an order from the Director-General of Police. Police sources said the case diary files pertaining to the alleged bribing of police personnel in the run-up to the Assembly election were handed over to the agency on Sunday to enable them carry forward the investigation into the case that was initially booked by the City Crime Branch. The City Crime Branch had booked the case against five persons, including a special sub inspector attached to the Government Hospital police station and a woman head constable serving in the Thillai Nagar police station, in connection with an alleged attempt to bribe police personnel ahead of the upcoming election. An advocate and two others were also named in the case following allegations that the money was distributed on behalf of K.N. Nehru, the DMK Tiruchi West Assembly constituency candidate, a charge which was dismissed by the latter in a letter that he wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Tamil Nadu. About 23 covers containing cash were recovered from the Government Hospital police station and another 12 covers from the Thillai Nagar police station. Cash amounting to around Rs. 70,000 were seized during the searches conducted at both police stations falling under the Tiruchi West constituency from where Mr. Nehru is seeking a reelection after having won in the 2016 Assembly election. The searches were conducted by senior police officers in the rank of an Assistant Commissioner of Police on Saturday evening. The searches were conducted in all the 14 police stations falling under the city police limits, but envelopes containing cash were found in two stations. The case against the police personnel and the advocate was booked by the City Crime Branch on a complaint lodged by a senior police officer in the rank of an Assistant Commissioner of Police under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 171(e) (bribery) and under Section 129(3) of the Representation of People Act. The incident led to the suspension of six police personnel, including the Inspector of Police of the Thillai Nagar station, the special sub inspector and a woman head constable against whom the case was booked besides two other police personnel serving in the City Intelligence Section and tasked with looking after the Government Hospital police station and Thillai Nagar station. The sources said the CB-CID officers were said to have inspected the Thillai Nagar police station as part of their investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-takes-over-cash-for-cops-case/article34194620.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||LED||S. Ganesan   In a short campaign, parties and candidates try to leverage every medium to reach out to voters. The DMK Tiruchi West candidate, K.N. Nehru, has deployed LED screens, retroffitted on a goods carrier, to carry his message to electors. Painted brightly in DMK colours, clips of his campaign play on the screen to catch the attention of the people as the goods carrier goes around the constituency, even as Mr. Nehru is busy soliciting votes elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/led/article34194563.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Old rivalry renewed in Ambasamudram||Ambasamudram, the district’s picturesque Assembly segment, is witnessing the revival of old rivalry in this Assembly elections also as both the AIADMK and the DMK have fielded old faces for the April 6 polls. Since this Assembly segment, having 2 municipalities – Vickramasingapuram and Ambasamudram - and 7 town panchayats, is the ‘first beneficiary’ of the Papanasam and Manimuthar Dams, farming is the predominant industry in this region while mat weaving is a major activity in Pattamadai. Earthenware making feeds the people in Kooniyoor, Kaarukurichi and Veeravanallur areas. Besides the reservoirs and Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, the Sorimuthu Ayyanar Temple, Papanasa Swamy Temple in Papanasam, Naarumpoonaatha Swamy Temple in Thiruppudaimarudhur and Kulasekara Alwar Temple in Mannaarkovil and other holy places and the scenic Maanjolai in this region attract tourists round-the-year. Despite having immense tourism potential, the Ambasamudram Assembly segment is yet to find a place among the major tourism destinations, owing to the poor performance of the MLAs elected to the Assembly from this constituency. And, with the promise of making Ambasamudram a most sought-after tourist destination, candidates of the political parties are wooing the voters now. The Kaani Tribes living above Papanasam are a neglected lot as they are still waiting for protected drinking water and electricity though the Papanasam and Servalar Dams in their vicinity supply drinking water to three southern districts and the hydroelectric power project generate electricity. Most of the solar power systems supplied to these voiceless people have already broken down to leave these families living in jungles in utter darkness after dusk. Getting community certificate in hassle-free manner is also a challenge for them even today. The AIADMK has reposed its faith in former Law Minister Esakki Subaya for the April 6 polls while the DMK has fielded former Speaker R. Avudaiyappan. The easily accessible Mr. Subaya is quite popular in the constituency as the voters gratefully recall the rice and the grocery items, he had supplied to the poor families from all castes during the COVID-19 lockdown. When the electioneering started, it was predicted that it would be cakewalk for him this time also similar to the victory he enjoyed over Mr. Avudaiyappan in 2011. However, the DMK’s spirited ‘election work’ has significantly bridged the gap between these top two contestants. The DMK men highlight the achievements of Mr. Avudaiyappan in Ambasamudram constituency during his tenure in 1996 and 2006. As ‘kangaroo court’ continues to haunt the electorate of Cheranmahadevi, the DMK cadres are working overtime to rub it off from their memory in an attempt to regain the voters’ confidence, the people say. To do away with Mr. Avudaiyappan’s not so healthy relationship with the voters from Nadar community, the party has deployed Ganesh Kumar Adityan, former State deputy secretary of BJP’s farmers’ wing who joined the DMK a year ago, in the areas where the Nadar voters live in a large number in the constituency. Apart from him, former Nanguneri MLA Ernavoor Narayanan is also working in these areas to divert the Nadar voters towards Mr. Avudaiyappan. “Having tasted two successive defeats in this segment since 2011 after fielding Mr. Avudaiyappan, the DMK has accelerated the electioneering this time. It has started yielding good results as it has narrowed down the gap between him and the AIADMK candidate,” says Surya Xavier, a political analyst. To neutralise this effect, Mr. Esakki Subaya has roped in ‘Ayya Vazhi’ Sivachandran, a popular devotional singer of Ayya Vaikundasamy, to mobilise support for him. R. Murugaiah Pandian of the AIADMK who won by a margin of 13,166 votes in 2016 has been denied a ticket owing to health reasons. The AMMK, with its candidate for this constituency Rani Ranjitham, wife of former Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, Velladurai, is likely to make inroads into the electoral fortunes of Esakki Subaya. “Since Mr. Subaya was with the AMMK for a while and maintains a good rapport with the AMMK office-bearers even now, her candidature is not likely to have adverse impact on his prospects,” hopes a close associate of the candidate. Tough turf Despite the wicket being a tough turf for the DMK, the party hopes to taste victory after two successive defeats with the backing of the Congress and the Left parties, which have sizable vote bank in Ambasamudram segment. “Besides the farmers’ associations, the weaving community has strong association with the Left parties which will brighten the chances of Mr. Avudaiyappan,” Mr. Surya Xavier says. The electioneering of Mr. Esakki Subaya, who entered the electoral battle with a bang with everyone indicating his success, has mysteriously slowed down for the past few days even as the DMK has accelerated its work to the maximum possible extent. It remains to be seen if it is going to be the hare and tortoise race.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-rivalry-renewed-in-ambasamudram/article34194993.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Materials to protect personnel from COVID-19 sent to booths||Dispatch of materials to protect the polling personnel and the voters from COVID-19 commenced on Monday. Collector V. Vishnu monitored the dispatch of the materials to safeguard the polling personnel and the voters from COVID-19 such as thermal scanners, sanitizers, face masks and gloves to the Assembly segments from Tirunelveli Medical College Multispecialty Hospital. Accordingly, these safety materials were transported to 1,924 polling booths – Tirunelveli – 408, Ambasamudram – 356, Palayamkottai – 389, Nanguneri – 395 and Radhapuram – 376. “Since the Election Commission of India has asked the District Election Officer to take all possible measures to protect the polling personnel, policemen and the electorate from the viral infection, we’re forwarding these materials to the polling booths. We appeal to the voters to ensure physical distancing while coming to the booths to cast their votes,” Mr. Vishnu said. The Collector also informed that fixing of candidates’ names and symbols in the ballot units was completed on Sunday (March 28). As many as 109 teams had been deployed to collect the postal ballots from 3,403 physically challenged voters and the electorate above the age of 80. Each of these teams has a micro observer, a police officer, a regional officer, a regional assistant and a videographer. Dean, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, M. Ravichandran, Deputy Director of Health Services Varadharajan and Resident Medical Officer Sharmila were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/materials-to-protect-personnel-from-covid-19-sent-to-booths/article34194995.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Illegally drawn power kills brothers’||An inspection conducted by the TANGEDCO officials at the site where two brothers were electrocuted on Saturday night has revealed that the illegally drawn power from the nearby shop had caused the accident and no electric wire had snapped from the electric pole. When a team of officials from the TANGEDCO’s Melapalayam area inspected the mishap site on South Bypass Road immediately after the incident, in which Kittu and his brother Arun were electrocuted, it was found that the electricity had been drawn in unauthorized manner from the nearby shop to the steel pushcart in which the victims were selling ‘paani poori’. After the end of the day’s sale on Saturday night, Kittu and Arun had moved their pushcart without removing the wire from the nearby shop. Consequently, the wire got unplugged at the pushcart end and the already wet steel pushcart conducted electricity to electrocute the brothers on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegally-drawn-power-kills-brothers/article34194656.ece
30 March 2021||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK, PMK reason for minorities’ struggle’||Members of the minority community are struggling because of the AIADMK and the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), whose MPs voted in Parliament to help the BJP enact legislation such as the Citizenship Amendment Act, DMK president M.K. Stalin said in Jolarpet on Monday. However, these parties were now acting as “saviours” of the minorities due to the upcoming Assembly election, he said while campaigning for candidates from the DMK and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), who are contesting in the Assembly constituencies in Tirupathur district. “The AIADMK’s MPs supported the Central government’s decision to revoke the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution, the triple talaq Bill and even the Citizenship Amendment Act. But now in their election manifesto, they are making false promises that they will urge the Central government to repeal the Act [CAA],” he said. ‘Fallen through’ Mr. Stalin added that had the 10 MPs of the AIADMK and one MP from the PMK voted against the CAA in the Rajya Sabha, the legislation would have fallen through in the initial stages. “A total of 125 MPs supported the Bill in the Rajya Sabha and 105, including the DMK and the Congress, voted against it. Had the 11 from the AIADMK and the PMK voted against it, the CAA wouldn’t have come into force [some MPs of other parties were absent]. We conducted a series of protests against the CAA,” he added. Mr. Stalin said once the DMK came to power, the CAA would not be implemented in the State. “The three farm laws, which the AIADMK and the PMK supported, will also not be implemented in Tamil Nadu once we come to power. We will pass a resolution against them like Punjab, Kerala and West Bengal did. The farmers’ protest is going on for the 124th day and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who identifies himself as a farmer, has termed the protesters as brokers,” Mr. Stalin added. Reading out the key points of the DMK’s manifesto, Mr. Stalin said, “Stalin sonnadhay than seivan, seivadhu than solluvan [Stalin will fulfil what is promised and will promise what will be fulfilled]” . He also mentioned specific development plans in Tirupathur district. Some of them include a government medical and polytechnic college for Tirupathur, an industrial park, the development of the Jalagamparai waterfalls as a tourist spot and setting up mango pulp industry and a herbal farm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-pmk-reason-for-minorities-struggle/article34194592.ece
30 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened at Dharapuram for PM visit||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dharapuram to address a public meeting on Tuesday, BJP State president L. Murugan told presspersons on Monday that the people of Dharapuram were excited as “no Prime Minister had visited Dharapuram since Independence”. Mr. Murugan is contesting from Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam would also share stage with Mr. Modi. Seating arrangements for about one lakh people had been made at the venue, he said. According to sources in the Tiruppur District Police, about 4,000 personnel would be deployed at Dharapuram on Tuesday as part of the security arrangements. This includes 16 SPs, 58 DSPs and around 200 inspectors. BJP national general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu C.T. Ravi, Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar were among those who inspected the venue of the public meeting on Dharapuram-Udumalpet Road on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-tightened-at-dharapuram-for-pm-visit/article34194617.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Poll result should be a lesson: Yechury||The results of the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections should teach a lesson to the country, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in Tiruvarur on Monday. Addressing an election rally near Old Bus Stand, Mr Yechury solicited votes in favour of DMK Tiruvarur candidate Poondi Kalaivanan. He said the farm laws enacted by the Centre would endanger food security. The Narendra Modi government was trying to bequeath the lands to corporates and it had enacted the laws with this objective only. Farmers were fighting against the farm laws for more than 100 days. Several farmers sacrificed their lives. Even after this, the Modi government had not relented. The Assembly elections results should be in such a way that it teaches a lesson to them. DMK president M.K.Stalin had announced that once the DMK formed the government, priority would be given to irrigation. So, if agriculture was to improve, DMK should form the government. The Modi government was trying to privatise the public sector units, including railways and airports, and this should be checked. To achieve this, the BJP and AIADMK combine should be defeated. Mr. Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were bent upon destroying the Constitution. The AIADMK, which supported them, should be defeated in Tamil Nadu, he added. Earlier, campaigning for Kilvelur constituency CPI (M) candidate V.P. Nagaimalli, at Thirukuvalai in Nagapattinam district, Mr. Yechury deplored the Centre’s attempts to dilute the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. He earlier paid his respects to former CM late M. Karunanidhi at his ancestral house at Thirukuvalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-result-should-be-a-lesson-yechury/article34194632.ece
30 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||A. Raja apologises for remarks on Palaniswami||DMK leader and Nilgiris Lok Sabha MP A. Raja on Monday apologised for his recent remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, but reiterated that his words were “taken out of context”. Mr. Raja held a press meet in Udhagamandalam responding to the furore sparked by his remarks during electioneering. He had likened Mr. Palaniswami’s emergence as a leader to a “premature birth”, compared to DMK president M. K. Stalin, who had risen through the party ranks in a “proper way”. In his statement, Mr. Raja said his remarks, which were an analogy to make a broader point about the emergence of Mr. Stalin and Mr. Palaniswami as political leaders, were taken out of context. “…a few of my remarks were taken and are being misinterpreted for political reasons,” he said. Mr. Raja, however, added that he was pained to hear that Mr. Palaniswami had been hurt by his remarks, adding that he regretted any offence caused to the Chief Minister or his mother. “I will go one step further and say that if Mr. Palaniswami was hurt personally by my remarks, I offer my heartfelt apologies,” he said.  ‘Not a personal attack’ Mr. Raja reiterated to the AIADMK cadres and the general public that his remarks were not a personal attack on the Chief Minister. Quoting Justice Saini’s summary on the 2G case, in which the judge said the charges against him were based on “misreading, selective reading, non-reading and out-of-context reading” of files, the Nilgiris MP said that if his 40-minute-long speech was heard in its entirety, people would come to the same conclusion about his remarks. Murugan demands action BJP State president L. Murugan, who is contesting fromDharapuram (Reserved) constituency on behalf of the AIADMK front, demanded that the DMK initiate action against the Nilgiris MP A. Raja for his alleged derogatory remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “[DMK president M.K. Stalin] will not take any action because he is the one who is asking [Mr. Raja] from behind to speak in this manner,” he alleged at a press conference at Dharapuram on Monday. Recalling the alleged remarks by DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran in 2020 that insulted the Scheduled Castes, Mr. Murugan accused the DMK of routinely insulting women and the SCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-raja-apologises-for-remarks-on-palaniswami/article34194590.ece
30 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore sees 20 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,419 with 20 new cases reported on Monday. While a total of 20,896 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 169. In Ranipet district, 23 cases were reported positive. In Tirupattur district, 11 new cases were reported. In Tiruvannamalai district, 13 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,661.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-sees-20-new-cases/article34195000.ece
30 March 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Dhinakaran booked||The Villupuram taluk police have booked a case against Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran for allegedly making defamatory speeches against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam at an election meeting held here on March 23. According to the police, Mr. Dhinakaran had made defamatory remarks against the AIADMK leaders. Based on a complaint from AIADMK functionary Babu Murugaiyan, the police registered a case against Mr. Dhinakaran under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 171 g (false statement in connection with an election), 500 (punishment for defamation) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC, read with Section 125 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ttv-dhinakaran-booked/article34194652.ece
30 March 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Former AIADMK MLA convicted in assets case||The Villupuram principal district and sessions court on Monday convicted R.P. Paramasivam, former AIADMK MLA from Chinna Salem, to four years imprisonment in a disproportionate assets case. The principal district judge, K.H. Elavazhagan, also slapped a fine of Rs. 33.04 lakh on Mr. Paramasivam. According to the prosecution, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), Villupuram, registered a case against Mr. Paramasivam and his wife Poonkodi for accumulating assets to the tune of Rs. 28.76 lakh during the period from June 17, 1991, to May 13, 1996, disproportionate to their known sources of income. The charges against Poonkodi abated following her death during the course of the trial. On completion of the trial, the court convicted Mr. Paramasivam and imposed a fine of Rs. 33.04 lakh. The court also ordered the confiscation of property valued to the tune of disproportionate assets.  The Principal District Judge K.H. Elavazhagan also slapped a fine of Rs. 33.04 lakh on Mr. Paramasivam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-aiadmk-mla-convicted-in-assets-case/article34194595.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘10.5% quota for Vanniyars is a provisional arrangement’||Taking time off his campaign in Bodinayakkanur, from where he is contesting for the third consecutive time, AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Monday asserted that the 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyakula Kshatriyas, within the 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs), was “only a provisional arrangement”. Proportional reservation would be provided after collecting caste-based data, he said, in an interview that touched upon various issues. Edited excerpts : What is your take on the 10.5% quota for the Vanniyakula Kshatriyas? Prior to making the demand on internal reservation, Vanniyars had only sought a caste-wise census. A Government Order was issued, following which a commission, headed by a [retired] judge of [the Madras] High Court, was set up. The Supreme Court’s ruling is that any internal reservation must be based on the present population and be implemented after a caste-wise census. It is very clear that the quota system can’t have the old population data as the basis for reservation. The Chief Minister and I had explained the legal position to representatives of the Vanniyar community. But they wanted some quantum to be given to them on a provisional basis. They also agreed that on completion of the census, the quantum of reservation which would be worked out in proportion to their population within the 20% quota would be permanent. So, the present order is only provisional. Once the caste-wise census is over, there will be a final and permanent order. The quota may go up or down in proportion to the population after the commission submits its report. A law will be enacted in this regard. Couldn’t you have waited for the election to get over?  We initially told them [Vanniyars] that the internal reservation could be provided after the caste-wise census. But the representatives of the community, including PMK leader S. Ramadoss, wanted a provisional arrangement to be worked out first. Is there a sense of anger or sadness among the denotified communities (DNCs), including the Piramalai Kallars, on this issue? Not only the DNCs, but also the MBCs are covered under the 20% quota scheme. There are 98 castes under the scheme. Piramalai Kallars, Maravars and a small section of Kallars are there. Agamudaiyars are not there. Piramalai Kallars are predominantly in Madurai, Dindigul and Theni, while Maravars are in Theni, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi. The DNCs have been given 7% and other MBCs 2.5%. All this is temporary. What are the prospects of your front in the election? Several opinion polls have been adverse to you... Opinion polls are being made as per the stand of those who conduct them. We have been implementing all the schemes of Amma [Jayalalithaa] without any shortcomings. We are carrying out additional welfare schemes, too. There is widespread goodwill among the public, given that our government immediately resolves the people’s problems. We will score a massive victory. There is a view that there is a lack of cohesion in your party and a lack of cooperation with allies...   All our ties are cordial, and there is no place for difference of opinion. What is your response to the DMK’s campaign on corruption charges and the AIADMK being subservient to the BJP or the Centre? The DMK has no moral authority to speak about corruption. There is an alliance between two good governments [the Centre and State]. How can this be portrayed as a huge crime? Actually, our alliance is one for the people’s welfare. That is how the people view our relationship. In 2017 and in a December 2018 interview with The Hindu , you had said that there should be no domination by any single family over the AIADMK’s affairs. But your recent statements give the impression that you are now for reconciliation with Sasikala and T.T.V. Dhinakaran. Both of them were in the AIADMK. The AIADMK is functioning in a democratic way. The present set-up of a coordinator and a co-coordinator within the party and a Chief Minister and a Deputy Chief Minister in the government is working without the domination of any single family or individual. Anyone can occupy any position in the future. We have created a situation wherein this arrangement will continue. Do you mean to say there is no change in your position? Yes. My stand back then was that there should be no domination by any family over party matters, be it the EPS [Edappadi K. Palaniswami] family or the OPS [referring to himself] one. My son [P. Ravindhranath] has become an MP through people’s support. But if he succeeds me as party coordinator, it is family politics. The AIADMK is a party of workers. This was how Thalaivar [M.G. Ramachandran] created it. We shall ensure that the party carries on as a movement of workers. (To read the full interview, check: http://bit.ly/ PanneerselvamInterview)  Opinion polls are being made as per the stand of those who conduct them. We have been implementing all the schemes of Amma [Jayalalithaa]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/105-quota-for-vanniyars-is-a-provisional-arrangement/article34194549.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Uploading of names to EVMs begin in Tiruchi||Checks by flying and static surveillance teams have been intensified and appropriate action will be taken on any seizure (of cash or kind), said Collector and District Election Officer S. Divyadarshini here on Monday. “Don’t give room to rumours,” she quipped when asked about speculation over election being countermanded in Tiruchi West Assembly constituency in the wake of alleged distribution of cash to police personnel in some police stations in the constituency recently. In a brief interaction with media persons after inspecting the process of uploading the list of candidates to electronic voting machines, Ms. Divyadarshini pointed out that investigation into the case had been transferred to CB-CID. In response to a query, she said initial action in the case was taken by a joint team of police and election officials formed on receipt of information. Reports on the seizure of about Rs. 1 crore in unclaimed cash near Pettavaithalai check post were sent by the district administration to the Election Commission, which would take appropriate action. The Collector said the process of uploading the names of the candidates to EVMs had begun in all nine Assembly constituencies in the district. The Collector, along with election observers, held a meeting with bankers in the district on monitoring suspicious money transactions. She urged them to inform election authorities about RTGS and other transactions from one account to multiple ones. Besides, transactions above Rs. 1 lakh from the accounts of candidates and their dependants should be reported to authorities immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uploading-of-names-to-evms-begin-in-tiruchi/article34194639.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mannargudi voters unhappy, clamour for better amenities||An undercurrent of resentment among the electorate in Mannargudi over poor amenities in the town may impact the outcome of the poll results in the constituency from where sitting DMK MLA T.R.B.Rajaa is seeking a third consecutive term. He is pitted against former municipal chairman Siva. Rajamanickam of AIADMK. Recently, a booklet highlighting ‘Demands of the public’ was brought out by a local voluntary organisation. According to the booklet’s publishers, there are more than 150 issues in the constituency that have been left unattended. One of the key issues is the railway over bridge project at Needamangalam that has been pending for decades. Establishment of an industrial estate near Mannargudi has been another long-pending demand of voters. Though suitable lands have been identified, the project is yet to take off. Integration of existing Kamarajar and Santhapettai bus stands has also been suggested. Other demands such as setting up of a combined court complex, an agricultural college and agriculture implements manufacturing and maintenance facility near Mannargudi, upgrading of sanitary facilities at Government District Headquarter Hospital, and setting up of a chilling and packing plant to utilise the excess milk procured by Milk Cooperative Society at Mannargudi are also being aired. Developing Vaduvur bird sanctuary to attract more winged visitors and bird lovers is also a demand put forth by locals. “Many of the issues have not been addressed for reasons best known to the administration,” said a trader at Mannargudi. There are allegations that the administrators have turned a blind eye to requirements of the constituency as an Opposition nominee has been returned to the Assembly twice from here. However, the “inaction of the elected representative citing non-cooperation from the administration” is also to be blamed equally for the sorry state of affairs, the trader said requesting anonymity.  Other candidates S. Kamaraj of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, S. Sathishkumar of Puthiya Tamilagam, Rama.Aravindan of Naam Tamilar Katchi, S. Anbanandam of Makkal Needhi Maiam and four independents are also in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mannargudi-voters-unhappy-clamour-for-better-amenities/article34194626.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2 deaths, 211 fresh cases in Coimbatore||The daily caseload of COVID-19 crossed the 200 mark in Coimbatore district on Monday after a gap of nearly five months. According to the district administration, swab samples of 1,803 persons were subjected to testing and 211 returned positive. The last time the district had more than 200 positive cases a day was on November 8 last year. Coimbatore district had 1,290 active cases of COVID-19 as on Monday and 93 persons were discharged from hospitals after recovery. The district’s toll increased to 691 after two COVID-19 patients, a 70-year-old woman and a 38-year-old man, died on March 28 and 27. Tiruppur district reported 52 new cases and one death on Monday, taking the overall tally to 19,216. The death of an 85-year-old man from the district took the COVID-19 toll to 226. A total of 18,656 persons have recovered so far. The district had 334 active cases as on Monday, the Health Department said. On Monday, 27 persons from the district were discharged upon recovery. In the Nilgiris, 14 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,635. A total of 129 people were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-deaths-211-fresh-cases-in-coimbatore/article34194615.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Loading of names, symbols on ballot units begins||The loading of names and symbols on the ballot machines for the Assembly elections began at centres in 11 constituencies in Salem. According to officials, works for including the names of candidates and their symbols and photographs began at centres in the district on Monday and it is expected to continue for another two days. About 200 personnel have been deployed at each centre for the works and 22 engineers from BHEL, two personnel in each constituency has been deployed for providing technical assistance for the works. According to officials, 4,280 polling booths would be set up and following randomisation, 5,142 ballots units and an equal number of control units with 20% reserve has been allotted to the segments. Including a reserve of 34%, 5,740 VVPAT machines have also been allotted to constituencies here. Officials said with more than 16 candidates in the fray in six constituencies- Edappadi, Sankari, Salem South, Salem West, Salem North and Veerapandi - additional ballot units were allotted to them. A total of 2,819 ballot units have been allotted additionally with a 20% reserve. In Erode, the work began in all the eight Assembly constituencies in the district. A total of 3,291 EVMs, 3,291 control units and 3,558 voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPATs) would be kept at the respective constituencies for the election to be held on April 6. An additional 1,173 EVMs and 142 VVPATs were sent to the constituencies. Thus, a total of 11,455 machines will be used in all the 2,741 polling stations in the district. The process of fixing the names of the candidates, their photos and party symbols in the EVMs was held in the presence of respective returning officers and other officials. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the process at the Tahsildar’s office at Erode West, Modakkurichi, Perundurai and Bhavani. In Krishnagiri, pasting of photographs of candidates and their symbols commenced for the six Assembly constituencies. Collector Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the process of pasting of photographs of candidates and their symbols in the EVMs. The district has been allocated 2,715 control units, 2,715 ballot units, and 2,944 VVPAT(Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail). As a result, there are a total of 8,374 EVMs allocated for the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loading-of-names-symbols-on-ballot-units-begins/article34194677.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘It is a war against BJP’||VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan has termed the coming Assembly election as a “war to prevent the BJP from entering the Tamil Nadu political arena.” He was canvassing at Kabisthalam where he solicited votes in favour of DMK candidates for Kumbakonam and Papanasam G. Anbalagan and M.H. Jawahirullah on Monday. He said the election was not a normal election. Religious fundamentalists and perpetrators of casteism had joined together to capture power. Such forces should not be allowed to grow in Tamil Nadu. Stating that DMK president M.K. Stalin had forged the alliance with a vision for the future, he said the DMK-led alliance parties stood together for the past five years on various issues including resistance to NEET and farm laws. The alliance led by DMK was to prevent the BJP from entering Tamil Nadu..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-a-war-against-bjp/article34194634.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More para-military personnel arrive||More companies of para-military force personnel have arrived in Tiruchi and its neighbouring districts who are to be deployed for bandobust duty for the upcoming Assembly elections. Four companies of Indo-Tibetan Border Police which landed in Tiruchi district on Sunday and Monday have been sent to Musiri , Manapparai, Lalgudi and Jeeyapuram sub divisions, said police sources. The Tiruchi district was already provided with two companies of para-military force personnel earlier which were being used for conducting checks for enforcement of model code of conduct and for conducting flag marches in order to build confidence among the people. In Karur district, four companies of Andhra Pradesh Special Police arrived on Sunday which were sent to Karur, Krishnarayapuram, Aravakurichi and Krishnarayapuram assembly constituencies. The Karur district already had one company of Sashastra Seema Bal. Pudukottai district has been provided with six companies of Indo-Tibetan Border Police and one company of Andhra Pradesh Police additionally. The district already had one company of Sashastra Seema Bal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-para-military-personnel-arrive/article34194637.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases cross 300 mark in central region||The central region on Monday reported a further spike in COVID-19 with 332 persons testing positive for the virus. Of them, 130 hailed from Thanjavur district. A sharp increase in fresh cases was reported in Tiruvarur, Tiruchi and Nagapattinam districts too. Two deaths were reported —one each in Karur and Nagapattinam. A 78-year-old woman with a history of dyslipidemia from Karur and a 78-year-old man with comorbidities, including chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension, from Nagapattinam succumbed to the infection. In Thanjavur, 130 patients reported positive, continuing the trend of reporting a sharp rise in cases. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi both reported 58 fresh cases each. Health officials in both districts maintained that the spike in cases were isolated incidents and did not expose any clusters. As many as 56 patients reported positive in Nagapattinam. It was 18 in Pudukottai. Karur recorded eight fresh cases and Ariyalur and Perambalur two each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-cross-300-mark-in-central-region/article34194627.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BHEL provides facilities at primary health centre, hostel||Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Tiruchi, has sponsored new facilities at Government Primary Health Centre in Navalpattu, Government Adi Dravidar Welfare Hostel in Tiruverumbur and Arivalayam, special school and vocational centre for differently-abled children, at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme. At a function held at the PHC in Navalpattu on Monday, T.S. Murali, General Manager and Head, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, inaugurated the covered waiting area constructed at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh by BHEL for the benefit of patients. Block Development Officer R. Sugumaran and other senior officials were present. Later, Sowmya Murali, Patron, Arivalayam, inaugurated a new block of modern restrooms constructed at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh for the benefit of students and staff of Arivalayam, BHEL's campus school and vocational training centre for differently-abled children. At Government Adi Dravidar Welfare Hostel at Tiruverumbur, two newly laid badminton courts, sports goods, fans and tubelights worth Rs. 1 lakh were handed over to the warden, S. Senthil, by N. C.Poly, Additional General Manager, Human Resources, Medical and Civil, on behalf of BHEL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-provides-facilities-at-primary-health-centre-hostel/article34194630.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Syncretic celebration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/syncretic-celebration/article34194574.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||First rake of oil tankers arrive at HPCL depot||After commissioning the railway siding from Tirupparankundram railway station to Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limted (HPCL) depot at Kappalur, the first rake of oil tankers arrived at the depot on Monday. A rake of 50 wagons from Irugur in Coimbatore arrived at the HPCL depot. While 30 tank wagons brought motor spirit, 15 had diesel. Transportation of 2,476.5 tonnes of fuel has fetched Madurai Railway Division Rs. 14.73 lakh, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-rake-of-oil-tankers-arrive-at-hpcl-depot/article34194851.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||10,857||is the number of days that the AIADMK has ruled Tamil Nadu, as on Monday. The party has ruled the State the longest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10857/article34194564.ece
30 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Virus health scare does not stop people from celebrating Holi||The State government’s ban on public celebrations of Holi remained virtually unenforced in Belagavi and Hubballi-Dharwad on Monday. Revellers came out in large numbers on the streets in Belagavi to throw colours on each other and dance to the tunes of songs. Some youth rode motorbikes across the city at full speed and greeted pedestrians with Happy Holi. Some went around in open vans throwing colour water on by-standers. Veeranna Madiwalar, a teacher who was travelling by bus, said that some persons threw egg and stinky chemicals on travellers in the name of Holi celebrations. Teenagers got together at street corners and burnt Kamanna, the God of Desire, in effigies across Tilakwadi and the old city areas in Belagavi. In Dharwad, the coronavirus scare did not stop people from celebrating the festival of colours. Holi was celebrated as usual, albeit without some events such as rain dance and Dahi Handi or breaking the curd pot. With the district administration banning the use of DJ loudspeakers, Halagi or hand-held drums came to dominate Holi music. Police patrolling vehicles and Health Department staff were patrolling the city, making announcements against people gathering in large numbers. Largely, people listened to it. But in some areas such as Subhash Road, large groups of people came out to play with colours. Children were the first to be seen on the roads in the morning. They left for home after they were drenched in colours by noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virus-health-scare-does-not-stop-people-from-celebrating-holi/article34194686.ece
30 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi police make adequate arrangements for Satish Jarkiholi to file nomination papers||The Belagavi city police made adequate arrangements for Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi to file his nomination papers for the Belagavi bypoll here on Monday. They did not want to take any chances, a day after BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi’s supporters disrupted the convoy of Congress leader D.K. Shivakumar near the airport. A large contingent of officers and personnel from the city reserve force, district reserve force, and others were posted along the line from the airport to the DC’s office. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi arrived with Siddaramaiah, Mr. Shivakumar, MLAs Laxmi Hebbalkar and Anjali Nimbalkar, M.B. Patil, and other Congress leaders. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi filed five sets of nomination papers, with a different set of two leaders accompanying him every time. Mr. Shivakumar told journalists later that the Congress would target the maladministration of the BJP at the Centre and the State. “ Mr. Satish Jarkiholi felt that the CD episode allegedly involving his brother would have no effect on the bypoll outcome. He also said he would not want to talk more about the episode as the police investigation is still going on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-police-make-adequate-arrangements-for-satish-jarkiholi-to-file-nomination-papers/article34194694.ece
30 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former MLA P.J. Jacob passes away at 90||The former MLA from Kalghatgi and Rajyotsava Award winner Reverend P.J. Jacob passed away on Tuesday. He was 90. He was the founder-president of Good News Welfare Society, which runs various educational institutions, from anganwadi to degree colleges. He led several agitations for development of the backward taluk. He used his good offices to get drinking water to villages, roads and other facilities to Dalit colonies and helped in efforts to set up vocational training colleges. Rev. Jacob had won as independent candidate from Kalghatgi in 1983. He was involved in philanthropic activities and was given the Rajyotsava Award for social service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-mla-pj-jacob-passes-away-at-90/article34194687.ece
30 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘BSY should break silence on CD scandal’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa should break his silence on the CD episode. His prolonged silence will give an impression that he is hiding something, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said here on Monday. He also announced that Ashok Pujari, JD(S) leader from Gokak, would join the Congress. “We are good friends since my JD(S) days”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-should-break-silence-on-cd-scandal/article34194695.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic chief pulls up officials for laxity||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad pulled up health officials for laxity in testing and contact tracing, even as a second wave of COVID-19 has hit the city. “There are gaps in targeted testing and vaccination in the city, without which it will be tough to combat the second wave. Data-based intervention is the need of the hour,” Mr. Prasad said in a video conference with all health officials of the city on Monday. “Positivity rate among ILI-SARI cases being reported from private hospitals is 40%, while it is around 5% in the tests we are carrying out, clearly showing we are not doing targeted testing. Wards reporting zero cases and those reporting hundreds of cases a day, both are presently testing almost the same number of people. This will only waste our resources,” he said. Vaccination drive Mr. Prasad said in wards reporting higher number of cases, vaccination must also be taken up on a priority basis. “Primary Health Centres should mobilise eligible beneficiaries of the vaccine from lower income groups by creating awareness and arranging transport, for which the civic body will bear all costs,” he said. Detailing the strategies for targeted testing, he said all those with any symptoms have to be tested as the spread of the virus seems to be more from symptomatic patients - ILI-SARI cases being reported from private hospitals, cases being reported at fever clinics, primary and secondary contacts and comorbid senior citizens around containment zones. He also instructed PHCs to ask pharmacies in their areas to collect data of all those buying cold, cough and fever medicines; this data must be collected every day and these patients tested, he said. People returning from high-risk areas Those who have returned from high risk areas — the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab — have to be retested on the seventh day of their arrival, he said. Mr. Prasad also asked officials to put up mobile testing units at all crowded places and on a priority basis to test those with symptoms. Mr. Prasad said the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare had set a target of 30 contacts per positive case, even as the civic body was only tracing 10 contacts per case today. ‘Duplication of work’ “There is duplication of work happening in contact tracing — while the health officers are carrying out tracing, the Booth Level Officers are also carrying out this exercise parallely and reporting it to revenue officers. They need to report to PHCs and avoiding duplication will help trace more contacts,” he said.  Positivity rate among ILI-SARI cases being reported from private hospitals is 40%, while it is around 5% in the tests we are carrying out, clearly showing we are not doing targeted testing N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-chief-pulls-up-officials-for-laxity/article34194508.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Keeping Civil Service Board in abeyance is invalid, says CAT||In a setback to the State government, the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Monday termed as invalid the State government’s March 12, 2014, notification of keeping in abeyance the Civil Services Board (CSB), which was set up to decide postings and transfers of officers belonging to the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). Declaring that the March 12, 2014, notification cannot be acted upon henceforth as the transfer and posting of IAS officers can be made only based on the recommendations of the CSB, the tribunal directed the government to place the issue related to transfer of IAS officer Sharath B. before the CSB. Also, it directed the CSB to give an opportunity of hearing to Mr. Sharath before its recommendation to the competent authority. A Division Bench comprising Suresh Kumar Monga (Member-Judicial) and Rakesh Kumar Gupta (Member-Administrative) of CAT’s Bengaluru Bench issued the directions on Mr. Sharath’s plea. He had questioned the government’s September 28, 2020, order of prematurely transferring him from the post of Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru. Pointing out that the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, were amended by the Union government on January 28, 2014, to give effect to apex court’s direction to set up the CSB and fix minimum tenure in a post for IAS officers, the tribunal said that the State government lacked power in law to keep in abeyance the CSB, which constituted on January 31, 2014. “The Government Order of keeping the CSB in abeyance for an indefinite period is not only contrary to the directions given by the Supreme Court but it is also in defiance of a mandate given by the amended rules of 2014, which were promulgated by the Centre in consultation with the State governments,” it observed. However, it did not interfere with the posting of another IAS officer, Rohini Sindhuri as DC, Mysuru, while noticing that the ‘administrative exigency’ of Dasara festival and the situation of COVID-19 pandemic cited by the State government to transfer Mr. Sharath from the post within one month of appointing him as DC, Mysuru. It also took note of government’s statement that Mr. Sharath had failed to abide by the directions of the Election Commission of India, which wanted to post him as a General Observer for Bihar Assembly General Elections, as he was not available for duty. The government had told the tribunal that Mr. Sharath had not even reported to duty since September 29, 2020. He tested positive for COVID-19 on September 30, 2020, and intimated this information to the authorities only on October 18, 2020. Though he sought medical leave since October 18, 2020, citing various reasons and seeking an extension of leave through emails, he had not specified the date by which he would be able to resume duty. Following this, a show-cause notice was issued to him in November, the government had told the tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keeping-civil-service-board-in-abeyance-is-invalid-says-cat/article34194531.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Steep rise in fatalities, ICU cases||Karnataka on Monday saw a steep rise in ICU cases and fatalities. From 136 ICU cases last Monday (March 22), the number rose to 227. The number of deaths too rose from 10 to 16 (on a single day) in the last one week. With this, the toll touched 12,520 in the State. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. The number of new cases was fewer than that reported on Sunday as the number of tests conducted on weekends is usually low. With 2,792 new cases, the total number rose to 9,89,804. Of these, 1,742 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. As many as 1,964 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 9,53,416. The number of active patients also shot up to 23,849. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.20%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.57%. As many as 87,197 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 83,142 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,11,95,741. Vaccination As many as 17,83,887 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1 when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 5,45,198 persons above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Monday, as many as 73,783 senior citizens and 28,361 above 45 years with comorbidities took the jab till 7.30 p.m. Besides, 603 and 255 persons in both these categories respectively took the second dose. Second dose Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban has recorded the highest numbers — 3,54,820 and 84,248 — respectively in both these categories. While Udupi recorded the highest number of second dose vaccinations in both these categories, none in Bengaluru Urban took the second dose. So far, a total of 5,55,846 healthcare workers and 2,30,669 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 3,39,420 healthcare workers have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steep-rise-in-fatalities-icu-cases/article34194512.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10.34% of those who failed did not clear six subjects||The Department of Public Instruction’s (DPI) analysis of the 2020 SSLC examination has revealed that 10.34% of candidates who failed did not clear all six subjects . The maximum percentage of students had failed in only one subject – 26.37% — while 24.1% have failed in two subjects. As much as 18.16% of them failed in three subjects, 12.13% in four or more subjects, and 8.9% failed in five or more subjects. Following this analysis, the department has asked all headmasters that the SSLC pass percentage this year should be better. “We have told the Block Education Officers and the Deputy Directors of Public Instruction to ensure that they reach out to heads of all schools and ensure that they work hard this year to improve the pass percentage,” an official said. H.K. Manjunath, president, High School Assistant Masters' Association, said that the senior officials at various meetings had told teachers that they should work hard to ensure that no student is left behind and they get all the necessary help they can. However, principals of many schools are anxious that they might not meet the target owing to COVID-19. A government teacher who teaches standard X students in north Bengaluru said that it will be impossible to get good results as they have conducted only three months of offline classes. Rohit S., a standard X student, said that many of his classmates did not have access to online classes. “We are trying to pick up lessons during the online classes, but we still haven’t picked up all the lessons. Even though 30 % of the portions are cut, we still have a long way to go to learn all the lessons,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1034-of-those-who-failed-did-not-clear-six-subjects/article34194503.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. allows resumption of quarrying, albeit with a rider||Over a month after quarrying and crushing units across the State were ordered to shut business following two powerful blasts in different locations resulting in the death of 14 persons, the State government on Monday allowed resumption of quarrying and crushing activities with a rider. While the department issued a circular allowing stone mining on Monday, it has asked for a letter of undertaking from quarry and crushing unit owners that they would abide by rules and regulations. They have been asked to submi, within 90 days, an NoC from the Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) to use explosives. Over 2,500 quarries and crushers had been asked to stop business following the blast in Shivamogga on January 22, where eight persons succumbed, and another at Chickballapur on February 24 that killed six persons. The issue had been discussed intensively during the Budget session where members pointed out loopholes in law and methods employed by quarry owners to circumvent the law. Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani on Monday told presspersons: “Stone quarry and crusher unit owners must obtain permits from DGMS.” He said the ban on quarrying had resulted in loss of Rs. 300 crore for the government exchequer. Mr. Nirani said once quarrying and crushing activities commence, it will also bring significant employment opportunities. “Owners have been laying-off large numbers of workers as they are unable to sustain the units. Meanwhile, prices of raw materials have skyrocketed in the market due to no supply. The public has been finding it difficult to purchase material,” he added. Mr. Nirani said of the over 2,500 stone quarries and stone crushing units in the State, less than 10% have NoC from DGMS. He said th quarry owners were finding it difficult to purchase, store and operate explosives due to tough conditions imposed, and that the department will be easing the current guidelines by obtaining undertaking. The Minister warned that if the stone quarrying does not continue, the assets on which the owners have taken huge loans will become NPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-allows-resumption-of-quarrying-albeit-with-a-rider/article34194521.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MNREGA scheme provided a record 14.58 crore man-days of work during 2020-21||In a year that saw a large number of migrant workers returning to their villages from big cities due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme managed to provide 14.58 crore man days of work in rural areas during 2020-2021 in which workers earned Rs. 3,926.37 crore, the highest in the last five years. Starting this April 1, the daily wage will be increased to Rs. 289. A further of Rs. 10 will be given to workers per day as implement allowance. “The Centre had given a target of creating 13 crore man-days of work at the beginning of the year. This target was revised to 14.65 crore, and hence the State will receive an additional financial assistance of Rs. 800,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa told presspersons on Monday. “As many as 7.01 lakh new job cards were issued and 16.68 lakh workers were added under the scheme.” The Minister said 56.29 lakh persons from 29.93 lakh families found employment this year. As many as 2.23 lakh families got 100 days employment this year, the highest in five years, he added. In another high this year, Mr. Eshwarappa said: “Women participation was at 49.44% of the total, highest in the last five years. The participation of Scheduled Castes was at 17.18%, an increase from 10.45% last year. The participation of SCs was also the highest in the last five years. Highest numbers of persons in disabilities found employment this year.” According to him, 11.8 lakh works were taken up across the State of which 3.59 lakh works were completed. In a bid to prevent rural migration and provide employment locally, a three-month-long programme was started from March 15, he added. Jalshakthi Abhiyan Meanwhile, Mr. Eshwarappa, who interacted with Deputy Commissioners and the chief executive officers of zilla panchayats on Monday, said preparations had been done to implement the Jalshakthi Abhyian that has been launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22. He said ahead of summer, instructions have been given to ensure that there is no shortage of water in rural areas. Among projects to be taken up under Jalshakthi Abhiyan, he said a series of works had been planned under MNREGA including comprehensive development of village lake, rejuvenation of canals, desilting of tanks and waterbodies, construction of new tanks, repair of tank bands and agriculture fields, afforestation of open spaces around lakes, soak pit construction, borewell recharge, rain water harvesting, desilting check dams, and others. He said the detailed guidelines had been issued already, and over the next 100 days, Jalshakthi Abhiyan will be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mnrega-scheme-provided-a-record-1458-crore-man-days-of-work-during-2020-21/article34194519.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Incorrect contact information||The city’s civic body today faces a peculiar problem: 18% to 25% of COVID-19 patients are hard to find, as the address and contact details they submitted during swab collection is incomplete or faulty. This has also hit contact tracing. “Even after repeated instructions, I don’t understand why the full address, Pin Code and contact numbers of those who have been tested are not being collected. This has become a huge problem for treatment and contact tracing. I want the medical officers to be on the street, visit PHCs and fix all the gaps. I will be forced to suspend officials if it is not immediately corrected,” civic commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said, pulling up officials at a video conference with health officials on Monday. Rajendra Cholan, Special Commissioner, Health said presently in 18%-25% of positive cases, the addresses and contact information was incomplete, of which 8% of the cases were from private labs and the rest from PHCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/incorrect-contact-information/article34194514.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private buses, taxi drivers badly impacted by losses||Like State-run road transport corporations, private bus operators, operating stage carriage and contract carriage buses are going through financial distress. The operators say more than 5,000 buses that include tourist buses remain off the road. “It has been over a year, but bus operators are not finding any relief. Inter-State operations and tourist vehicles are not getting any ridership, and buses have remained off the road for months. “As if the pandemic induced troubles were not enough, the government increased our burden by hiking fuel prices. We are not in a position to afford fuel and operational cost; the tyre cost alone has gone up from Rs. 42,000 to Rs. 46,000. We have not received any relief from the government, and many operators have surrendered their permit documents to RTOs as they cannot run their business,” said Nataraj Sharma, general secretary, Karnataka State Tourist Operators’ Association. On the other hand, taxi and auto drivers say that if COVID-19 cases continue to surge, they will be hit hard again. Sreenivas B., a taxi driver, said, “After lockdown was imposed, without finding any revenue sources, many taxi drivers sold their vehicles as they were not in a position to pay the EMI. There were instances of drivers leaving the city or shifting to other professions. Those who are continuing in the business are not getting good bookings as work from home continues.” Somashekhar, president, Namma Chalakara Trade Union, added, “Drivers are not getting many bookings. On the other hand, taxi aggregators are giving Rs. 7 to Rs. 9 per km to drivers. If they manage to earn Rs. 1,000 per day, most of it goes for fuel and vehicle maintenance. We are demanding that aggregators pay the rates fixed by the government. Drivers are facing one more big problem: aggregators are operating an illegal bike taxi business by attaching white board two-wheelers on their platform. This has resulted in revenue loss for both taxi drivers and autorickshaws in the city. Transport Department officials know everything about the illegal business but are doing nothing to stop it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-buses-taxi-drivers-badly-impacted-by-losses/article34194500.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Ministers, departments barred from issuing orders||In the light of multiple departments issuing directives on managing the pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has asked them to refrain from giving orders on their own. In a note to Ministers and departmental heads on Monday, the Chief Minister said all future decisions on declaring containment zones, restriction on gatherings and movement of people/ vehicles, activities that are to be permitted or banned, and other related issues should come from the Chief Secretary, who heads the State committee of the Disaster Management Cell in the Revenue Department. ‘Prior permission’ “All these orders should be issued with prior permission and consultation of the Chief Minister. The Ministers and heads of department can only provide explanation of the order to the media. “They should not issue any statement to the media on imposing any kind of restrictions,” the note said. He pointed out that while the Centre — since the onset of COVID-19 in March last year — has been issuing guidelines and instructions under the Disaster Management Act 2005, specific standard operating procedures are being issued by departments. Similarly in Karnataka, the Chief Secretary will issue orders. SOPs The note said based on the orders issued by the chief secretary, the Health and Family Welfare Department, Education Department and other departments will issue standard operating procedures.  The Ministers and heads of department can only provide explanation of the order to the media B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-ministers-departments-barred-from-issuing-orders/article34194510.ece
30 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Zonal officers appointed||In an effort to make decision making faster in Bengaluru, which has been witnessing a spike in the numbers over the last one week, Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar on Monday appointed IAS officers to eight zones in Bengaluru. They will supervise the COVID-19 related efforts, review them and take quick decisions. The officers are: Manoj Kumar Meena (Bengaluru East), Ujwal Kumar Ghosh (Bengaluru West), Ravikumar Surpur (Bommanahalli), V. Anbu Kumar (Yelahanka), Pankaj Kumar Pandey (Bengaluru South), N. Manjula (Mahadevapura), P.C. Jaffer (Dasarahalli) and R. Vishal (Rajarajeshwari Nagar).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zonal-officers-appointed/article34194515.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bike thief arrested||The Annapoorneshwarinagar police, on Monday, arrested a 19-year-old bike thief and recovered five stolen bikes worth Rs. 2.5 lakh from him. The accused, Naveen Kumar, a resident of D group employees layout, had stolen a bike parked outside a house on February 14. Based on the complaint, the police investigated to zero in on Naveen. He was picked up for questioning during which he confessed to five bike theft cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bike-thief-arrested/article34194509.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for bike stunts||The Pulakeshinagar traffic police caught two youths who were allegedly doing bike stunts on a busy road, endangering other motorists, on Monday. The police caught the duo on Netaji Road and Pottery Road in separate incidents. According to the police, Ranjith Prasanna, 19, said to be studying in a private college, was doings bike stunts on the busy Pottery Road on Monday afternoon. Ranjith did not have documents nor was he wearing a helmet, said the police. The police later detained a 17-year-old youth on Netaji Road in Frazer Town. Both the accused have been booked. The police are contemplating booking the parents of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-bike-stunts/article34194495.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rules to be strictly enforced||City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant issued orders to strictly enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in the city. Each police station will form “mask enforcement teams” led by an assistant sub-inspector. Mr. Pant also directed the police to submit reports on pubs, restaurants and other public venues where rules are being violated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rules-to-be-strictly-enforced/article34194513.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Provisional selection list withdrawn||The provisional selection list in respect of 14 posts of Group-B Assistant Environment Officer in the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), announced by Karnataka Public Service Commission on March 10, 2021, has been withdrawn following a technical error found in the list. Revised list The revised provision selection list in this regard will be announced shortly, an official release has stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provisional-selection-list-withdrawn/article34194529.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Final decision on salary revision for RTC staff soon’||As the countdown to the indefinite strike call by an employees’ union of Road Transport Corporations (RTC) has begun, the State government has given assurance that by the end of the week, a final decision on revising salaries will be taken. On Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a meeting with the heads of the Transport Department, Finance Department, and managing directors of RTCs. After the meeting, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said: “There is a demand to revise salaries of the staff on a par with recommendations made by 6th Pay Commission. The issue has been discussed in detail. The Finance Department officials said that in two days, they will study the financial burden on the corporations. ” The Minister also appealed to the employees’ union to drop the plan of indefinite strike from April 7. “Middle-class and lower-income groups rely on public transport. Last time, when employees went on four-day strike, the public suffered and finances of corporations were affected. I assure that the interest of employees will be protected. Revenue generated by the RTCs is not sufficient to meet operational expenses, despite the government and corporations paying salaries of the staff,” Mr. Savadi said. He also maintained that if employees resort to strike, the State government will make alternative transport arrangements that include outsourcing private buses. He said tender has been floated to run buses on rented basis. He further added that whenever pay revision gets implemented, it will come into effect from January 2020 and employees will get the arrears too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-pay-hike-soon-government/article34194491.ece
30 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Department to be reformed||Mines Minister Murugesh Nirani said as part of reforming the Mines and Geology Department, uniforms will be given to district-level officers and staff besides making provision for separate vehicles and wireless equipment. GPS will be installed in vehicles to monitor the movement and ex-servicemen will be recruited to security positions. “Safety kits, including helmet, gloves, shoes, safety belts and shoes, will be provided to miners and labourers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/department-to-be-reformed/article34194526.ece
30 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Visually-impaired student beats all odds||Rajat Dixith, a visually-impaired student of Sahyadri College in Shivamogga, has secured the first rank in M.A. English literature. He scored Cumulative Grade Point Achievement (CGPA) of 6.9, the highest in Kuvempu University this year. “I do not feel different from other students,” the 24-year-old told The Hindu.  Mr. Dixith has been a good scorer since his school days. He secured 96% in SSLC, 94.5% in PUC, and studied B.A. in SDM College, Ujire, where he secured the second rank. As he had cultivated the habit of reading literature books, he chose to do a post graduation in English and joined Sahyadri College. “I learnt Braille in my school days. I use the language to take notes. However, the number of literature books available in Braille is minimal. Hence, I depend on reading software,” Mr. Dixith said. “I have been supported by my parents Mahesh Dixith and Sheela Dixith and the college teaching staff. They helped me understand the subject,” he said. Interestingly, Ms. Sheela, a B.Sc. graduate, was his scribe in the M.A. examination. Mr. Dixith is now preparing for the National Eligibility Test for junior research fellowship. He plans to do research at a prestigious institution, if he secures the fellowship. “I want to do PhD in literature and teach literature,” he said. William Shakespeare and Charles Dickens are his favourites in English, while he likes Kuvempu and S.L. Byrappa in Kannada. He has received appreciation and felicitation from many. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa visited his house and greeted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/visually-impaired-student-beats-all-odds/article34194528.ece
30 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||35 fresh cases in Hassan||Two people infected with COVID-19 died and 35 fresh cases of the infection were reported in Hassan on Monday. With that, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 increased to 470 and the number of positive cases reported increased to 29,341. So far 28,418 people have recovered from the infection and 315 are undergoing treatment. Among them, eight are in the intensive care unit. District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar has appealed to the public to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/35-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article34194900.ece
30 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rehabilitating manual scavengers through RDPR||Additional Deputy Commissioner G. Anuradha has instructed officers of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj to identify manual scavengers, if any, and provide them rehabilitation so that they give up the job. She spoke at a training programme for the staff members of the RDPR, engaged to conduct a survey to identify manual scavengers in the district. Manual scavenging had been banned through a law. It would be against the law to hire men to clear soak pits or toilets. “The pits and underground drainage could be cleared only using machinery. Those who violate the law would attract punishment”, she said. The officers of the Social Welfare Department told the staff members that the survey should be completed by April 18 in Shivamogga district. The staff would visit localities and look for the manual scavengers, if any, as part of the survey. Those who are into the job for various reasons could submit an application seeking rehabilitation. Officers of Shivamogg Taluk panchayat and Panchayat Development Officers of the district attended the training programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rehabilitating-manual-scavengers-through-rdpr/article34194901.ece
30 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ganesha idol stolen||Miscreants took away a Ganesha idol kept at Rameshwara Temple, an Archaeological Survey of India monument, at Nadakalasi in Sagar taluk recently. The incident happened on March 23, following which a complaint has been registered by the Sagar Rural Police. It is said there was no security staff to stay put at the monument at night K. Goutham, Conservation Assistant of Shivamogga Sub- Circle (ASI), told The Hindu that a complaint had been filed with the police and the investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ganesha-idol-stolen/article34194902.ece
30 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Man found dead on railway track||A middle-aged man was found dead on the railway track near Pavan High School in Dharwad on Sunday. The dead was identified as Mrutyunjaya Shekhappa Totger (35), a resident of Yadwad in Dharwad taluk. A case has been registered by the Railway Police. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-dead-on-railway-track/article34194682.ece
30 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||CD scandal: Congress seeks Jarkiholi’s arrest||Questioning the State government on why it had not arrested BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, an accused in the CD scandal, and condemning the protest by BJP activists against Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar in Belagavi, Congress leaders in Kalaburagi said that the law and order in the State had collapsed and demanded the imposition of President’s rule. Addressing a press conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, former Ministers Sharan Prakash Patil and Priyank Kharge said that Mr. Ramesh Jarkhiholi’s followers attempted to prevent Mr. Shivakumar from accompanying the Congress candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency for filing nomination papers. “Mr. Ramesh Jarkhiholi said before media that he had managed to topple the coalition government and it was not a big deal to handle the CD scandal. The victim in the CD scandal openly alleges that she and her family were facing threats. On top of it, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi has not been arrested. These developments clearly show that the state of law in Karnataka and we demand President’s Rule,” Mr. Patil said. Pointing to the victim who had said that she had no faith in the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to probe the scandal, Mr. Patil alleged that constituting the SIT was to cover up the crimes of Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi. “The SIT is leaking the names and roles of people in the scandal to select BJP leaders and media houses to derail the focus of the investigation. We doubt its impartiality. We want the sitting Chief Justice of the High Court to probe the scandal,” Mr. Priyank said. Mr. Priyank questioned why the SIT was not looking into the alleged financial transactions in the scandal. “You [BJP] summon Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax Department, and Central Bureau of Investigation even for the smaller issues. Why are you not bringing these central agencies even after allegations transaction of Rs. 9 crores in the scandal?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-scandal-congress-seeks-jarkiholis-arrest/article34194698.ece
30 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Somanna confident of dousing unrest||Taking note of the unrest in the Basavakalyan unit of the BJP after ticket was denied to local aspirants and instead given to Kalaburagi-based Sharanu Salagar, Housing Minister V. Somanna said that he would talk to all aspirants deprived of an opportunity to contest the byelection on party ticket and convince them of the need to work for the official party candidate. Speaking to media representatives at Kalaburagi Airport on Monday, Mr. Somanna said that he was not aware of the party’s parameters in selecting Mr. Salagar as party candidate, though there were 16 aspirants in Bidar district. “I don’t know why Mr. Salagar was preferred over local aspirants. Once the party has decided to field Mr. Salagar, he would be the party’s official candidate and all the rank and file need to work hard for his victory. I, however, would talk to all dissidents, especially Mallikarjun Khuba. I am sure that all of them would be convinced [of the need to work together for the party’s win],” Mr. Somanna said. Asked about the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s allegations that BJP national leaders were paid a huge amount of money in return for party ticket in Basavakalyan, Mr. Sommanna said that such baseless allegations do crop up at the time of elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/somanna-confident-of-dousing-unrest/article34194688.ece
30 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Iris-based attendance system for staff||Along with the existing fingerprint-based biometric attendance system, the Kalaburagi City Corporation has now launched iris-based attendance system for staff and pourakarmikas. The city corporation has installed thumb biometrics and iris scanners at 20 points, including the corporation administration building. Corporation Commissioner Snehal S. Lokhande speaking to The Hindu said that the introduction of iris scanners has enabled easy enrolment of pourakarmikas as the fingerprint scanners had at times failed to detect fingerprints due to skin abrasions as their fingers were badly affected by years of strenuous work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iris-based-attendance-system-for-staff/article34194696.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police arrest conman after prof. pays Rs. 17 lakh for V-C post||The Kankanady Town Police have arrested Prasad (40) on the charge of defrauding a Mangalore University professor of Rs. 17 lakh promising him to get the post of Vice-Chancellor of a university. Professor in Microbiology M. Jayashankar, who is also Director of College Development Council on the university’s Konaje campus, has lodged a complaint with the police in this connection. Prof. Jayashankar has in his complaint said that he got to know Prasad through Vivek Acharya. The latter [Prasad] impressed upon him that he had close contacts with those in power. To bolster his claims, Prasad showed his pictures taken with many influential personalities. The accused promised to get the post of Vice-Chancellor of Raichur University to the complainant and demanded Rs. 30 lakh for the purpose. The complainant said that he had paid Rs. 17 lakh to Prasad and issued three blank cheques for the balance amount. When Prasad failed to get the work done as promised, Prof. Jayashankar demanded that the money he paid be returned. However, the latter threatened him with dire consequences, the complainant said. The Kankanady Town Police have registered cases under Sections 406, 417, 420 and 506 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code against Prasad, now a resident of Kudupu Katte, Kudupu. A communique from the police said that Prasad has cases registered against him in Mangaluru North and East Stations and a rowdy-sheet has been opened against him in the North and Kankanady Town police stations. Sources said that Prasad was earlier associated with a few Hindu outfits. Later, he formed his own outfit named Rama Sene and has been its president. Legal opinion On being asked what action the university proposes against the professor for giving bribe, Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya told The Hindu that he was hearing the incident for the first time. “Giving bribe is also an offence and as per service rules, the employee has to be suspended.” “I will seek legal opinion in the matter and decide about what action is to be taken,” Prof. Yadapadithaya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conman-held-after-professor-pays-rs-17-lakh-for-v-c-post/article34194525.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train services extended||The Railways has extended the periodicity of Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru special trains, both via Shravanabelagola and via Mysuru, till May-end and June-end, respectively. A release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway here said that services of Train No 06515 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central Special via Shravanabelagola (four days a week on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays) have been extended till June 29 for 52 trips. The services of Train No 06517 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central via Mysuru (tri-weekly on Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays) have been extended till May 30 for 27 services. The services of Train No 06516 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru Special via Shravanabelagola (four days a week on Sundays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays) have been extended till June 30 for 52 services. Similarly, the services of Train No 06518 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru Special via Mysuru (tri-weekly on Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays) have been extended till May 31 for 27 services, the release said. Additional coach Train No 06649 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil Central Daily Express Special will be provided with an additional second class sitting coach from April 1. Train No 06650 Nagercoil-Mangaluru Central Daily Express Special will be provided with an additional second class sitting coach from April 2. Garib Rath Special Train No 06164 Kochuveli-Mumbai Lokamanya Tilak Terminus bi-weekly Garib Rath Special will leave Kochuveli on Sundays and Thursdays at 8.45 a.m. from April 11 to reach Mumbai LTT at 11.45 a.m. the next day until further advice. It will leave Mangaluru Junction at 8.10 p.m., Udupi at 9.40 p.m. and Karwar at 11.45 p.m. Train No 06163 Mumbai LTT-Kochuveli bi-weekly Garib Rath Special will leave LTT on Mondays and Fridays at 4.55 p.m. from April 12 to reach Kochuveli at 8.25 p.m. the next day till further advice. It will leave Karwar at 3.12 a.m., Udupi at 6.12 a.m. and Mangaluru Junction at 8.10 a.m. the second day. It will have 11 AC 3-tier, two second class AC chair car and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-services-extended/article34194863.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Police fitness programme very successful’||Impressed with the way how 79 overweight and obese city police personnel have reduced their weight ranging between 1 kg and 10.4 kg following a nearly month-long fitness programme, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Monday that he will write to heads of police units across the State to have such programmes to make police personnel slim and trim. Speaking at the valedictory of the 29-day fitness programme organised for the city police personnel, Mr. Bommai said that the Karnataka State Reserve Police had taken an initiative where overweight personnel were asked to reduce their weight or loose an increment. “Among the initiatives taken for the civil police so far, I feel this one-month-long programme is very successful,” he said and added that he wanted personnel from the ranks of police constable to the Director-General of Police to follow a healthy fitness routine. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that 50 men weighing more than 90 kg and 29 women weighting more than 70 kg took part in the fitness programme which began on March 1. The personnel started their day with a 90-minute yoga session taught by members of Patanjali Yoga Sikshana Trust at 6 a.m. Following a break for having juice, the personnel had a hour-long drill by trainers from the Reserve Police. The personnel then had two-hour-long training to lose weight, jumba dance and other fitness sessions conduced by personnel from Atomm Fitness Club. All these activities were held in the fitness centre of Father Muller’s Institution. Every day, the personnel had walking, jogging or hiking for about 10 km between 4.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. Nine police personnel have shed their weight between one and three kilograms, 44 have reduced their weight between four and six kilograms, 18 have reduced between seven and nine kilograms and four personnel have reduced weight by more than nine kilograms. The highest of 10.4 kg was shed by Assistant Reserve Sub Inspector Bhanuprakash, he said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that the one-month exercise has brought positive changes among the personnel. “Apart from making them fit and flexible, the personnel have been able to address some of their physical ailments and control their blood pressure and diabetes,” he said and added that the department has shown the way for the personnel to maintain a healthy lifestyle during their hectic work. Marking the occasion, 78 teams of police personnel and their family members took part in a Rangoli competition. There was demonstration of Yoga, unarmed combat exercise and dance by the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-fitness-programme-very-successful/article34194875.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vented dam to be ready by Nov-end||The vented dam being built across the Neriya river at Mulikkaru, in Dharmasthala village, to supply water to Dharmasthala town, will be ready for use by this November-end, according to Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja. Speaking to presspersons at Dharmasthala after visiting the construction site along with Pattadhikari of Dharmasthala D. Veerendra Heggade and engineers, the MLA said that the construction of the dam, estimated at Rs. 15 crore, began on February 10. The construction works should have commenced a year ago. But due to COVID-19 factors, the project is being taken up now, he said. The 86 m wide and seven metre high dam is being constructed by the Department of Minor Irrigation. Mr. Heggade said that the dam will help mitigate water scarcity in the temple town, especially during summer. If water stored at the vented dam built across the Netravathi near Snanaghatta in Dharmasthala runs short, then water from the new dam will be pumped to the overhead tanks in Dharmasthala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vented-dam-to-be-ready-by-nov-end/article34194871.ece
30 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University extends holidays on Mangalagangotri campus till April 3||Mangalore University on Monday extended holidays for its postgraduate students and researchers on its Mangalagangotri campus till April 3 to prevent the further spread of COVID-19 on the campus even as Dakshina Kannada and Udupi together reported 116 new cases on the day. Earlier, it had suspended the classes on the campus for a week till March 29 after some students in the campus tested positive. In all, 16 students on the campus tested positive till Sunday. In a circular issued on Monday, the in-charge Registrar (Administration) P.L. Dharma said that the classes continued to remain suspended as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. He said that the students residing in the hostels in the campus will not be allowed to leave the hostels and the respective wardens have been instructed to ensure the same. The canteen and the library on the campus will remain closed till this Saturday. Meanwhile, of 71 new cases reported in Udupi district, 41 cases were from the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) campus, according to a media bulletin issued by Udupi district administration. Of the total cases 49 were asymptomatic and 22 were symptomatic. With 116 patients being discharged the active cases in the district stood at 779. In all, 83,949 persons have taken the first dose of vaccination and 18,722 have taken its second dose in the district. Dakshina Kannada recorded 45 new cases on Monday. With 38 persons being discharged the active cases in the district stood at 579.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-extends-holidays-on-mangalagangotri-campus-till-april-3/article34194881.ece
30 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||A bumpy ride at Pandeshwar crossing||Commuters travelling between State Bank area and Mangaladevi and further towards Kerala on Mangaladevi Road have been having a distressing experience at the railway crossing at Pandeshwar for nearly three months. Sandesh Kumar, a resident of the nearby area, said initially potholes and craters dotted the road surface at the level crossing and adjoining areas thereby affecting vehicular movement. Though the roads on both the sides were widened to four-lane, it becomes a narrow two-lane at the level crossing. A month ago, Railways dug up a trench next to the track to lay cables and left the surface uneven. Further, it undertook track maintenance work at the level crossing and placed concrete paver blocks above the crushed stones (jelly) to facilitate vehicular movement a fortnight ago. However, till date, the Railways has not covered the affected stretches with bitumen layer. Of late, the problems got amplified with the concrete paver blocks getting shuffled due to vehicular movement further disturbing the traffic, Mr. Kumar regretted. Arun Kamath, a regular commuter, said he was given to understand that the Railways would fix the craters and potholes after the track maintenance work. However, the problems only got worsened after the track maintenance work, he said. Thousands of vehicles ply through the stretch every day and the pathetic road surface has only added to their misery of waiting endlessly when the gates get closed to facilitate goods train movements, he said. An engineer of the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway cited non-availability of jelly to asphalt the affected stretch. Division’s spokesperson said the contractor was hesitating to take up the work as his limits exceeded and the officials concerned were attempting to resolve the issue. The work would be completed soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-bumpy-ride-at-pandeshwar-crossing/article34194879.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain lashes city||Heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds, thunder and lightning lashed the city late on Monday. It was the first summer rain in the city, though the areas on the foot of the Western Ghats in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi received the rain earlier this season. According to initial reports, two cars were damaged in Mulihitlu area in the city after an electricity pole fell, snapping power cables. Reports said that some trees came down in Hat Hill and Kodical areas in the city. Many areas in the city went without power supply. The compound wall of a private hospital on Falnir Road partially collapsed due to rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-lashes-city/article34194869.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. engineer arrested in road accident case||An Assistant Executive Engineer of Minor Irrigation and Ground Water Department, Dakshina Kannada, Shanmugam, has been arrested by the police on the charge of knocking down and killing a pedestrian, who was a retired BSNL employee, in a case of drunken driving near the Circuit House here on Sunday night. The police gave the name of the deceased as A. Ananda (62). His wife has said that the official was in an inebriated state. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that medical test carried out on Shanmugam has revealed that he had consumed alcohol. According to the police, Ananda, who worked for a firm in Udupi, got off a bus and was walking towards his house at about 10 p.m. when the car driven by the Assistant Executive Engineer hit him killing Ananda on the spot. The footage of the road accident captured by the CCTV camera, which was recovered by the police, showed the car coming down from the Circuit House speedily and negotiating a turn. The car first hit a barricade erected for an electricity pole on the roadside before knocking down Ananda. The Police Commissioner said that following a complaint by Ananda’s wife Lalitha, the police arrested Shanmugam for offences under Sections 304 (part II) and 304 (A) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder, causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-engineer-arrested-in-road-accident-case/article34194872.ece
30 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Arrested||The Vitla Police have arrested a man on the charge of sexually harassing a minor boy. A police release said here on Monday that the boy had been to a function with his parents at Idkidu at about 10.30 a.m. on March 27. Hameed Maula of Kabaka lured the boy and took him to a secluded place and sexually harassed him. The boy, however, managed to escape and returned to his parents who then lodged a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arrested/article34194864.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police ensure safety of inter-religious couple||Timely action by Moodbidri Police prevented a group of right wing activists from harassing a man and a woman from different religions on a bus which was on its way from Mangaluru to Mumbai on Monday. The police said that the man and the woman were from Gujarat. The mother of the woman is a native of Mangaluru. On Monday, the couple, who were said to be in a live-in relationship, were on their way to Gujarat on a private bus heading from Mangaluru to Mumbai via Moodbidri. A group of right wing activists from the city got hint of their movement and informed their counterparts in Moodbidri. A team of about 40 activists was waiting for the bus at a bus stop in Moobidri to question the couple. Tip-off “We were tipped off about the right wing group’s action. Our personnel stopped the bus a few metres before it reached the bus stop and took them away to a safe place. After speaking to the couple and their parents, we sent them away safely,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar told reporters on Monday. The police prevented the likely harassment of the couple by the right wing group members, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-ensure-safety-of-inter-religious-couple/article34194504.ece
30 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two passengers booked for smuggling||In two incidents, sleuths of Mangaluru Air Customs filed cases against two passengers on the charge that they smuggled 405 grams of gold worth Rs. 18.75 lakh into the international airport on Monday. According to a release from Customs, the officials intercepted Sukkur Moideen Kunhi (48) of Kasargod in Kerala and Misri Naseemul Gani (44) of Bhatkal, Uttara Kannada, soon after they landed by SpiceJet and Air India flights, respectively, from Dubai. While one had concealed gold in a specially designed footwear, the other passenger had concealed gold in his mouth. The operation was led by Deputy Commissioner Kapil Gade and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-passengers-booked-for-smuggling/article34194873.ece
30 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Property tax in Mysuru to go up by 15 per cent from April 1||Property owners in Mysuru will now have to bear a hike of 15 per cent in property tax. A resolution this effect was adopted in the recent Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Council meeting. “The new tax regime will come into effect from April 1, 2021”, MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag told The Hindu . The revised property tax will be fixed on the basis of the new guidance value. “Hitherto, we were taking 50 per cent of the 2007-08 guidance value as the base for calculating property tax. But, the new Government Order states that we have to take the 2018-19 guidance value. However, in order to minimise the impact of the new tax regime, we will be taking only 25 per cent of the guidance value as the base value for tax calculation”, Ms. Nag explained. The last revision of property tax in MCC was during 2017. Though the government has mandated a property tax revision once every three years, the revision due in 2020 could not be carried out due to COVID-19. The revision of property tax, which comes in the midst of a rise in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, is being brought into effect not only in Mysuru, but all the City Corporations and Urban Local Bodies except Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) in Karnataka, while issuing a direction on February 19, 2021 that the revision in property tax has to be carried out compulsorily, had cautioned that the City Corporations and Urban Local Bodies that failed to revise property tax will be denied the 15th Finance Commission funds as well as the Swacch Bharat Mission grants. Ms. Nag said the hike will not go beyond 15 per cent. Though guidance value in some instances had almost quadrupled from 2007-08 to 2018-19, the MCC has kept 15 per cent as the ceiling. “We have ensured that the hike will not be beyond that for any category”, she said. Target The target of property tax collection, which was Rs. 150 crore last year (2020-21), will go upto Rs. 180.34 crore during the coming year (2021-22), Ms. Nag said. However, the property tax collection was only Rs. 117.50 crore during 2020-21 till March 26. The shortfall has been attributed to COVID-19, which had affected businesses and livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-tax-in-mysuru-to-go-up/article34194494.ece
30 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mango exports may get the nod||Last year, the COVID-19 pandemic had hit mango exports from Karnataka. This year, though the pandemic continues to exist with a second wave of infection worrying health authorities, traders and exporters are now prepared to trade fruits taking all precautions to those countries that are willing to receive the fruits. Almost the entire world was under lockdown last year to fight the pandemic, with complete suspension of international flights, thereby blocking movement of goods. “With the people starting to live with the pandemic after learning to fight the disease, the mango exporters may get orders. It is safe to eat the fruit but precautions are necessaryfor handling the export. The traders and exporters are getting ready to meet the demand,” said senior horticulture expert S.V. Hittalmani. Alphonso, grown in Belagavi, Haveri and Dharwad and also in Ramanagaram and Kolar, is exported mostly through the trade network in Maharashtra. If the receiving country is ready to accept the fruits, the traders are equipped, with 2021 being an on-year for the crop, sources said. New initiatives A lot of care is now being taken for exporting mangoes with growers joining marketing trader networks with online and door-step marketing of fruits for better price. Benusha and Mallika are also exported but Alphonso is the most preferred and largest exported variety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-exports-may-get-the-nod/article34194904.ece
30 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sleaze video row echoes in Mysuru||The row over the sleaze video involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi reverberated in Mysuru on Monday with protests being held in support of Mr. Jarkiholi as well as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar, who has been accused of playing a role in the alleged conspiracy. The Karnataka Rajya Nayakara Yuva Sene staged a demonstration in front of Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru demanding the resignation of Mr. Shivakumar from his post as president of KPCC for allegedly conspiring to project Mr. Jarkiholi in poor light under the pretext of providing justice to the girl in the video. The Akhila Karnataka D.K. Shivakumar Fans Association gathered in front of the Congress office demanding the arrest of Mr. Jhrkiholi against whom an FIR has been registered. A delegation of Congress leaders also met Commissioner of Police Chandragupta seeking to lodge a complaint against Mr. Jarkiholi for using abusive language against Mr. Shivakumar and allegedly pitting one caste against another. Mysuru District Congress Committee President B.J. Vijaykumar told Mr. Chandragupta that Mr. Jarkiholi has used the kind of language that threatens to foment trouble in the society. Hence, the Congress leaders asked Mr. Chandragupta to consider booking a separate case against Mr. Jarkiholi. KPCC spokesperson Lakshmana urged the Commissioner to deny permission for caste groups to hold demonstration on the issue of CD row and ensure peace in the society. The protest organised by Akhila Karnataka D.K. Shivakumar Fans Association was attended among others by former MLA Vasu and former Chairperson of Mysuru Paints and Varnishes Venkatesh H.A. Mr. Venkatesh asked Mr. Jarkiholi to resign from the Assembly owning moral responsibility. He criticised the BJP government for the absence of any action against Mr. Jarkiholi even though a FIR had been lodged against him. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Rajya Nayakara Yuva Sene President Devaraj Katoor, who participated in the demonstration in Mysuru, accused Mr. Shivakumar of conspiring to “politically trample” and “finish” Mr. Jhrkiholi by ‘misusing’ a girl. Instead of “hatching such conspiracies”, the Congress should bring pressure on the State government to ensure that the rights of Nayaka community are upheld, Mr. Katoor urged Congress leader and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sleaze-video-row-echoes-in-mysuru/article34194907.ece
30 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mango yield may drop over untimely rain in Feb.||The unseasonal rain in February third week has played spoilsport as the yield of mango crop, which was estimated between 14 and 16 lakh tonnes this year, may drop by nearly 20 percent following damage caused during flowering. Yet, the year 2021 is described as an “on-year” for the crop with a projected production of 10 lakh tonnes. Badam or Alphonso crops seem to have been affected by moderate to heavy rain last month with damage to well-set flowers. This has led to revising the crop yield estimate to around 10 lakh tonnes from 14 lakh tonnes. Mango flowering takes place between January and March. Confirming this to The Hindu , senior horticulture expert and retired additional director of horticulture (fruits) S.V. Hittalmani, who recently toured mango growing areas, said the rain did cause damage to the crop but the overall season is an “on-year” irrespective of the harm caused. Also, the current inclement weather may further hit the yield as moisture at this stage was key for the fruit growth and one rain can change the scenario, propping up the output. “In some areas, we saw farmers sourcing water from tankers to save the crop. It’s a tough situation in some areas where water could not be sourced easily,” he said. Mango hoppers Another problem that farmers were facing was that of “mango hoppers” whose numbers had gone up threatening the crop since the unseasonal rain last month. “The untimely rain enhanced vegetative flush formation in mango trees attracting mango hoppers which feed on the vegetative growth or ‘chiguru’. The hoppers release a sticky substance on the leaves and fruit on which a black coloured fungal growth takes place. In this situation, the quality of mango fruit may take a hit and the fruit doesn’t look striking. This might bring down the price too,” he explained. Worries Water scarcity in some mango growing areas has triggered worries. Mango is a highly resilient crop but it does require moisture at least twice or thrice during flowering to fruiting stage. Showers at appropriate periods can essentially benefit the crop. Despite being an “off-year” for the crop last year, Karnataka got a yield of nearly 8 lakh tonnes with the first batch of fruits harvested in April, fetching attractive prices. Alphonso, Badam, Mallika, Baganpalli and Kesar are sought after in the Middle East, especially the UAE market, besides the United States and Europe. Srinivasapura mango market, reckoned to be the largest mango market in Asia, is expected to commence its operations in May. Fruits to the market also arrive from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu besides Kolar, one of the largest producers, Chikkaballapura and parts of Bengaluru Rural. Ramanagaram and Channapatna mango markets may soon come alive when the season picks up pace. Harvested fruits from orchards go up by the end of next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-yield-may-drop/article34194493.ece
30 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||When will the street lights on Outer Ring Road start working?||Even as the issue of non-functional street lights on the 42-km long Outer Ring Road remains unaddressed since many years with neither the MUDA nor the MCC ready for a remedy, the Mysuru City Police is planning to write to both the local bodies again to resolve the issue and make street lights work. As of now, the entire road stretch is being blacktopped under a special grant from the Centre. The trash-filled service roads of the ORR had been cleaned in a major one-time operation recently to facilitate asphalting of the road. The non-functional lights make ORR unsafe after duskwith poor visibility and many vehicles parked on the service roads violating the rules. It becomes risky for the residents of layouts abutting ORR to use the service roads that are isolated and unsafe without proper illumination. Commissioner of Police Chandragupta said: “After I took over in Mysuru, the first letter I wrote was to the Commissioner of MCC to take steps for making the street lights work.” As the problem is yet to be sorted out, he said he would once again intervene and speak to the MCC chief on the matter. Many appeals Despite Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar’s intervention, the issue continues to bother the residents and motorists using the road with no remedy yet in spite of repeated appeals and memoranda submitted to the authorities. In fact, traffic on the ORR has gone up with the sharp increase in users with rapid urbanisation of areas beyond the road. More than five to six km radius from the ORR has been developed and many layouts have come up. ORR is the only link road to enter the city centre. Also, the ORR is also getting commercialised with many traders establishing their businesses on the buildings come up along the road. “Why cannot the district Minister call a meeting of MCC and MUDA and also the officials of the NHAI to sort out the matter,” ask residents of Bogadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/when-will-the-street-lights-on-outer-ring-road-start-working/article34194899.ece
30 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir youth leads by example||Arun Kumar Sanganagouda Gohidal, 24, a native of Halgera village in Wadagera taluk of Yadgir district, has set an example to show that even students from rural government schools can pass civil services examination, when they focus on studies. Born in a middle-class family, Mr. Gohidal studied from class one to SSLC in Kannada-medium government schools in Halgera and Bendebembali villages in the taluk. Later, he moved to Kalaburagi where he completed his PU at Sri Guru Vidya Peetha. Thereafter, he went to PES University, Bengaluru, and completed Bachelor of Technology. Mr. Gohidal took basic coaching in Ujwala Academy in Bengaluru and also a year’s coaching at Vajirao and Reddy Institute in Delhi for the UPSC examination. He passed in his first attempt. His name appeared in serial number 324 in the pass list and now, he is awaiting the interview. “I was inspired by two teachers of my high school, Ninganagouda and Mallappa, and now, my dream of passing the UPSC examination is fulfilled in my first attempt,” he said. Mr. Gohidal is probably the first person in Yadgir district to have passed the UPSC examination. He says he wants to serve people by becoming the Deputy Commissioner. His father, a retired bank employee, expressed happiness about his son’s achievement. “We had confidence in him that he would pass the UPSC examination, which is considered the toughest,” he said. Recalling his study methods, Mr. Gohidal said hard work and commitment towards studies can bring one success. “Anybody can achieve what I have. But, they must focus a minimum of six to eight hours on continuous studies,” he said. “I am thankful to my parents, teachers, coaches, and friends who extended their support and guided me to cross this milestone,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-youth-leads-by-example/article34194692.ece
30 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Sriramulu says CD scandal will not impact byelection results||Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu has said that the CD scandal will not impact the byelection results in the State. He was talking to reporters after accompanying BJP candidate Pratapgouda Patil when the latter filed his nomination papers in Maski on Monday. Asked whether the CD scandal issue would impact the byelections, he replied that “there will be no impact as we are going to voters on the development plank and not on issues involving the personal matters of leaders.” Mr. Sriramulu stopped himself from saying more about the CD scandal and maintained that he won’t say much about it as investigation is under way. Expressing the confidence in his party’s good performance, he said that they will win in all three constituencies — Maski, Belagavi and Basavakalyan — in the bypolls. He attacked Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and said that he [Siddaramaiah] may be frustrated knowing the fact that he is facing another election defeat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sriramulu-says-cd-scandal-will-not-impact-byelection-results/article34194690.ece
30 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Rival candidates file papers in Maski||On Monday, Maski town saw a dozen leaders and several hundreds of part workers from both the BJP and the Congress taking part in the process of filing of nomination papers of their respective candidates, Pratapgouda Patil and R. Basanagowda Turvihal, for the bypolls in the constituency. Mr.. Turvihal filed his nomination papers accompanied by senior Congress leader and MLA Amaregowda Bayyapur. Mr. Pratapgouda Patil filed his nomination papers as Minister B. Sriramulu, MLA Narasimha Nayak and MLC Ravikumar were present.. In an open function held near Ter Bazaar area, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar spoke. While addressing the gathering, Mr. Siddaramaiah appealed to voters to defeat the candidate who had backstabbed the party and sold himself out for money. The party has given him a chance and made him MLA twice. However, he left the party by taking money from the BJP, he said. “ You have to uphold the dignity of the constituency by sending Mr. Pratapgouda Patil back home,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that B.S. Yediyurappa had entered from the backdoor to become the Chief Minister. People of the State are fed up by bad governance. He had failed to execute pro-people and pro-farmer policies. The Leader of Opposition further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought in anti-farm laws against which farmers have been holding protests for a couple of months now. “People must understand the agenda of the both the Union and State governments of favouring the rich industrialists and capitalists and then vote against the BJP candidates for a better future,” he said. Mr. Shivakumar said that Mr. Pratapgouda Patil failed to address the woes of farmers. He did not support farmers who are demanding 5A canal for irrigation in dry land in the constituency. On the other hand, Minister B. Sriramulu, while addressing people at his party office, said that the Congress is a sinking ship and Mr. Shivakumar is a sailor on it. Congress MLAs had joined the BJP after they realised this fact, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rival-candidates-file-papers-in-maski/article34194689.ece
30 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||DKS denies allegations||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has denied allegations by the parents of the victim in the CD scandal episode and said “ I don’t know anything and it was not related to me”. He was talking to reporters in Mudgal town in Lingsugur taluk of Raichur district on Monday. Mr. Shivakumar was here to participate in the nomination process by Congress candidate Basanagouda Turvihal. “Anybody can say anything which is not related to me as the investigation is on. It may be said under the pressure,” he added. He added: “We will win Maski bypoll. The people are watching the failure of the BJP government at the Centre and the State and they will elect our candidates in the byelections”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-denies-allegations/article34194700.ece
30 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||KPCC chief denies allegations||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has denied the allegations made by the parents of the woman in the CD scandal. He said: “I don’t know anything and it’s not related to me.” He was talking to reporters in Mudgal town of Lingsugur taluk, Raichur district, on Monday. When questioned about the allegations by the parents, he said: “Anybody can say anything unrelated to me as investigation is on. They may have said such things under pressure.” Mr. Shivakumar said if the parents have evidence, they should submit it to the investigating officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-chief-denies-allegations/article34194524.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Recovery path for RTCs looks bleak||The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown hit road transport corporations badly. Even when restrictions eased and the number of cases started to drop towards the end of 2020, RTCs were unable to bounce back. In the last one year, the four corporations – KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC – suffered a revenue loss of over Rs. 4,000 crore. The second wave of the pandemic poses a further threat to their revenue. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) Managing Director Shivyogi C. Kalasad said, “In December 2020, COVID-19 positive cases started dropping. At the time, we hoped to recover from pandemic-induced losses, but now cases are surging again. Long-distance buses, especially inter-State services, continue to suffer heavy losses. Our buses are returning from Maharashtra and Kerala with hardly any passengers.” He predicted that if the positivity rate continues to rise, there will be a further drop in ridership, resulting in reduced cash flow. “We may face further problems in meeting expenses, such as salaries of staff,” said Mr. Kalasad. To ease the financial burden during the current 2020-21 financial year, which is drawing to a close, KSRTC did not induct new buses and stopped fresh recruitment. But such measures may not be feasible the second time around. “We have to induct new buses and employ new people in the interest of the corporation. Buses that have crossed over 9 lakh km of operations need to be scrapped. We will take a decision on inducting new buses depending on availability of funds,” he added. After the outbreak of the pandemic, KSRTC took a loan of Rs. 225 crore to pay pending arrears towards PF and gratuity. It also sought new revenue streams such as running buses to remote places. “We are operating 90% of schedules of non-air-conditioned buses, but most of the AC buses remain off the road. The corporation may be operating only around 35% of its AC buses,” he said. In an effort to generate more non-fare revenue, the KSRTC, with NEKRTC and NWKRTC, introduced ‘Namma Cargo’ services in February. Corporations estimate that the parcel and cargo service will generate an additional Rs. 70 crore per year. Not able to touch pre-pandemic ridership The situation is no better for the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which is in financial distress. Bengaluru accounts for a majority of cases in the State. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha said, “Public transport is one of the major areas which was impacted due to COVID-19. Before the pandemic, city bus ridership was around 35 lakh per day. Now, after a gap of over one year, we are nearing 21 lakh ridership. Due to the sharp drop in ridership and revenue loss, the corporations relied on the State government for funds to pay salaries of the staff.” She added that BMTC has not made much progress in increasing ridership to pre-lockdown numbers. “One more factor that is adding to the woes of road transport corporations is fuel cost, which has seen a sharp rise in the last one year.” Raising $100 mn loan For the first time, the BMTC is knocking on the doors of multilateral financial agencies to raise a $100 million (approximately Rs. 727 crore) in an effort to strengthen the organisation, induct new buses and digitisation. “For the comprehensive development of the Corporation, the Board and the State government had given approval to raise loans. We had a very advanced stage of discussion with multilateral agencies on availing of funds,” Ms. Shikha added. The BMTC has already raised a Rs. 200 crore loan from a nationalised bank to meet pending expenses. In the coming days, the BMTC will induct 643 diesel buses. Work orders have been issued for the operation of 90 electric buses. “The induction of new buses will help increase ridership and revenue generation,” said Ms. Shikha.  (This is the fifth in a series on how the pandemic has affected the lives of people across sectors a year after the lockdown)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovery-path-for-rtcs-looks-bleak/article34194499.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘New BBMP Act renders ward committees toothless’||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition complaining that the new Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike Act, 2020 has rendered ward committees toothless, in clear violation of the mandate of the Constitution of India. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on the petition filed by C.N. Deepak and Vijayaraghava Marathe, both social activities. The petitioners have contended that Section 8(b)(ii) of the Act is unconstitutional as it allows inclusion of social workers as members of the council of the BBMP. They have also questioned creation of additional committees, the constituency consultative committees and zonal committees, in addition to constitutionally mandated ward committees. ‘Supervisory control’ “These additional committees have been vested with supervisory, administrative and financial control over the ward committees in the new Act. “The vesting of such control with new committee over the ward committees is in violation of Article 243-S of the Constitution,” the petitioners contended while pointing out Article 243-S envisages independent, administrative and financial powers to ward committees, which form part of the third tier of governance. It has been contended in the petition that Section 86(4) of the Act gives the ward committees only advisory powers in violation of the constitutional provisions, and thereby rendering the councillor-headed ward committees as toothless bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-bbmp-act-renders-ward-committees-toothless/article34194497.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress and BJP spar over scandal||The Opposition Congress and ruling BJP kept up their attacks on each other in the alleged “sex for favour” scandal on a day when the alleged victim approached the court to record her statement and the SIT questioned former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The Congress posed a series of questions to the BJP and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Twitter, asking why Mr. Jarkiholi was still not arrested and whether the government was keen on protecting an accused in a sexual abuse case. The Congress also said the alleged victim wanting to record her statement before a judicial magistrate and not before the SIT, clearly raised questions on the credibility of the probe. ‘Distressing, terrifying’ Questioning if the State government was working, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said it was distressing and terrifying that the lady in the alleged CD had, in a letter to the Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court, spoken about threat to her life. “The woman claimed to have attempted suicide and now claims that there is a threat to her life,” he said on Twitter. Mr. Siddaramaiah said: “In a letter to the High Court Chief Justice, the woman expressed distrust about the SIT probe and felt the SIT was destroying evidence by colluding with her opponents. This allegation is very serious and needs immediate attention.” Meanwhile, the BJP attacked KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar demanding his resignation from the post. The woman’s family members had attacked Mr. Shivakumar in Belagavi on Monday and alleged that he was using their daughter for his politics. “Mahanayaka has ended as a Khalanayaka”, the BJP said in a tweet. It also taunted Mr. Siddaramaiah asking him to lead a fact-finding committee as that would not only take the scandal to its logical conclusion, but also end up neutralising his competitor Mr. Shivakumar, to which the Congress hit back saying this only amounted to acceptance of incapability to provide justice to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-and-bjp-spar-over-scandal/article34194522.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. bans protests and rallies for two weeks||Bengaluru Urban has been identified as one of the 46 high burden districts in the country. The test positivity rate that stood at 0.94% in Bengaluru in February had shot up to 1.94% this month. While the city had 15,882 active cases, 6.61 lakh people had been vaccinated so far, he said. Contact tracing To check rapid transmission, the Health Department would rope in personnel from the departments of Revenue and Education to intensify contact-tracing measures. Officials had been asked to trace at least 30 contacts for every positive case and test them within 72 hours, the Chief Minister said. While listing out the preparedness in government hospitals in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts, he said 1,166 beds were available as of now in these hospitals. “Measures will be initiated to increase COVID-19 beds in these hospitals based on the requirement in the coming days. We have also asked private hospitals to be ready to handle the situation, if required. Senior IAS officials have been appointed as nodal officers in each of the eight BBMP zones to coordinate COVID control measures,” he said. Appealing to all eligible people to get vaccinated, the Chief Minister said the government would soon write to the Centre seeking permission to vaccinate all teachers. Besides, vaccination sites would also be set up in apartment complexes and densely populated areas to vaccinate the eligible, the Chief Minister added. TAC’s recommendations In its list of recommendations submitted to the Chief Minister on Monday, the TAC clearly said that seating should be restricted to 50% (alternate seating) in cinemas for the next four weeks. Listing this as one of the main public health measures to be strictly enforced to arrest the spread in the next four weeks, the TAC also mentioned that classes in schools ---- except X and XII standards --- should be suspended. Besides, colleges – all non-examinations batches/semesters classes should be done though online mode, except for health sciences courses. While recommending that public transport should not exceed prescribed seating capacity, the TAC stated that strict enforcement of social distancing should be done in pubs, restaurants, shopping malls, and closed markets. There has been no decision on this. The other recommendations included timely shifting of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients to COVID care centres, proper triaging and monitoring of patients under home isolation, restarting the centralised e-distribution of hospital beds, adequate supply of drugs to all hospitals, planned duty roster of healthcare workers to ensure their adequacy round the clock and efficient ambulance services. “Notified restrictions under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act --- like compulsory mask wearing, compliance to permitted numbers in various events like marriages, other ceremonies and functions; preventing public assemblies/celebrations in the coming days like for Ugadi, Good Friday, Ambedkar Jayanti, Ramanavami, Mahaveer Jayanti and others --- should be enforced on priority,” added the TAC’s letter of recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-bans-protests-rallies/article34194517.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tourist attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourist-attraction/article34194506.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-tradition/article34194877.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||One for the summer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-for-the-summer/article34194909.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Riot of colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/riot-of-colours/article34194534.ece
30 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Intense battle on the cards in Alappuzha constituency||With only one week left for the Assembly polls, electioneering has reached a fever pitch in the Alappuzha constituency where an intense battle is on the cards. On Monday, Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate P.P. Chitharanjan of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI (M)] campaigned in Aryad and Mararikulam South. He says that the people are happy and exudes confidence about his victory. Mr. Chitharanjan is seeking votes to continue the development initiatives. United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate K.S. Manoj, who is fighting the polls on the Congress ticket, met voters in Chathanad, Kattoor, Mararikulam and so on. He is pinning hopes on allegations, especially the deep-sea fishing deal, against the LDF government to wrest the seat. National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate Sandeep Vachaspati of the Bharatiya Janata Party is also engaged in a spirited campaign. Favoured both fronts The constituency has a history of supporting both the LDF and the UDF. The Congress held the seat from 1996 to 2011. However, following a delimitation process, it tilted towards the Left with present Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac emerging victorious in 2011 and 2016 polls with comfortable margins. In the previous election, Dr. Isaac defeated his nearest rival Laly Vincent of the Congress by 31,032 votes. With Dr. Isaac not in the fray, and various other factors influencing the polls, no one is expecting a cakewalk in the constituency this time. It is home to a large number of fisherfolk. The stand of Latin Christians, Ezhavas and other prominent communities will play a role in deciding the results. Campaign topic The Alappuzha Diocese recently aired concerns over the deep-sea fishing deal signed between the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation and a U.S.- based firm. Although the State government last month invalidated the deal, it remains a hot campaign topic for the UDF and the NDA here. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the UDF candidate had taken a slender lead of 69 votes in the Assembly segment. The LDF, however, romped to victory in all grama panchayts — Aryad, Mannanchery, Mararikulam South and Mararikulam North — along with the Alappuzha municipality (wards 1 to 19 and 45 to 50 fall in the Alappuzha Assembly constituency, while the rest of the wards form part of the Amabalappuzha constituency) in the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/intense-battle-on-the-cards-in-alappuzha-constituency/article34194836.ece
30 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Security up at booths hit by Left extremism||The police have beefed up security measures in booths affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE) in Wayanad district in view of the forthcoming Assembly polls. 948 sensitive booths District Police Chief Aravind Sukumar told The Hindu on Monday that 175 booths of the total 948 booths in the district had been identified as sensitive ones. Of these, 124 booths had been identified those affected by LWE and three-level security measures would be set up those places, Mr. Sukumar said. Route marches had been conducted in major towns and special patrolling would be carried out in LWE-affected areas. Web casting facilities would be set up in all sensitive booths and CCTV cameras would be installed in those booths where web casting facility was not possible owing to network issues, he said. Apart from the State police personnel available for election security, 13 companies, with each company comprising 90 armed personnel, of Central forces had reached the district and they would be deployed in strategic points, he said. Police checking would be intensified in the three inter-district and eight inter-State border points. While organising poll propaganda, political parties should adhere to the COVID-19 protocol, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-stepped-up-at-booths-affected-by-left-extremism/article34194764.ece
30 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Suresh Gopi’s remarks reveal ‘CoLeBi’ pact: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress, and the Indian Union Muslim League have struck a deal among them and a statement of BJP candidate in Thrissur Suresh Gopi has made it clear. Mr. Gopi had said that Indian Union Muslim League candidate K.N.A. Khader should win in Guruvayur and Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate A.N. Shamseer should be defeated in Thalassery. It revealed a deal among the three parties, said Mr. Vijayan addressing a press conference here on Monday. However, the Muslim League and Congress or the United Democratic Front (UDF) should not consider that the BJP’s open call for a win for the IUML candidates would benefit them, the Chief Minister added. Earlier too Stating that BJP leader O. Rajagopal had earlier revealed that there were such pacts locally and the BJP had benefited from them, Mr. Vijayan said that when a deal was struck, the BJP ensured that it benefited from it. Nemom was a proof of that, he said. The Muslim League and the Congress had accepted the agreement that the BJP would help them win in the constituencies where they had a good vote share. This revealed that the agreement in the Guruvayur, Thalassery and Devikulam constituencies, where the nominations of BJP-led National Democratic Alliance’s candidates were rejected, would be repeated in other constituencies as well. He said the deal had become clear much earlier when the Assembly had passed a resolution ensuring that Kerala would not implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Then the Congress did not accept the government’s stand to unitedly raise an agitation against the amendment to the citizenship Act. The UDF remained silent even when the Central government took wrong stands towards Kerala. While the Centre was trying to destabilise the country using Central agencies, the Congress and the UDF were encouraging it. “The motive behind their mutual understanding is to subvert the achievements of Kerala. The Muslim League and the Congress are getting ready to go to extremes to get a few votes,” he said. This was the broadest form of the old CoLeBi (short form for Congress-League-BJP ) alliance, he said. On Mani’s statement To a question on Jose K. Mani’s statement on ‘love jihad,’ the Chief Minister said he did not hear about it and the media should ask Mr. Mani about this. Mr. Vijayan turned furious when the Sabarimala issue was raised and said the media were working hard to create unnecessary controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suresh-gopis-remarks-reveal-colebi-pact-cm/article34194787.ece
30 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||BJP to back ex-leader of CPI(M) in Thalassery||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to back Indian Gandhian Party candidate C.O.T. Nazeer in Thalassery after the nomination of its candidate and district president N. Haridas was rejected in scrutiny. Mr. Nazeer said that while he would accept support, he would not campaign with BJP members or share podium with them. Mr. Nazeer was a CPI(M) leader and a member of the Thalassery municipality. However, he distanced himself from the party and contested against the CPI(M)’s P. Jayarajan in the Vadakara Lok Sabha constituency as an Independent candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-to-back-ex-leader-of-cpim-in-thalassery/article34194789.ece
30 March 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Surendran alleges CPI(M)-League deal||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) have reached an agreement to help each other in the Manjeswaram and Uduma Assembly constituencies, BJP State president K. Surendran has said. At a meet-the-press organised at the Kasaragod Press Club on Monday, Mr. Surendran said the pact was evident in the choice of the Left Democratic Front candidate in Manjeswaram. The BJP leader said the CPI(M) should reveal its stance on ‘love jihad’ since Jose K. Mani, chairperson of the Kerala Congress (M), CPI(M)’s alliance partner, had said the apprehensions on the matter should be addressed. The BJP had been saying this based on facts, he observed. Sabarimala row When Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran tried to apologise over the Sabarimala issue, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan opposed him. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani too spoke out against the Devaswom Minister. “These incidents confirm that the LDF government is not ready to change its stance on Sabarimala,” he said. Mr. Surendran said the government was sending across a clear message than women would be allowed to enter the temple again. “Sabarimala will once again witness agitations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surendran-alleges-cpim-league-deal/article34194788.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Candidates brave summer heat to woo voters||The slow-moving open Jeep comes to a halt at the IRE gates in Eloor. There is a flurry of activity, as those gathered to receive P. Rajeev, the LDF candidate in Kalamassery, unpack the little shawls they have readied to welcome him. Someone offers him a pineapple, while a big bunch of plantain is being passed around as refreshment for those accompanying him. Though this is only his second stop, the oppressive heat is in the air, and a watermelon offered by a supporter symbolises the heated contest in a constituency that has been won convincingly on both occasions by the UDF during the 10 years of its existence. Mr. Rajeev, in the meanwhile, is moving around greeting party supporters, who have come out to hear him. “Consider me as a member of your family,” he said referring to his long association with the largest industrial area in Kerala, where he had begun his career as an apprentice. V.E. Abdul Gafoor of the UDF began the day around 8 a.m. at Kangarappady, and when he reaches Kolottimoola, near Thevakkal, just before 9 a.m., the convoy has grown into a big one with several cars and motorbikes following him. His open vehicle makes a slow progress through the narrow, climbing road, and senior UDF leaders on board the vehicle with Mr. Gafoor wave in unison to those waiting in front of their homes. Mr. Gafoor is the son of sitting MLA V.K. Ebrahimkunju, and he exuded confidence about his success. The mike announcement reminds voters of the “failure” and “false promises” by the LDF government. He highlights corruption and inefficiency of the LDF rule. P.S. Jayaraj of the BDJS, which is part of the NDA, begins his day relatively early. By 7 a.m. he is already on his scooter visiting voters closest to his home at Koduvazhanga in Alangad panchayat. “I am contesting an election for the first time,” he said sounding confident that the people had responded positively to his candidature because he was highlighting key issues. The morning round of visits to neighbours is followed by a hectic trip of the constituency that begins around 8 a.m. and ends by 9 p.m. He said his focus was on issues like the need for cleaning up the Periyar, which is the lifeline for all panchayats and urban bodies in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidates-brave-heat-to-woo-voters/article34194776.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC nod for rice distribution||The Kerala High Court on Monday stayed the order of the Election Commission to defer distribution of subsidised rice to non-priority ration cardholders in the State. Justice P.V. Asha issued the stay order on a petition filed by the State government challenging the order of the commission. The court made it clear that that the distribution of rice should be made strictly in accordance with the model code of conduct which required the government to avoid all ostentatious functions and not to create an impression that such welfare measures were being undertaken to influence the electors in favour of the party in power. The State government submitted that the code of conduct did not apply to ongoing programmes. The decision regarding the special distribution of rice was taken on February 4, much before the issue of the election notification. The decision to give additional rice of 10 kg at Rs. 15 a kg to 50 lakh families who hold blue and white ration cards was based on the budgetary allocation. It was ordered to be provided in March and April in view of the forthcoming Vishnu-Easter-Ramzan festive season. The government pointed out that it had successfully obtained an auction acceptance offer for rice worth Rs. 84 crore from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). If the auctioned lot was not lifted by that date, the rice would be reappropriated by the FCI and the State would have to participate in fresh auction, which might entail an additional burden on the government. The EC's directive to defer the distribution till the election was over would adversely affect at least 50 lakh families, thereby impinging on the fundamental right guaranteed to them under Article 21 of the Constitution. Need of the hour In fact, a social welfare measure such as distribution of rice was the need of the hour in this pandemic situation in view of the fast approaching Vishu, Easter and Ramzan festival seasons. Election Commission’s counsel submitted that the order directing to defer the distribution of rice was based on a decision of a screening committee consisting of the Chief Secretary and other Secretaries constituted to streamline the grant of permissions in view of the code of conduct. The purpose of such a committee was to expedite the grant of permission in the light of the code of conduct. The proposal of the government placed before the committee did not disclose that the distribution was being undertaken as part of its earlier decision taken prior to the announcement of the polls.  Govt. must adhere to model code, avoid all ostentatious functions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-nod-for-rice-distribution/article34194785.ece
30 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Go green’ is the mantra this election season||Nearly 100 polling booths in Ernakulam will showcase the best of environmental practices this election. Of the 3,800 booths in the district, around 100 will be ‘green booths’ that will implement the green protocol prescribed by the State Election Commission. The local body elections held in December last year had demonstrated the good practices in environment protection and waste management. “The booths will be decorated with eco-friendly materials like tender leaves of coconut tree. Green will be the overall theme of the booths,” said officials of the Haritha Keralam Mission (HKM) and Suchitwa Mission. Entrances to polling booths will have welcome messages displayed in coconut palm fronds. Flower stalks of coconut tree and plants will be set up at various points of the green booths. The Election Commission had recommended green booths to create environmental awareness among voters and polling officials. The idea is to avoid all materials and products that are non-recyclable and harmful to the environment. HKM district coordinator Sujith Karun said green booths would display messages urging voters to support environment-friendly practices. Accordingly, water will be kept in earthen pots. Use of plastic bottles and carry bags will not be permitted. Officials have requested voters and polling agents not to bring plastic carry bags or other non-recyclable materials to the booths. HKM and Suchitwa Mission have already set up model booths displaying green practices in the district. They will sensitise voters to the need to observe the pandemic protocol on polling day. The need to ensure physical distancing and the importance of ‘breaking the chain’ will be highlighted as messages in the model booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/go-green-is-the-mantra-this-election-season/article34194778.ece
30 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Persistence helps police bust inter-State ganja racket||When the Ernakulam Rural police seized nearly 150 kg of ganja and arrested three in two separate operations at Angamaly and the nearby Kalloorkad in November last, it appeared as a one-off haul notwithstanding the volume involved. But to the credit of the police, they did not stop the probe with the seizure, but did a meticulous follow-up investigation for which District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik formed a special investigation team (SIT). Four months down the line that persistence stands vindicated, as a ganja smuggling racket based at Paderu, a tribal village in Andhra Pradesh, remains busted and 10 persons arrested so far with more arrests likely. Agents from Kerala “The racket has a network of Malayali agents at Paderu and nearby areas to link up with wholesale dealers from Kerala who were met at chosen points along highways. Different quality samples priced between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 5,000 were shown during these highway meetings, deals were finalised, and then the agents left with vehicles of their clients before returning them with the consignments in meticulous packages of 2-2.50kg,” said sources associated with the probe. Anywhere between 100 kg and 150kg were smuggled in a single trip, and multiple trips were undertaken in a single month for which an expert driver was also engaged. He is among those who were arrested. The consignments were smuggled in through surreptitious routes avoiding check posts and transported mainly to Idukki. From Idukki, it was distributed across the State in smaller lots at many folds their purchase price. “The racket is suspected to have been active for a few years now, and going by the statements of the arrested, thousands of kilograms of ganja have been smuggled to various States. Even the 40 kg of the narcotic seized from a rented house at Kalloorkkad was said to be the balance from an original consignment in excess of 100 kg,” sources said.  The racket is suspected to have been active for a few years now, and thousands of kilograms of ganja have been smuggled to various States, including Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/persistence-helps-police-bust-inter-state-ganja-racket/article34194780.ece
30 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||French aid for sustainable development initiatives in Kochi||More technical and financial help will be provided for sustainable development and cultural projects that the Kochi Corporation is implementing, according to Lisie Talbot Barre, the Consul Generale of France, who met Mayor M. Anilkumar on Monday. Sustainable urban transport projects will be a focus area, she said. The Consul Generale has promised help in implementing an environment-friendly mobility project for the city, in collaboration with the corporation, besides offering technical assistance to deal with plastic waste. The Mayor and the Consul Generale also discussed possibilities of collaboration in the cultural sphere, where a specific plan will be chalked out. The Alliance Francaise in Thiruvananthapuram will collaborate with Arts Space Kochi, the project launched by the corporation to promote art in public spaces in the city. Cultural projects and events that the Alliance Francaise organises will be extended to Kochi. Art and film-related events are being considered. A plan is also in the offing to promote exchange programmes between students in schools and colleges in Kochi and in France, through a partnership between educational institutions here and in France. The significance of integrating the various modes of transport in Kochi and rationalising bus routes was discussed at the meeting. A study on rationalising bus routes is also under way with support from AFD. Mr. Anilkumar suggested that bus stops be re-designed in collaboration with French agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/french-aid-for-sustainable-development-initiatives-in-kochi/article34194783.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cochin Cancer Centre Director to bow out||Dr. Moni Kuriakose’s tenure as the Director of the Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) is coming to an end, and he will not be renewing his contract, he said. A new director is likely to be appointed once the election is over. Dr. Kuriakose was appointed Director in 2018 for a three-year period. “The clinical and administrative staff is there. There will be no change in patient care and the CCRC will continue functioning as efficiently as before,” he said. “We got the District Cancer Control Programme working very well and that was made a State-wide programme,” he added. Meanwhile, the operation theatre for cancer patients is yet to resume functioning at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. The CCRC had been working from the General Hospital after the MCH was declared a COVID care centre last year, and operations were done at the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital. With the number of COVID patients at the MCH dipping, the CCRC moved back to the MCH earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cochin-cancer-centre-director-to-bow-out/article34194771.ece
30 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Green warriors to be incentivised||Around 1,000 Haritha Karma Sena (HKS) members will ensure proper handling of biomedical and other waste at polling booths in Ernakulam. As an incentive for the green job, each HKS member will get a remuneration of Rs. 750. They will be deployed at the booths as part of the COVID-19 protocol. “HKS members will be on the watch for littering. They will ensure that waste is deposited in bins at the booths,” said Sujith Karun, District Co-ordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission. Though the district has 3,800 booths, officials of the Department of Local Self-Governments estimate that the services of around 1,000 HKS members will be adequate, as each polling station is likely to have multiple booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-warriors-to-be-incentivised/article34194779.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||FIR against ED legally tenable, govt. tells HC||The registration of an FIR against some unnamed officials of the Enforcement Directorate, Kochi, for forcing Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, to give false statements against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was legally tenable, according to an affidavit filed by the State government in the Kerala High Court. In the affidavit, the government submitted that the FIR was registered after completing a preliminary inquiry. The investigators recorded the statements of the witnesses, including two women civil police officers who were on escort duty for Swapna Suresh. In fact, there was a prima facie cognizable offence, and therefore, the police were duty-bound to register an FIR and investigate the offence. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by P. Radhakrishnan, Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, Kochi, seeking to either quash the case or order a CBI probe in the case. Audio clip That Swapna had not made any complaint before the sessions court could not be taken as a ground for quashing the FIR, the government said. The question of whether there was coercion from the Central agencies could be revealed only during an investigation. Besides, the Enforcement Directorate did not have a case that the audio clip alleged to be that of Swapna leaked on social media was not actually hers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fir-against-ed-legally-tenable-govt-tells-hc/article34194801.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Khurshid flays govt. move||Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Monday termed the Kerala government’s decision to order a judicial inquiry against Central investigating agencies as unfortunate. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Khurshid said the government’s efforts to protect the corrupt by covering up acts of corruption would boomerang on it. The money collected as flood relief is yet to reach people. Unemployment is a matter of concern in the State. The crime rate in Kerala is the highest in the country, he said. Mr. Khurshid said only the UDF could solve the issues plaguing Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-has-solution-to-keralas-problems-says-khurshid/article34194802.ece
30 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Model code no reason to stall works, says High Court||The Kerala High Court has ordered that the authorities cannot cite the model code of conduct to delay or stall works, including the restoration of Mullassery canal and 12 link canals and improvement of Punchathodu and Karithodu kayals, as ordered by the court. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the directive in view of apprehensions expressed by the Kochi Corporation and the Operation Breakthrough team that various works being undertaken would be delayed as the model code is in force. Tendering The counsel for the corporation submitted that the tendering process for various works had not been completed on account of the model code. The court said it was disturbed by such a stand because works had to be completed before the middle of May, since the monsoon was expected to reach the shores of the State by then or a few days later. The court observed that it failed to understand how any authority could say that the model code could intervene with the orders of the court when not even the Election Commission had not stipulated so. The court also directed the corporation to file biweekly reports with respect to pre-monsoon works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/model-code-no-reason-to-stall-projects/article34194777.ece
30 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||508 recoveries, 184 new cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 184 new COVID-19 cases and 508 recoveries on Monday. In Thrikkakara, 22 people tested positive on the day. Ernakulam South and Maradu recorded seven cases each. One health worker was infected. The district’s active caseload is at 2,194 and 5,194 samples were collected for testing. While 1,626 people are recovering at home, 19 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital and 21 patients are at PVS Hospital. A single patient is recovering at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital. At FLTCs, 20 people are being monitored, and 91 patients are admitted at SLTCs. Four people are recuperating at the District Hospital, Aluva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/508-recoveries-184-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article34194782.ece
30 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||3 more arrested in vehicle theft case||The Elamakkara police have arrested three more accused in a case registered in connection with an incident in which an SUV was taken on rent from a vehicle rental firm and then pledged to unsuspecting victims for big sums by fraudulently claiming its ownership. The arrested persons were identified as Ajmal, 24, Sherin, 31, and Aromal, all from Thrissur and second, fourth and seventh accused respectively. They were nabbed from two different locations — from near the Cheranalloor signal junction and a hotel near the Thrissur railway station. The gang had taken the vehicle on rent from a firm at Elamakkara on March 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-held-in-vehicle-theft-case/article34194781.ece
30 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘Love jihad’ row puts LDF on the defensive||From faith to smuggling and development to scams, political discourses ahead of the Assembly elections in Kerala have traversed a variety of topics. Their focus shifted once again when Kerala Congress (M) chairman Jose K. Mani, a key ally of the Left Democratic Front, inadvertently raised the bogey of ‘love jihad.’ At a television show the other day, Mr. Mani had stated that society indeed had some apprehensions about the practice. “As the issue has emerged again, the apprehensions about it should be cleared,” he had told a news channel. The statement instantly kicked up a political row with the Bharatiya Janata Party, which has promised an Uttar Pradesh model law against ‘love jihad’ in Kerala, swiftly pitching in and the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council extending its support to Mr. Mani. Mani’s response Put on the defensive, the LDF sought to tread a cautious path fearing that a further flare-up of the issue would alienate Muslim voters. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sought to sidestep queries on the topic even as CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran termed the remark a personal opinion of the KC(M) leader. Sensing trouble, Mr. Mani too came up with a statement that his position on the issue was consistent with that of the LDF. “The key agenda in the election is the development projects implemented by the LDF government. The current controversy is part of an attempt to divert attention from these initiatives. Hence, such controversies hold no significance at present,” clarified Mr. Mani. A crucial vote bank But that Mr. Mani did not reject the theory of ‘love jihad,’ a stance in direct contravention of the position of the LDF, particularly the CPI(M), was indeed a ploy aimed at the dominant Catholic votes, according to observers. “As the concept has gained deep traction among the Catholic community in Central Travancore, the traditional vote bank of the KC(M), an outright rejection of its existence would have been suicidal for Mr. Mani,” a veteran Kerala Congress leader said. Besides ‘love jihad,’ the Catholic electorate has been also upset about the Indian Union Muslim League strengthening its grip on the Congress within the United Democratic Front. This must be an area where the KC(M), as a Left ally, has found an opportunity, he added.  It is Jose K. Mani’s personal opinion Kanam Rajendran CPI secretary   Pinarayi sidesteps questions on Jose K. Mani’s remarks Kanam says it is Mani’s personal opinion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/love-jihad-row-puts-ldf-on-the-defensive/article34194790.ece
30 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Video surveillance measures intensified||The City and Rural Police are gearing up with micro-level video surveillance measures to ensure a fair election and monitor the movement of persons with criminal history in politically sensitive areas. More professional camera persons will be hired on contract to meet the requirement and store the footage as digital evidence for future reference. The camera surveillance teams will keep an eye on all suspicious movements around their assigned areas of operation. Station House Officers have been given the responsibility of coordinating with the local surveillance teams. Their deployment will be made on the basis of the total number of sensitive and hypersensitive booths within the limits of various police stations. Following the strict directive of the election authorities, all enforcement activities of election special squads are being recorded on camera for future reference. The static surveillance teams and anti-defacement squads are using separate camera units to capture daily activities. It will be later sent to the State Election Commission. At present, there are 98 sensitive booths and 22 critical booths within Kozhikode City limits. The majority of critical booths are located under Elathur, Nadakkavu, Chevayur and Kasaba police station limits. Within the Elathoor station limits, there are 11 sensitive booths and six critical booths. Webcasting will be done from all these locations with the support of IT Mission officials. According to senior police officials, booth-level vulnerability assessment has been completed in all Assembly constituencies in the district. Based on the field-level report, the deployment of Central and paramilitary forces will be done within a few days. Maoist presence Constituencies where the police suspect the presence of Maoists will get high security cover. Some of the shortlisted locations include the polling stations at St. George High School, Vilangad, Abhayagiri Government Welfare School and Indira Nagar village office. The presence of Thunderbolt Commandos will be ensured along forest areas where the police had earlier confirmed the presence of Maoists. The special squad members are likely to be posted in the interior areas of Thottilpalam, Koorachundu, Valayam and Peruvannamoozhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/video-surveillance-measures-intensified/article34194756.ece
30 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Candidates choosing small meets to make big impact||As the State gears up for the electoral battle, door-to-door campaigns and exclusive family meets led by seasoned politicians are in full swing in various constituencies to support the candidates’ attempts to bond with the electorate. Constituencies where the victory margin was thin last time are now witnessing a series of such events, ensuring the direct participation of candidates. Senior leaders are seen in the role of coordinators hosting such local events, maintaining COVID-19 protocol and complying with instructions related to reverse quarantine measures. According to local campaign leaders of various parties, the high participation of people in such meetings is a sign of better voter turnout in the 2021 elections. “In smaller gatherings, voters get a good chance to interact with candidates and spend some quality time with them. They do not have to travel a long distance as candidates come to their neighbourhood,” says a senior United Democratic Front (UDF) leader from Kottur panchayat. He says the voters are fond of getting exclusive photo sessions with candidates and sharing them on social media. Participation of women The improved participation of children and women is also a highlight of the well-organised family gatherings with minimal formalities and expenses. Some candidates attend more than six such local meetings daily besides taking part in roadshows, party meetings and media interactions. “My routine has changed a lot after taking up the role of a candidate in Balussery constituency. Those who treated like me just as an actor in the initial days have started accepting me in the new role of a politician,” says UDF candidate Dharmajan. “These days I hit the bed only by around 1 a.m. as such campaigns take a lot of time,” he adds. In Thiruvambady, Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Linto Joseph is excited about travelling to remotely located hillside villages in his constituency to directly meet voters and hear their demands. His rival, C.P. Cheriya Mohammed of the UDF, is also keen on giving a personal touch to his campaign with his image as a retired teacher. Many of his students are active participants of his campaigns in villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidates-choosing-small-meets-to-make-big-impact/article34194762.ece
30 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cinemas refuse to screen Biriyani||Biriyani , the Malayalam movie that won the jury’s special mention at the 67th National Film Awards, is being shunned by a section of cinema theatre employees in the State who have been dissuading moviegoers from watching the film. Director Sajin Babu told reporters here on Monday that an organised effort to ensure that the movie did not reach the desired audience was evident from the way some cinemas refused to screen it even when 20 to 25 people were present to watch it. International awards  Biriyani , which deals with the problems faced by two Muslim women in Thiruvananthapuram and how they break out of the religious barriers, has brought laurels to the State in the form of several awards in international film festivals. The NETPAC award for the best film in the 20th Asiatica Film Festival in Rome, jury price for best film in the Bangalore International Film Festival, and best film at the Caleidoscope Indian Film Festival, Boston, are a few. Kani Kusruti who plays the lead character Khadeeja won the best actress award at the Moscow Film Festival and the Caleidoscope festival and second best actress award at the Imagine Film Festival in Madrid, Spain, besides the Kerala State Film Award for the best actress in 2019. Sajin Babu said the movie, rated ‘adults only’ by the Censor Board due to its sexual content, was accepted even by conservative people who watched it completely and understood the context. However, the theatre employees might have watched only a part of it and could have judged the movie based on that, he said, refusing to name any one for the conspiracy against the movie. “Such open statements are commonplace in European cinema and in some other parts of the world. We enjoy such movies, but when the same openness is portrayed in a Malayalam movie, it becomes a problem,” Sajin Babu said. With the refusal from some theatres to screen it, the movie will soon be released on one of the OTT (over-the-top) platforms. “I wanted my movie to be watched by the common man, not just the festival goers. Hence we released it in theatres. Now I have no other option than release it on OTT,” Sajin Babu, who has also directed movies such as Asthamayam Vare and Ayal Sasi , said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cinemas-refuse-to-screen-biriyani/article34194800.ece
30 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Development of infrastructure key poll issue here||The three major candidates contesting from Balussery Assembly constituency share the same opinion regarding the need to develop Balussery into a tourism destination. With well-known tourist spots such as Vayalada and Kakkayam in the constituency, the development of infrastructure is key and the new MLA has a lot to do on those lines. In the fray in this traditional socialist stronghold are two of the youngest candidates in the State — Sachin Dev, State secretary of the Students’ Federation of India, and Libin Bhaskar of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). However, the entry of actor Dharmajan Bolgatty as the Congress candidate has put the rural constituency in the limelight. Balussery has been a fortress of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the last 35 years and Mr. Dev is confident that the good name earned by his predecessors will come to his aid. “This constituency lacks nothing. All I have to do is continue the efforts made by my predecessor Purushan Kadalundy,” he said. Mr. Dev said the personal image of a candidate did not have any influence in the constituency and that his age did not matter as well. “Policies and ideologies are what matter here,” he said, adding that the voters did not raise any complaints during his campaign. Mr. Dharmajan, meanwhile, has shed his image of a comedian to take up the responsibility of wresting the constituency from the LDF. Hailing from Ernakulam, he is leaving no stone unturned to establish his dedication to the constituency. “This constituency is still 45 years behind the rest of the State. It needs comprehensive development,” he said, adding that drinking water and roads were his priority. “Many places is Balussery are apt for cinema shooting. The locations will be developed and the local people will benefit from it,” he said. Mr. Bhaskar is banking on his familiarity with the constituency. “I am a familiar face here. Hence, I have a lot of contacts at a personal level, and that will come to my aid,” he said. The lack of infrastructural development in Balussery is being highlighted by the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates to woo voters. “There are no industries here, and no opportunities of employment for the youth,” said Mr. Bhaskar, adding that none of the 146 Scheduled Caste colonies in the constituency had been adequately developed in the last 35 years, despite the constituency being an SC reservation constituency for the last 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-of-infrastructure-key-poll-issue-here/article34194760.ece
30 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||SDPI, WPI will vote to keep BJP at bay||Minor Muslim parties such as the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Welfare Party of India (WPI) will support either the Left Democratic Front (LDF) or the United Democratic Front (UDF) to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in their strongholds in the coming Assembly polls. The SDPI, the political wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), has fielded 43 candidates, including six each in the districts of Kozhikode and Malappuram and five in Kannur. Independent survey “The party has decided to transfer its votes to the most winnable candidates in constituencies where the BJP appears to have an upper hand. This will ensure that the BJP will not get elected,” said Mustafa Kommeri, State secretary, SDPI, who is contesting from Koduvally. Mr. Kommeri said the BJP leadership had given an impression that the party had a chance to win 15 seats. “But our party will conduct an independent survey to gauge the mood of the electorate and then decide,” he said. The SDPI reaped rich electoral dividends by winning in 95 seats in the three-tier local body polls held in December 2020. The WPI, the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, which had an electoral alliance with the UDF in some regions in the local body polls is going alone in the Assembly election. “The party has fielded 19 candidates, including four in Malappuram and three in Kozhikode. We have decided to maintain an equidistant policy now,” Hameed Vaniyambalam, State president, WPI, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sdpi-wpi-will-vote-to-keep-bjp-at-bay/article34194784.ece
30 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||184 test positive in Kozhikode||A fall in the number of lab tests led to a decline in fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Monday, when only 184 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Only 3,605 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 5.1%. Kozhikode has the second highest number of fresh cases in the State. According to the District Medical Officer, 74 locally acquired infections were reported from the Kozhikode Corporation and nine from Vadakara. Only 41 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 3,206.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/184-test-positive-in-kozhikode/article34194761.ece
30 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||SPC reaching out to Attappady with poll literacy||The Student Police Cadets (SPC) of Government Higher Secondary School at Agali, Attappady, have launched a campaign to reach out to the remote tribal hamlets with a message of electoral literacy. The campaign being done jointly with the school’s Electoral Literacy Club will continue until the polling day on April 6. The SPC cadets of Attappady had won wider attention by involving in electoral literacy during the Lok Sabha and civic body elections. The SPC cadets have offered their support for the physically challenged and aged voters if they want to come to the polling booths. Although the officers have counted them as absentee voters and will go to their houses to get them poll their votes, there are some who insist on going to the booths. Experience “It is my birth right. I want to experience it by voting in a polling booth,” said 28-year-old Ibrahim, who was congenitally paralysed below his waist. The SPC team that visited Mr. Ibrahim at Thavalam in Agali has offered him their help. “We assured him that we will pick him from his home early, take him to the polling booth at Government LP School at Kavundikkal about four kilometers away, and make him poll his vote and help him return home,” said Dilna C., an SPC cadet. Mr. Ibrahim is selling lottery by the roadside. He sits in the sand, and finds it tough to make both ends meet. His tricycle is also not in working condition. Dilna and team said that there were several others like Mr. Ibrahim who wanted to experience voting in a polling booth. They have promised to help them reach polling booths and cast their votes. The team Apart from Dilna, SPC members Chripsina Mathew and Carmal Wilson were in the team. They were supported by parent-teacher association vice president Shiji C. Manjooran, Community Police Officers Joseph Antony, and Sreeja K., Electoral Literacy Club nodal officer T. Satyan, school principal D. Hemalata, vocational higher secondary school principal K. Santhi, and headmistress K. Vasanthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reaching-out-to-attappady-hamlets-with-poll-literacy/article34194843.ece
30 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Modi to address BJP rally today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) election rally at Fort Maidan here on Tuesday. It will be Mr. Modi’s first campaign rally in the State in this Assembly election. Although the Prime Minister will be campaigning for the BJP’s Palakkad candidate E. Sreedharan, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates from the remaining 11 constituencies in the district will also attend the rally. Elaborate security arrangements have been made for Mr. Modi’s function. He is to reach Indira Gandhi Stadium by chopper at 10.45 p.m., where he will be received by top BJP leaders. His convoy will proceed to Fort Maidan by road through Sultanpet. BJP officials said that the function would begin at 11 a.m. 25,000 seats About 25,000 seats have been arranged at the venue for the public. The BJP district leadership requested the cadres and the public to reach the venue at least by 9 a.m. As many as 10 gates have been set up to enter the venue. When nine of them will be open for the public, the gate in front of the municipal office will be reserved for VIPs. The police conducted a trial run of the Prime Minister’s motorcade through Sultanpet on Monday. There will be traffic restrictions in Palakkad town from 8.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modi-to-address-bjp-rally-today/article34194797.ece
30 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Fronts move across a poll board chequered with consolidation, discontent||Elections for the five Assembly segments in Pathanamthitta this time round have been keener, propelled by an edge of uncertainty. UDF’s downfall Aware that nothing could be taken for granted in a battle of high stakes, the three major coalitions are moving cautiously across a board chequered with consolidation and discontent. And the seriousness of their purpose can be gauged so easily from the campaign blitzkrieg that this fertile land has been witnessing this time. The United Democratic Front (UDF) led by the Congress, which had long held an upper hand in the region, witnessed a sharp erosion in its support base during the Assembly elections of 2016 when the Left Democratic Front (LDF) won all but one seat. Riding high on the Sabarimala protests in 2018, the coalition regained some of its lost ground and retained the Parliament seat three years later. The LDF, however, remained undaunted in its mission to expand and wrested the lone remaining Assembly seat — Konni — in a byelection that followed. Through systematic work at the grass-roots, it further extended its winning streak to the local body polls later in 2020. NDA’s rise The defining trend amidst this intense dual, however, is a distinctive rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which has considerably improved its vote share across Pathanamthitta. While the ruling coalition is taking no chances and has sought its reach larger than ever before, the UDF appears confident of turning its bleak performance last time by wresting at least three seats. The NDA, meanwhile, is convinced that its high-flying campaign for BJP State president K. Surendran in Konni will help him make his way to the Assembly. Of the five seats, the three-cornered fight in Konni, of course, remains the most keenly watched. As in the Parliament elections of 2019, Sabarimala continues to rule the campaign plank of both the UDF and the NDA, as its appeal among Hindu upper castes remains just as emotional. The LDF, however, has sought to counter the narrative by deploying the theme of all-round development . This, however, is not the decisive factor that will get the Left combine the victory it seeks. For that, its trump card is, and remains, the strong organisational framework. Voter apathy The UDF candidates, meanwhile, have put up a much better show this time by focudsing on location-specific issues. Voter apathy, however, has been only one of the problems faced by the coalition. Directing the lethargic and largely loose-structured coalition to a new track is indeed a greater challenge. In the NDA, the defections to the BJP, including that of former Congress leader Pandalam Prathapan, may have added to the national party’s rising appeal. But the impact of some contrary voices of an alleged deal with the CPI(M) involving the Aranmula, Chengannur and Konni seats on its overall performance is yet to be known. Among the factors varying from faith to farming and development to environment, the stance of the dominant Christian community, including that of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, will have a considerable impact on the final outcome in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-move-across-a-poll-board-chequered-with-consolidation-discontent/article34194822.ece
30 March 2021||S.R. PraveenTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Development the key plank for all fronts here||At a small neighbourhood square in Lekshmi Nagar, near the Pangode Military camp, the residents have gathered around a screen set up on a vehicle. Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate V. Sivankutty for the Nemom constituency is about to arrive. On his arrival, followed by a motorbike rally of young party workers, some of the residents shower flower petals on him as he proceeds to visit the houses. “The LDF government’s measures have reached every household and every kitchen. So, development is the key agenda. ...I would have won last time too if the Congress had polled all its votes. Now, O. Rajagopal himself says Kummanam Rajasekharan might not garner as much votes as he did and has pointed at their alliance with the Congress last time. United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate K. Muraleedharan is not a known face here, and has not even resigned from his MP post to contest here,” Mr. Sivankutty tells The Hindu . Closer to the coast, in Muttathara, Mr. Muraleedharan’s vehicle rally is making its way through the bylanes. Following his vehicle is a car with a life-size stuffed tiger doll resting on top, reflecting the image that the Congress is trying to project for the leader who took up the challenge to contest in the only constituency won by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala. Two aims for UDF He gets down, spends time with the children and meets some of the old people, who have the memory of his father K. Karunakaran contesting from here in 1982. “The UDF has two aims — to reclaim the constituency from the communal forces and carry out development. The LDF is forming secret alliances with communal organisations to retain power. The people have to remember that it is the BJP which will get space if the Congress is defeated,” says Mr. Muraleedharan. BJP candidate Kummanam Rajasekharan is on a booth outreach event at Shasthri Nagar beside the Karamana river. He is on the high of the large crowd of saffron party workers who had gathered for his roadshow with BJP president J.P. Nadda the day before. On Sunday, the party workers fanned out across the constituency distributing pamphlets listing out Mr. Rajagopal’s achievements. Rs. 400-cr. projects “Mr. Rajagopal has done the kind of work which no other MLA has done, with Rs. 400 crore worth developmental projects. Mr. Muraleedharan is someone who has consistently left constituencies half way through the term. As for their claims over Mr. Rajagopal’s comments, he is very much with me in this campaign. The BJP will win more seats, besides Nemom,” says Mr. Rajasekharan. Development is the key campaign issue for three fronts in Nemom, with the Sabarimala issue being mentioned only as an afterthought by the candidates, when asked specifically about it. The LDF and UDF are also keenly looking at which way the minority vote would swing, and have been extensively using the BJP’s equating of Nemom to Gujarat as a campaign plank. Though communal fault lines are not visible at the surface here, these certainly are simmering beneath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-the-key-plank-for-all-fronts-here/article34194826.ece
30 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Threat of new wave looms large||Just as a second wave of COVID-19 infection is sweeping across many States, there are indications about a rise in cases in Kerala too, stoking fears that the State might scale yet another peak soon after the Assembly polls. The State’s test positivity rate which had been brought down to less than 3% over the past two months has been climbing again and had touched 4.69% on Sunday. Not surprising, as people across the State are participating actively in poll campaigns, mass rallies and gatherings, paying little heed to physical distancing or mask protocols. “The virus is very much around and though the COVID-19 vaccine has arrived, the current pace or levels of vaccination amongst vulnerable groups are not adequate to outpace the virus. Letting down the guard at this point would take the State back to a situation when we might again have to scramble to ensure hospital beds and oxygen for all,” says Rakhal Gaitonde, Professor, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology.  The Statewide serosurvey conducted had revealed that a chunk of the population remains vulnerable to the virus. What could change the transmission dynamics of the second wave in India is the fact that a significant percentage of the virus samples has been mutant variants of concern. A chunk of the samples from Punjab belonged to the mutant B.1.1.7 lineage, first detected in the U.K. In Kerala, of the 2,032 samples genomically sequenced from 14 districts, the N440K variant that is associated with immune escape had been found in 123 samples from 11 districts. One has no idea about the extent of the spread of this variant in the State yet. Shift in burden Now that the State has begun vaccinating its vulnerable population and is gearing up to vaccinate all above 45 years, the burden of the infection this time around may shift to the younger age group, those in the 18-45 age group, that is not vaccinated. These are working adults and while most of them may not be sick enough to be hospitalised or could have mild symptoms that go unnoticed, they could still spread the infection. “We do not know if our system is sensitive enough to pick up disease in the younger age groups. Disease in the older group is recognised and acted upon fast because we need to prevent deaths. In the younger age group, the disease might not be picked up at all. Already, there are reports from districts that the mobile PCR labs which were set up to boost RT-PCR testing are unable to meet their targets because people are unwilling to be tested,” T. S. Anish, Additional Professor of Community Medicine, Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College, says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/threat-of-new-wave-looms-large/article34194806.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Line-up, campaign themes hog the limelight||Given the line-up in many segments and the way the campaign is shaping up, some of the most intense electoral battles in the Assembly elections are fought in the southernmost part of the district. Nemom and Kazhakuttam remain in the spotlight as the three major fronts are locked in intense contests there. Retaining Nemom, which O. Rajagopal wrested for the party in 2016, is perhaps as important for the BJP as increasing the number of MLAs. The task of retaining the constituency for the party is now on Kummanam Rajasekharan. While the Left Democratic Front is banking on former MLA V. Sivankutty, the United Democratic Front's eleventh-hour decision to field Congress MP K. Muraleedharan has raised the Nemom fight to a high pedestal. The contest for Kazhakuttam, where the LDF triumphed in 2016, is seen as a test of the sharpness of the Sabarimala controversy as a poll weapon when LDF's Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran and BJP State vice president Sobha Surendran face off. The UDF's choice, public health expert S.S. Lal, adds an interesting element to the fight there. 10 out 14 in LDF kitty The LDF holds 10 of the 14 segments in the district, having upped its 2016 tally by one in the October 2019 bypoll when it wrested Vattiyurkavu from the UDF. The other nine LDF seats are Varkala, Attingal, Vamanapuram, Kazhakuttam, Parassala, Kattakada, Neyyattinkara, Chirayinkeezhu and Nedumangad. The UDF tally is down to three, Thiruvananthapuram, Aruvikkara and Kovalam, while the BJP has Nemom. Eleven sitting MLAs, eight of the LDF and three of the UDF, are in the fray this time. Reclaiming Vattiyurkavu is matter of prestige for the UDF, but whether CPI(M)'s V.K. Prasanth, who is seeking a second term, can be dislodged remains to be seen. The BJP is playing for high stakes here, having fielded its district president and city councillor V.V. Rajesh. In Kovalam, the battle between Janata Dal (Secular) veteran A. Neelalohithadasan Nadar and incumbent Congress MLA M. Vincent is eagerly watched. In Varkala, Vamanapuram and Chirayinkeezhu, sitting MLAs V. Joy and D.K. Murali of the CPI(M) and V. Sasi of the CPI respectively are seeking another term. Film actor in the fray In Thiruvananthapuram, Congress MLA and former Minister V.S. Sivakumar is facing old rival LDF's Antony Raju. The BJP is hoping to spring a surprise here with film actor Krishnakumar G. Congress MLA K.S. Sabarinadhan is seeking another term from Aruvikkara where the CPI(M) has fielded G. Stephen. In Kattakada, former BJP State president P.K. Krishnadas is pitted against incumbent CPI(M) MLA I.B. Satheesh. This time, the CPI(M) has fielded O.S. Ambika in Attingal, where she is facing RSP's A. Sreedharan and P. Sudheer of the BJP. It is up to G.R. Anil, the current CPI district secretary, to defend Nedumangad. He is up against J.R. Padmakumar of the BJP and P.S. Prasanth of the Congress. In his fight for another term, Parassala MLA C.K. Hareendran of the CPI(M) is battling Ansajitha Russell R.K. of the Congress and BJP's Karamana Jayan. With just days left for the April 6 polls, the election scene has been shaken by allegations of large-scale discrepancies on the electoral rolls and simmering tensions between CPI(M) and BJP cadres in Kattakada and Kazhakuttam. The UDF has complained to the Election Commission of hundreds of multiple/bogus voters in Nemom, Thiruvananthapuram, Vattiyurkavu and Kazhakuttam. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance too has raised similar complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/line-up-campaign-themes-hog-the-limelight/article34194828.ece
30 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rival fronts fancy their chances in Kattakada||Opposite the CPI(M) local committee office at Plavoor in Kattakada is a restroom for women travellers that incumbent MLA, I.B. Satheesh has opened in a bid to transform Kattakada into a women-friendly constituency. Plavoor is Mr. Satheesh’s home ground. He knows many people by name, and often walks into houses to greet voters and inquire about their health and welfare. Confident The Left Democratic Front candidate, Mr. Satheesh is confident of victory in the constituency. “People will see what difference this government made to their everyday life. Despite so many challenges faced by the State, no one has had to go hungry; pensions have reached the people uninterrupted. ” he says. The man behind the celebrated Jalasamruddhi project, Mr. Satheesh alleges a deliberate bid to confuse the people that the project pertains to piped water supply at election time. Mr. Satheesh says his strategy is to take a long-term perspective on projects.Land acquisition for the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University headquarters has been completed, he insists, adding only the payments need to be made. Squeezing in time between an election committee meeting and meeting key voters, United Democratic Front candidate Malayinkeezhu Venugopal pooh-poohs the LDF’s development claims. It is all propaganda, he alleges. Despite the so-called achievements of Jalasamruddhi, people continue to face acute drinking water scarcity. A plant started during the UDF government tenure in Vilavoorkkal has not been functioning properly, and the Maranalloor drinking water project has remained stalled for the past five years. A gimmick Jalasamruddhi is essentially a public relations gimmick, he claims.Mr. Venugopal alleges Mr. Satheesh has not helped catalyse projects. In the case of KTU headquarters, the price of land has not been decided or money paid to the landowners, but the government has gone ahead with the inauguration. “People will judge me for the work I did here as block panchayat and district panchayat member and how I was able to help them. I’m confident we can win with a good margin,” says Mr. Venugopal. At the Bharatiya Janata Party election office in Kattakada town, P.K. Krishnadas who is set to meet key voters before embarking on his road show says his plea to voters is to cast their votes keeping in the mind the developments in the constituency in the past 10 years. A chance for BJP “It is time to give the BJP a chance, time to vote for change,” he says. Mr. Krishnadas denounces the Jalasamruddhi project, criticises the inauguration of the KTU headquarters when ‘no land has been acquired,’ and despairs of the court complex work. Making a crack at the deplorable state of interior roads in the constituency, he says water can be harvested on them. Rubbishing the outsider argument and the allegation that he resurfaced in the constituency only some six months ago, Mr. Krishnadas is confident his vote share will increase much more this time around and see him coast to victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rival-fronts-fancy-their-chances-in-kattakada/article34194985.ece
30 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fraud alleged in local body polls||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said that large-scale voter identity fraud had powered the Left Democratic Front’s “unanticipated” victory in the 2020 local body polls. Left service organisations had manipulated the voters’ list at an unprecedented level to accord the LDF a decisive edge in the polls. They had sabotaged democracy, he said here on Monday. Multiple identities In the past, fraudsters had used electoral identity cards of deceased persons or those not at home for bogus voting. In the local body polls, the method of operation had changed. Those charged with preparing the electoral roll accorded the voter multiple sets of identities with minimal change in name and address to facilitate bogus voting. The electoral fraud had aided the LDF triumph, he said. Mr. Chennithala said it took him several months of detailed investigation and analysis to unearth the scale of the fraud. ‘Temporary peace’ He said the CPI(M) and the BJP had brokered a temporary peace to try to diminish the Congress in the Assembly polls. The BJP had reined in Central agencies probing the UAE gold smuggling case. The Central law enforcement hid their inability to proceed against the LDF leadership with mere posturing in courts by stating they had incriminating evidence. CPI(M) leaders spoke in different voices on Sabarimala. They were trying to dodge the crucial question of whether the LDF was for or against women of all age groups worshipping at the Ayyappa temple, Mr. Chennithala said. He alleged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had a track record of corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fraud-alleged-in-local-body-polls/article34194793.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arat procession held sans pomp||The 10-day Painkuni festival at the iconic Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple concluded with the Arat to the Shanghumugham beach for the ritualistic immersion of the idols on Monday evening. COVID-19 protocol In adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, the traditional Arat procession’ carrying the idols of Sree Padmanabhaswamy, Thiruvambadi Krishna, and Narasimhamoorthy was taken out from the western gate of the temple on ‘garuda vahanas’ to the beach via the Arat road and the tarmac of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport after a gap of one year. The elephant bearing the ceremonial drums on its back at the head of the procession, followed by mounted police, police band, armed police, flag-bearers was missing this time. Priests and people chanting hymns and prayers were present but in less number to accompany the idols for the arat . Hundreds thronged the streets from West Fort to Vallakadavu as usual to see the procession. However, the students of the Vallakadavu Yathemkhana who line up to see the procession were missing this year. Moolam Tirunal Rama Varma, head of the ruling family of erstwhile Travancore, led the procession wearing the traditional green cap and carrying the ceremonial sword. Other male members of the family accompanied him. Tantri Tharanallur Satheesan Namboodiripad led the priests in conducting the pujas at Shanghumughom beach and this was followed by the holy dip of the idols in the sea. Idols of four temples The idols of the four temples-Sreevarahom, Thivikramangalam, Thripadapuram and Eraviperoor- under Travancore Devaswom Board also joined the Arat. Instead of taking the idols in caparisoned elephants, they were taken by the priests this time adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Flag lowered The festival concluded after the idols were brought back to the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple through the western gate around 9 p.m. After the idols were taken in procession to the temple, the festival flag was lowered and pujas held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arat-procession-held-sans-pomp/article34194980.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Take action against waste dumpers: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered for stringent action to be taken against those who throw waste and pump out septic waste into the Parvathy Puthanar. The order by SHRC Chairperson Antony Dominic was issued to the Executive Engineer of the Inland Navigation Department, asking the department to take appropriate action with the help of the City Corporation. The Commission has also said that fencing should be completed along the canal in areas of higher population density. The land acquisition process, which is now progressing with the co-operation of the Revenue Department, has to be speeded up. The trees along the canal which are in danger should be cut down. The Executive Engineer informed the Commission that the proposed width of the canal is 25 metres with 5 metres of bund road on either side. However, this much area is not available as of now in and around the canal. The Revenue Department is carrying out the land acquisition for this purpose. Chain fencing process is ongoing near the Moonnattumukku area to prevent people from throwing waste into the canal. The branches of some trees near Vallakadavu which were posing danger, have been cut. Some of the trees which were identified to be cut are still remaining, as no one has responded in the auctions. Notices have been issued to those who have encroached into the canal, asking them to produce ownership certificates if they have it. The construction of nets in more areas to prevent throwing of waste can be done only after the work on increasing the canal width, said the report from the Executive Engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/take-action-against-waste-dumpers-shrc/article34194989.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF neck-deep in graft: Sudheeran||Accusing the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of being neck-deep in corruption, former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president V.M. Sudheeran has appealed to the electorate to bring the United Democratic Front (UDF) to power in order to prevent ‘the State from being sold to corporate firms.’ He was addressing a convention for UDF’s Kazhakuttam candidate S.S. Lal at the Pulayanarkotta junction on Monday. According to him, the LDF government pushed large sections of the youth to alcohol and drug addiction through its policies. Such a stance posed a serious challenge for the future of the State. “Home to major health care institutions including the Government Medical College, Regional Cancer Centre and Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, the Kazhakuttam constituency is the ‘health capital’ of the capital city and it is vital that a public health expert like Dr. Lal represents the segment,” Mr. Sudheeran said. Mr. Sudheeran added that Dr. Lal’s involvement was crucial in the State’s efforts to containment the COVID-19 spread and other outbreaks that could affect public life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-neck-deep-in-graft-sudheeran/article34194987.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Follow procedures on postal ballots: CEO||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena has directed District Collectors and returning officers to ensure that the procedures related to postal ballots are executed without any scope for complaint. The instruction was issued on Monday following a complaint lodged by Peravur MLA Sunny Joseph regarding the distribution of postal ballots in the constituency. Mr. Meena directed the District Collector, Kannur, to urgently investigate the complaint and submit a report. The Collectors, who are acting as District Election Officers, and returning officers should also ensure impartiality in the postal ballot process, the CEO said. Postal ballots are distributed to absentee voters by a team consisting of polling officials. The category comprises those above the age of 80, persons with disabilities (PwD), and COVID-19-positive and quarantined electors. Once the votes are cast, the ballots are returned to the officials. The exercise began on Friday. Bogus votes Meanwhile, steps are been taken to prevent bogus votes in the April 6 polls, election officials here said. The High Court had directed the CEO to ensure that voters with multiple entries on the electoral rolls cast their vote only once. As part of identifying multiple entries, booth-level officers (BLOs) have been carrying out physical inspections at the field level. The booth-wise lists of multiple entries will be distributed to the presiding officers to prevent bogus votes on April 6, the official said. Booths where large-scale discrepancies are noticed on the rolls will be equipped with webcasting/CCTV. Last week, the CEO had ordered an investigation in all 140 constituencies and sought reports by Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-procedures-on-postal-ballots-ceo/article34194829.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Priyanka to campaign in capital today||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will undertake a whirlwind tour of the capital district on Tuesday to drum up support for the United Democratic Front (UDF)’s candidates. The star campaigner is scheduled to address a corner meeting in Venjaramoodu at 3.30 p.m. when she will solicit votes for the UDF candidates fielded in Varkala, Attingal, Vamanapuram and Nedumangad constituencies. Later, she will travel to Kattakada by helicopter to address another corner meeting at 4.40 p.m. as part of the UDF campaigns in Aruvikkara, Kattakada and Parassala. Following another journey to Poojappura by helicopter, Ms. Gandhi will address a public gathering at the Poojappura mandapam at 5.40 p.m. Her programmes in Thiruvananthapuram will conclude with a reception at Poonthura at 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priyanka-to-campaign-in-capital-today/article34194988.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Digital’ garden at PSC HQ in poet’s memory||A ‘digital’ garden has now been set up at the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) headquarters here in honour of poet Sugathakumari. QR codes have been attached to all the plants and trees in the garden named ‘Sugatham,’ so that all information on them can be easily accessed by scanning these codes. PSC Chairperson M.K.Sakeer inaugurated the digital garden. A book titled Trees and Garden Plants of Kerala Public Service Commission - India's first PSC with a Digital Garden written by A.Gangaprasad and Akhilesh.S.V.Nair was also released at the function. The book includes the QR codes and other information about the trees in the garden. Mr. Sakeer released the book by handing over a copy to Commission member R.Parvathi Devi. Commission member M.K. Raghunathan inaugurated the renovated heritage building and member T.R. Anilkumar inaugurated the automated library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-garden-at-psc-hq-in-poets-memory/article34194763.ece
30 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,549 more test positive||The State reported 1,549 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 37,377 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 11,19,542. The test positivity rate registered on the day was again over 4%, at 4.14% With 1,897 recoveries being reported, the active case pool registered 24,223 cases. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 10,90,419. Death toll The addition of 11 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities in the State on Monday took the toll to 4,590. Kozhikode reported four deaths, Thiruvananthapuram two, while one death each was reported from Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Ernakulam, Malappuram, and Kannur. The number of critically ill in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State came down to 433 on Monday, according to official reports, with 135 of them requiring ventilator assistance. District-wise break-up Among the districts, Kannur reported the maximum number of new cases at 249, while Ernakulam had 184, Kozhikode 184, Thiruvananthapuram 155, Malappuram 134, Kasaragod 98, Kollam 92, Palakkad 88, Thrissur 88, Kottayam 85, Pathanamthitta 60, Idukki 53, Alappuzha 48. and Wayanad 31 cases. Foreign travellers Two more persons who arrived from South Africa in the past 24 hours have tested positive for the virus. With this, a total of 111 persons who reached the State from abroad since mid-December have tested positive 19 so far. These include 103 persons from the U.K., seven from South Africa and one from Brazil. So far, 11 persons have tested positive for the virus variant B.1.1.7 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1549-more-test-positive/article34194804.ece
30 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) sees plot by staff to discredit govt .||The CPI(M) State secretariat on Monday said it sensed a plot by certain State government employees to discredit the Left Democratic Front government. Officials inimical to the State government had fanned out to harass voters on the eve of the polls. Some had cut power and water supply to households citing delay in payment of bills. The CPI(M) said some police officers also took pleasure in harassing families on roads by delaying their travel and imposing fines. In Palakkad, some officials had tried to postpone paddy procurement to stir resentment among farmers against the administration. The CPI(M) has asked its cadres to step up vigil against such measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-sees-plot-by-staff-to-discredit-govt/article34194791.ece
30 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crime Branch registers another FIR against ED||The Crime Branch has opened a second criminal inquiry against unnamed Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on the charge of coercing an accused in the UAE gold smuggling case to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the crime falsely. The agency has reportedly filed a statement in a magistrate court in Kochi based on a complaint filed by Sandeep Nair, one of the prime suspects in the case. Sandeep had reportedly alleged in his petition that ED officials had tortured him into naming Mr. Vijayan as an accomplice in the crime. The agency had allegedly sought legal opinion before registering the case. The charge Last week, the CB filed an FIR against unnamed ED officials on the charge of intimidating gold smuggling suspect and COFEPOSA accused Swapna Suresh to give a statement incriminating Mr. Vijayan in the crime. The agency had leaned heavily on a statement filed by a policewoman in charge of escorting Swapna to register the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-registers-another-fir-against-ed/article34194803.ece
30 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||155 new COVID cases, 98 recoveries||The district recorded 155 COVID-19 cases and 98 recoveries as the active cases stood at 2,169 on Monday. The death toll remained at 874. The district administration placed 1,123 people under quarantine, while 1,456 others were permitted to conclude self-isolation after completing the mandated period without developing any symptom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/155-new-covid-cases-98-recoveries/article34194986.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Do not allow double voting, HC tells EC||Counsel for the Election Commission Deepu Lal Mohan submitted that efforts were being made to find multiple entries on the voters’ list. At times when a voter shifts residence, there were possibilities of the name being registered twice. Instructions had been issued to the officers to visit the residences of such voters. Efforts were being made to avoid multiple voting. In an affidavit, the EC submitted that immediately after receipt of the complaint, the Chief Electoral Officer had directed the district electoral officers to conduct a probe and report whether there had been a deliberate attempt to register a voter more than once on the roll. Mr. Chennithala pointed out in the petition that a study done by an expert team of his party had found that the final electoral roll contained duplication of names, fake entries, and enrolment of a single voter in many booths in one Assembly constituency and in various constituencies. As many as 3,24,441 duplications of names and 1,09,601 bogus votes were detected on the final roll spread across 131 constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-allow-double-voting-hc-tells-ec/article34194794.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Holi hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holi-hues/article34194766.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making them poll-ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-them-poll-ready/article34194841.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Travels in frames||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/travels-in-frames/article34194946.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Central support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-support/article34194796.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The height of democracy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-height-of-democracy/article34194831.ece
30 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur provides 64.96 mandays under MGNREGS||Anantapur district provided 64.96 person-days (mandays) on an average in the 2020-21 financial year under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), as per the data available on the NREGS website till March 28. While the State government aims at providing 100 mandays for all, the district could on average provide only 64.96 person-days during the 2020-21 financial year for 5,87,530 job-card holders in 4,21,740 households. It had given scope to 7,63,349 individuals from those households during the COVID pandemic to work under the NREGS. The total amount spent under the scheme was Rs. 231.54 crore with a wage component of 68.74% and a material component of 31.26%. Two of the first job card holders in Bandlapalli village, where the scheme was first launched in the district in 2006, continue to benefit from the scheme and are active workers even today. A field visit to Bandlapalli by The Hindu on Monday showed that the entire village was wrapping up all its agricultural activity as early as possible. From April 1 when the new mandays under the NREGS get accrued for the about 777 job-card holders, the availability of manpower for the agricultural activity becomes difficult as the majority prefer NREGS works. Last year data Cheemala Peddakka, the first person to get a job card, had utilised it for 100 days along with others from their family with Rs. 231.23 average per day wage, but the other woman, Akuleti Gangamma(55), could use only 57 person-days as of March 28 with an average wage of Rs. 229.89. In the last fiscal year too, both of them had used 100 days and 47 days respectively. Both received their job-cards from the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2006. While Ms. Peddakka stays along with her two sons and daughter-in-law with 3 job-cards and has a small agricultural land, Ms. Gangamma has no family and is an agricultural labourer engaging herself wherever an opportunity arises. “I am indebted to the NREGS scheme as it significantly enhanced my daily wage amount for any work and today I am in a position to save some money for my old-age,” Ms. Gangamma said while plucking green chillies in a field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-provides-6496-mandays-under-mgnregs/article34194448.ece
30 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat secretaries seek repeal of G.O. 2||A massive agitation by panchayat secretaries is building up in Anantapur district with nearly 200 of them reaching the house of Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana at Penukonda on Monday protesting against the State government’s recent Government Order (G.O.) No. 2 removing their Drawing and Disbursing Powers for Village Secretariat Staff and empowering Village Revenue Officers. The G.O. in effect makes the existing panchayat secretaries only executive officers of the panchayat staff minus the village secretariat staff. “Administrative control over the staff of the Village Secretariat has been given to the VRO, while we have labouriously streamlined the implementation of the welfare schemes and trained the newly-appointed staff of the secretariats,” said Soujanya, executive officer of the Rural Development of Kuderu. All junior and senior panchayat secretaries, MPDOs, and other Rural Development employees have been holding discussions since Saturday seeking to represent their demands to all the stakeholders in the government and submitted memoranda to the MLAs at their constituency headquarters and met the Minister at Penukonda on Monday after taking out a rally in the streets in the town. Those association leaders who participated in the programme included MPDO Shiva Reddy, Muralikrishna and Varla Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchayat-secretaries-seek-repeal-of-go-2/article34194450.ece
30 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja getting better after surgeries in Chennai hospital||APIIC Chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja had undergone two ‘major surgeries’ at a private hospital in Chennai on Wednesday (March 24), and is now convalescing in a special room. Since Monday morning, unconfirmed reports kept making rounds in political circles and among her fans that Roja was admitted to a corporate hospital in Chennai and that she had undergone major surgeries. A large number of party cadres from Nagari, Puttur and Nindra had even left for Chennai in the morning, after a vain bid to contact her family members. However, Ms. Roja’s husband, R.K. Selvamani, on Monday evening released an audio message in Tamil in Whatsapp groups confirming that Roja underwent two major operations in a Chennai hospital and was currently in a special room. “In two days, she will be back to normal. At present, except for one family member, none is being allowed to visit her. Actually, the surgeries ought to have been performed last year itself. But due to the corona pandemic and recent elections, it was postponed,” he said, and urged fans and party cadres to stay away from visiting Ms. Roja to avoid infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roja-getting-better-after-surgeries-in-chennai-hospital/article34194917.ece
30 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be vigilant to avert mishaps, workers told||A one-day workshop and mock drill on ‘Safety aspects in Ammonia-using factories’ was held on the premises of the Heritage Dairy Plant at Kasiepentla village on Monday. Workers from as many as 50 dairy units from all over Chittoor and Nellore district took part in the programme, conducted by the department of factories. Addressing the personnel of various dairy units, Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories M. Sivakumar Reddy said that in spite of taking foolproof precautions in handling ammonia solution in the factories, there was no guarantee for a mishap-free atmosphere. “The best way to avert mishaps of ammonia leaks is to be vigilant and ready to handle them with speed and caution,” he said. The official said that regular maintenance of the storage and supply areas should be in place, apart from periodical inspections by unit heads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-vigilant-to-avert-mishaps-workers-told/article34194451.ece
30 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch vaccine drive at secretariats on April 1||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch a COVID-19 vaccination drive at the ward secretariats across the State on Thursday (April 1). He will get vaccinated at ward secretariat No. 140 at Bharath Pet. The State government targets vaccinating one crore people across Andhra Pradesh in a month. The Central government has already given guidelines on vaccination to all those aged above 45. According to the schedule given by the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would travel by road and reach Guntur at 11.10 am. He will then get registered and vaccinated. After a 10-minute waiting period and interaction with the Medical and Health Department staff, he will depart by road and arrive at his residence at 12.35 p.m. Later in the day, he will take part in an orientation programme for Mayors and Deputy Mayors at A Convention Hall. On Monday, MP Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao reviewed the arrangements for the programme. He said that the Chief Minister himself is getting vaccinated to dispel the fears about the vaccine. Mr. Ramana Rao said that every one aged above 45 should get vaccinated. Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu, Deputy Mayor Bala Vajra Babu and Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-launch-vaccine-drive-at-secretariats-on-april-1/article34194919.ece
30 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 more facilities soon in State to offer tech, lab support to aqua ryots||Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) Chairman K.S. Srinivas has announced that seven Aqua One Centres (AOC) would be set up on the Andhra Pradesh coastline to provide technical support to aqua farmers apart from offering robust laboratory facilities. In a virtual meeting convened by the National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA), Mr. Srinivas and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday inaugurated an AOC at Malikipuram village in the district. NaCSA is one of the wings of MPEDA. The prime objective of the AOC, to be monitored by the NaCSA, is to bring laboratory tests for soil, seed and diseases to the doorstep of aqua farmers at an affordable cost. The AOC will also share the developments on farming methods, best farming technologies and management practices with farmers. In the first phase, the NaCSA has set up 10 AOCs in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal. In the second phase, one AOC has been set up in Srikakulam district and another in East Godavari district. NaCSA Director K. Shanmukha Rao and other officials attended the virtual meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-more-facilities-soon-in-state-to-offer-tech-lab-support-to-aqua-farmers/article34194936.ece
30 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy run over by car, dies||A 15-year-old boy, who was injured, when he was run over by a car driven by a man allegedly in an inebriated state, succumbed to injuries on Monday. According to police, Kovvuri Veerababu reportedly entered into an argument with Singam Yesu at a chicken shop run by the latter at Veeravaram village in East Godavari district on Sunday night. Father also injured Veerababu then allegedly ran his car over Yesu and his son, Siva, at the shop. The duo suffered serious injuries. Siva died while undergoing treatment at Government General Hospital in Kakinada on Monday, while the condition of Mr. Yesu is said to be out of danger. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-run-over-by-car-dies/article34194452.ece
30 March 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police caution against invalid ‘Euro’ notes||Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu has said that some images of purported ‘one million Euro’ notes were being circulated in some social media groups for the last few days, and cautioned the public against accepting or circulating them as they were not legally valid. “The notes are not legally valid and cannot be exchanged,” he said. Warns legal action “Unidentified people were posting the pictures of the notes. People who are in possession of it will be booked,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. “The public are requested to alert the police if they found the notes with any person, or if any gang was circulating them,” the SP added. “Miscreants may try to exchange the notes for a high amount and deceive the public,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-caution-against-invalid-euro-notes/article34195012.ece
30 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) vows to expose ‘communal politics’ of BJP||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) is fighting the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection to expose the ‘communal’ Bharatiya Janata Party and the regional parties—YSRCP and TDP—which vied with each other to support it in Parliament at the drop of a hat, said party State secretary P. Madhu. Accompanying the party nominee N. Yadagiri who filed his nominations for the byelection before Nellore Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu on Monday, he said it was unfortunate that the YSRCP and the TDP were supporting the ‘sectarian agenda’ of the BJP including abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the three controversial farm laws. Even the Jana Sena Party, which had a tie-up with the CPI(M) in the 2019 elections, now is backing the BJP, despite the party is on a spree of privatising the public sector undertakings (PSU) including the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), he said. “The BJP is trying to make inroads into the State and forced the regional parties to change their stance against farm laws and privatisation of PSUs. The YSRCP woke up only when the Centre went ahead with Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill allegedly infringing upon the legislative powers of States to burn a hole on the latter’s pockets, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-vows-to-expose-communal-politics-of-bjp/article34194922.ece
30 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare schemes will ensure win for YSRCP: Gurumoorthy||YSR Congress Party nominee Dr. Maddila Gurumoorthy submitted his nomination papers for the Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election to Nellore Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu here on Monday. Paying floral tributes to the statue of B.R.Ambedkar at V.R.C. Centre, Dr.Gurumoorthy arrived in a big procession and submitted three sets of nomination papers to Mr. Chakradhar Babu. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Gurumoorthy said the welfare schemes launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would ensure a win for the party in the by-election. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, the party in-charge for the bypoll, said that the YSRCP is doing all things possible to stop the privatisation of the Visakhapatanam Steel Plant (VSP). “The Party is fighting for implementation of all assurances given by the Centre to the State in the run-up to the bifurcation, including Special Category Status (SCS), speedy completion of Polavaram project and a public sector port,” he said. Dr. Gurumoorthy said he was well-versed with the issues concerning the people as he had accompanied Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 elections. “We will give this prestigious seat with a margin of more than 4 lakh votes as a gift to the Chief Minister who has launched a series of welfare schemes on a scale never seen before. People are waiting for this opportunity to express thanks to the Chief Minister for what he has done for the State,” Mr.Subba Reddy said. Dr. Gurumurthy was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy, Ministers P. Ramchandra Reddy, Anil Kumar Yadav, A. Suresh and MLAs Bhumana Kurunkar Reddy, B. Madhusudhan Reddy and Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy who would take up poll campaign in the seven segments of the Lok Sabha constituency including Sarvepalli, Gudur, Sullurpeta and Venkatagiri in Nellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-schemes-will-ensure-win-for-ysrcp-gurumoorthy/article34194924.ece
30 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP can ensure manifold development of Tirupati’||BJP-Jana Sena Party combine nominee for the Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll K. Ratna Prabha has said that she would develop the constituency with more vigour, if elected. Speaking after filing her nominations for the by-election slated for April 17 before Nellore Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu on Monday, the bureacrat-turned-politician promised to develp the constituency further with the Central funds. She alleged that the YSRCP MPs had miserably failed in articulating the issues relating to development of their respective constituencies in Parliament. BJP MP G.V.L.Narasimha Rao, who accompanied Ms. Ratna Prabha, said the Centre had sanctioned many higher education institutions to Tirupati, including the IIT and IISER and three electronic manufacturing clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-can-ensure-manifold-development-of-tirupati/article34194928.ece
30 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Carrot and stick policy enforced in Prakasam||Prakasam police slapped fines on motorists found without facemasks and gave flowers to denizens who behaved in a responsible manner to prevent the spread of the coronavirus on Monday. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal went to the arterial Kurnool road to ensure that each and every denizen followed the guidelines to break the chain as the district continued to register fresh cases. Pep talk He gave a pep talk to a group of motorists at the busy Addanki bus stand centre before distributing a mask to those who were not wearing or having one. He said 6,400 cases were registered against erring motorcyclists across the district and a fine of Rs. 4.8 lakh collected from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/carrot-and-stick-policy-enforced-in-prakasam/article34194454.ece
30 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Singarakonda’s annual fest draws huge crowds||Hundreds of devotees made a beeline to Singarakonda, the abode of Prasannanjaneya Swamy and Sri Lakshminarasimha Swamy, during ‘Tirunallu’, which concluded on Monday. The twin temples, constructed by King Devarayulu in 15th century, were decorated and illuminated on the occasion of the festival held annually. Adhering to COVID-19 norms, the devotees stood waiting in long queues to have darshan of the Lord Anjaneya, who was decorated with jasmine, and basil and betal leaves. Then they trekked to top of the hill to offer their prayers to Lord Lakshminarasimha. A large number of police personnel, who were deployed on bandobust duty, had a tough time ensuring that the devotees, who came from across the district and also from neighbouring Nellore and Guntur, followed the COVID-appropriate behaviour. CCTV cameras were installed to ensure smooth conduct of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/singarakondas-annual-fest-draws-huge-crowds/article34194446.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati bypoll nomination sets stage for political mudslinging||The spree of mudslinging by the leaders of various political parties has begun as the party nominees filed their nomination papers for the Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election on Monday. Leaders of the BJP and the YSRCP engaged in a war on Twitter. YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy posted that the BJP, if it managed to get its deposit in the by-election, would be elated. In response, BJP State president Somu Veerraju described the YSRCP as the ‘Alibaba’s party of thieves’. He asked why the YSRCP leaders should worry about the other parties, when they were mired in court cases. Cabage jibe “Though trembling inside, we know you are feigning being courageous,” he remarked. In response to Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy’s comment that the BJP leaders were trying to adorn cabbage flowers (a phrase used to refer to hoodwinking the people) in the ears of the Tirupati voters, Mr. Veerraju retorted that ‘he would send the same cabbage to him after elections, which he could use in his curry.’ Meanwhile, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) accused the BJP and the YSRCP of being hand-in-glove though they are fighting against each other in the bypoll. Party spokesperson N.B. Sudhakar Reddy and secretary Soora Sudhakar Reddy claimed that the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had the final say in the selection of K. Ratna Prabha as the BJP candidate, referring to her stint in the State during the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s regime. Dubbing Ms. Ratna Prabha as a ‘co-accused in the corruption cases’ being faced by the Chief Minister, the party leaders said, “It is a ploy to minimise the chances of TDP candidate Panabaka Lakshmi and ensure the YSRCP candidate’s victory. “Though the name of another retired bureaucrat Dasari Srinivasulu were doing the rounds, Mr. Veerraju must explain why Ms. Ratna Prabha was chosen,” said Mr. Sudhakar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-bypoll-nomination-sets-stage-for-political-mudslinging/article34194926.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP elated at BJP confirming Pawan as CM candidate||There is, at last, reason for cheer in the Jana Sena Party (JSP) camp, with its major alliance partner Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) confirming Pawan Kalyan as its Chief Ministerial candidate. The party’s Political Affairs Committee (PAC) chairman Nadendla Manohar, who addressed a meeting after releasing insurance bonds to the committed party workers here on Monday, recalled BJP State president Somu Veerraju’s statement confirming Mr. Pawan as the Chief Ministerial candidate of the alliance. Expressing joy on behalf of every party worker and thanking the BJP, he said: “A leader like Pawan Kalyan is essential for the State.” Mr. Manohar gave a clarion call to the Jana Sainiks (the party’s foot soldiers) to strive for the victory of K. Ratna Prabha, the combine’s candidate for the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha seat. “The Jana Sainiks should look beyond posting messages on social media and work on the ground to ensure the candidate’s victory. Knock every door and explain to the voters why they should vote for BJP-Jana Sena candidate,” he said. ‘Power Star’ Pawan Kalyan is all set to conduct a road show and address a public meeting in Tirupati next week in support of the candidate. Mr. Manohar made no bones of the voices of discontent heard within the party over the selection of the candidate and said he was aware of the rumblings. “This combine is all set to bring change in the State. As a ‘growing party’, we also need support to tackle the high-handed attitude and physical assaults from the ruling party. Therefore, I request all of you to respect the ‘coalition dharma’ and ensure the victory of our candidate,” he explained. On alleged attacks on business establishments belonging to Balijas (Kapu) by ruling party leaders in Tirupati, he instilled courage and confidence, stating that Mr. Pawan would reach out and stand in support of them. PAC member Pasupuleti Hariprasad, Tirupati in-charge K. Kiran Rayal, party leader Raja Reddy and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-elated-at-bjp-confirming-pawan-as-cm-candidate-for-ap/article34194490.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP releases phone number to report threat from ward volunteers||Amid the allegations of threat and intimidation by the village and ward volunteers in the recently held local body elections, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has released a cellphone number for the party workers and general public to share proof of such high-handed acts. At the TDP foundation day celebrations here on Monday, party State president K. Atchannaidu launched the cellphone number (7557557744) and urged the workers to send video footage, audio clips of such instances of threats and intimidation. He promised that the party would follow up the compliants at the appropriate level. “The ward and village volunteers have exceeded all tolerable limits and become an unwanted intervention in the field level governance. The YSRCP is misusing this network to settle score with the political rivals. The volunteers have no right to intimidate voters by saying that their ration cards and pensions would be cancelled if they did not vote for the ruling party,” he said. ‘Suitable remuneration’ The TDP will give ‘suitable remuneration’ to those sending audio-visual proof of the ‘atrocities’ of the volunteers. Former MLA M. Sugunamma dubbed the recently-held civic polls to Tirupati as ‘selection’. “The voters hardly had any say in the entire process as the candidates were elected unanimously in half the divisions,” she alleged and appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise in favour of TDP candidate Panabaka Lakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-releases-phone-number-to-report-threat-from-ward-volunteers/article34194929.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks COVID care facilities as cases spike||Communist Party of India (CPI) national Secretary K. Narayana demanded that the government improve COVID care facilities once again, in view of the spurt in the cases across the State. Taking a demonstration to SVIMS super specialty hospital, which is also a State COVID Hospital, here on Monday, Dr. Narayana demanded that every affected person be admitted immediately in the State-run hospitals and wanted 1,000 beds to be kept aside for treating COVID patients in Tirupati alone. He called it ‘inhuman’ to admit patients based on political recommendations, which he said, would deprive the poor and needy of their basic right for medical support. ‘Rs. 2,000 fine atrocious’ The party also objected to the manner in which the government was slapping a fine of Rs. 2,000 on those not wearing masks and called it atrocious. “The government should supply masks to the public and first educate them on the need to wear them,” he said. He also discussed the facilities with the SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, who said the number of beds had been increased from 100 in the past to 450 now, in tune with the revised guidelines. Admitting symptomatic persons as in-patients depends on their health condition, she explained. CPI district secretariat member T. Janardhan, Mahila Samakhya state President Jaya Lakshmi, district Secretary Nadia and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-demands-covid-care-facilities-as-cases-spike/article34194455.ece
30 March 2021||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police reach out to public on wearing masks||With the COVID-19 cases witnessing a spurt in the form of a second wave, the police swung into action to ensure adherence to the guidelines. In Tirupati, Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Ananthapuram range) Kanthi Rana Tata and Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu made random visits in the city on Monday and distributed masks to the public and also ensured that they were worn properly. Policemen boarded buses and checked if the passengers were wearing masks and in the case of violation, offered them masks. In Kadapa, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan led an awareness meeting where masks were distributed to the public. He put a mask on a child travelling on a two-wheeler and insisted on adherence to the COVID guidelines. The department also warned that hefty fines would be levied if the violators continued to remain indifferent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-reach-out-to-public-on-wearing-masks/article34194457.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna’s total caseload breaches 50,000-mark||Krishna district’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 50,000-mark and reached 50,045 on Monday. A majority of the infections were reported in Vijayawada and surrounding areas. In the past day, the district reported 110 new infections. The district has been witnessing more than 100 cases for the past four days continuously and in the current month a total of 1,125 cases, which is 75% more than last months tally of 259 infections. In September and October, the district witnessed the peak as it saw over 11,000 infections each. The first case was reported on March 21 last year. The district remains the one with the highest death rate of 1.37% with 684 deaths. It has 814 active cases as of Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishnas-total-caseload-breaches-50000-mark/article34195005.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Hospitals inks MoU with Prashanth Hospital||Ramesh Hospitals has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Prashanth Hospital for extending treatment for urology ailments. Ramesh Hospitals medical director Dr. Pavuluri Srinivas Rao, senior nephrologist Dr. Y. Ramesh and general manager Dr. Kalyan exchanged the MoU copies with Prashanth Hospital chief executive officer D.S. Chakravarthy, endo-urologist Dr. Dheeraj Kasaraneni and uro-oncologist Dr. Preetham Kasaraneni here on Monday. Dr. P. Ramesh Babu, managing director of Ramesh Hospitals, said that treatment for laparoscopic urology, uro-oncology, uro-robotic surgeries and cadaver kidney transplantations will be done for cardiology patients by the specialists of Prashanth Hospital. Dr. Prashanth Kumar, managing director of Prashanth Hospital, said the latest treatment for kidney stones, kidney cancer, adrenal gland, urinary bladder, urinary track infection and other problems will be provided jointly in Ramesh Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramesh-hospitals-inks-mou-with-prashanth-hospital/article34195014.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP will come back to power: Naidu||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) celebrated its 40th foundation day in a grand manner across the State. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu participated in the celebrations organised at the party office in Guntur district on Monday. On the occasion, Mr. Naidu exuded confidence that the TDP would come back to power in the State. Special place “The TDP enjoys a special place in the hearts of Telugus. The TDP is the only party that has remained in power for 22 years out of the four decades of its existence. Over the last 39 years, many rivals tried hard but failed to crush the TDP. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will also taste a similar defeat despite his party’s politically motivated attacks and atrocities,” he said. “The TDP will organise the birth centenary of founder-president and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao in a grand manner. NTR founded the party and upheld the prestige of the Telugus at the national and international level at a time when there was no recognition nor identity for them at all,” he recalled, adding that the party would continue to stand by the people. The former Chief Minister said that the TDP rule both before and after the bifurcation of erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh had ushered in a development-driven knowledge economy. “The TDP went forward with a vision and aimed at developing the residual A.P. into a number one State, but the YSRCP regime followed a destructive path. Also, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy owes an explanation as to why he was not able to bring Special Category Status (SCS) to the State even though his party has 27 MPs in the Parliament as against the 25 MPs he requested to pressure the Centre to uphold its promise. Even the Polavaram project was delayed with the YSRCP regime not being able to provide water to the farmers. Mr. Jagan has put Telugu sentiments at stake by proposing to sell 7,000 acres of land in order to save the Visakha Steel Plant,” Mr. Naidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-will-come-back-to-power-naidu/article34194932.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to lay foundation stone for retaining wall||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will lay the foundation stone for the construction of 1.5-km retaining wall alongside Krishna to protect the residential areas of Krishnalanka and Ranigari Thota from inundation during floods. The project will cost Rs. 125 crore. Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Chief Minister’s programme coordinator T. Raghu Ram, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu, VMC commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh and others inspected the arrangements for the ceremony on Monday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the completion of the retaining wall would put an end to the fears of thousands of families residing in the flood-prone areas. ‘Permanent solution’ Mr. Imtiaz said the retaining wall was a permanent solution for flooding in the areas every year and it would give relief to over three thousand families residing there. Brahmin Welfare Corporation chairman and Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu and others were present at the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-lay-stone-for-retaining-wall/article34194366.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Combining fitness and adventure activities||In order to enhance fitness experience and provide a holistic adventure tourism and nature workout experience to the denizens of Vijayawada and Guntur, the Amaravati Boating Club and Anytime Fitness have come together through an MoU. As part of the understanding, the two companies will jointly organise water sports camps and competitions in activities like kayaking, water cycling, sailing and rowing. “The idea is to spread awareness about water sports and also give a novel experience of outdoor adventure-cum-fitness to the people of Amaravati region,” said Tarun Kakani, CEO of the Amaravati Boating Club. The activities will be conducted at the club near Bhavani Island. Special packages have been designed for customers of Anytime Fitness to try the water sports at the ABC. Competitions like corporate indoor rowing and outdoor rowing and sailing will also be conducted in due course of time, said Durga Rao, manager of the Vijayawada unit of Anytime Fitness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/combining-fitness-and-adventure-activities/article34195007.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready to meet increased power demand: Minister||The State government is ready to meet the increase in demand for power during the peak summer, said Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Monday. In a review meeting, the Minister said as the temperatures soar, the demand for electricity would increase. The government has instructed the power utilities to supply uninterrupted power during the summer, he said. According to a action plan submitted by the power utilities, the demand may go up to a peak of 222 MU. The State was meeting an energy demand of around 220.6 MU per day as on March 27 and it was likely to increase to 222 MU, depending on the weather conditions and the water-related needs of the farm sector, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said. The decision to supply free electricity to the farm sector for nine hours was one of the reasons for the increase in demand, he said, adding that officials should ensure there is no compromise in this area. He appreciated APTransco for using an energy forecast model to estimate future energy demand, and said successful use of Artificial Intelligence to forecast energy demand during summer will solve the power shortage issue and save money to power utilities. He said the government was keen on ensuring power supply even to the most remote villages, regardless of the climatic conditions. Secretary for Energy N. Srikanth said that the consumption of energy was recorded at 185 MU in 2018, but it had increased to 218 MU in 2020-21. The peak energy consumption of 220.6 MU was recorded on March 27, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-to-meet-increased-power-demand-minister/article34194933.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Hospitals inks MoU with Prashanth Hospital||Ramesh Hospitals has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Prashanth Hospital for extending treatment for urology ailments. Ramesh Hospitals medical director Dr. Pavuluri Srinivas Rao, senior nephrologist Dr. Y. Ramesh and general manager Dr. Kalyan exchanged the MoU copies with Prashanth Hospital chief executive officer D.S. Chakravarthy, endo-urologist Dr. Dheeraj Kasaraneni and uro-oncologist Dr. Preetham Kasaraneni here on Monday. Dr. P. Ramesh Babu, managing director of Ramesh Hospitals, said that treatment for laparoscopic urology, uro-oncology, uro-robotic surgeries and cadaver kidney transplantations will be done for cardiology patients by the specialists of Prashanth Hospital. Dr. Prashanth Kumar, managing director of Prashanth Hospital, said the latest treatment for kidney stones, kidney cancer, adrenal gland, urinary bladder, urinary track infection and other problems will be provided jointly in Ramesh Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramesh-hospitals-inks-mou-with-prashanth-hospital/article34194941.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High school kitchen to be inaugurated||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita will inaugurate a kitchen at Care N’ Share High School at New Rajarajeswaripet in the city on Tuesday, under the aegis of Rotary Club of Vijayawada Sree Durga. Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Brahmin Welfare Corporation Chairman and MLA Malladi Vishnu and VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, Rotary governor M. Satish Babu and others will participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-school-kitchen-to-be-inaugurated/article34195002.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy Mayor assumes office||Deputy Mayor Bellam Durga assumed office at the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation in the city on Monday. Minister for Endowments and West MLA Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, and Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi congratulated the Deputy Mayor at her chambers on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-mayor-assumes-office/article34195006.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into student’s suicide||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh has ordered a probe into the circumstances that led to the suicide by a student M. Madhuri, on the Nuzvid IIIT campus on Monday. The girl, a native of Kakinada in East Godavari district, reportedly hanged herself to death in her room. An official team has rushed to the college campus to enquire about the incident. The Minister sought a detailed report on the girl’s suicide, said a statement released late on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-ordered-into-students-suicide/article34195008.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM extends Holi greetings||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy extended Holi wishes to the people. In a tweet, he said, “Holi is a rainbow of affection, love and joy. It is an aspiration to fill everyone's life with happiness. I wish with all my heart that all the households be filled with colours of happiness”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-extends-holi-greetings/article34194916.ece
30 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Autism Therapy Centre inaugurated||Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz inaugurated Hyderabad-based Pinnacle Bloom Network’s (PBN) Autism Therapy Centre at Labbipet in the city on Monday. PBN, which is Pinnacle Bloom Network (PBN), which is a chain of child development and rehabilitation facilities, offering speech therapy, special education and physiotherapy and others to children with special needs, set up its first centre in the State. Mr. Imtiaz said the centre will play an important role in rehabilitating children with developmental issues. Those in need can contact free national helpline number 9100181181.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/autism-therapy-centre-inaugurated/article34194934.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed, 15 injured as APSRTC buses collide||Three persons were killed and 15 others injured, nine critically, as two APSRTC buses collided head-on near Sunkarapeta in Vizianagaram district at 7.45 a.m. on Monday morning. According to an initial investigation by the police, the accident occurred when one bus tried to overtake a truck carrying LPG cylinders and rammed into the other oncoming bus. Visibility was low in the area due to smog, which also might have been a factor, police said. The deceased have been identified as Ashirwadham and Devudu, both APSRTC drivers hailing from Vizianagaram district, and Sanyasi Naidu, a passenger from Palakonda. While nine of the injured have been shifted to King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam, six were moved to hospitals in Vizianagaram for treatment, said Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari. Heavy smog The incident reportedly occurred due to poor visibility. Deputy Inspector General (Visakhapatnam Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao said one bus was going from Visakhapatnam to Vizianagaram while the other bus was headed from Palakonda to Visakhapatnam. Visibility was low near Sunkarapeta as garbage dumps on either side of the road were set alight, Mr. Ranga Rao said. Meanwhile, the bus from Palakonda moved to the right side of the road in a bid to overtake a lorry laden with LPG cylinders, and crashed head-on into the bus coming from Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram DSP P. Anil Kumar said. Bigger disaster averted Meanwhile, the lorry carrying the LPG cylinders also rammed into the back of the Palakonda bus. Police said a major disaster was averted as the lorry was carrying empty LPG cylinders. The stretch on the highway where the accident took place narrows down to a double road without a divider. Poor visibility and rash way of overtaking appear to be the possible reasons for the accident, said Mr. Ranga Rao. Among the dead are the two APSRTC drivers. While Ashirwadham was driving the bus, Devudu boarded the bus near Anandapuram after his shift change. The other deceased person, Sanyasi Naidu, was a passenger from Palakonda who was was coming to Visakhapatnam for medical treatment, Mr. Anil said. The first to respond to the accident were personnel from the APSP 5th Battalion. Commandant G. Koteswara Rao along with his team rushed to the spot after notifying the SP about the accident. The APSP personnel launched the initial rescue operation within minutes of the accident, and were simultaneously joined by SP Rajakumari, DSP P. Anil Kumar, Traffic DSP L. Mohan Rao, AR DSP L. Seshadri, Circle Inspectors T.S. Manaveni, Sridhar, J. Murali and Ch. Srinivasa Rao. The police teams initiated measures for rescue and shifted the injured passengers in police vehicles and 108 ambulances to the Maharaja Government Hospital in Vizianagaram for treatment, and later to KGH. Traffic was regulated by the Traffic Police and the Vizianagaram Rural Police and the damaged vehicles were pulled aside with the help of cranes. Joint Collector (Revenue) Kishore Kumar initiated measures for shifting severely injured passengers to KGH for better treatment. Ms. Rajakumari said cases have been registered and an investigation is on into the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-15-injured-as-apsrtc-buses-collide/article34194940.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Holi celebrations remain low-key affair in city amid COVID surge||With the rise in COVID-19 cases in the city, the festival of colours Holi was a low-key affair in the city. The police and district administration had enforced strict norms, banning celebrations at public places. For a change, the iconic Ramakrishna Beach wore a deserted look, with the deployment of police personnel. Normally, on the Holi festival day, the beach is thronged by revellers and for this year, the festivities were restricted to homes. However, people living in apartments and gated communities found different ways to celebrate the festival. In some gated communities, the festival was celebrated by distributing sweets and in some places, the residents organised their own arena to douse themselves in different hues. “We restricted the entry of outsiders and built a makeshift enclosure to allow only the residents to play Holi,” said the president of a gated community in Marripalem area. Speaking to The Hindu , Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that adequate police force were deployed at all beaches to restrict public playing of Holi. “This was done after district administration has become cautious in the wake of a surge of new cases in this month,” he said. Parents took caution in allowing their children to indulge in colours and in this year, very few shops sold colours and other accessories for the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/holi-celebrations-remain-low-key-affair-in-city-amid-covid-surge/article34195022.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 104 new COVID-19 cases||The district recorded 104 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 61,953, ever since the pandemic broke out in March, last year. One death was also recorded taking the total tally of deaths to 545. The total number of discharges also rose to 60,428 with the discharge or recovery of 36 persons, who were affected with the coronavirus, in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the number of COVID positive cases in Andhra University Engineering campus rose to 111, after almost all the 1,700 students, including girls, were tested, said District COVID Special Osfficer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. After a lull in cases, since last four months, the district has been seeing a spurt in the cases, with about 1,400 cases and six deaths in this month. Health officials say that the rise in cases may be a temporary phase and except for AU, which has been declared as containment zone, the cases are randomly coming up from various areas in the city. “Most of the cases that are coming up are contacts from primary cases and efforts are on to contain the spread by implementing the 3T formulae (track-test-treat),” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-104-new-covid-19-cases/article34195020.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCI to focus on maintenance dredging||The core strength of Dredging Corporation of India Limited (DCIL) has been maintenance dredging, and in the next couple of years, we will be focussing on gaining more control in this segment, said Managing Director and CEO of the company G.Y.V. Victor. He was speaking to The Hindu on the occasion of the 45th formation day of the organisation, on Monday. According to him, DCIL has been a market leader in the maintenance segment of dredging for the last 45 years and has already achieved a turnover of around Rs. 800 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal. “This year, we already have orders for Rs. 830 crore and projects worth another Rs. 100 crore are expected. The total work in this segment in India is around Rs. 1,200 crore and we intend to scale up our orders to at least Rs. 1,000 crore in the next couple of years,” said Dr. Victor, an industry veteran who took over as MD and CEO of DCIL a month ago. DCIL already has maintenance contracts of about 10 major ports and around four minor ports. “Apart from taking up maintenance dredging for the ports, we intend to act as holistic solution providers, as the Ministry of Shipping intends to increase the depth of all the ports to 16.5 m,” he said. This apart, he said that the company would also focus on capital dredging. “With the Sagarmala project and three ports being earmarked for Andhra Pradesh such as Ramayapatnam, Dugarajapatnam and Bhavanapadu, we have hopes of making it big in capital dredging. All the three ports are greenfield ports and they need to be constructed from scratch, which includes large-scale capital dredging and providing solutions. We are negotiating both with the Centre and the State Governments for considering us,” he said. DCIL already has 14 dredgers, including 10 trailing suction hopper dredgers, two cutter suction dredgers, one backhoe dredger and one inland dredger.“We are augmenting our existing dredgers, especially the trailing suction hoppers, to handle capital dredging and have placed an order with Cochin Shipyard for a new one. With augmentation of the existing fleet, we will be a major player in the capital dredging segment and we intend to increase our share both in the domestic and international market,” said Dr. Victor. “On the international front, we intend to first target the market in the sub-continent, such as Bangladesh and Sri Lanka and then move to the Middle East. We already have a bilateral trade agreement with Bangladesh and a number of projects are coming up in that country. We are hoping for some breakthrough,” he said. DCIL, which was earlier a PSU, is now owned by a consortium of four major ports — Visakhapatnam, Paradip, JNPT and Deendayal. While VPT has 19% share, other three ports have an 18% share each. On the vision for the next five years, Dr. Victor said that the goal would be to become the most preferred contractor and once again become a cash-rich company, as it was earlier. On the occasion, a cultural programme was organised by children of the employees at the corporate office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dredging-corporation-of-india-to-focus-on-maintenance-dredging/article34194938.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to NTR on TDP foundation day||Rich tributes were paid to Telugu Desam Party (TDP) founder and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao on the foundation day of the party on Monday. Party leaders garlanded the statue of NTR on Beach Road. Former Minister and MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao expressed happiness that the party, which was established for the poor, has completed 40 years of existence. He recalled that NTR had created history by defeating the grand old Congress party, within nine months after establishing the TDP. NTR had shown the power of the Telugu people to the whole world. NTR had contributed to the empowerment of women by providing them a share in the family property. He expressed optimism that the TDP would win the bypoll in Tirupati and that it would regain its past glory. The foundation day celebrations were also held at the party office in the city. Party leaders garlanded the statue of NTR and paid tributes. Party leaders Md. Nazeer and Podugu Kumar recalled the contribution of NTR in bringing recognition to Telugu language all over India. TDP Corporators Konada Chinna and Meka Satyakiran were among those who participated. The foundation day celebrations were also held at various places in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-ntr-on-tdp-foundation-day/article34195016.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EPFO’s grievance meet on April 12||The next ‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat’ or ‘PF near you’ will be held at Regional PF Office, Marripalem Vuda layout, here on April 12. All Employees Provident Fund (EPF) subscribers as well as employers (both exempted and un-exempted establishments) and other stakeholders of Visakhapatnam district having any grievances/issues are hereby requested to bring the same before the Regional P.F. Commissioner, Visakhapatnam, on or before April 6, according to Assistant PF Commissioner Abdul Khader. The grievances/issues pertaining to Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts may be preferred at the respective districts offices on or before April 6. The grievances or other issues may be addressed to the Assistant P.F. Commissioner (Nidhi Aapke Nikat) Visakhapatnam duly superscribing as ‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat’. They may register their grievances either through post / Courier / Fax No.0897-2558734 I E-mail addressro.vizag@epfindia.gov.in Specific time slots are allotted according to the classification of stakeholders of EPFO. Subscribers – 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; employers(unexempted establishments) – 3 to 4 p.m. and employers(exempted establishments) – 4 to 5 p.m.,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/epfos-grievance-meet-on-april-12/article34194956.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindu dharma is Indian way of life, says pontiff||Head of Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswati has said that Hindu dharma is not a religion but an Indian way of life. The Hindu Dharma Prachara Yatra was launched two years ago to create awareness among the people and to uphold dharma. Addressing the media before flagging off a yatra to Tirurmala, being led by Uttara Peethadipathi Swatmanandendra Saraswati, along with tribals and dalits on Monday, Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswati said that the yatra was launched two years ago to create awareness among people on Hindu dharma. The 33,000-km yatra covered Andhra, Telangana, Rayalaseema, north Andhra and Godavarai district through the plains and hills, including remote tribal areas and Maoist-affected Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) areas. The culture and traditions of the local people and the temple systems and encroachment of temple lands in different regions were studied during the yatra. A report would be submitted to the Endowments Department soon. The yatra actually concluded in Visakhapatnam. But, a spiritual yatra was being taken out under the leadership of Sri Swatmanandendra with 1,500 Dailts, tribal and weaker sections to Tirumala. Sri Swatmanandendra offered prayers at the foothill of Simhachalam on Monday before starting on the pilgrimage with the devotees in 25 buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hindu-dharma-is-indian-way-of-life-says-pontiff/article34195017.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Convene civic body meet on tax hike proposal: VARWA||Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) submitted a memorandum to the Mayor on Monday appealing to her to convene a full-fledged meeting in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Council before going ahead with the decision of the State government to increase property tax, water charges, garbage collection charges and levying of user charges on underground drainage (UGD) with effect from April 1. VARWA general secretary B.B. Ganesh and president N. Prakasa Rao noted that the Centre, instead of reducing the burden on the common man amidst the COVID-19 crisis, had directed the State governments to hike the taxes in the name of urban reforms. The State government has issues GO nos. 196, 197 and 198 in this regard. They appealed to the Mayor that discussions should be held before affecting any change in taxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/convene-civic-body-meet-on-tax-hike-proposal-varwa/article34195019.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camp held at tribal village||A free integrated medical camp was organised by Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation(SSSSO), Visakhapatnam and Paderu, at Bongaram tribal village of Pedabayalu mandal, with the financial support of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Doctors examined 521 tribal villagers in the areas of general medicine, gynaecology, dental and ophthalmology. Sai Krishna from Visakha Eye Hospital coordinated on behalf of Visakha Eye Hospital team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/integrated-medical-camp-held/article34194976.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rambilli police team feted||The selfless service of SI V. Arun Kiran and his team, who carried the decomposed body of a destitute for 3 km from the Sithapalem beach of Rambilli mandal in the district, came in for appreciation from Deputy Inspector General L.K.V. Ranga Rao. The DIG invited the SI and his team to his office and felicitated them along with SP B. Krishna Rao, with shawls and appreciation certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rambilli-police-team-feted/article34195018.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children drown in Sarada river||The bodies of two Class VIII students, who went for a swim in the Sarada river at Anakapalle, were found floating in the river on Monday. Vivek (14) and Nikhil Sai (13) of Vijayaramarajupeta, went for a swim in the river on Sunday and drowned in the water. Their bodies were found on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-children-drown-in-sarada-river/article34194957.ece
30 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Movie teaser release: some injured in jostling||A minor mishap occurred at a cinema theatre when a large number of fans tried to barge into the hall to have a glimpse at the trailer of Pawan Kalyan’s new film ‘Vakeel Saab’, here on Monday. According to the police, about 2,000 fans tried to get inside the Sangam and Sarat cinema hall on Monday evening and to avoid overcrowding the management had closed the glass doors. But the fans pushed the doors and it broke open splitting the glass and injuring the manager of the hall Prasad Reddy, a couple of staff members and a few fans, as well. All the injuries were minor cuts and first-aid was given and things were brought under control, said the inspector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/movie-teaser-release-some-injured-in-jostling/article34195023.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||997 new infections, five deaths reported in State||The overall positivity rate came down to 5.99% and that of the last day was 3.18%. Each of the five new deaths occurred in Anantapur, Chittoor, Kurnool, Nellore and Visakhapatnam districts. Chittoor has again reported the highest single-day tally of 181 infections in the past day. It was followed by Guntur (152), Visakhapatnam (139), Krishna (110), Nellore (84), Kurnool (82), Srikakulam (61), Anantapur (57), Kadapa (45), Prakasam (41), East Godavari (28), West Godavari (13) and Vizianagaram (4). Krishna district's cumulative tally crossed 50,000. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,25,281), West Godavari (94,513), Chittoor (89,507), Guntur (77,272), Anantapur (68,307), Nellore (63,005), Prakasam (62,480), Kurnool (61,486), Visakhapatnam (61,341), Kadapa (55,738), Krishna (50,045), Srikakulam (46,629) and Vizianagaram (41,313).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/997-new-infections-five-deaths-reported-in-state/article34194930.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colours of revelry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/colours-of-revelry/article34195010.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-fervour/article34195026.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress can end BJP’s ‘misrule’, says Chinta Mohan||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of adopting anti-people policies, Congress Working Committee member P. Chinta Mohan on Monday said that the his party alone could put an end to the ‘misrule’. Mr. Chinta Mohan filed his nomination papers for the Tirupati Lok Sabha by-election before Nellore Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu here on Monday. Addressing the media, he said the YSR Congress Party and the Telugu Desam Party lacked the required strength to fight against the ‘sectarian agenda’ of the Narendra Modi government and alleged that Andhra Pradesh was meted out a raw deal during the NDA rule. He said people should use their vote judiciously to stop the privatisation of PSUs. “The assurances given to the State in the run-up to the bifurcation are still on paper,” said Mr. Chinta Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-can-end-bjps-misrule-says-chinta-mohan/article34194920.ece
30 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Protest planned against new labour codes||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and its affiliated unions, including the Singareni Collieries Employees Union (SCEU), are gearing up to hold a series of protests in the industrial belt of the district on April 1 against the Centre’s four new labour codes. The SCEU has planned a demonstration at the entrance of the headquarters of the State-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in Kothagudem on April 1 to press for repeal of the four new labour codes. Several other unions affiliated to the major Central trade unions have also drawn up similar plans to hold protests at various points in the industrial belt of Kothagudem-Palvancha on the same day, sources said. The SCEU General Secretary M Narasimha Rao alleged that the move to thrust the four labour codes, replacing 29 Central labour laws, on the working class was an “anti-labour” and “pro-corporate” step. Speaking to The Hindu , he said the move would “jeopardise” the hard-won rights of the working class and “curtail” the trade union movement. The trade union leader said the SCEU will hold a series of protests across the coal belt region demanding scrapping of the four labour codes on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-planned-against-new-labour-codes/article34194748.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ICU admission of COVID-19 patients doubles in two weeks||The number of COVID-19 patients getting admitted to the Intensive Care Units (ICUs) across hospitals in the State has increased by 100% in just about two weeks. This clearly indicates that the number of people suffering from severe form of the infection is on the rise. The request for plasma collected from COVID-recovered persons has also been increasing. From March 1 to 14 this year, around 340 to 375 COVID patients were being admitted in ICUs of government and private hospitals per day. It gradually increased to over 400, and then crossed 500 and 600 in a matter of few days. On Sunday (March 28), as many as 767 patients were admitted to the ICU, which is more than a 100% increase. Bed occupancy up Critical care specialists, too, have said that the hospital beds are getting fast occupied. The total bed capacity is a combination of beds in ICU, regular wards and those equipped with oxygen supply. The bed occupancy has increased from around 1,300 beds during the March 1-14 period to 2,768 on Sunday. Doctors feared that the numbers will continue to surge if people do not maintain precautions. 403 new infections The State recorded 403 cases on Sunday with only 33,930 samples being examined, showing a high positivity rate. From the past two weeks, over 60,000 samples were being tested on a daily basis. This number usually drops during the weekend. Results of 1,421 samples were awaited. The new 403 cases included 146 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 40 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 34 from Rangareddy, and 24 from Sangareddy. Zero cases No case was detected in Kamareddy and Mulugu on the day. Two more COVID patients died. So far, the State has tested 1,00,53,026 samples, leading to the detection of 3,06,742 positive cases. The tally includes 4,583 active cases with 3,00,469 having recovered. The death toll stands at 1,690.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-icu-admission-doubles-in-two-weeks/article34194717.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Bheem Pratignya’ in OU on April 11, 14||The controversy created around IPS officer and Secretary of the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutes Society (TSWREIS) R.S.Praveen Kumar taking part in ‘Bheem Deeksha’ is all set to be taken to its next level by students of Osmania University. Members of several students’ outfits, coming under the banner of ‘Osmania University Students’, have decided to conduct a ‘Bheem Pratignya’ (Bheem’s Pledge) event on April 11 & 14 in affirmation of an alternative culture. The pledge will be given on both days, on the occasion of the birth anniversaries of anti-caste social reformer Jyotirao Phule and the first Law Minister and leading light of Dalits B.R. Ambedkar respectively, representatives of the event said. All COVID-19 protocols will be followed including masks and social distancing for the event, in view of the rising number of infections in the city, D. Kotesh, an organiser informed. In all, about 100 persons will be taking the pledge on each day. “We are organising the event in the context of Mr. Praveen Kumar dissociating himself from the pledge post controversy. We wish to reclaim the Navayana Buddhist pledge administered by B.R. Ambedkar to lakhs of Dalits who converted to Buddhism along with him in 1956. Even while hailing him as the father of the Constitution, the Hindutva forces wish to sweep his legacy under the carpet, and our aim is to focus on reaffirming this alternative cultural practice,” Mr.Kotesh said. He urged all outfits with similar ideology across the State to replicate the event at their respective locations for a week, in remembrance of both the stalwarts. Osmania University students had earlier organised a Beef Festival to assert their alternative food culture vis-a-vis dominant religious practices, on the same occasion. Dr.Praveen Kumar had, earlier this month, attended an event of Bheem Deeksha organised by the alumni of the social welfare residential schools (Swaeros) at a famous Buddhist shrine at Dhulikatta in Peddapalli district. The oath containing 22 precepts, some with overt phrases repudiating the Hindu Gods and Goddesses, given by Dr.Ambedkar to his followers 65 years ago during their conversion to Buddhism, was reportedly administered at the event to hundreds of attendees. Presence of Dr.Praveen Kumar at the event stirred up a hornet’s nest, giving rise to severe castigations and allusions of religious propaganda to the officer. A clarification issued by Dr.Praveen Kumar distancing himself from the pledge, had put paid to the controversy for the time being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bheem-pratignya-event-in-ou-on-april-11-14/article34194734.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy to be procured in villages again||In view of surge in coronavirus cases and the resultant health hazard it posed to farmers, the State government has decided to procure paddy cultivated in the ongoing second crop at 6,408 centres in villages like last year. This was finalised at a meeting of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with senior officials of Agriculture, Marketing and Civil Supplies on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rao directed Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, who was also present, to arrange by Tuesday evening bank guarantee for raising Rs. 20,000 crore for the purpose of lifting the stocks. He also asked Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to hold an emergency video conference with district collectors for immediate opening of procurement centres.  Coordinated effort Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy was advised to remain in Hyderabad to monitor the opening of centres and procurement process. All precautions to see that the farmers did not face any hardship must be taken by coordinating the efforts of Agriculture, Marketing and Civil Supplies departments, the Minister, Chief Secretary and other officials were told. Mr. Rao insisted that guidelines for payment of minimum support price should strictly be followed. Dried up grains free of waste and dust and moisture not exceeding 17 % should be brought to the procurement centres. The farmers should be advised against the danger of higher moisture. He also advised officials to arrange the required 20 crore gunny bags at the procurement centres. Sow cotton  The farmers should be geared up to cultivate cotton over 75 to 80 lakh acres in the next kharif as the crop in the State had good demand in international market. The cotton was also of good quality and high yield which assured good price for farmers. Arrangements to procure the required quanity of seed should start immediately, he instructed Principal Agriculture Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy. At the same time, steps should be taken to cultivate red gram over 20 to 25 lakh acres. There will be high yield of cotton and red gram if the crops were ensured wetting.  Paddy yield  Mr. Rao said paddy was cultivated over 52.76 lakh acres in the current rabi which was likely to result in the yield of coarse variety to an extent of 1.17 crore tonnes and 21 lakh tonnes of fine variety of grains. He asked the Chief Secretary to identify land for leasing out to Central Warehousing Corporation as it had expressed readiness to construct additional godowns for storage of food grains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-to-procure-paddy-in-villages-again/article34194744.ece
30 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Coronavirus fear keeps Holi revelry in check||It was a drab, colourless and quiet Holi on Monday, as citizens preferred to stay at home due to COVID-19 restrictions and fears about the spread of the virus. The roads were deserted and many apartment blocks steered clear of organising communal celebrations of the festival of colours. Begum Bazaar, which is the main hub for trade in colours, and sees raucous revelry through the night and into the afternoon, appeared colourless. Bhang vendors, who set up stalls to sell the mild cannabis-laced drink, were a disappointed lot. Business down by 80% “At this time, we usually don’t even find time to talk. But today, there is nobody. There are no customers. Our business is down by 80%. Last year was somewhat better than this,” said Vijay Vaishnav sitting in his 20-year-old shop near Begum Bazaar Chatri. The khowa shop is known for bhang as well as the intoxicant-laced gulab jamun, coconut barfi and other sweets. Just two days earlier, the Telangana government promulgated GO Ms No 69 which prohibited communal celebrations. “Congregations pose considerable threat of rapid transmission of COVID-19. Therefore, it is decided that public celebrations/observations should not be allowed in the state during upcoming religious events such as Shab-e-Barat, Holi…” were the words used in the government order. Some businessmen who had turned their idli and dosa pushcarts to sell bhang and bhang-laced sweets rued their decision. “We used to make decent money in a few hours. Groups of men and women would ride their bikes to have the drink here. But this is a disaster. I could not even sell 10 glasses of this,” said Santosh Sharma who had turned his idli pushcart to sell bhang. A splash of colours was witnessed in the inner streets of Begum Bazaar and Goshamahal where the members of mercantile families turned out to play Holi among themselves, but the floors of apartment complexes and streets in residential areas in other parts of the city remained colour-free. “Usually, we pool money hire a music system, have Holika dahaan and families play with colours till afternoon. But this year, the topic of celebrations was not even discussed,” said a resident of an apartment complex in Khairatabad. Police presence There was a huge police presence in Dhoolpet, Begumbazaar, Sitarambagh, Asifnagar and other parts of the city to keep a check on communal celebrations. “This is very quiet. It is a Holi unlike Holi,” said a police officer of Shahinayatgunj keeping vigil near Begum Bazaar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coronavirus-fear-keeps-holi-revelry-in-check/article34194489.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Blackbuck haven beckons wildlife enthusiasts||It is summer time and all roads for the wildlife and nature-loving enthusiasts lead to the sleepy township of Nandipet village in Nizamabad as the herds of graceful blackbucks make their appearance again in the backwaters of Sriramsagar Project. And, not surprisingly, Sunil S. Hiremath, Nizamabad District Forest Officer, is keen to barricade the entire locale with a single entry and exit point to avoid any sort of disturbance to the blackbucks due to vehicular movement. “We will involve the local villagers to ensure that the place remains clean devoid of any waste being dumped and we have definite plans of making it a big tourism centre given the rarity of the sighting of blackbucks in Telangana,” he said. Ironically, this place is out of bounds for wildlife lovers throughout the year except during summer when there are vast stretches of dry bed available for this species to showcase their skills — in racing away from even the slightest human movement. “Yes, this place has become a major attraction for all and I only hope the serenity and calmness are not disturbed,” says 50-year-old K. Santhosh Kumar, chairman of Navya Bharati Global School, who first found the place as a chance discovery. A visit to the place will also serve as a gentle reminder of how these blackbucks are also waging a daily battle from a herd of stray dogs which chase them for food. And, that itself provides a battle of survival of a different kind. Santhosh takes pride in creating awareness for bird-watchers about the presence of many species like crested hawk-eagle, yellow-footed green pigeon, Indian pitta, paradise flycatcher, painted sandgrouse, chestnut-bellied sandgrouse and crested serpent eagle at Adivimamidipalli on the outskirts of Nizamabad. The photographer reminds wildlife enthusiasts that it is imperative to enjoy nature and never forget ethics in the eagerness to take photos. “If we protect nature, it will protect us. Photos should speak rather than words,” he signed off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blackbuck-haven-beckons-nature-wildlife-enthusiasts/article34194725.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIMC alumni meet held in Hyderabad||Alumni associations play a major role in shaping the career of young professionals who graduate from any institute. The alumni help its juniors in many ways and provide mental support when they are in the initial phase of their careers, said Indian Institute of Mass Communication Alumni Association (IIMCAA) Telangana and Andhra Pradesh president Madhavi Naidu at ‘Connections 2021’ event held recently. Ms Naidu, also business head – marketing, GoCoop Solutions & Services, felicitated the ‘Silver Jubilee batch (1995-96) alumnus Satya Siddharth Rath and others. The association’s Santiswarupa Samantaray, Chetan Mallik, Kamini Singh, Samvedna Kashyap, Arpita Aparajita, Gaurao Mankar, Shatakshi Singh, Animesh Biswas and others participated, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iimc-alumni-meeting-held-in-city/article34194726.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Market intelligence to help farmers decide on crops||Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy has stated that the government has allocated Rs. 15 crore for establishing an agricultural marketing intelligence research and analysis centre for guiding the farming community on raising the crops having demand in the market. Of the allocated amount, the government has already released Rs. 6.5 crore for the purpose in advance. The task of establishing such a centre has been given to Ernst & Young to guide the centre by studying the market conditions at the national and international level for creating awareness among the farming community so that they could get good price to their produce. Expert help The Minister said here on Monday that with the proper guidance of experts and agricultural scientists the farming community of the State could produce agriculture products worth Rs. 4 lakh core every year. It was very much possible with the increasing irrigation potential, assistance to farmers under Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima, 24×7 free power supply and other inputs. Increased cultivation The increased extent of cultivation of crops during the last six years and increased rice supply by the State to Food Corporation of India (FCI) during the last six years were indicators of the status of agriculture sector in Telangana. Last year, 55% of the FCI’s entire rice procurement was from Telangana, the Minister noted.  With proper guidance of experts and agricultural scientists, the farming community could produce agriculture products worth Rs. 4 lakh core every year S. Niranjan Reddy, Agriculture Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/market-intel-to-help-farmers-in-ts-decide-on-crops/article34194715.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR conducting 20-odd trials in race for COVID drug: DG||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is presently conducting “20-odd” clinical studies with multiple industries including “five” clinical trials based on the ‘Ayush’ formulations on finding a drug to deal with COVID-19, disclosed Director-General Shekhar C. Mande on Monday. “We are taking up clinical trials tapping our traditional knowledge but from a modern science perspective for the first time in history. Another breakthrough is expected within a week or 10 days, as our clinical trial with Sun Pharma based on phyto-pharmaceuticals or plant extracts will be completed and if the results are promising, we will seek permissions for furthering research,” he said. Favipiravir success Drugs play an important part in combating the pandemic and the CSIR-IICT collaborative effort with Cipla in bringing Favipiravir drug has helped in treating scores of countrymen over the last few months, said Dr. Mande at the signing ceremony for the master collaborative research with Bharat Biotech and others. Discussions are also on with Bharat Biotech to work on the emerging ‘mRNA’ technology platform presently lacking in the country. Two major vaccines being used in United States like Moderna and Pfizer are based on this platform. “mRNA has emerged as a more popular and powerful technology during the COVID period though many did not believe in this platform as it did not work in some diseases. We are trying to work together to bring this platform to the country not only for COVID but also to tackle many other diseases and future pandemics,” said the DG. CSIR-IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar said lipid nano-particals are required for mRNA platform and the scientists have been working on it, so the experience would help in providing end to end technology. The DG pointed out that CSIR had began internal discussions in February last year much before even the World Health Organisation had declared COVID as a ‘pandemic’. “Our thought process began much earlier. We met every day online till September with the discussions going till late into night, including Sundays. Only now we are meeting thrice a week,” he said. Making use of the diversified strengths of 38 CSIR labs across the country has helped in the scientific community rising together to handle the pandemic and dealing with it much better than modern economies. “We have now generated document for discussion to identify our gaps in strengths and weaknesses so that we can fill them in short and long term to get the crucial raw materials and chemicals vital for scientific research,” explained Dr. Mande. Pat for labs The DG especially took pride in the study done by CSIR labs —Centre for Ceullar & Molecular Biology (CCMB) here and Institute of Microbial Technology & Central Scientific Instruments Organisation, Chandigarh — to prove airborne transmission of coronavirus. “We had no equipment, so we had to design and modify our own equipment with which we went to hospitals, markets, ICUs, etc., to establish the presence of the virus and its spread indoors,” he pointed out. Sero-survey of 10,000 CSIR personnel from across the country is also under way for the second time after the first surveillance in August-September last year. “Our scientific personnel agreed to give their samples, came together to design the study and take up the pan-India initiative. We will be announcing the results soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-conducting-20-odd-trials-in-race-for-covid-drug-dg/article34194719.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH inks pact with ESI Medical College||The University of Hyderabad and ESI Medical College and Hospital at Sanatnagar on Monday entered into a MoU for five years to collaborate on academic programmes and research, teaching and faculty exchange opportunities and assistance in the development of a hospital on the university campus under the Institution of Eminence (IoE) mandate. The agreement was signed by university Registrar P. Sardar Singh and dean-director of ESIMCH M. Srinivas in the presence of university Vice-Chancellor P. Appa Rao. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Appa Rao said it was a win-win relationship between the institutions and encouraged the delivery of initiatives proposed in the MoU. Prof. Srinivas said the medical college and hospital at Hyderabad was the best institution of ESI in the country with 17 super speciality services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-inks-pact-with-esi-medical-college/article34194721.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe attack on Chenchus by forest staff: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to order an inquiry by a senior IAS officer into the attack on tribals allegedly by the Forest Department personnel in the Nallamala forests and take action against the responsible forest officials. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Monday, CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy said it has been a practice for tribals living in the forest areas, particularly Chenchus in the Nallamala area, for long to collect the forest produce including ‘ippa puvvu’ (mahua), ‘kendu’ leaves used in beedi rolling and others. Recently, the forest officials attacked and detained 16 women, including a 70-year-old and seven men, all Chenchus, who were on their way into the forest area to collect mahua, near Chenchu Palugu Thanda of Achampet mandal in Nagarkurnool district. The CPI State secretary faulted the forest officials’ attack on the Chenchus instead of questioning them as to why they were going into the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inquire-into-attack-on-chenchus-by-forest-staff-demands-cpi/article34194739.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Newcomers versus veteran in Nagarjunasagar bypoll||Two first timers to electoral politics will clash swords with veteran Congress leader K. Jana Reddy in the byelection to Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency on April 17. By fielding Nomula Bhagat Kumar, TRS president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has overlooked the chances of at least four seniors in the party in the quest to win the polls on sympathy wave. Mr. Bhagat’s father Narasimhaiah died in December, necessitating the election. On the other hand, a medical doctor P. Ravi Kumar Naik who joined the BJP only last month was the party candidate in preference to an in-charge of the constituency. He had resigned his government job as a medical officer of a primary health centre a year ago to start private practice at Halia with an eye to enter politics. The TRS obviously did not want to risk diverting from the tradition of fielding the kith and kin of leaders whose death caused the election by picking up Mr. Bhagat in an attempt to win the sympathy of voters. The party also played safe by giving representation to a member of Yadava community which constitutes about 40 % of the voters of the constituency.  Others ignored In selecting Mr. Bhagat, the TRS president sidelined Katteboina Guruvayya Yadav, a brother-in-law of Rajya Sabha member B. Lingaiah Yadav, and Dudimetla Balraj Yadav who was a relative of Mr. Bhagat. In fact, Mr. Balraj Yadav was the son-in-law of a former Telugu Desam leader Ramamurthy who defeated Mr. Jana Reddy in the 1994 Assembly elections. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi chief also went slow on the claims of MLC Chinnapa Reddy and Mr. K.C. Koti Reddy, a staunch supporter of Minister G. Jagdish Reddy, in giving the ticket. Short term The question doing rounds in TRS and BJP circles over the selection of new comers was whether they could match the stature of their Congress rival who had a long innings as minister and Leader of Opposition in the last Assembly. They were also arguing that the voters might see Mr. Jana Reddy as a stopgap and he was not expected to make a mark in the development platter. The development of the constituency might stop if a non-TRS leader was elected.  CM campaign Though Mr. Jana Reddy had already launched his campaign, the TRS leaders said they were way ahead because the Chief Minister had addressed a public meeting at Halia as early as February 10 when he announced fourteen lift-irrigation schemes on Nagarjunasagar left bank canal with a budget of Rs. 3,000 crore. A government degree college was also announced for Halia. The TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao was set to launch road shows to bolster the party chances in the first week of April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newcomers-versus-veteran-in-nagarjunasagar-bypoll/article34194746.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP picks a doctor||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday has announced its candidate P. Ravi Kumar for the upcoming Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency byelection. He would be filing his nomination papers on Tuesday at 1 p.m. with party senior MLA T. Raja Singh accompanying him. Thirtysix-year-old Dr. Kumar’s candidature was announced earlier in the day. A medical graduate from the Osmania Medical College (OMC) and civil assistant surgeon, he hails from Palugu Thanda village of Tripuraram mandal of Nalgonda district and had worked as mandal medical health officer till 2019. His wife P. Santhosha is sarpanch of the village. Top leaders, including Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, senior leaders K. Laxman, N. Indrasena Reddy, N. Ramchander Rao, P. Muralidhar Rao and others have been lined up for the high voltage campaign in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-picks-a-doctor/article34194741.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman found dead in Rajendranagar||A woman aged between 30 and 35 years was found dead under suspicious circumstances at an under construction building in Rajendranagar police limits on Monday morning. Local police did not find any identity card or mobile phone with her. They are trying to trace her identity. Eleven people working at the building are being questioned to find if any of them knew her. Rajendranagar police sub-inspector B Swetha said that a watchman and his wife started to work at the building from Sunday. At around 7 a.m. of Monday morning, the watchman went upstairs and found a woman sitting by side of a pillar on fifth floor. He came down and informed his wife about it. A carpenter too was informed about the woman. “When the carpenter was on third floor, he heard someone crashing on ground. Upon checking, the woman was found lying on ground and gasping for breath. They called an ambulance and the staff declared her dead, Nobody in the locality saw her,” said Ms Swetha. The police are going through CCTV footage from Sunday morning. A case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered, the SI said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)   A case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered. B Swetha,   Rajendranagar SI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead-in-rajendranagar/article34194728.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tipper driver rams lorry to save biker||A tipper driver rammed a lorry while attempting to save a bike rider near Gandhi Nagar bus stop in Rajendranagar limits on Monday early morning. Video footage of the accident went viral in social media platforms where it was seen that a man was seen driving the bike on to the main road. Upon seeing the tipper, he tried to steer away but drove further onto the main road. The driver, D Tirupataiah, turned the tipper and the heavy vehicle collided head on with a lorry coming from other side of the road. The accident occurred at around 6.30 a.m., said Rajendranagar sub-inspector A. Damodar. Cases were registered under Section 337 of the IPC against the tipper driver and the bike rider, whose name was not known, he said.  Cases registered under Section 337 of the IPC against tipper driver and bike rider. A. Damodar,   Rajendranagar SI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tipper-driver-rams-lorry-to-save-biker/article34194729.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLAs made in charge of mandals for bypoll||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has appointed mandal-wise in-charges for byelection to Nagarjunasagar Assembly Constituency for supervising the electioneering. According to party leaders, the party leadership has given the responsibility to seven legislators of the party from different districts for seven mandals in Nagarjunasagar and an urban local body mayor for Nagarjunasagar municipality. The mandal-wise in-charges are: Devarakonda MLA R. Ravindra Kumar for Tirumalagiri, Ramagundam MLA K. Chander (Haliya), Chennur MLA Balka Suman (Peddavoora), Nalgonda MLA K. Bhupal Reddy (Gurrampod), Miryalguda MLA N. Bhaskar Rao (Nidamanur), Mahabubabad MLA B. Shankar Naik (Tripuraram), Sirupur Kagaznagar MLA (Anumula) and Karimnagar Mayor Sunil Rao (Sagar municipality).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mlas-made-in-charge-of-mandals-for-bypoll/article34194966.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Continue canal water for ten more days’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed Irrigation officials to continue release of water from projects for 10 more days for wetting standing paddy crop. He reminded them that farmers in some tail-end areas of canals servicing Suryapet district wanted water release to continue and, therefore, officials must ensure that crop over not a single acre dried up, a release said. It added that Mr. Rao called up Engineer-in-Chief of Irrigation B. Shanker and asked him to take steps for release of water from Kaleswaram project to Lower Manair Dam where the distributory canal to parts of Suryapet district took off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/continue-canal-water-for-ten-more-days/article34194742.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paediatrician gets fellowship||Dr. Rachel Priyanka Pulla, a paediatrician and founder of Healing Train Foundation, received the prestigious MTI (Medical Training Initiative) Fellowship at the Royal Manchester Children’s Hospital, United Kingdom, to pursue super speciality studies in paediatrics and neo-natal intensive care. Dr. Rachel started the "Healing Train Foundation" in 2019 to reach out to children and mainly cater to young girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paediatrician-gets-fellowship/article34194730.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC best in loans to street vendors||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has topped in implementation of the PM SVANidhi (PM Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi) micro credit scheme for street vendors, a press statement from the corporation informed. A total of 34,878 street vendors in city affected by the COVID-19 lockdown last year have been given Rs. 10,000 immediate relief by GHMC, the highest in the country. Over 1.62 lakh street and small time vendors have been identified under this scheme, and details of 1.58 lakh of them have been uploaded onto the MEPMA portal. Identity cards have been issued to over 1.54 lakh vendors. They have been invited to apply for financial assistance of Rs. 10,000, for which a total of 67,233 have responded. Loans have been sanctioned to a total 42,911 vendors, and released for 34,878. Indore trailed at the second place with 34,855 loans while Lucknow stood third with 34,195, the note said. GHMC has also made special efforts to ensure that the street vendors adapted themselves to digital payment platforms, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-best-in-country-for-loans-to-street-vendors/article34194714.ece
30 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Rescued monkey given a proper funeral||In an act of compassion, the members of Annam Seva Foundation, a town-based NGO, performed the last rites of a dead monkey in an elaborate funeral ceremony held here on Monday. The volunteers of the foundation led by its chairman and para-legal volunteer Annam Srinivasa Rao rescued the injured monkey from Wyra town recently and subsequently ensured veterinary care to the injured simian. However, the monkey succumbed to the injuries here on Monday. Mr Srinivasa Rao along with other volunteers performed the final rites of the dead monkey after conducting funeral rituals on the banks of a water body on the outskirts of the town in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rescued-monkey-given-a-proper-funeral/article34194978.ece
30 March 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Crops withering away as borewells go dry in Siddipet||Even as the projects in Siddipet district from Anantasagar to Ranganaiaksagar to Mallannasagar to Kondapochammasagar have adequate water and agricultural fields are resembling a green carpet with the farmers in a happy mood, their counterparts in the adjacent Husnabad revenue division have been facing hardships and are sulking. Crops in thousands of acres are withering away and farmers do not know what to do. Paddy crop was cultivated in a large area by the farmers encouraged by the heavy rainfall this rainy season and even the dried up borewells had started yielding water. However, six months down the lane and come March, they have started drying up and water yield is near zero. “In our village alone about 100 borewells dried up in the last one month. In search of water farmers are digging borewells sometimes up to the depth of 1,000 feet, but of no use. Farmers are using all options to save their crop, but of no use as even the new borewells are not giving expected yield,” Baddam Raji Reddy, sarpanch and farmer of Gudatipally of Akkannapet mandal told The Hindu, adding that increase in cultivable area and excess use of borewells was also one of the reason for them drying up. According to sources, crops are drying up at Husnabad, Akkannapet, Koheda, Bejjanki, Maddur and Dhoolmitta mandals. During the tenure of former Chief Minister of the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, foundation stone was laid for 1.4 tmcft capacity Gouravelli reservoir as part of Pranahita-Chevella Lift Irrigation project. However, with his demise the project lost attention of the government and later the separate State movement has its adverse impact on that. After Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) came to power, as part of redesigning of projects, the capacity of Gouravelli reservoir was increased to 8.2 tmcft, but it has not been completed so far. The land acquisition is not yet completed and some of those who gave up their lands are yet to get compensation. “Farmers are facing several problems due to lack of groundwater. They expected that the groundwater will last long, but it has dried up even before peak summer entered. The situation is pathetic,” CPI State committee member G. Mallesh said. He has also informed that they have planned an agitation programme on March 31 to highlight the problems of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crops-withering-away-as-borewells-go-dry-in-siddipet/article34194968.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Giving finishing touches||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/giving-finishing-touches/article34194736.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In ‘hot’ demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-hot-demand/article34194965.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Final honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/final-honour/article34194974.ece
30 March 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Singur, Nandigram conspirators throwing muck at each other’||Singur and Nandigram are now witnessing the “silence of a crematorium”, former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee said on Monday. The conspirators behind the “devious conspiracy at Singur and Nandigram are now divided into two groups and throwing muck at each other”, he said. His remarks come a day after Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accused Suvendu Adhikari and Sisir Adhikari of a conspiracy to allow police to enter Nandigram on March 14, 2007. Fourteen villagers were killed in the police firing and subsequent violence in Nandigram. The violent movement against land acquisition catapulted Ms. Banerjee to power in the State in 2011. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari responded to Ms. Banerjee remarks, saying she should read her own book on Nandigram as her views now were contrary to what she had written then. In a statement issued by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Mr. Bhattacharjee said that Left Front government believed in the political and economic idea that “agriculture was our foundation, and industry was our future”. “But, unfortunately, during the regime of the present government, we have suffered setbacks in agriculture and no significant industry has come to West Bengal in the last 10 years,” he said. Mr. Bhattacharjee raised the issue of corruption, syndicates and extortion, and said they had made life difficult for the people of the State. The veteran Communist leader said that the Left parties, along with the Congress and the ISF, had come up with the Samyukt Morcha, which alone could bring the State out of the darkness. He appealed to the people to vote for the Samyukt Morcha in the interest of the people so that a new government could be formed. “The new government will assure democracy, communal harmony and rights of the working classes in the State,” Mr. Bhattacharjee added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/singur-nandigram-conspirators-throwing-muck-at-each-other/article34194817.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||NCP, BJP announce candidates for Pandharpur Assembly by-election||The stage is set for the first direct electoral battle for a Maharashtra Assembly seat between the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday announced Bhagirath Bhalke, son of former MLA late Bharat Bhalke, as its candidate for the Pandharpur Assembly bypoll to be conducted on April 17. The BJP declared the candidature of Samadhan Awatade. NCP State president Jayant Patil said that the party had decided to field Mr. Bhalke after party president Sharad Pawar approved the name. Bharat Bhalke, NCP MLA from Pandharpur, succumbed to COVID-19 two months ago leading to the by-election. After announcing the name of Mr. Bhalke, Mr. Patil took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the statement about joining satyagraha for Bangladesh and being arrested. “We must trust our Prime Minister. The trust would increase manifold if we could get information about when he was arrested during the Bangladesh liberation movement and in which police station or jail was he kept,” he said. The Pandharpur bypoll will be the first test of the tripartite MVA against the BJP. The NCP has sought support from its two other partners — the Shiv Sena and the Congress — to ensure victory. The announcement of candidates’ names comes in the backdrop of a rumoured meeting between Mr. Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Ahmedabad. While the NCP has already denied any such meeting, BJP leaders on Monday continued to make such claims. BJP State president Chandrakant Patil even reminded the NCP about the early morning swearing-in ceremony of Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar. The Sena, however, ridiculed the reports of the meeting. Joining chorus with the NCP, Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said, “A few things need to be clarified at the right time. I can assure you that there was no secret meeting between Mr. Pawar and Mr. Shah neither in Ahmedabad nor anywhere else. We should stop the rumours as they will result in nothing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ncp-bjp-announce-candidates-for-pandharpur-assembly-by-election/article34194813.ece
30 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Man accused of rape by second daughter||The NRI Coastal police have booked a 48-year-old man for the second time in a week, after his second daughter accused him of raping her for over a year. On March 24, he was booked and arrested for molesting multiple times the youngest of his three daughters. The 13-year-old girl, fed up with the abuse, had fled to her friend’s house following which her father filed a missing person’s complaint. The girl later revealed about the abuse that she had been facing at her home since January this year. The girl who is at a children’s home in Sanpada, also told the police that she had seen her father sexually  abusing her elder sister aged 14. “The 14-year-old, who is the second daughter of the accused, had then denied the claim by her younger sibling. On Sunday, she told us that she had been raped by him for over a year now,” an officer from NRI Coastal police station said. The victim told the police that she had never confided in anyone about it to save her father from going to jail but after she saw her younger sister open up, she also mustered the courage to do so. Around 12 years ago, the victims had lost their mother after which they lived with their father and elder brother who now works and stays in Thane. According to the police, the man had started abusing the 14-year-old from last year. He used to ask his eldest daughter aged 17 and the youngest to go out for buying something and would rape the second daughter. The youngest one had seen him abusing the second daughter at night as well after everyone slept. Custody till March 30 The accused who is in police custody till March 30 in the first case, will again be arrested in the second case after March 30. He has been arrested under Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-accused-of-rape-by-second-daughter/article34194812.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||No roof over head||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-roof-over-head/article34194816.ece
30 March 2021||SUEZ,||Ship that blocked Suez Canal finally free||Salvage teams on Monday freed a colossal container ship stuck for nearly a week in the Suez Canal, ending a crisis that had clogged one of the world’s most vital waterways and halted billions of dollars a day in maritime commerce. Helped by the high tide, a flotilla of tugboats wrenched the bulbous bow of the skyscraper-sized M.V. Ever Given from the canal’s sandy bank, where it had been lodged since March 23. The tugs blared their horns in jubilation as they guided the Ever Given through the water after days of futility that had captivated the world, drawing scrutiny and social media mockery. The giant vessel headed toward the Great Bitter Lake, a wide stretch of water halfway between the north and south ends of the canal, where it will be inspected, said Evergreen Marine Corp., a major Taiwan-based shipping company that operates the ship. “We pulled it off!” said Peter Berdowski, CEO of Boskalis, the salvage firm hired to extract the Ever Given , in a statement. “I am excited to announce that our team of experts, working in close collaboration with the Suez Canal Authority, successfully refloated the Ever Given… thereby making free passage through the Suez Canal possible again.” Buffeted by a sandstorm, the Ever Given had crashed into a bank of a single-lane stretch of the canal, about 6 km north of the southern entrance. That created a massive traffic jam that held up $9 billion a day in global trade and strained supply chains already burdened by the coronavirus pandemic. At least 367 vessels, carrying everything from crude oil to cattle, are backed up as they wait to traverse the canal. Dozens of others have taken the long, alternate route around the Cape of Good Hope at Africa’s southern tip — a 5,000-km detour that costs ships hundreds of thousands of dollars in fuel and other costs. End to crisis Egypt, which considers the canal a source of national pride and crucial revenue, already has lost over $95 million in tolls, according to the data firm Refinitiv. Even as salvage work continued, President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi, who for days was silent about the crisis, praised Monday’s events. “Egyptians have succeeded in ending the crisis,” he wrote on Facebook, “despite the massive technical complexity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ship-that-blocked-suez-canal-finally-free/article34194354.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||We will work with Pak. for regional peace: China||China on Monday said it was ‘pleased’ with “recent positive interactions” between India and Pakistan and was ‘ready to work with Pakistan to inject positive energy’ into promoting regional peace in South Asia. The comments from Beijing came in response to Pakistan President Arif Alvi last week describing China as the country’s ‘closest’ friend, and in the wake of recent developments on the India-Pakistan front following the ceasefire agreement. “China cherishes its all-weather strategic partnership of cooperation with Pakistan,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “We are ready to take the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic ties as an opportunity to work together in the fight against COVID-19, carry forward our traditional friendship, deepen all-round cooperation, and build an even closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future for the new era.” Mr. Zhao noted that President Alvi “stressed in his speech that Pakistan will focus on development, and remain committed to peaceful coexistence with the outside world” and “called on world leaders, especially South Asian leaders, to discard hatred, prejudice and religious extremism, and jointly safeguard regional peace and prosperity”. China, he said, “supports Pakistan’s foreign policy of peace and good-neighbourliness as well as its commitment to advancing the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan”. “China is pleased with Pakistan’s recent positive interactions with India,” he said. “We are ready to work with Pakistan, and continue to inject positive energy into regional peace, stability and development.” Vaccine sought In a telephone call last week, Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi sought continued Chinese support in supplying vaccines for Pakistan. His counterpart Wang Yi said China would “continue to prioritise China’s vaccine assistance and export” for the country. “The friendship between China and Pakistan has stood the test of time, and the two countries carry forward the good tradition of helping each other in times of difficulty,” Mr. Wang said, adding that “to demonstrate the ironclad friendship between the two countries, China has decided to provide Pakistan with another batch of vaccines”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/we-will-work-with-pak-for-regional-peace-china/article34194356.ece
30 March 2021||BEIJING,||WHO report says animals are likely source of COVID-19||A joint WHO-China study on the origins of COVID-19 says that transmission of the virus from bats to humans through another animal is the most likely scenario and that a lab leak is “extremely unlikely,” according to a draft copy obtained by The Associated Press. The findings offer little new insight into how the virus first emerged. But it does provide more detail on the reasoning behind the researchers’ conclusions. The team proposed further research in every area except the lab leak hypothesis. WHO visit to Wuhan The report, which is expected to be made public on Tuesday, is being closely watched as it could help scientists prevent future pandemics — but it’s also extremely sensitive since China bristles at any suggestion that it is to blame for the current one. Repeated delays in the report’s release have raised questions if the Chinese side was trying to skew its conclusions. The report is based largely on a visit by a WHO team of international experts to Wuhan, the Chinese city where COVID-19 was first detected. The mission was never meant to identify the exact natural source of the virus, an endeavour that typical takes years. For instance, more than 40 years of study has still failed to pinpoint the exact species of bat that are the natural reservoir of Ebola. In the draft, the researchers listed four scenarios in order of likelihood for the emergence of the new coronavirus. Topping the list was transmission from bats through another animal, which they said was likely to very likely. They evaluated direct spread from bats to humans as likely, and said that spread to humans from the packaging of “cold-chain” food products was possible but not likely. That last possibility was previously dismissed by the WHO and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, but researchers on this mission have taken it up again. While it’s possible an infected animal contaminated packaging that was then brought to Wuhan and infected humans, it said the probability is very low. Bats are known to carry coronaviruses and, in fact, the closest relative of the virus that causes COVID-19 has been found in bats. It said similar viruses have been found in pangolins, but scientists have yet to identify the same coronavirus in animals that has been infecting humans. The draft report is inconclusive on whether the outbreak started at a Wuhan seafood market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-report-says-animals-are-likely-source-of-covid-19/article34194346.ece
30 March 2021||COLOMBO,||‘Won’t allow other countries to push for separatism’||Sri Lanka will not allow other countries to achieve their geopolitical needs by introducing “separatism under the guise of power devolution” in the island nation, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has said. “The government does not wish to be associated with the power struggles in the Indian Ocean region by the global giants,” Mr. Rajapaksa said, adding that the sovereignty of Sri Lanka would not be betrayed, a report in the state-run Daily News said on Monday. Speaking at a ‘Discussion with the Village’ event in the southern Matara district on Saturday, he appeared to be responding to India’s intervention at the UN Human Rights Council last week. Although India abstained from voting, it supported the international community’s call in the resolution for devolving political authority, holding of elections to provincial councils and implementation of the 13th Amendment that guarantees a measure of power devolution to the provinces. Greater scrutiny The Council adopted the resolution — with 22 countries backing it — that called for greater scrutiny of human rights in the country, including through an international evidence gathering mechanism, while flagging possible recurrence of human rights violations, citing recent policy decisions impacting Sri Lanka's Tamil and Muslim minorities. In addition to pegging the international call for devolution to the geopolitical needs of “other countries”, Mr. Rajapaksa’s remarks also linked the demand for greater power devolution to separatism, although Sri Lanka’s Tamil political leadership has repeatedly underscored the need for enhanced powers for provinces within a “united, undivided and indivisible” Sri Lanka. “We will face the Geneva challenge without fear. We will never succumb to pressures. We are a free nation. We will not be a victim of big power rivalry in the Indian Ocean,” the President said, a week after the UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution. The statement assumes significance in the wake of persisting calls from some within his government, including senior Ministers, for the abolition of the provincial council system and the 13th Amendment. Less than a fortnight before the vote on the Sri Lanka resolution in Geneva, amid Colombo’s hectic diplomatic outreach seeking support from members, Mr. Rajapaksa “instructed the relevant parties to take steps to expedite the provincial council elections by either withdrawing the Provincial Council Amendment Bill or rectifying its anomalies,” a statement issued by the Presidential Media division said on March 13.  Provincial elections According to local media reports, the holding of provincial council elections is likely to be discussed in Monday’s [March 29] weekly Cabinet meeting. After being elected President in November 2019, Mr. Rajapaksa stated that he would focus more on development rather than devolution. In an interview to The Hindu on November 30, 2019, during his first visit to New Delhi after assuming office, Mr. Rajapaksa said the previous push for “devolution, devolution, devolution” had not changed the situation in Sri Lanka. Full devolution of powers as promised by the 13th Amendment to the Constitution in 1987 could not be implemented “against the wishes and feeling of the majority [Sinhala] community,” he noted, while the legislation envisages power devolution to all provinces in the country, including those with a Sinhala-majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wont-allow-other-countries-to-push-for-separatism/article34194358.ece
30 March 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar bloodshed absolutely outrageous: Biden||U.S. President Joe Biden led global condemnation of an “absolutely outrageous” crackdown by Myanmar’s junta that killed more than 100 people over the weekend, as funerals were held Monday for the victims. Soldiers and police have killed hundreds in a brutal campaign against mass anti-coup protests demanding a restoration of democracy and the release of detained civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. At least 107 people were killed on Saturday, the United Nations said, as the regime staged a major show of might. “It’s absolutely outrageous and based on the reporting I’ve gotten, an awful lot of people have been killed totally unnecessarily,” BMr. iden told reporters. European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said the junta’s celebration of its armed forces had been blighted by “a day of horror and of shame”. The death toll from crackdowns since the February 1 coup has climbed to at least 459, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) monitoring group. AAPP said a further 13 people were killed on Sunday. Despite the weekend violence, protesters turned out at dawn in Kachin state, while students hit the streets in Monywa in the northwest and Mawlamyin city in Mon state, according to local media. Hundreds also paraded through the town of Plate, in Mandalay region, with banners saying: “The people will never be defeated”. Monday saw funerals for some of those killed over the weekend. In Yangon, a one-year-old girl is recovering from surgery after being shot in the eye with a rubber bullet while playing near her houseMeanwhile, an estimated 3,000 people fled through the jungle to seek safety across the border in Thailand on Sunday evening following targeted aerial assaults in Karen state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-bloodshed-absolutely-outrageous-biden/article34194348.ece
30 March 2021||Washington,||U.S. not yet ready to lift trade tariffs on China, says Tai||President Joe Biden’s new trade negotiator has said the United States is not yet ready to lift tariffs on Chinese imports, but could be open to talks with Beijing. U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai, whose appointment was confirmed earlier this month, told The Wall Street Journal she understood the levies were hitting some American companies and consumers, but they can also protect businesses. In January 2020, then-president Donald Trump signed an accord between Beijing and Washington after a bruising trade battle that saw tariffs imposed by both sides. “I have heard people say, ‘Please just take these tariffs off,’” the 47-year-old Ms. Tai told the WSJ in an interview published on Sunday. But the former trade lawyer — whose parents were born in China — warned that suddenly axing the levies could harm the U.S. economy unless a policy reversal is “communicated in a way so that the actors in the economy can make adjustments.” She said it was essential for “companies, traders, manufacturers or their workers” to be able to plan for the future. Ms. Tai told the Journal that while she recognised the tariffs were taking a toll on some U.S. businesses, they had been imposed “to remedy an unbalanced and unfair trade situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-not-yet-ready-to-lift-trade-tariffs-on-china-says-tai/article34194359.ece
30 March 2021||Hong KOng,||No Oscars in Hong Kong for first time since 1969||The Oscars will not be shown in Hong Kong for the first time in more than half a century, its local broadcaster confirmed on Monday, as doubts remained over whether Hollywood’s top awards will air in mainland China. The ceremony has been broadcast in Hong Kong every year since 1969 by free-to-air TVB on its English language channel. But no channel will carry next month’s awards. “It was purely a commercial decision that we decided not to pursue the Oscars this year,” a TVB spokesperson said. China’s censor The decision comes after Bloomberg News reported earlier this month that China’s Communist Party propaganda department has ordered its state-controlled media to play down the awards and not show the ceremony live. The cause is believed to be the nomination of Do Not Split , a short documentary on Hong Kong’s pro-democracy protests, as well as the four nods for Chinese-born U.S. director Chloe Zhao for Nomadland . State media have since run articles critical of the documentary while nationalists online have pounced on Ms. Zhao over comments she made years back that were perceived as being critical of China. State broadcaster CCTV, which has aired previous Oscar ceremonies, has yet to confirm if it will show this year’s event. All media is strictly censored in mainland China. Semi-autonomous Hong Kong maintains more freedoms under a model subbed “One country, two systems”. But the atmosphere is changing quickly. After huge and often violent democracy protests in 2019, Beijing has moved to stamp out opposition, including imposing a sweeping national security law on the city. The pro-democracy opposition has been flattened, but the law has also seeped into the city’s cultural scene. In recent weeks, cinemas have pulled a protest documentary, a university cancelled a press photography exhibiton while a soon-to-open contemporary art museum has said it will allow security officials to vet its collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-oscars-in-hong-kong-for-first-time-since-1969/article34194353.ece
30 March 2021||Colombo,||Easter attack: Catholics want ex-leader prosecuted||Sri Lanka’s Catholic church called on Monday for the former President and his officials to be prosecuted for failing to prevent the suicide bombings two years ago that killed 279 people. An investigation ordered by ex-leader Maithripala Sirisena soon after the April 21 bombings found that he and his intelligence officials had precise information from India about the impending attack 17 days earlier, but failed to prevent it. The report, parts of which were released last month, held Mr. Sirisena criminally liable. “It is absolutely necessary to prosecute without any hesitation and further delays all those political leaders and officials... seconded for prosecution in the report,” Archbishop Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith said in a statement, without directly naming Mr. Sirisena. Sri Lanka has arrested over 200 people in connection with the attacks, but is yet to prosecute anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/easter-attack-catholics-want-ex-leader-prosecuted/article34194427.ece
30 March 2021||Pemba,||Mozambique town deserted as Islamic State group claims control||The northern Mozambique town of Palma was deserted on Monday, its residents fleeing by road, boat or on foot as the Islamic State (IS) group claimed control after a prolonged onslaught. IS-linked militants attacked the town on Wednesday, escalating an insurgency that has spread across northern Mozambique since 2017. Dozens of people, according to the authorities, were killed in coordinated attack, and an unknown number were still missing.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mozambique-town-deserted-as-islamic-state-group-claims-control/article34194428.ece
30 March 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar protesters take to streets||Protesters and mourners took to the streets of Myanmar on Monday after the deadliest weekend since the coup. At least 107 people, including seven children, were killed on Saturday, the UN said, as the regime staged a major show of might for Armed Forces Day — an annual parade showcasing military prowess.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-protesters-take-to-streets/article34194349.ece
30 March 2021||Nairobi,||Obama’s Kenyan ‘granny’ dies aged 99||Sarah Obama, the grandmother of former U.S. President Barack Obama, has died aged 99 in Kenya, her daughter said on Monday. “It is true she has gone to be with the Lord, she passed on this morning,” said an emotional Marsat Onyango, her daughter. Sarah Obama was popularly known as Mama Sarah. Family spokesman Sheikh Musa Ismail said she had been unwell for a week, but had tested negative for COVID-19. Mr. Ismail said Mr. Obama had “sent his condolences.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/obamas-kenyan-granny-dies-aged-99/article34194352.ece
30 March 2021||Jakarta,||Newlywed suicide bombers identified in Indonesia church attack||Two suicide bombers, who attacked an Indonesian cathedral on Palm Sunday, were newlyweds who joined a pro-Islamic State extremist group, police said on Monday, as they arrested others suspected in the plot. About 20 people were wounded in the powerful explosion outside the church in Makassar while worshippers celebrated the start of Holy Week. Both suspects were killed instantly after they detonated a bomb packed with nails, police said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/newlywed-suicide-bombers-identified-in-indonesia-church-attack/article34194350.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Polarisation in times of dispossession||The United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva has passed another resolution on Sri Lanka, as war-time accountability continues to haunt the state for over a decade. Sri Lanka’s prospects in Geneva swing according to geopolitical interests at any given time — reflecting a vote this time with 22 in favour, 11 against and 14 abstaining. Yet, Sri Lanka could not have tried harder to shoot itself in the foot by repressing minorities domestically and actively alienating external powers. In 2015, a resolution was co-sponsored by Sri Lanka and unanimously adopted with overwhelming international support. Indeed, Sri Lanka in the following years was even considered an exception by some for its attempts at reconciliation when the world at large was getting increasingly polarised, as Brexit and the rise of Donald Trump would show us. However, instead of building on that experience, the Rajapaksa government withdrew from that resolution, soon after rising to power, in a show of unilateral arrogance. Meanwhile, Sri Lanka’s increasing economic dependence on China has offended India and many Western countries, with the latter pushing for greater scrutiny of the deteriorating human rights situation. The Tamil and Muslim minorities have also turned to Geneva as the space to engage the government has shrunk with growing authoritarian rule. As geopolitical rivalries exacerbate external relations, what will come of the recent moves in Geneva for the long-suffering people, and particularly the minority communities under constant attack by the state and its majoritarian allies? Mounting Islamophobia The tremendous physical destruction, economic setbacks and the abominable loss of human life and suffering of Tamils during the protracted war have not got the necessary reckoning within the country. Rather, the nationalists across the ethnic divide play with heightened rhetoric of “war heroes” and “war victims” as sound bites for international consumption. Year after year, in the lead up to and during the sessions in Geneva, the Sinhala and Tamil nationalists either claim to save war heroes from international prosecution or find justice for war victims. Replaying the rhetoric of the war and its legacy has been paralleled by mounting Islamophobic attacks over the last decade. The Easter terror attacks in April 2019 by an Islamist radical group and the backlash that followed, including violent attacks on Muslims, culminated in the election of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa in November that year. While the minorities voted overwhelmingly against Mr. Rajapaksa, a tremendous swing in the Sinhala constituencies ensured his thumping victory. During the parliamentary elections in August 2020, the minorities were subdued as fear had eclipsed the communities, and the minority vote was fragmented, with some even supporting coalition partners of the majoritarian regime. The rulers consolidated further power by passing the 20th Amendment, with a comfortable two-thirds in Parliament, and giving unfettered powers to the executive. The regime’s show of force soon after was apparent in blatantly discriminatory measures such as the forced cremation of COVID-19 victims, which was a blow to Muslims’ burial rights. However, heaping power has not translated to clear or coherent policymaking as evident from the government’s thoughtless economic policies, the awful dilly-dallying before permitting burials of pandemic victims and more recently with the burqa ban proposal. The all-powerful government may have the numbers in the legislature but stands exposed for its instability and weakness. Economic woes Underneath the heightened rhetoric in Sri Lanka about Geneva in recent weeks is a devastating economic crisis that has been ravaging the everyday lives of the people. Sri Lanka’s woes are a consequence of liberalising trade and capital flows over four decades ago. Its dependence on imports, and looming external debt payments, both without adequate foreign earnings, have pushed the economy over the cliff into a depression. Keeping Sri Lanka at boiling point, particularly with talk of external and internal enemies, has been one strategy to deflect the people’s attention from their economic distress. Those in power forget how the citizenry has time and again galvanised resistance when bread and butter concerns hit the roof. Furthermore, time is ticking, where the country is for the first time in danger of defaulting on its external debt, even as the grandstanding chauvinist ideologues in government are in denial. In this context, with escalating attacks on the land rights of minorities, an unprecedented protest march from Pottuvil in the south-east to Polihandy in the north mobilised sections of the minorities in early February. The Tamil nationalist mobilisation was joined by Muslim communities in the east, and drew support from up-country Tamils centred in the plantations. This six-day-long march amidst the COVID-19 situation reflected the desperation of the minority communities. The organisation of the march and its conclusion have triggered questions about its inclusivity and the attempts by hard-line Tamil diaspora groups to hijack it. But it has also compelled many to reflect on how and why minorities should forge an alliance. Furthermore, can such an alliance include sections of the Sinhala community to redirect the country on a plural and democratic path? Or will this initiative also end as mere theatrics for consumption in Geneva? Tragic history Sri Lanka’s tragic political history is in many ways a consequence of the failures of its political elite, and their rank opportunism and nationalist world view. They could have negotiated a solution long before Sri Lanka got embroiled in armed conflict. International engagement and solutions have only aggravated national crisis from the time of the Indian Peace Keeping debacle in the late 1980s to the failed Norwegian peace process of mid-2000s that eventually led to the cataclysmic end of the war in 2009. Moreover, the golden opportunity soon after the war to address the ethnic problem was squandered by the Rajapaksa regime due to its hubris, and eventually paid with regime change in 2015. The current Rajapaksa leadership and its core base are again polarising Sri Lanka, undermining possibilities for a plural and democratic future for the country. In this context, India’s vote at the Council was closely watched, given New Delhi’s frustration with Colombo, particularly after it reneged on the East Container Terminal project at the Colombo Port, and the impending Tamil Nadu elections. India abstaining on the resolution was considered a betrayal by the narrow Tamil nationalist lobby, whose nonsensical campaign seeks to move Sri Lanka’s justice question from Geneva to the International Criminal Court. Nevertheless, India in its oral intervention did insist that Provincial Council elections should be held and openly expressed its “support to the Tamils of Sri Lanka for equality, justice, dignity and peace.” Sadly, India under the Modi regime can neither claim to be a beacon of devolution as it undermines the powers of its own States nor does it have the credibility to call out Sri Lanka on Muslim rights, given its own despicable attacks on Muslims. The resolution has been forthright in highlighting the ongoing human rights abuses and places the spotlight on the state of democracy in Sri Lanka. With the economy in free fall, protests by indebted women, disgruntled farmers, and citizens aghast at the government’s destructive environment policy are beginning to question their rulers. Such resistance, from both working people and the minorities whom the regime repeatedly scapegoats, is invaluable in the face of authoritarian repression pregnant with fascist tendencies. It is democratic struggle within Sri Lanka, rather than advocacy in Geneva, that will put an end to this dangerous trajectory of polarisation and dispossession. Ahilan Kadirgamar is a political economist and Senior Lecturer, University of Jaffna||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/polarisation-in-times-of-dispossession/article34194327.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian history and distorted narratives||The University Grants Commission (UGC) document on Learning Outcomes-based Curriculum Framework (LOCF), 2021 for undergraduate education in history begins with the declaration: “History, as we all know, is a vital source to obtain knowledge about a nation’s soul”. The document seeks to create a student body that will compete globally and be aware of its glorious past — one that will reclaim its history as it takes its rightful place in the new global order. It argues that a “new narrative” about the nation needs to emerge through a dialogue between the past and the present. The document is a policy directive to mould undergraduate history education to these ends. However, a critical examination of the curriculum reveals that it falls short of its own stated goals. The idea of Bharat The LOCF makes an argument for inculcating “national pride”. The first paper of the course is titled the ‘Idea of Bharat’ and seeks to study the “primitive life and cultural status of the people of ancient India”. The five units of the course cover the concept of Bharatvarsha; Indian knowledge traditions, art and culture; dharma, philosophy and ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’; science, environment and medical sciences; and Indian economic traditions. The course sits separate from the paper on ancient India (from the earliest time to 550 CE) while exploring ancient philosophical, cultural and material traditions under the umbrella of the term Bharat. The course presents Bharatvarsha as an “eternal” concept, as an originary moment of the nation that lies in its ancient past. If one places this course within the entirety of the curriculum framework, it appears as a period untouched by invasions — be it Kushan or Sunga people of the early historical period, Timur and Babur of the medieval times, or the British in the modern period. It suggests an origin to the nation that is in a pristine ancient past. In this schema, Bharat is an exclusionary concept with little space for land and people south of the Vindhyas, or from the east and the northeast. Further, it communicates no sense that this nation has a history as Bharat, Hindustan, or India, that as a nation it was crafted into being through the struggle of its people. Instead, it reads the nation into a deep past and renders it into a narrative stuck in the stasis of an autochthonous origin. Across the curriculum, changes in history are mapped through the rise and fall of empires, kings and royal dynasties and acts of violence and movement of armies. There is a preoccupation with violence as a motive force of change, whether it is through the examination of the Aryan invasions or the invasions by Timur and Babur. The curriculum cleaves closely to the categories and modes of history-writing effectively utilised by colonial historians. Terms like the ‘Aryan Age’, ‘Hindu society’, and ‘Muslim rulers’ were deployed in colonial historiography to delineate periods as well as causation in Indian history. These were used to pose a contrast between the secular, modern Europe and the backward ‘oriental’ states, with their irrational adherence to religion. By bringing these terms back into use, the curriculum undoes the work of generations of historians to challenge colonial frames of history-writing and foreground socioeconomic and political processes.  The paper on medieval and early modern India (History of India, 1206-1707) best demonstrates the ideological bias in the LOCF. It treats the “Hindu society” and the “Muslim society” as discrete entities in the medieval past, replicating the understanding that these communities existed as separate nations, an understanding that last had valence in the run-up to the partition of India. Further, it presents a history of only north India. In contrast, existing history syllabi currently followed in universities across India have been studying the processes of sociocultural, economic and political changes in different regions like Odisha, the peninsular India, and the Rajputana, Gujarat, Malwa, Bengal regions, among others. But this latest curriculum framework ignores the rich work in regional history and introduces some regions in the syllabus simply as political formations. Pedagogical issues Inherent in the LOCF is a pedagogical critique of current forms of history education. It forcefully argues that young minds are not “empty vessels” to be filled with “static narratives”. Young minds, it declaims, must be participants in knowledge production. This would make history an attractive area of study. However, the pedagogy suggested in the course outlines and recommended readings would achieve just the opposite. The introduction of primary material in the classroom — parts of historical texts, archaeological artefacts, coins, visits to monuments and museums — bring the subject alive for students. Engagement with these allows students to parse historical analysis and make their own judgments. However, the readings prescribed in the curriculum do not contain a single reference to primary archives for history-writing. Further, the suggested readings are devoid of some of the most important works in different areas of history-writing. Readings in history, or any academic discipline for that matter, are central to building the discipline. We look at older writings and follow the evolution of historiographical understanding through critiques and the new questions posed. To develop critical thinking, students must be encouraged to read divergent opinions and engage with different ideological hues of historians. A curriculum framework that does not encourage this only provides faulty foundations for disciplinary education. This curriculum framework, quite egregiously, omits some of the finest writings in Indian history. Instead, a bulk of suggested readings span from the 1900s to, at best, 1980s, with a heavy dependence on the work of Indologists. The omissions seem deliberate and ideologically motivated. Most importantly, rather than enabling students to critically engage with diverse schools of historiography and reaching their own conclusions, it seeks to curtail the resource base available to them. What are the challenges facing a young student in the 21st century? Climate disaster, democracy, freedom of speech and movement, equity in rights and social justice are issues that must be considered. This curriculum, with its colonial underpinnings, is inadequate in preparing students of the 21st century. New modes of thinking about Big Data, digital mapping and visualisations, critical study of the environment, health and society are all missing from this curriculum. Seen in its entirety, the LOCF is determined to project into the past majoritarian and divisive conceptions of contemporary Indian politics. It is limited and narrow in its understanding of processes of historical change, out of touch with the current state of research in the discipline of history, and dated in its pedagogy. In 2021, this curriculum framework seeks to make history education a space for passive rote-learning of ideas that had their heyday in 1921. Anubhuti Maurya teaches history at the Shiv Nadar University. Views are personal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indian-history-and-distorted-narratives/article34194341.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||What could be driving Mumbai’s COVID surge?||Mumbai has recently seen a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, recording on average 5,500 new cases every day over the past week. The weekly total is, by far, the highest the city has ever seen. What does the data tell us about this surge? First, cases have shot up, doubling every week or so. Such speeds were last seen in April 2020. Housing societies were hit first, but the surge rapidly spread to the slums too, where we know that for each infection found, many more are missed. Although the slums are still generating a minority of cases, active infections could well be at the same level as in housing societies, if not higher. The past week has seen a welcome rise in tests. While daily tests are higher than ever before, testing is struggling to keep pace with the rise in infections. Over the past week, test positivity (the ratio of cases to tests) averaged about 13%, a value not seen since October 2020. If we correct for the fact that rapid tests are less sensitive than RT-PCR tests, this number would be higher.   Not at herd immunity What makes the current situation remarkable is that it comes when so many people have already had the disease. Seroprevalence surveys provide estimates of how many people have developed antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes COVID-19. Mumbai’s surveys, taken together with case and fatality data, suggest that at least half the population — quite likely more — has been infected at some point. In theory, people who have already had the disease should act as a buffer, slowing down spread. This assumes, crucially, that after infection they become immune to the disease. The theory is simple: if half the population is immune, then one infected person typically infects only half the number they otherwise would. If a sufficient fraction of the population is immune, outbreaks naturally die out — at this point the population has reached ‘herd immunity’. Clearly Mumbai is not at herd immunity, but some level of immunity should still slow new outbreaks. And here comes the catch: Mumbai’s current outbreak has grown more rapidly than basic calculations would suggest possible. It is not the absolute numbers, but rather the rate of increase which seems at odds with the theory. So, what could explain the rapid increase? Possible explanations First, simple arguments about immunity ignore the crucial fact that people interact with each other in networks, and not ‘randomly’. This means that spread can be uneven: some pockets of the city may have remained relatively unscathed earlier and vulnerable to rapid surges. It was widely expected that if the city returned to normality too quickly, there would be a rise in infections. Uneven spread and opening up had a clear role in driving the city’s second surge and are likely playing some part in this one. However, in contrast with the second surge, recent ward-level data show quickly rising cases across the city’s wards. Something more is happening this time round. This brings us to more speculative questions. Could it be that a SARS-CoV-2 variant which is more transmissible – which spreads from person to person more easily – is circulating in the city? In this case, a relatively small fraction of susceptible people could drive rapid growth, helping explain the rapid rise. Also, could the city be seeing a significant number of reinfections? This might occur if immunity acquired through infection wanes over time or can be bypassed by a so-called ‘immune escape’ variant. The high prevalence of the so-called ‘U.K. variant’ in Punjab (http://bitly.ws/coMQ), and the presence of a novel variant with a double mutation in Maharashtra (http://bitly.ws/coMU), indicate that we should not ignore the possibility of variants playing a part in Mumbai’s new surge. Hopefully increased genome sequencing will soon shed more light on their role in Mumbai. Will the death toll rise? In terms of mortality, Mumbai has already suffered badly. There have been 11,661 recorded COVID-19 deaths in the city so far (as of March 29). But data from the municipal corporation shows an even greater toll: the city saw a huge 24% increase in all-cause mortality in 2020, namely about 22,000 more deaths than expected from the previous five years’ data. So, it is some relief that daily recorded COVID-19 deaths in the city remain well below values during previous waves. On the other hand, we expect delays between infections rising and deaths rising. On average, daily deaths have risen from around five at the beginning of March to around 13 today, and judging from a sharp and continuing increase in hospitalisations further rises are likely. The hope is that mitigation and prior immunity, augmented by vaccination targeted at those most at risk of severe disease, could together reduce deaths during this wave. But counting on this when infection is spreading like wildfire would be dangerous. In summary, it seems likely that multiple factors, including uneven spread and opening up of the city, are playing a part in Mumbai’s latest COVID-19 surge. The extent to which new variants are circulating, and reinfections occurring, needs to be investigated urgently. It goes without saying that Mumbai-dwellers need to be extra careful at the moment – with an emphasis on masking up and avoiding unnecessary crowds and indoor gatherings. This surge still has a long way to go. Murad Banaji, Senior Lecturer in Mathematics at the Department of Design Engineering and Maths at Middlesex University, London, has an interest in disease modelling||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/what-could-be-driving-mumbais-covid-surge/article34194333.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal’s ‘paribartan’ politics||Ideological and political lines are being dizzyingly crossed in West Bengal in the midst of a gruelling eight-phase Assembly election. The Trinamool Congress, which has been at the helm for 10 years, is battling both deep anti-incumbency and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which sniffed power in the State after the 2019 Lok Sabha election and has thrown all its might into the fray. The tactics being used by all — competitive populism, engineering defections, polarisation, carrot-and-threat policy, personal attacks, hyper-nationalism and Bengali pride — have turned the election into an ugly campaign from which Bengal will not emerge unscathed. In 2011, the Trinamool came to power with the slogan of ‘ paribartan’ (change). In 2021, the BJP is pledging ‘asal paribartan’ , or ‘real change’. The party says if voted to power, it will announce the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at its first Cabinet meeting. Silent about CAA in Assam, the BJP came under pressure in Bengal from the Matuas, Hindu migrants from Bangladesh, who live mostly in the North 24 Parganas and Nadia districts, and can influence outcomes of 30-35 Assembly seats. But will the Matuas agree to the provisions of the CAA which require an applicant for citizenship to disclose that he/she has been an illegal immigrant? There are whispers of discontent in the community. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool government had passed a resolution against the CAA; the BJP has not specified how it plans to go about implementing the law. There is unease among the Muslim community in the State too, which forms almost 27% of the population. A year ago, the State BJP leadership had said there are one crore Bangladeshi-Muslims in Bengal and that the party was serious about driving them out. Fickle loyalties The Trinamool and BJP manifestos are competitive and similar. Both are “doling” out a bonanza, says Prof. Samir Das, who teaches Political Science at Calcutta University. Among other things, the BJP has promised 33% reservation for women in government jobs, free education for girls from kindergarten to postgraduation levels, free public transport for women, and an increase in widow pension from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 3,000, to counter Ms. Banerjee’s successful welfare schemes for girls and women. The electorate watched helplessly as politicians hopped from party A to party B. Some jumped ship voluntarily from the Trinamool to the BJP, which won 18 out of 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha election and saw its vote share increase from 4% in the 2011 Assembly election to over 40%. Others, after being denied a ticket, changed colour, throwing questions of beliefs to the wind. Towards the end of the Left Front regime, senior CPI(M) leaders would rue in private about not being able to control “local corruption” and “lumpen elements”. Riding on the wave of two violent anti-land acquisition movements at Nandigram and Singur, the Trinamool Congress stormed into power in 2011, ending three decades of Left rule. Even then, it was evident that the Trinamool, lacking in both ideology and organisation, had broken into Left and Congress ranks to increase its numbers. Cut to 2021, in one of the most polarised elections in the State, the pattern is chillingly familiar. A “lateral shift” has been taking place both at the ground and leadership levels. Mukul Roy, once a right-hand man to Ms. Banerjee, and Suvendu Adhikari, one of the most well-known faces in the Trinamool, are now with the BJP. Bengal is redefining the horse-trading phrase ‘aaya ram gaya ram’ of the 1960s, when an MLA from Haryana changed his party thrice in a day, which eventually led to the anti-defection law of 1985. But the law has not been able to stop such switchovers. What are voters to make of all this? In his speeches, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has attacked the Trinamool leadership for corruption and promoting family politics. The BJP has found it difficult to pick candidates from within its ranks, putting a question mark on its bench strength. If 30-35 of the candidates announced by the BJP are from its bitter rival Trinamool, what is changing? The BJP has picked up the Trinamool poll slogan Khela hobe (game on) and raised a victory cry even before the election is over with Khela shesh (game over). The Left appears to have done a course correction, fielding young, feisty leaders like Meenakshi Mukherjee (Nandigram) and Aishe Ghosh (Jamuria) and using digital media with catchy songs and memes to reach out to the young. But the tie-up with Furfura cleric Abbas Siddique has raised eyebrows, with many fearing it may be counter-productive. Overall, the campaign has been highly aggressive, and the viciousness ensures that whoever wins, democracy is the loser. sudipta.datta@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bengals-paribartan-politics/article34194343.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Diversity and inclusivity||India has a diverse population. Unfortunately, certain social structures have prevented thousands of individuals from realising their potential, and the country from benefiting from their skills and talent. The government has tried to remedy this situation through constitutional and statutory provisions for reservation quotas, but as organisations the world over have realised, such efforts to enhance equity and diversity need to be matched by a steely resolve to facilitate genuine inclusion. The experience at the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB) with respect to students with disability is instructive in this regard. The institute admitted students with disabilities even before the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 was introduced. But it soon realised that there is much more to inclusivity. In a push towards greater inclusivity, in 2009, with generous support from Mphasis, IIMB set up a dedicated Office of Disability Services to act as a nodal support point for students with disability, in an effort to study the individual needs of each student and provide the required accommodations proactively. Modified approach Inclusivity also means rethinking the conventional notions of fairness in examinations. Giving a student with serious visual impairment an examination paper based on graphs is an unfair evaluation of her understanding of the fundamental concepts an institute may wish to impart. To that extent, sensitisation workshops with faculty (now a regular feature) have changed the approach to the entire evaluation process.  The IIMB’s efforts have been recognised by the prestigious NCPEDP-Mphasis Universal Design Award for pioneering work in promoting accessibility and universal design and ensuring a life of equality and dignity for students with disabilities. But apart from just disability, the institute is committed to all forms of diversity and inclusivity — IIM Bangalore has a good record in both complying with government-mandated admission quotas for SC, ST, and OBC candidates to the flagship two-year postgraduate programme in management leading to an MBA degree, and in facilitating the placement of all graduates in good roles. Other dimensions Today, IIMB is applying the same integrated approach that it followed for students with disability to other dimensions of diversity. One such challenge — the recruitment of faculty within certain categories — was identified in recent reports of The Hindu . To this effect, the institute is balancing the addressal of two laws — the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Act 2019 and the Indian Institutes of Management Act, 2017. The latter recognises IIMs as Institutions of National Importance which must aspire for global standards. While the institute has been successful in hiring four excellent faculty members from the SC and ST categories over the last year, there is a serious shortage of qualified candidates from reserved categories in certain areas and disciplines, which impedes hiring efforts. While an obvious step is to focus on the admission of high-potential students from reserved categories to doctoral programmes, alumni discussions reveal that doctoral studies are often not the first preference for students of merit from these communities. Their priority is to rapidly ascend the ladder of economic stability, for which a reliable pathway is the MBA degree. Given this insight, IIMB launched the N.S. Ramaswamy Pre-doctoral Programme in 2019. This internally-funded academic and mentoring initiative selects around 10 candidates from under-privileged categories every year and helps them prepare for admission to doctoral studies. As a globally-ranked institution committed to excellence in management and entrepreneurship, IIMB continues to strive for a multi-dimensional and integrated approach to diversity and inclusion. The author is the Director of IIM Bangalore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/diversity-and-inclusivity/article34194338.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Peaceful start||The first phase of polling in West Bengal and Assam on Saturday witnessed an impressive turnout. In some constituencies, the turnout was well above 80%. In Assam, 47 Assembly constituencies, and in West Bengal, 30 constituencies went to the polls, with turnouts of 79.97% and 84.63%, respectively. In 2016, the ruling Trinamool Congress won 26 of the 30 seats in West Bengal in the tribal regions of Jangalmahal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP made significant inroads into the region. In Assam, the ruling BJP won 35 of the 47 seats in 2016, where tribal communities employed in tea estates shifted from the Congress to the BJP in large numbers. The BJP is pulling out all the stops to retain power in Assam and wrest it in West Bengal for the first time. The fierce nature of the contest in West Bengal is far too evident, but still there was no major violence in the first phase. The BJP has complained of violence by the TMC, while the latter has complained of partisanship by the Election Commission. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has claimed that the BJP is set to win 26 of the 30 seats in West Bengal and 37 of the 47 seats in Assam. The TMC has ridiculed the claim. In Assam, the Congress has claimed to have made major gains in the first phase. The claims and counterclaims can only be read as signalling for supporters and rivals alike by each side, but there are certain trends that are notable as the campaign for the second phase on April 1 peaks. Elections are being held in eight phases in West Bengal and three phases in Assam. The BJP in Assam is not as defensive as the TMC is in West Bengal. The shenanigans of its leaders have resulted in an unmistakable anti-incumbency against the TMC, which has been in power for 10 years now. The party is trying to recover lost ground with new promises and by riding on the personal popularity that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee continues to command. Though it has no leader of any consequence in the State, and its campaign is being spearheaded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Shah, the BJP hopes to harvest anti-TMC sentiments and win power. The BJP has not announced a chief ministerial candidate in West Bengal; and in Assam, the paradox is that its machinery is dependent more on the powerful minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, than Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Mr. Modi’s visit to Bangladesh in the midst of the election has triggered communal tensions there. The Hindu minority in Bangladesh is coming under attack by Islamists, and the ripple effects of this will be felt in the next phase in both States. The danger of communal polarisation is ever-present, but it might be too much to expect the BJP and the TMC to keep the campaign free of hateful rhetoric in the phases ahead. The Election Commission might need to step in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/peaceful-start/article34194328.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Beating the best||India’s thrill-a-minute seven-run victory over England in the third and final ODI in Pune on Sunday completed a clean sweep for the home nation across formats. It’s an achievement India should be proud of, for England, despite losing the Tests comprehensively (1-3), proved that it was a formidable limited-overs side, as reflected in its status as the world’s top-ranked outfit in both ODIs and T20Is and in the fact that both series required deciders. England is the reigning ICC Men’s World champion, and had lost just one of its last 14 bilateral ODI series and none of its last six in T20Is. But India triumphed, thanks to some smart play at crunch moments, made possible by an astonishing array of made-to-order cricketers. The wicket-taking exploits of Shardul Thakur (eight in T20Is and seven in ODIs to top the lists), successful debuts for Ishan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav in T20Is, and Prasidh Krishna and Krunal Pandya in ODIs, and Hardik Pandya’s full-fledged return to bowling duties were big positives. Bhuvneshwar Kumar’s dream comeback from injury was a huge plus. The 31-year-old’s economy rate of 6.38 across 18 overs in five T20Is was the best for any bowler. More astounding was his rate of 4.65 across 29 overs in three ODIs, where five of the six innings played saw scores in excess of 315. The limited-overs leg also provided India the opportunity to try and adopt a different approach in white-ball cricket, ahead of the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup at home later this year. It started with skipper Virat Kohli wanting to play “baggage-free” cricket, perhaps alluding to India’s formulaic style that had prioritised crafty build-ups, slow reveals and end-over flourishes over the current-era template of power-hitting from start to finish. The setting was just about right; played across just two venues — Ahmedabad (T20Is) and Pune (ODIs) — pitch and conditions, two of cricket’s biggest variables, were all but taken out of the equation. The roles that Ishan and Suryakumar — part of the Mumbai Indians set-up which epitomises the all-out attacking approach — played in the T20I series win cannot be understated. The relentless hitting from Rishabh Pant and Hardik in the ODI series-decider, despite India having lost four of the best batsmen before the half-way stage, was indicative of similar thinking. This is a method England has patented, through the likes of Jonny Bairstow, Jason Roy and Jos Buttler. If Ben Stokes’ stunning 52-ball 99 coming in at No.3 in the second ODI was its acme, Sam Curran’s gallant 95 not out at No.8 in the final match was most typical of this attitude. For India’s heroes, the impending Indian Premier League, and a few bilateral series which are set to follow, will provide enough chances to fine-tune these skills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beating-the-best/article34194334.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Fighting in Dacca||Sheikh Mujibur Rehman’s Liberation Army to-day [March 29] all but took over the capital city of Dacca after five days of bloody fighting in East Pakistan, according to Free Bangla Radio. Fighting was on to-night [March 29] for the airport and cantonment areas of the city after the Dacca radio station once again went back into the hands of Sheikh’s men, the radio claimed. Bangla Desh freedom-fighters were to-day in complete control of two of the three Army cantonments in the land, the radio said. These were identified as the Jessore and Comilla cantonments. Both had been seized from the Pakistani Amy, it said. For the first time to-day, Martial Law authorities, now under a new administrator, Lt. Gen. Irshad Ali Khan, dropped paratroopers at several places to capture five other transmitters operated by the Bangla Radio, reports said. Fighting unparalleled in its bitterness and savage brutality was to-night [March 29] raging in Dacca, according to reliable reports reaching Shillong. In a last ditch bid to stem the tide of nationalism the West Pakistani forces pressed into service sabre jets, tanks and heavy artillery against the ill-equipped liberation army. Bitter fighting was also going on in Khulna, Sylhet and Rangpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fighting-in-dacca/article34194337.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||T.N.’s capex push bolsters growth hopes||The higher-than-budgeted capital expenditure undertaken in Tamil Nadu over 2020-21, is a ‘surprising’ positive that will boost the State’s medium-to-long-term growth prospects, India Ratings and Research has said in a report. Generally, State governments rein in capital expenditure when revenues are stressed. Ahead of the assembly elections, the Tamil Nadu government presented a vote on account for FY22 and a full budget is expected to be presented by the newly elected government. Revised estimates for capital expenditure this year are 8.72% higher than original Budget estimates and 58.65% higher than that incurred in 2019-20, Fitch Group-owned research firm Ind-Ra pointed out. “India Ratings (Ind-Ra) believes an increase in the capex would enhance the State’s productive capacity and hence be supportive of medium- to-long-term growth prospects of the state economy,” it said. While Tamil Nadu (T.N.) is expected to record the highest fiscal deficit in this millennium as per the revised estimates for FY21 presented in the assembly, Ind-Ra has stressed that almost two-thirds of this slippage is driven by pandemic- and lockdown-induced revenue shortfalls without a commensurate reduction in revenue expenditure. This, it said, was in line with trends in other States and at the national level. “The fiscal deficit increased sharply to 5.4% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in FY21 against the budget estimate of 2.4% (from 3.2% in the previous year). A notable shortfall in revenue receipts compared with FY21 (BE) contributed nearly 66% of the slippage in fiscal deficit. The revenue account, which was consistently in deficit since 2013-14, clocked a considerably higher deficit of 3.4% this year than the budgeted 0.5% of GSDP (from 1.9% a year earlier),” the Ind-Ra report noted. The State has budgeted a revenue deficit of 1.9% of GSDP and a fiscal deficit of 3.9% of GSDP in 2021-22, but these numbers may change after the formation of the next government. ‘Lower share for State’ The report also flagged the marginally lower share of the divisible pool of taxes for the State affecting revenue flows, with shortfall in the State’s own tax revenue accounting for nearly 40% of the fiscal deficit slippage, followed by State’s share in central taxes which accounted for 16.63% of the slippage. “TN is one of the eight States which has a lower share in the divisible pool of central taxes as per the 15th Finance Commission (FC) award. The State’s share in central taxes reduced to 4.08% in the 15th FC award period from 4.10% in the 14th FC award period of 2015-16 to 2019-20,” it explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tns-capex-push-bolsters-growth-hopes/article34194309.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for small, medium ticket houses back, says Shriram HF CEO||Shriram Housing Finance, which operates in the affordable home loan segment, is targeting a growth of more than 50% in FY22, says MD & CEO Ravi Subramanian . Edited excerpts:  How will the housing finance sector benefit from the Union Budget’s provisions? The government continues to be focussed on its agenda of ‘Housing for All’. This Budget announced the extension of PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana) benefits. The emphasis on this segment is clear with the affordable housing rental programmes. It’s good to see that there is a clear plan for ensuring benefits to the last consumer. There are also some changes at the sector level which are worth mentioning. One good change is that AIFs are now permitted to buy NPAs. This was earlier restricted to only ARCs. With AIFs entering this space, it brings in some competition. This is likely to expand the market. From a pure housing market perspective, a lot of things have changed over the last 3-5 months and demand for small and medium ticket houses is coming back. Also, work from home has pushed the demand in mini-metros, even in metros people are upgrading their homes. We expect this demand to continue in the new year as well. What is the growth you are expecting? If you look at our home loan book, we are looking at a growth of around 50-60% next year. Our numbers this year, despite the three months of COVID, will be about 60% more than last year. So effectively, we would double our volumes in FY22 when compared to FY20. We are in a strong growth trajectory, and we have made adequate arrangements, both financially and operationally, to manage this growth efficiently. Where do you stand vis-a-vis larger peers? We operate in the affordable housing finance segment. Our AUM is Rs. 3,500 crore and we have grown by about roughly 50% CAGR over the last two years. We have identified 6 States as our core markets, where we would build significantly deep-rooted distribution networks. Apart from this, we would continue to have operations in major cities of another 3-4 States. Our focus is to have a well-entrenched network across the South and West. In the Southern states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, we focus on affordable housing. Shriram Group has a large customer base across various loans products. Shriram is a very strong brand in these States and we co-exist with other businesses of the group. In the Western region which is largely Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan, we focus on the mid-income segment. Over here, our focus is to build and grow the Shriram brand. Our core segment continues to be self-employed customers where we use internal credit tools to assess the customer and extend credit accordingly. Overall, we operate in a diversified geo-segment for sourcing loans. And since we are working across segments spanning from affordable to the low-to-mid income category, we are able to maintain an average ticket size of Rs. 15 lakh. What has been the impact of COVID-19 on your company? Are any NPAs likely to build up? As at quarter ended December 2020, despite COVID, our stage III assets have increased by merely 10 basis points. Our portfolio has performed very well. Provisioning has gone up marginally in line with our stage III assets and the focus has been on efficient collections. In January 2019, we brought in a new way of doing business which included new credit appraisal processes. The same has resulted in us having nil NPA in our Rs. 2,000-crore plus business sourced since January 2019. In 2019, you set new parameters and standards. How has that helped? We were earlier operating through our 88 branches across the country which we reduced to 55 with more manageable and smaller, focussed geographies because we were keen to bring in efficiency of scale in these markets. This minor restraint helped us increase our domination in the targeted markets. Secondly, we brought in a management team, which will actually take the business from here to Rs. 10,000-15,000 crore. Our new team is capable of scaling our current business to 5X or 6X of the size. Further, we have moved a lot of our customer service to the digital model. We have launched an app which assists the customer with any information he may need on his loan, including downloading essential documents or making EMI payment.  What is your overall growth plan? We will end this year at Rs. 3,700 crore, which is roughly 60% more than last year’s AUM. Our growth plan on the AUM side is to get to Rs. 6,000 crore next year and Rs. 10,000 crore the year after. We intend to grow from 70-plus branches to around 175 branches by March 2022. We would continue to enhance our distribution in our focussed markets. We will go deeper in the States and dominate the States of the South — Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, and also the States of Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat. In the coming couple of quarters, we may see infusion of growth capital in the range of Rs. 300-400 crore in SHFL. Our present net worth is about Rs. 600 crore, and in another two quarters we will reach an optimal leverage level. So, we will be raising capital in the near future and it is likely to be from the parent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-for-small-medium-ticket-houses-back-says-shriram-hf-ceo/article34194317.ece
30 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Kalyan Jewellers to widen retail footprint by 13%||Kalyan Jewellers has announced plans to increase its retail footprint by 13% in the first quarter of FY22. The company plans to enhance operations across seven States and will add 14 new showrooms, all on April 24, 2021. While the jewellery major plans to scale up existing operations in tier-1 cities, with five new outlets including a flagship showroom in Chennai, it will also focus on tier-2 and tier-3 markets by adding nine mid-size showrooms. “We are positive that we will be able to capitalise on the foundations that we have laid, and leverage our already established processes, purchase ecosystem and market understanding to aid growth momentum,” said T.S. Kalyanaraman, CMD, Kalyan Jewellers. The company said it recently raised Rs. 1,175 crore through an IPO and most of its proceeds were earmarked towards enhancement of working capital. The company said it would enhance its working capital by Rs. 500 crore in the first quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kalyan-jewellers-to-widen-retail-footprint-by-13/article34194313.ece
30 March 2021||MUMBAI,||1Organic to foray into South, raise capital||1Organic, a start-up that sources raw materials from farmer groups directly, has announced plans to foray into the South in two months and raise capital for growth. The company, which commenced operations in September 2020 amid the thick of the pandemic with a self-funded capital, currently caters to markets in Pune, Mumbai, Delhi and Gurugram and is now gearing up for expansion, said Sharmila Oswal, co-founder, 1Organic. “Ours is a health mission to turn kitchens into pharmacies through supply of organic products,” added Ms. Oswal, who is also a social agriculturist. “In the next two months, we will expand sales operations to Bengaluru and other southern markets,” said Ms. Oswal. “In the next six months we will need to raise funds to meet our growth plans,” she said without quantifying the amount. “We are breaking the myth that organic food is expensive and only the rich could afford it,” Ms. Oswal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/1organic-to-foray-into-south-raise-capital/article34194315.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||MobiKwik asserts all user, firm’s data ‘safe, secure’||Payments app operator MobiKwik on Monday asserted that the data of its users and company was “completely safe and secure” in the wake of media reports and a flurry of social media posts on Twitter alleging that crucial know-your-customer (KYC) data had been leaked and was available for purchase online. “Some media-crazed so-called security researchers have repeatedly attempted to present concocted files wasting precious time of our organisation as well as members of the media,” MobiKwik said in a statement. “We thoroughly investigated and did not find any security lapses. Our user and company data is completely safe and secure,” a company spokesperson added. On February 26, Internet security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia tweeted: “Again!! 11 Crore Indian Cardholder’s Cards Data Including personal details & KYC soft copy (PAN, Aadhar etc) allegedly leaked from a company’s Server in India. 6 TB KYC Data and 350GB compressed mysql dump.” That tweet, however, did not name any company. On Monday, the hacker handle Elliot Alderson tweeted: “Probably the largest KYC data leak in history. Congrats Mobikwik...”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mobikwik-asserts-all-user-firms-data-safe-secure/article34194319.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||NINL draws multiple EoIs for privatisation||The government has received multiple expressions of interest from bidders for privatisation of Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd. (NINL), DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said on Monday. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) had in January invited preliminary bids for the strategic sale of NINL. The last date for bid submission was March 29. “Multiple expressions of interest received for privatisation of Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd. (NINL),” Mr. Pandey tweeted. The transaction has now moved ahead to the second stage, the DIPAM Secretary added. NINL is a joint venture of MMTC, NMDC, BHEL, MECON and two Odisha government-owned undertakings — OMC and IPICOL. In January last year, the Cabinet had approved strategic disinvestment of equity shareholding of MMTC (49.78%), NMDC (10.10%), MECON (0.68%), BHEL (0.68%), IPICOL (12%) and OMC (20.47%) in NINL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ninl-draws-multiple-eois-for-privatisation/article34194321.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ascendas trust signs Rs. 1,441-cr. IT park deal||Ascendas India Trust (a-iTrust) will acquire 1.65 million sq. ft area at an IT park in Bengaluru for an estimated deal value of Rs. 1,441 crore, according to a statement. Ascendas Property Fund Trustee Pte. Ltd., the Trustee-Manager of a-iTrust, has entered into a forward purchase agreement with Gardencity Realty Pvt. Ltd. to acquire two buildings in an IT Park with a total net leasable area of up to 1.65 million sq. ft located at Hebbal, Bengaluru. a-iTrust will provide funding for the development of the project as part of the arrangement, the company said in a statement. It will subsequently acquire a net leasable area of up to 1.65 million sq. ft in two buildings spread across two land parcels. Initially, and during the construction period, a-iTrust’s investment in the construction of the project will be through debt. a-iTrust will provide funding towards development of the project of about Rs. 828 crore. Upon the project obtaining the occupancy certificate and fulfilment of other key conditions, a-iTrust shall purchase 100% of the shares of the two entities developing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ascendas-trust-signs-rs-1441-cr-it-park-deal/article34194324.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Biocon ties with Brazil’s Libbs for generic drugs||Biopharmaceutical major Biocon on Monday said wholly owned subsidiary Biocon Pharma has formed a partnership with Brazilian firm Libbs Farmaceutica to unveil generic drugs in Brazil, the world’s sixth-most populous country. As part of the out-licensing deal, the Biocon arm will be responsible for drug development and manufacturing, while Libbs will leverage its expertise and reach in Brazil to import, distribute and market, subject to approvals from the Brazilian health regulator ANVISA. The partnership, which marks the entry of Biocon’s generic formulations into Latin America, sought to build upon a successful association with Libbs that began in 2017 to introduce biosimilar Trastuzumab in Brazil, a release from Biocon said. Biocon CEO and MD Siddharth Mittal said “Expanding our association with Libbs Farmaceutica to our generic formulations will help us establish a firm footing in Latin America, starting with Brazil.” The partnership builds on Biocon’s ability to forward integrate its portfolio of complex and differentiated APIs into finished dosages, said Abhijit Zutshi, commercial head-Global Generics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/biocon-ties-with-brazils-libbs-for-generic-drugs/article34194311.ece
30 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Start-ups to see upswing by mid-2021’||While the pandemic’s impact on the start-up segment was “debilitating” with about 15% temporarily shutting shop, Wadhwani Foundation — a not-for-profit group that works with start-ups in 20 countries — said it expected unparalleled growth going forward, in sectors such as healthcare, online education and e-commerce, due to a wave of digitisation. “In 2020, the impact of COVID-19 on start-ups was debilitating. We expect unprecedented growth in the coming years because of the massive pent-up demand,” said Ajay Kela, President and CEO, Wadhwani Foundation. He added that the recovery would be gradual, and that start-up activity may see an upswing from mid-2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/start-ups-to-see-upswing-by-mid-2021/article34194318.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Equitas SFB names retail, unit chiefs||Equitas Small Finance Bank (ESFB) has roped in industry veterans for its retail assets, technology, digital, operations and human resources functions. The bank has appointed Narayanan Easwaran as chief technology officer and Vaibhav Joshi as chief digital officer. Pallab Mukherji is the new chief people officer while Siby Sebastian has been named executive vice president — operations. Rohit Phadke is the new president and head of retail assets, the bank said in a statement. The chief digital officer will be based out of the bank’s Mumbai office, while others would be located in Chennai. The bank is headquartered in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equitas-sfb-names-retail-unit-chiefs/article34194322.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘To have played alongside Jaisimha is unforgettable’||For Sunil Gavaskar it was a trip down memory lane when he delivered the M.L. Jaisimha memorial lecture at the Jaisimha Academy here on Monday. Clearly struggling to control his emotions, the batting great said he remains a fan of Jai for ever. “For me to visit this academy and speak a little about my hero is a privilege and a pleasure,” he said. Early instance “My first memories of seeing a black and white picture of Jai are from 1959. I don’t know the reason but since then I became a huge fan of him,” Gavaskar said. “Of course, one of my fondest memories is seeing Jai train with the Indian team at the Brabourne Stadium (Mumbai) once. Me and my good friend Milind Rege were waiting to have a glimpse of him with our faces coming out through the fencing. When a batsman hit a ball, it came right in front of us; we made a valiant effort to collect it and then we saw Jai running towards us. The first words he said to us were ‘don’t worry boys, leave it, I will take it’,” Gavaskar recalled.  “And, to have played alongside him for India later on the 1971 tour of West Indies is something unforgettable. I felt like sharing 350 of the 774 runs I scored on that tour with Jai and Salim uncle (Durani) who were not selected for the England tour which followed immediately (both Jaisimha and Durani had a disappointing run in the West Indies). With eyes turning wet, Gavaskar said that every year on March 3 (Jaisimha’s birthday, born in 1939) he would get up and say happy birthday Jai. “But, after he passed away on July 7 (1999) , I was not wanting to get up on that day,” he said turning towards Jayanti Jaisimha (wife of Jaisimha) on the dais. “I remember coming on that fateful day to Hyderabad. Before that I didn’t want to see him in any sort of pain. But, my wife told me that I was selfish in not visiting my hero. But, when she said ‘just think how Jai would feel when you see him’, then I took the morning flight and went to Jai’s place. Sat with him for sometime. He was pressing my hands. Luckily, he looked the way I wanted him to be. But, felt terrible when told that he may not last more than 48 hours,” Gavaskar recalled. “Coincidentally, July 7 is also the birthday of one of India’s greatest cricketers MSD (Dhoni). And I am a big fan of his too, for he reminds me a lot of Jai and lifts up my mood whenever I see him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/to-have-played-alongside-jaisimha-is-unforgettable/article34194703.ece
30 March 2021||LONDON,||Top contenders win in varying fashion||France, England, Germany and Italy all head their groups after victories in World Cup qualifying on Sunday while Spain left it late to win in Georgia and Denmark smashed eight past Moldova. World champion France got its first win of the campaign by beating Kazakhstan 2-0 in Nur-Sultan after a stuttering start to qualifying with Wednesday’s 1-1 draw at home to Ukraine. Forward Ousmane Dembele broke the deadlock in the 20th minute with a right-foot shot after being set up by Anthony Martial following a defence-splitting pass from Paul Pogba. Les Bleus doubled the lead on the stroke of halftime when Sergiy Maliy headed a cross into his own net. France moved top of the Group D standings with four points, two ahead of Finland and Ukraine who drew 1-1 in Kiev. Spain manages a win It was a more nervous affair for Spain which needed a stoppage time goal from halftime substitute Dani Olmo to grab a 2-1 win away to Georgia in Group B. Harry Kane scored his first England goal since 2019 to lead his side to a comfortable 2-0 win against Albania in Group I. Midfielder Mason Mount scored the other goal. England is on top with six points from two games before its clash with Poland on Wednesday. The Poles are on four points after beating Andorra 3-0 with Robert Lewandowski on target again, with two goals. However, the prolific forward was ruled out of the England match because of a right knee injury. Hungary is also on four points after winning 3-0 in San Marino. Gnabry on target Germany maintained its perfect start after an early Serge Gnabry goal gave it a 1-0 win over Romania in Group J. Armenia is level on six points with Germany after an impressive 2-0 win over Iceland. Italy tops Group C with maximum points after Andrea Belotti and Manuel Locatelli secured a 2-0 win over Bulgaria in Sofia. The Azzurri is ahead of Switzerland on goal difference after Xherdan Shaqiri’s second minute strike was enough for a 1-0 win over Lithuania in St Gallen. Denmark leads Group F with six points from its opening two games and a handsome plus 10 goal difference after crushing Moldova 8-0, its record win in major tournament qualifying. Five goals in a 21-minute spell in the first-half did the damage.  The results:   Group B: Georgia 1 (Kvaratskhelia 44) lost to Spain 2 (Torres 56, Olmo 90+2); Kosovo 0 lost to Sweden 3 (Augustinsson 12, Isak 35, S. Larsson 70-pen).   Group C: Bulgaria 0 lost to Italy 2 (Belotti 43-pen, Locatelli 83); Switzerland 1 (Shaqiri 2) bt Lithuania 0. Group D: Kazakhstan 0 lost to France 2 (Dembele 20, Maliy 44-og); Ukraine 1 (Junior Moraes 80) drew with Finland 1 (Pukki 89-pen).   Group F: Denmark 8 (Dolberg 19-pen, 48, Damsgaard 22, 29, Stryger Larsen 35, Jensen 39, Skov 81, Ingvartsen 89) bt Moldova 0; Israel 1 (D. Peretz 44) drew with Scotland (Fraser 56) 1; Austria 3 (Dragovic 30, Baumgartner 37, Kalajdzic 44) bt Faroe Islands 1 (Nattestad 19).   Group I: Albania 0 lost to England 2 (Kane 39, Mount 63); San Marino 0 lost to Hungary 3 (Szalai 13-pen, Sallai 71, Nikolic 88-pen); Poland 3 (Lewandowski 30, 55, Swiderski 88) bt Andorra 0.   Group J: Armenia 2 (Barseghyan 53, Bayramyan 74) bt Iceland 0; North Macedonia 5 (Bardi 7, Trajkovski 51, 54, Elmas 62, Nestorovski 82-pen) bt Liechtenstein 0; Romania 0 lost to Germany 1 (Gnabry 17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-contenders-win-in-varying-fashion/article34194464.ece
30 March 2021||PUNE,||Gains outweigh losses in India’s balance sheet||India lost 10 of the 12 tosses across the three formats, but Kohli’s cavaliers completed a clean-sweep, winning the Test, T20I and ODI series against England played over the last two months. The three-match ODI contest, which concluded with a nail-biting seven-run victory for India on Sunday, signified the first of many preparatory steps towards the 2023 World Cup, also to be played on Indian soil. Here’s a look at some of the team’s gains — and pains — from the ODI series. Bhuvi back, Shardul continues to attack After an injury-enforced hiatus of more than a year, Bhuvneshwar Kumar returned to the limited-over set-up last month. Having gained confidence in the T20Is, Bhuvneshwar was back at his miserly best in the ODIs. On the flat beds laid out at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium, his economy-rate of 4.65 in 29 overs stood out, comfortably the best of the series. Add his six wickets, and Bhuvneshwar seems one of Kohli’s top options even after Jasprit Bumrah returns. Shardul Thakur, on the other hand, all but cemented his spot in white-ball cricket as third pacer and useful No. 8 batsman. His high economy-rate often draws comment, but that’s expected for a wicket-taker. The last week has shown that Shardul succeeds against the best of batsmen, even against the odds. In the third ODI, for instance, he was brought into the attack in the 14th over and cleaned up England’s middle-order in quick time to put India in the ascendancy. Licence to thrill Thanks to a less-than-reliable middle-order over the last five years, India’s top three were forced to adopt the conventional approach of building an innings before letting loose at the death. But with K.L. Rahul regaining his mojo and the fearsome pair of Rishabh Pant and Hardik Pandya back at their best, India has the ability to emulate England’s crash-bang-wallop mantra right through the innings. Both Pant and Hardik have shown that their methodical madness — one manufacturing strokes, the other using raw power to clear the field with elan — can not only devastate the opposition but also free up Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan at the top. End of Kul-Cha? When five pacers and a solitary spinner, Krunal Pandya, took the field in the decider, it was the first instance of India’s ODI XI featuring neither Kuldeep Yadav nor Yuzvendra Chahal since the 2017 Champions Trophy. While Chahal was benched for the ODIs, Kuldeep appeared to have lost his zip and turn in the first two games. The left-arm wrist-spinner’s mishandling over the last two years seems to have affected his confidence. As a result, India will be desperate to see Ravindra Jadeja return from his injury break to partner Chahal. With R. Ashwin having been sidelined in the shorter formats, without Jadeja and Chahal, the coffers seem empty — the combined figures of India’s spinners in the series read 39-0-312-1.  Congratulations guys for holding up and having a season of a lifetime in toughest of times across all formats and hemispheres against two of the best teams in the world. Take a bow!! Ravi Shastri’s tweet   I’m proud of the effort and the attitude shown by the boys. I think we've learned a lot Chris Silverwood England coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gains-outweigh-losses-in-indias-balance-sheet/article34194426.ece
30 March 2021||Chennai,||‘Bowlers love playing under Dhoni’||Chennai Super Kings all-rounder K. Gowtham, on Monday, said bowlers love playing under M.S.Dhoni because he knows their strength and how to get the best out of them. “Bowlers love playing under Mahi bhai because he understands a bowler’s strengths and knows how to get the best out of him,” Gowtham was quoted as saying by the CSK website. The Karnataka cricketer said it was a dream come true for him to be playing under Dhoni. “I don’t feel any pressure of expectations playing for a champion side like CSK,” Gowtham, who previously played for Punjab Kings, said.  He said what differentiated CSK from most teams in the Indian Premier League was the clarity in its thought process and an organised approach. “The CSK management understands cricket owing to its long association with the game which again reflects in its approach to players — the comforting words and confidence given when things aren’t going right,” he added. Gowtham also spoke about the importance of a strong leadership group — like what CSK has — in a team’s success. “It makes a big difference as it helps a player to express himself. They talk to the player if anything specific is needed or if he’s working on something. When these things are taken care of, it’s much easier for a player to go out and give his best,” the new CSK recruit said. The CSK players are currently training in Mumbai where they play their first five matches of IPL 2021 starting with a game against Delhi Capitals on April 10. Ace all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja, who has recovered from injury sustained during the Australia tour, batsmen Cheteshwar Pujara, Suresh Raina and Robin Uthappa have joined the squad in Mumbai.  I don’t feel any pressure of expectations playing for a champion side like CSK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-love-playing-under-dhoni/article34194543.ece
30 March 2021||DUBAI,||UAE hits India for a six||India suffered an embarrassing 0-6 rout at the hands of formidable United Arab Emirates — its heaviest defeat against the Gulf side — in the second international football friendly here on Monday. India had suffered a 5-0 loss in an international friendly against the UAE in 2010 in Abu Dhabi. Igor Stimac’s side did not even have a single shot on target in what was a forgettable encounter.. Striker Ali Mabkhout performed a hat-trick with goals in the 12th, 32nd and 60th minutes while Khalil Ibrahim (64th) and Fabio Lima (71st and 84th) completed the tally. India had given a good account of themselves in its first friendly match against Oman on March 25 with an impressive 1-1 draw, but against the UAE, it was clueless as to how to hold the ball, stitch together passes and create chances. The gulf in class and technical superiority were all too apparent, though India was without their talismanic skipper Sunil Chhetri, recovering from the COVID-19 infection. Key defender Sandesh Jhingan was also rested as Stimac experimented with new players from his jumbo 27-member squad. UAE had 67% possession compared to India's 33 in the first half. Mabkhout chipped one over the Indian goalkeeper and captain Gurpreet Singh Sandhu before scoring from the spot after Adil Khan had handled the ball inside the box. After Mabkhout completed his hat-trick at the hour-mark, Ibrahim made a fine finish with a first-time shot in the 64th minute before Lima added two goals in the 71st and 84th minutes. India's only noteworthy move came just before half-time when Liston Colaco, who made his debut, found Manvir Singh with a superb through ball but the striker's shot was blocked by the onrushing UAE ’keeper.  The result: UAE 6 (Mabkhout 12, 32 & 60, Ibrahim 64, Lima 71 & 84) bt India 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-arab-emirates-hits-india-for-a-six/article34194423.ece
30 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Bino George — a smiling, constant presence at Gokulam||Sometimes, dreams change hands. Ask Bino George. When he was made the coach of the newly-formed Gokulam Kerala four years ago, Bino had dreamt of turning it into a champion outfit. Despite a reasonable show in the club’s maiden I-League, he was replaced by Spaniard Fernando Santiago Varela. That hurt him, but he accepted the club’s offer to remain as the technical director. When Valera and Gokulam parted ways before long, Bino stepped in as the coach once again, but saw Gift Raikhan being appointed as the technical director. Then, Valera returned, but his contract wasn’t renewed for the new season. He was replaced by Italian Vincenzo Alberto Annese. All this while, Bino has been the one constant, amiable presence at Gokulam. He is delighted all his hard work has paid off. What if he is not the coach but only the technical director? “What matters is that we have won the I-League, something not many people felt we could,” Bino told The Hindu shortly after his arrival from Kolkata, where Gokulam was crowned the I-League champion on Saturday. “When I was building this team up, we didn’t have the budget to buy big stars.” He said the management’s decision to increase the budget a couple of years ago helped Gokulam get some quality players from abroad. Annese’s role “Look at the way Denny Antwi and Sharif Mukhammad performed this season,” he said. “Coach Annese had played the key role in identifying our foreign recruits.” Bino said Annese deserved a lot of credit for the triumph. “He has brought the best of the Italian football tradition to the team,” he said. “His style may be a bit different from me or that of Valera, but it has been effective and won us the title. Nobody can complain.” Right from the beginning, Bino has been able to bring the best of fresh local talent to Gokulam. Achieving great things “It is gratifying that many of my boys have gone on to achieve great things,” he said. “I was delighted when the club got Rs. 21 lakh as transfer fee for Arjun Jayaraj a couple of years ago when he was signed up by Kerala Blasters; I had picked him as a raw talent.” Emil Benny, the man-of-the-match against TRAU on Saturday, was also recruited by Bino. That is one of the several reasons that make him smile as he reflects on Gokulam’s great victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bino-george-a-smiling-constant-presence-at-gokulam/article34194819.ece
30 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Gavaskar calls for reforms in cricket rules||Cricketing great Sunil Gavaskar says the current national team has to be the best in the history of Indian cricket. Gavaskar, who was delivering the M.L. Jaisimha memorial lecture at the Jaisimha Academy here on Monday, said many teams had quite a few match-winners but this one stands out for winning so many matches. “This is what my guru Jai would have loved to see — the evolution of the Indian cricket team into a world-beater and be there right at the top,” the former India opener said. Gavaskar said Jaisimha would have liked to see the game becoming a level-playing field rather than what it is today — tilted heavily in favour of the batsman. Need for parity “There is a need for a little bit of parity. The distance to the boundaries should be increased given the kind of bats the current players use. I have seen the likes of Sir Viv [Richards], Clive Lloyd, [Gordon] Greenidge caught on the edge of the boundaries in Sharjah,” Gavaskar said. The former India opener also felt that the bouncer rule — giving an extra run and an extra ball if the ball goes above the batsman’s head when he is in a standing position is too harsh for it takes away one of the weapons from the bowler,” he said. Gavaskar also said that once a fielder dislodges the stumps with a direct hit in his attempt to run a batsman out, the ball should be declared ‘dead’ and no runs should be given even if the batsman is not out. “Similarly, the leg-byes should be done away with since any runs should be scored off the bat and why should a bowler and his team be penalised,” he said. Gavaskar also felt that the fielding teams should be penalised not in terms of fines, but by way of giving penalty runs which will affect the result of the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gavaskar-calls-for-reforms-in-cricket-rules/article34194421.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Immortality wins Indian Derby||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s Classic filly Immortality (Suraj Narredu up) proved her mettle by winning the prestigious Kingfisher Ultra Indian Derby (Gr.1) at the Mahalaxmi race course here on Sunday (March 28). The winner is owned by Ms Ameeta Mehra representing Mehra Stud And Agricultural Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer Shroff saddled two more winners of the day. Ace jockey Suraj Narredu, who was declared to guide the daughter of Multidimensional out of Psychic Light in the Indian Derby, confidently kept her in sixth position throughout the race till the 1000m. As the field entered the home stretch, Alluring Silver, another filly from Shroff’s yard, went into the lead even as Immortality and Forest Flame were seen engaging into a battle similar to the Indian Oaks. But, Immortality unleashed a terrific turn of foot and cruised past her rivals to win by a comfortable margin. Memorable hat-trick Suraj Narredu achieved another feat by scoring a Indian Derby hat-trick. He had won on War Hammer in 2020 and Star Superior in 2019. Suraj is the second jockey to achieve this feat emulating Immortality’s trainer Pesi Shroff, who claimed three-in-a-row between 1989 and 1991.  1. ZAVARAY S. POONAWALLA MILLION (2,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: REDOUBTABLE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Justified (Zervan) 2, Arcadia (Chouhan) 3 and High Priestess (Dashrath) 4. 1-1/4, 1-1/2 and 7-3/4. 2m, 30.46s. Rs. 95 (w), 27 and 39 (p). SHP: 38, FP: 457, Q: 602, Tanala: 670 and 239. Favourite: Arcadia. Owner: Mrs. Ammu Ajit. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar P.  2. C.N. WADIA GOLD CUP (Gr. 2) (2,400m), (Terms), 4-y-o & over: SALAZAAR (Sandesh) 1, Apsara Star (Nazil) 2, Caprisca (C.S. Jodha) 3 and My Opinion (A. Imran Khan) 4. 4-3/4, 2-3/4 and 2. 2m 29.49s. Rs. 19 (w), 19 and 72 (p). SHP: 75 FP: 273, Q: 98, Tanala: 1,012 and 386. Favourite: Salazaar. Owners: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Limited. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  3. RUSI PATEL TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,600m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over: COSMIC RAY (Sandesh) 1, Flying Visit (T.S. Jodha) 2, Northern Alliance (Bhawani) 3 and Sultan Suleiman (Akshay Kumar) 4. 2, Hd and 2-1/4. 1m, 35.71s. Rs. 26 (w), 15, 36 and 26 (p). SHP: 60, FP: 454, Q: 164, Tanala: 2,447 and 763. Favourite: Cosmic Ray. Owners: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Limited. Trainer: S.S. Attaollahi.  4. SIR HOMI MEHTA MILLION (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: SUPREME RUNNER (Akshay Kumar) 1, Alfayiz (Akshay) 2, Zarak (Dashrath) 3 and Arc De Triomphe (Zervan) 4. 1-3/4, 1-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m, 37.60s. Rs. 44 (w), 15, 21 and 90 (p). SHP: 58, FP: 264, Q: 97, Tanala: 1,274 and 1,014. Favourite: Stockbridge. Owner: Mr. Daulat Chhabria. Trainer: M. Narredu.  5. B.K. RATTONSEY MEMORIAL MAIDEN MULTI-MILLION (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: COLUMBIAN (Chouhan) 1, My Treasure (T.S. Jodha) 2, Keystone (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Ahead Of His Time (Trevor) 4. Not run: Farrell. 2, Sh and 2-1/4. 1m, 11.13s. Rs. 41 (w), 15, 45 and 39 (p). SHP: 115, FP: 539, Q: 412, Tanala: 12,466 and 890. Favourite: Ahead Of His Time. Owners: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Limited. Trainer: P. Shroff.  6. KINGFISHER ULTRA INDIAN DERBY (Gr.1) (2,400m), (Terms) Indian Horse, 4-y-o only: IMMORTALITY (Multidimensional–Psychic Light) (Suraj Narredu) 1 , FOREST FLAME (Leitir Mor–Memory Bay) (Trevor) 2, ALLURING SILVER (Leitir Mor–Personal Allure) (Chouhan) 3 and TAIMUR (Multidimensional–Tammy O) (Sandesh) 4. Not run: Pissaro. 1-1/2, 1-1/2 and 4-3/4. 2m, 28.67s. Rs. 33 (w), 18, 13 and 27 (p). SHP: 40, FP: 165, Q: 60, Tanala: 500 and 443. Favourite: Immortality. Owners: Ms. Ameeta Mehra rep. Mehra Stud and Agricultural Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. R M & RUKMANI GOCULDAS MILLION (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: GIANT STAR (Suraj Narredu) 1, Scramjet (J. Chinoy) 2, Rays Of Sun (T.S. Jodha) 3 and The Sovereign Orb (Trevor) 4. Sh, Nk and Nk. 1m, 23.85s. Rs. 24 (w), 16, 48 and 76 (p). SHP: 87, FP: 444, Q: 234, Tanala: 7,741 and 3,318. Favourite: Giant Star. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana, Mr. Mark Saldhana, Mr. Shashi Chand Jain, M/s. Vivek S. Jain, Faisal F. Qurreshi & Khushroo R. Battiwala. Trainer: M. Narredu.  8. MAHALAKSHMI MILLION (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ENIGMA (Chouhan) 1, Desert Fire (J. Chinoy) 2, Super Girl (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Excelerator (A. Prakash) 4. 6-3/4, Snk and 1/2. 57.44s. Rs. 18 (w), 15, 76 and 17 (p). SHP: 150, FP: 834, Q: 605, Tanala: 1,193 and 282. Favourite: Enigma. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo, Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo & Mr. Sultan Singh. Trainer: P. Shroff. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 3,680 (250 tkts.) and 30%: 705 (559 tkts.). Treble: (i) 271 (45 tkts.), (ii) 610 (31 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 9,256 (5 tkts.) and 30%: 1,322 (15 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/immortality-wins-indian-derby/article34194884.ece
30 March 2021||Sakhir (Bahrain),||Hamilton’s race-craft has rivals in awe||Red Bull team advisor Helmut Marko heaped praise on Lewis Hamilton's race craft on Monday after the defending seven-time World champion beat Max Verstappen to win Sunday's epic Bahrain Grand Prix. Marko, a 77-year-old Austrian who is a senior team figure and close to Red Bull founder-owner Dietrich Mateschitz, admired Hamilton's tactics and skill in laying a trap before fending off the faster Red Bull car to triumph by 7/10ths of a second. Great race In a race that met the hopes of Formula One's global legion of spectators, Hamilton's guile, allied to Mercedes' strategy, enabled both to defy the odds. Marko is notoriously difficult to please but said Hamilton had been clever in the way he managed the closing laps when it looked certain that the Dutchman, 13 years his junior and with an edge in pace, would pass for victory. Verstappen went round Hamilton at Turn Four with four laps remaining, but the move cost him the race. He damaged his tyres and also crossed the lines marking the track limits. The race director ordered Verstappen to give the place back. Sporting act "According to Max, it was the sporting thing to do," said Marko. "He wasn't even back on the ideal line when the call came that we should let Hamilton pass. “I have no idea what would have happened if he hadn't done that. Lewis was smart because he let himself fall back on purpose until he caught up with Verstappen again." Hamilton's move encouraged Verstappen to close up but that allowed Hamilton to control the Dutchman's position as he picked up air turbulence and dirt on his tyres. "Hamilton's tyres were dead, apparently," Marko told ServusTV. "But he had a revival and because of that dirt on our tyres a final attack from Verstappen was not possible." Defying the odds The 36-year-old Briton's performance defied the odds after he had been outpaced both in pre-season testing and through two days of practice and qualifying ahead of the long-anticipated showdown. It was little wonder that his Mercedes team revelled in the victory, built on an aggressive strategy that enabled them to steal the initiative from pole-sitter Verstappen with an early 'under-cut' pit stop and then set the tempo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamiltons-race-craft-has-rivals-in-awe/article34194462.ece
30 March 2021||Colombo,||Thisara Perera joins ‘sixer’ club||All-rounder Thisara Perera became the first Sri Lankan to hit six sixes in an over in professional cricket during a domestic tournament near here.  The 31-year-old achieved the feat during an unbeaten 13-ball 52 while captaining Sri Lanka Army in a group match against Bloomfield Cricket and Athletic Club in the Major Clubs limited-overs List-A tournament in Panagoda town on Sunday. His knock, which contained eight sixes, was also the second-fastest half-century by a Sri Lankan in List-A cricket, after former Sri Lanka all-rounder Kaushalya Weeraratne's 12-ball fifty in 2005. Part-time off-spinner Dilhan Cooray was the bowler at the receiving end of Perera's onslaught. Perera is the ninth cricketer in the world to have achieved this feat in professional cricket, after Garfield Sobers, Ravi Shastri, Herschelle Gibbs, Yuvraj Singh, Ross Whiteley, Hazratullah Zazai, Leo Carter and Kieron Pollard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thisara-perera-joins-sixer-club/article34194461.ece
30 March 2021||Los Angeles,||Lakers hang on for narrow win over Magic||Dennis Schroder scored 24 points as the injury-depleted Los Angeles Lakers held on for a much-needed 96-93 NBA victory over Orlando Magic on Sunday. Reigning NBA champion Lakers won their second straight game after dropping four in a row since superstar LeBron James suffered a high right ankle sprain, joining star big man Anthony Davis on the sidelines. Kyle Kuzma added 21 points for the Lakers, who rallied from five points down with 7:19 remaining in the fourth quarter. Suns win in overtime In Charlotte, Phoenix’s Devin Booker scored 35 points and Chris Paul added 16 while both made key overtime plays to spark the Suns over the Hornets 101-97. C.J. McCollum starred late for Portland, scoring seven of his 23 points in the last two minutes as the Trail Blazers beat Toronto Raptors 122-117. Damian Lillard scored 22 points and handed out 11 assists for the Blazers, who held the Raptors to 10 points in the third quarter to take charge of the contest. Pascal Siakam led the Raptors with 26 points and Fred VanVleet added 20 with eight assists, but the Raptors lost for the 11th time in 12 games. The contest came days after the trade that sent Norman Powell from the Raptors to Portland for Gary Trent and Rodney Hood. Powell scored 13 points against his old team.  The results: LA Lakers 96 bt Orlando Magic 93; Denver Nuggets 126 lost to Atlanta Hawks 102; Toronto Raptors 117 lost to Portland Trail Blazers 122; Charlotte Hornets 97 lost to Phoenix Suns 101 (OT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-hang-on-for-narrow-win-over-magic/article34194475.ece
30 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Varvara has the measure of Rathika||Unseeded Varvara Esina of Russia put it across Rathika Seelan of India (seeded 9/16) 11-7, 9-11, 11-7, 9-11, 11-4 in a women’s first round match of the HCL-SRFI Indian Tour PSA Challenger squash tournament at ISA courts here on Monday. Trailing by a game, Rathika was cruising along 8-3 in the fourth before the Russian closed in at 8-9. The Indian, however, closed out the game at 11-9. Attack mode In the decider, Varvara kept attacking from the backcourt to take a 6-2 lead and never looked back. She will take on Egypt’s Rana Ismail, seeded seventh, in the round of 16. In another upset of sorts, wild card entrant Navaneeth Prabhu of India defeated compatriot Yash Fadte (9/16) 11-9, 9-11, 11-5, 11-5 to progress to the men’s pre-quarterfinals. Navaneeth will next clash with fifth seed Mazen Gamal of Egypt. The tournament began after COVID-19 tests on players and support staff on Monday turned out to be negative.  The results (first round):   Men: Navaneeth Prabhu bt Yash Fadte 11-9, 9-11, 11-5, 11-5; Seif Shenawy (Egy) bt Veer Chotrani 11-7, 11-9, 10-12, 11-6; Vladislav Titov (Rus) bt Rounak Yadav 11-5, 11-2, 11-6; Aly Hussein (Egy) bt Ravi Dixit 11-6, 11-3, 11-6.   Women: Abhisheka Shannon bt Akshaya Sri 11-1, 11-6, 8-11, 14-12; Shameena Riaz bt Tiana Parasrampuria 11-9, 4-11, 10-12, 8-10, 13-11; Vasudha Surange bt Bijli Darvada 11-3, 11-6, 11-0; R. Pooja Arthi bt Radhika Rathore 12-10, 11-9, 11-8; Varvara Esina (Rus) bt Rathika Seelan 11-7, 9-11, 11-7, 9-11, 11-4; Yoshna Singh bt Aaradhana Kasturiraj 11-4, 11-8, 11-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varvara-has-the-measure-of-rathika/article34194477.ece
30 March 2021||KOLKATA,||7 Indians for Asian meet||The Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) has selected seven weightlifters for the Asian championships to be held in Tashkent from April 16 to 25. The event will serve as a gold-level Olympic qualifying event. Former World champion S. Mirabai Chanu (women's 49kg) is the frontrunner to bag a quota place for the Tokyo Olympics.  The squad: Men: Jeremy Lalrinnunga (67kg), Achinta Sheuli (73kg), S. Sathish Kumar (81kg). Women: Jhilli Dalabehera (45kg), S. Mirabai Chanu and Sneha Soren (both 49kg), P. Anuradha (87kg).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/7-indians-for-asian-meet/article34194479.ece
30 March 2021||MUMBAI,||Morgan, Prasidh, and Gill join KKR camp||Young batsman Shubman Gill, pacer Prasidh Krishna and skipper Eoin Morgan on Monday joined the Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) camp for IPL 2021. On Sunday, KKR head coach Brendon McCullum had arrived in the city. India players Gill and Prasidh, and England skipper Morgan were with their respective national teams till Sunday for the three-match ODI series. Morgan had missed the final two matches because of an injury sustained during the first ODI. KKR tweeted pictures of the players arriving at the team’s hotel on Monday saying “From one bubble to another. A special delivery from Pune arrived this afternoon.” The team also tweeted pictures of many players celebrating holi. As per BCCI’s SOPs for the IPL, all players (except those from the India-England series), support staff, and management entering the bubble need to undergo a seven-day quarantine in their hotel rooms. Every individual will be tested multiple times during this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgan-prasidh-and-gill-join-kkr-camp/article34194474.ece
30 March 2021||PUNE,||Bhuvneshwar Kumar — the quiet operator||Every team usually has a quiet operator. Bhuvneshwar Kumar fits that role in the Indian cricket team. Struggling with a spate of injuries for most of the last four years, Bhuvneshwar was on the verge of falling off the radar as younger pacers proved their mettle on the international stage. Seizing his chance Having regained fitness, Bhuvneshwar knew that, in Jasprit Bumrah’s absence, the limited-over leg against England was his chance to carry the team and ensure that his presence would be the focus rather than his absence. Bhuvneshwar seems to have ticked all the boxes over the last three weeks. He was naturally rusty in the first couple of T20Is but once he got into his rhythm in Ahmedabad, he took it to the next level in the ODIs in Pune. Bhuvneshwar, with a performance of six wickets at 22.50 at an astounding economy rate of 4.65, was worthy of being adjudged Player-of-the-Series. While it didn’t happen, the bowler was satisfied with his outing. More importantly, Bhuvneshwar appears to be hungry for success. His focus is not just on doing well in the Indian Premier League but keeping an eye on India’s Test series in England later this year. “I am just happy that I went through the entire series pretty well,” he said after the third ODI on Sunday night. “Whatever preparation happens from my side will happen with red-ball cricket in mind. That's different from what will happen in team selections, but my training and workload during the IPL will happen with Test cricket in mind. I want to play Test cricket going forward.” But Bhuvneshwar isn’t thinking too far ahead, instead setting short-term goals for himself. “I don’t decide on the long-term future. Whenever I have in the past, things haven’t gone my way, whether it’s due to injury or form,” he said. Focus on fitness “Workload management is something I will focus on and the team management also tries and does its best. I was unfit for a long time, so I realised that fitness is something I have to maintain if I want to play regular cricket.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhuvneshwar-kumar-the-quiet-operator/article34194419.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Gifts from Kailasa||From the details of Adi Sankara’s life culled from the Sankara Vijayam, it is clear that he is the greatest acharya in our tradition who achieved phenomenal success within a short span of 32 years. Believed to be the very incarnation of Siva, he has revived and established the Vedic tradition at a time when it was under threat of getting eclipsed by many opposing faiths. He travelled through the length and breadth of the country, arguing and winning against each of them with extraordinary ingenuity. In a discourse, Sri B. Sundarkumar drew attention to his visit to Kailasa when he meets Siva and Parvati to get their direct blessings. Siva gives him the five lingams to be taken to earth to enable worship by the people. Ambal gives him the manuscript of the grantha Saundarya Lahari, a unique composition of Siva on the Goddess. When he comes out of Kailasa, Nandi snatches by force a part of the manuscript from his hands. Upset at his lack of care, he wonders why such a thing has happened. Ambal comes out and smilingly commands him to complete the rest. Judging by the calibre of the esoteric truths in the first 41 verses in acharya’s hands, one can imagine the depth, subtlety and sanctity of the remaining section of the hymn. Perhaps the world was yet not fully qualified to grasp it and Nandi’s interception was ordained by divine will so that Adi Sankara could be motivated to compose the sequel to what Siva had begun. But for their divine grace, he would not have had the courage to accomplish this task. It is like how a king would infuse confidence in the prince who hesitates to take up the mantle, though efficient and capable. He would first send him on a challenging mission, say establish peace in a turbulent area and then entrust the place in his care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gifts-from-kailasa/article34194415.ece
30 March 2021||BENGALURU:,||Arya stuns Anoop||Qualifier Arya Ganapathy upset second seed Anoop Kesavamurti 6-3, 3-6, 7-6 (3) in the first round of the Tattvam Junior Tour KSLTA-AITA under-16 talent series tennis tournament at KSLTA. Likith, Adithya and Kenisha win titles S.P. Likith (Vijayanagar Aquatic Centre) won the men’s 100m backstroke event with a timing of 1:02.46s in the all-India swimming competition at Padukone-Dravid Centre of Sports Excellence. D. Adhithya (52.13s) of Dolphin Aquatics Senior bagged the top spot in the men’s 100m freestyle event while Maharashtra’s Kenisha Gupta (57.57s) clinched the women’s 100m freestyle. Hat-trick by Maitreyi Maitreyi’s hat-trick helped Modern Girls FC defeat Young Gems 6-0 in the KSFA 7-a-side women’s football tournament.  The results:   Technico Sports 2 (Nikita 2) bt Bangalore Panthers 0; Young Challengers 2 (Jhinu 2) bt FC Hydra 1 (Ishvarya).   Roots FC 4 (Shruvya 2, Aadria, Trinity) bt North Karnataka 0; Modern Girls FC 6 (Aarushi, Treia, Sarah, Maitreyi 3) bt Young Gems 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arya-stuns-anoop/article34194465.ece
30 March 2021||St. Gallen (Switzerland),||Wrong-sized goalposts!||The kick-off in Switzerland’s World Cup football qualifier against Lithuania was delayed by 15 minutes on Sunday because one of the goals was too big. Ground staff at work The ground staff at the Kybunpark Stadium worked feverishly to replace the goalposts which some media reports claimed were between five and 10cm too high on one side when inspected by match officials before the game. One report said the imbalance was caused by the left-hand post not being sunk correctly into the ground. Even a police officer was called in to help remove the outsized posts which were eventually replaced by a spare set which matched requirements. Switzerland went on to win the game 1-0 thanks to a goal from Xherdan Shaqiri after just two minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wrong-sized-goalposts/article34194459.ece
30 March 2021||Tokyo,||Overseas ticket holders may not get full refund||Many fans living outside Japan who bought Tokyo Olympic tickets from brokers — so-called Authorized Ticket Resellers — will not get full refunds. And they may have a long wait to get any refunds at all. The question of refunds came into play a week ago when local organisers and the Japanese government decided to bar most fans from abroad because of the COVID-19 pandemic. There are dozen of Authorized Tickets Resellers. They are typically appointed by national Olympic committees and are allowed to charge a 20% handling fee on tickets. For $2,000 worth of tickets, for instance, the reseller can charge $2,400. CoSport, the ATR for the United States and other territories and countries, said in a letter over the weekend to ticket holders that it would not refund the handling fee. It said it would refund the face value of the ticket and the shipping fees.  Tokyo organisers have said they would refund the face value of the tickets, but are not responsible for other added charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/overseas-tokyo-ticket-holders-may-get-only-partial-refunds/article34194466.ece
30 March 2021||Mumbai,||Rohit, Hardik, Suryakumar, Krunal join MI squad||Rohit Sharma, Hardik Pandya, Krunal and Suryakumar Yadav on Monday joined the Mumbai Indians squad here ahead of the IPL, starting on April 9. The four players were on national duty for the ODI series against England. The franchise posted a video of its skipper Rohit arriving in Mumbai on its official Twitter handle. Earlier in the day, Hardik, Krunal and Suryakumar had linked up with the MI squad. While Krunal made his ODI debut in the series, Suryakumar failed to make the playing XI in all three matches. Suryakumar had made his India debut in the T20I series against England. The 30-year-old produced a sensational half century on his debut. “Firstly really happy and very proud to represent India. It was always my dream to play for the country,” Suryakumar said. “And now, I am back to my Mumbai Indians family. Looking ahead to unbelievable times ahead.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-hardik-suryakumar-krunal-join-mi-squad/article34194808.ece
30 March 2021||NORTH SOUND,||Brathwaite steadies the Windies ship||West Indies, after being asked to bat, was 171 for five at tea on the opening day of the second Test against Sri Lanka on Monday. Skipper and opener Kraigg Brathwaite (61, 145b, 9x4) and Joshua da Silva (0) were at the crease. Earlier, Suranga Lakmal’s mastery of swing and seam caused early trouble for the host before a counterattack by Kyle Mayers (49, 61b, 8x4) lifted it. Jason Holder (30, 34b, 5x4) also chipped in.  The scores: West Indies 171/5 in 51 overs (Kraigg Brathwaite 61 batting, Kyle Mayers 49, Jason Holder 30, Suranga Lakmal 3/53) vs Sri Lanka, at tea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brathwaite-steadies-the-windies-ship/article34194432.ece
30 March 2021||Kottayam:,||Pathanamthitta stuns Kottayam, wins title||Pathanamthitta edged out favourite Kottayam 64-61 in a thrilling final to win the boys’ title in the 37th State youth basketball championship at the St. Ephremes indoor court on Sunday. Jermy Sebastian, chosen as the best player in the tournament, led the scoring with 25 points. He found support from Jordan Cherian (15) and Thomson (11) as Pathanamthitta squeezed out an unlikely win in the final. Ernakulam finished third after defeating Kozhikode 52-26 in the loser's final.  The results:   Pathanamthitta 64 (Jermy Sebastian 25, Jordan Cherian 15, Thomson 11) by Kottayam 61 ( Albin Charley 25, Adarsh 12).   Best players: Jermy Sebastian and M.S. Hridaya.       A fine all-round show by S. Sajana (28 and 3/13) helped Sapphire beat Pearl by eight runs in the KCA Pink Challengers Women's T20 tournament here on Monday. Later, Aswathy Mol (31 and 2/13) starred in Ruby's crushing 73-run win over Emerald.  The scores:   Sapphire 97/7 in 20 overs (S. Sajana 28, Silha Santhosh 25, Keerthi James 2/11, Darsana Mohanan 2/23) bt Pearl 89 in 19.2 overs (Sandra Suran 4/7, S. Sajana 3/13).   Ruby 120/4 in 20 overs (Aswathy Mol 31, Aneena Mathew 2/25) bt Emerald 47 in 17.3 overs (Aswathy Mol 2/13, T. Shani 2/5, C.M.C. Najla 2/2).    The Regional Sports Centre (RSC)’s summer coaching camp, one of the biggest in the country, begins at Kadavanthra on April 7. Coaching in badminton, basketball, billiards, snooker, boxing, chess, cricket, cycling, golf, fencing, football, kalari, karate, kick boxing, kung fu, rifle shooting, skating, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, volleyball, wrestling and yoga will be offered. The Government's standard operating procedure to run sports in these times of the global pandemic will be followed. District Collector S. Suhas, who is also the chairman of the RSC, will inaugurate the camp. Registration for the camp is now open. For more details, contact the RSC at 0484-2204068, 2205071.   The Team Sam-Red Kite Tennis Academy's coaching camp for seniors and children, in different batches, will be held at its premises near the Vytilla Mobility Hub from April 1. The Red Kite Board Games Club, which offers coaching in chess, checkers and scrabble, will also start on April 1. For registration, contact 9846042421 or 9497443902.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pathanamthitta-stuns-kottayam-wins-title/article34194820.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Hockey: N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Cup, GST & Central Excise vs TN Postal (8 a.m.), IOB vs St. Paul's Combined XI (2.30 p.m.), SRM IST vs CHA u-21 side (4 p.m.), N. P. V. Ramaswamy Udayar Hockey Centre (Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research campus), Porur.   Squash: HCL-SRFI Indian Tour, ISA, Nehru Park, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34194535.ece
30 March 2021||March 30 2021 07:47 IST,||Sudoku — March 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-30-2021/article34195042.ece
