02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt invites farmers’ bodies protesting against agri laws for meeting||The Punjab government on Monday invited representatives of 31 farmers’ bodies for a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the impact of the suspension of goods trains on the state’s economy due to the rail blockade agitation.The railways have suspended the operation of freight trains in Punjab in the wake of the blockade of some rail tracks by farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws.Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said the farmers’ organisations have received a letter from the Punjab Agriculture Department for a meeting on November 4.In the letter, the department has highlighted the impact of the non-operation of goods trains in the state due to farmers’ ‘rail roko’ agitation.The letter highlighted that because of the suspension of trains, the supplies of coal for thermal power plants, fertilisers for Rabi crops and movement of foodgrain stocks have been hit.It also pointed out that the suspension of goods trains has also adversely impacted the state industry as it was unable to get raw material and send finished goods.According to the state agriculture department, 60,000 gunny bags are stuck in Delhi and Rajpura, thus impacting the lifting of paddy crop from grain markets.As wheat and paddy stocks could not be moved out of the state, there could be a shortage of space for storing fresh paddy crop, it further pointed out.It also said the state needed 4.50 lakh metric tonne of DAP (diammonium phosphate) and 10 lakh tonne of urea for wheat sowing. But it has received only 66,000 MT of urea and 56,000 MT of DAP for the month of October allocation, the department said.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday had written to BJP president J P Nadda expressing concern over the continued suspension of goods trains by the railways and warned of its dangerous consequence on national security and on the armed forces.He had also said the situation could become extremely dangerous for the country if the armed forces are deprived of critical supplies, amid increasingly aggressive overtures from both China and Pakistan.Singh, in an open letter to Nadda, said that despite easing of the blockade by farmers agitating against the new farm laws, the suspension on goods trains continued, and called for collective will and statesmanship to resolve the “festering imbroglio”.Several farmer bodies on October 21 had announced to ease their ‘rail roko’ agitation by allowing the movement of goods trains in the state.However, members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) continued to squat on two rail tracks which lead to coal supplies to two private thermal plants at Rajpura and Mansa.Besides, protesters under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee are also sitting on a rail track in Amritsar.Railways Minister Piyush Goyal had a few days ago sought the Punjab government’s assurance of the safety of trains and their crew members to restore freight services after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked him to intervene in resuming the same.Goods train services had resumed in the state after farmer unions on October 21 announced exempting them from their weeks-old ‘rail roko’ agitation over the Centre’s new farm laws.        However, the railways later decided to extend its suspension of goods train operations, saying protesting farmers are still blocking the tracks. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-invites-farmers-bodies-protesting-against-agri-laws-for-meeting-164970
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 16 more deaths, 402 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Monday reported 16 more deaths due to coronavirus, taking the death toll to 4,227, while 402 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,34,371 in the state, a Health Department bulletin said.Six deaths were reported from Amritsar and one each from Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Moga, Mohali, Muktsar, Pathankot, Patiala and Rupnagar, it said.There are 4,183 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, as per the bulletin.The places which reported new coronavirus cases included Jalandhar (58), Ludhiana (55) and Mohali (45), it said.A total of 395 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,25,961.Fifteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 116 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 26,30,382 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-16-more-deaths-402-fresh-cases-in-punjab-164966
02-11-2020||Amritsar||Devotees throng Golden Temple on ‘Parkash Purab’ of Guru Ramdas||Devotees thronged the Golden Temple on Monday on the occasion of ‘Parkash Purab’ of Guru Ramdas here.Guru Ramdas, whose birth anniversary celebrations are being marked on Monday, was the fourth of the 10 Gurus of Sikhism.Pilgrims started reaching the Darbar Sahib early morning to offer their prayers.On the occasion, the Golden Temple was illuminated with the lighting system while flowers were used to decorate the complex.The volunteers were busy at the community kitchen preparing ‘langar’. There was a big crowd of devotees at the Golden Temple.However, many people were not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing amid the COVID-19 pandemic. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devotees-throng-golden-temple-on-parkash-purab-of-guru-ramdas-164965
02-11-2020||---||27 fresh Covid cases reported from Mohali district||Mohali, November 2Twenty-seven new Covid cases surfaced in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the tally to 12,467.Meanwhile, no death due to Covid has been reported while 57 patients have recovered from the virus.Out of 27 cases, 20 came from Mohali urban, four from Dera Bassi, one from Kurali, and two from Gharuan.As of now there are 12,467 positive Covid cases. Of these, 11,704 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals. As of now there are 526 active cases with 237 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/27-fresh-covid-cases-reported-from-mohali-district-164947
02-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Farmers, shopkeepers lay siege to BDPO office in Mehal Kalan||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, November 2Alleging delay in the auction of shops constructed on government land, shopkeepers along with farmers laid siege to the Block Development and Panchayat Office (BDPO) in Mehal Kalan.“BDPO employees have deliberately been delaying the auction of 20 shops. Shopkeepers have been ready to deposit the remaining amount, but there is no auction. We have gheraoed the office” said Jasir Chhiniwal, a farmer leader.Around 76 persons had deposited Rs 50,000 each to participate in the auction, but a few days ago some bidders demanded their money back saying that they had no money to purchase shops due to Covid-19.“Our seniors have clarified that since some bidders have withdrawn, we would have to cancel the process of auction and restart it. But shopkeepers are compelling us carry on with the auction after excluding the names of those shopkeepers who have withdrawn. It’s not possible. We are trying to convince them to end the siege,” said Bhushan Kumar, BDPO, Mehal Kalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-shopkeepers-lay-siege-to-bdpo-office-in-mehal-kalan-164928
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders expansion of COVID contact tracing to 15 persons, makes RT-PCR tests the ‘rule’||Punjab Chief Minister n Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered expanding the contact tracing of positive patients to 15 persons and made it mandatory for hospitals and radiology labs conducting CT scans to report such patients to the state administration in case of suspicion of coronavirus as part of a slew of measures to strengthen the Covid management systems amid apprehension of second wave.A press release from the state government said that the Chief Minister ordered a state-level 3-tier vaccine supervision mechanism, comprising a steering committee as well as state and district  task force, to be put in place  to streamline and prioritise the process of Covid vaccination,Amarinder also directed the Health Department to make RT-PCR the rule, with RAT to be treated as exception, while ordering another serological survey to assess the ground situation. In other steps, he directed 24x7 testing facility to be made available at District Hospitals, all fever cases/other symptomatic coming to Health Facilities to be tested with RTPCR and all patients attending the flu corners to be tested with RTPCR. He stressed the need to make arrangements for walk-in testing at multiple points, and asked the Health Department to consider branching out testing by scaling up local initiatives like Mohali’s out-door testing.The Chief Minister asked the Health Department to get information from private and public hospitals regarding Covid mortality and complete the audit by November 9 so that remedial action can be taken by mid-November. Emphasising the importance of ensuring preparedness for a second wave, he also directed the Department to meet manpower shortage, especially in L-II facilities, by filling all gaps in mission mode. Those who have been selected must be immediately given appointment letters and asked to join, he said, in response to a concern expressed on this count by Health Minister Balbir Sidhu.Chairing a virtual meeting of medical and health experts and officials, Chief Minister n Amarinder Singh warned against any complacency amid projections of a more severe second wave, in keeping with the global trend. He urged organisers of social and religious congregations, that have been permitted, to also encourage the participants to get themselves tested. He asked officials to encourage citizens organisations and NGOs, and also to reach out to people through the Lok Sanjhedari programme, to discourage the use of firecrackers this Diwali season.Noting that people were now relying on CT scans in a big way instead of getting themselves tested for Covid, the Chief Minister directed the Health Department to make sharing of information regarding those coming for CT scans with the health authorities. The state government’s health expert committee head, Dr KK Talwar, earlier said unless checked, the practice of patients confining themselves to CT scans could be dangerous for the state.The task force entrusted with prioritising recipients of a vaccine will be headed by the Chief Secretary, with monthly meetings to supervise the progress. A State Task Force to be headed by Principal Secretary Health, shall hold meetings every fortnight, while at the district level, the Districts Magistrates will head the District Task Force, which will meet on a weekly basis.Stressing the need for extreme caution and extensive testing so that the situation, which has improved in recent weeks, does not aggravate, the Chief Minister said the positivity rate had come down to around 2 per cent but the state could not afford to be lax under any circumstances. He stressed the need to increase surveillance and strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviours till a safe and effective vaccine is available.The Chief Minister asked the concerned departments to dedicate the month of November to carry out testing of all staff, including health, police, revenue and other civilian staff. He said his government had already sanctioned approximately Rs. 900 Crore for COVID Response and added that funds will not be allowed to become a constraint for ensuring full preparation and best response. He directed the health department to increase testing to 30000 a day, with at least 100 tests per lakh population.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-expansion-of-covid-contact-tracing-to-15-persons-makes-rt-pcr-tests-the-rule-164923
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Buta Singh Sidhu appointed VC of Maharaja Ranjit Singh State Technical University||Punjab Governor on Monday approved the appointment of Dr Buta Singh Sidhu as the Vice-chancellor of Maharaja Ranjit Singh State Technical University, Bathinda.Dr Sidhu is the officiating registrar of the technical university. He was among the panel of three candidates approved by the board of governors of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-buta-singh-sidhu-appointed-vc-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-state-technical-university-164844
02-11-2020||---||Golden Temple illuminated on Guru Ram Das Gurpurb eve||Amritsar, November 1Holiday todayThe Punjab Government has announced a holiday in the district to mark the birth anniversary of fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das. All government offices, boards and corporations and government educational institutes would remain closed.On the eve of the birth anniversary of Guru Ram Das, founder of the holy city, the entire Golden Temple complex was decked up with rare varieties of flowers and illuminated on Sunday. Congratulating the Sikhs on the eve of Gurpurb, Gobind Singh Longowal, president of the SGPC, said the life of the fourth Sikh master was an inspiration to the entire humanity. He appealed to them to adopt the principles of service, ‘simran’, politeness and humility out of the life of the fourth master.Devotees from Delhi and Mumbai brought different varieties of ornamental flowers to tastefully beautify the entire holy complex. About nine tonnes of flowers were used by about 120 people to beautify the sanctum sanctorum, Akal Takht and Parikrama.Jalaun (a show of splendour), showcasing precious and historic artefacts, will be displayed at Harmandar Sahib, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai tomorrow.Besides the historic gurdwaras, all those buildings which are under the control of the SGPC, will illuminate with lights. The SGPC illuminated not only historic Gurdwars for the occasion but also those buildings, which are under its control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/golden-temple-illuminated-on-guru-ram-das-gurpurb-eve-164707
02-11-2020||---||Pind bachao, Punjab bachao kicks off from Jallianwala Bagh||Amritsar, November 1A unique mass contact campaign Pind bachao, Punjab bachao kicked off from Amritsar today. Activists from different backgrounds will hold dialogues with residents of the Majha, Malwa and Doaba regions regarding major issues affecting the state.Former jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib Giani Kewal Singh led the march by paying tribute to martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh.He said they would sensitise the Punjabis to their rights, mother tongue and other issues. “The Centre is bent on handing over all the assets of the country to corporate houses. Farmers are in a do-or-die situation. By implementing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), labour laws, farm laws, CAA and Electricity (Amendment) Bill, the Central Government has encroached upon the powers of the state. We want to interact with a large section of society in the state”, he said.The activists will stay for four days in each district and hold at least three conferences daily. In the first phase, the march will be held in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran.In the second phase, the march will start from Ferozepur and cover four districts of Malwa. Advocate Jaswinder Singh, convener, Akal Purakh ki Fauj, said, “Natural resources of Punjab are under pressure. Youths are frustrated due to unemployment and are putting their parents under debt by going overseas.”“Health and education services need to be revamped. We intend to discuss these issues during the march, which will last for three months. Each delegation will comprise at least 20 representatives from different fields who will participate on rotational basis,” he said. Senior journalist Hamir Singh, Dr Pyara Lal Garg , Tarsem Jodhan , Dr Sham Sunder Deepti, Karnail Singh Jakhepal, Dr Megha Singh and Prof Manjit Singh, among others, are associated with the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pind-bachao-punjab-bachao-kicks-off-from-jallianwala-bagh-164708
02-11-2020||Dilip Rath||Dairy farming: Village-based procurement pays dividends||HARINDER KAUR of Yusufpur Darewal village in Jalandhar district has been rearing four milch animals since the past decade or so and she used to sell milk to private vendors. In the past three years, after she became a member of the Jalandhar Milk Union, she has been selling milk to a cooperative, part of the Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited (Milkfed), popularly known as Verka. As part of the expansion of dairy cooperative coverage in areas which were not covered during Operation Flood (1970-96), Kaur and many other women farmers were provided training about rearing animals. Village-level infrastructure was set up for the collection of milk under the National Dairy Plan (NDP-I), a World Bank-assisted project implemented by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) from 2011-12 to 2018-19.Meeting growing demandMission Milk was envisaged for meeting the growing demand for milk, estimated at over 200 million tonnes (MT) by 2021-22. A scientifically planned multi-state initiative as launched to increase productivity of existing herds through a focused programme on animal breeding and nutrition. Another critical element of the programme was to create a village-based milk procurement system (VBMPS) through the setting up and strengthening of dairy co-op societies in areas hitherto not covered under the three-phase implementation of Operation Flood.Kaur says she and her family used to take around 30-35 litres of milk daily to the private vendors located about 15 km away, but now, with the setting up of a dairy cooperative society in her village, she is able to sell the milk in the village itself with price realisation much higher than what she used to get from the private vendors. “For buffalo and cow milk, Verka pays us Rs 50-55 per litre and Rs 34-35 per litre, respectively, depending on the milk solids’ content, while in the case of private vendors, they used to pay Rs 22-25 per litre,” Kaur adds. She says the payment is transferred every fortnight to her bank account, while in the case of private vendors, the payment used to be delayed. In addition, Verka also provides feed and veterinary services.Tetri Devi, a dairy farmer from Nagjuwa village in Lohardaga district of Jharkhand, has seven cows and supplies 30-35 litres of milk daily to the Jharkhand State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, also known as Medha. Four years ago, she used to own a desi (indigenous) cow; its milk used to be used entirely for consumption by the family consisting of six members. Once Medha dairy created infrastructure for milk procurement in villages, including Nagjuwa, dairy farmers like Tetri Devi have not looked back as milk is now collected twice a day at village dairy societies, which in turn supply it for processing to the Medha dairy.Thousands of farmers like Harinder Kaur and Tetri Devi have benefited across the country from the creation of dairy infrastructure at the village level, mainly attributed to measures taken under the NDP-I.The NDP-I, known as Mission Milk, was envisaged for meeting the growing demand for milk, estimated at over 200 million tonnes (MT) by 2021-22. A critical element of the programme was to create a village-based milk procurement system (VBMPS) through the setting up and strengthening of dairy cooperative societies in the areas hitherto not covered under the three-phase implementation of Operation Flood (OF).Mission Milk provided rural milk producers greater access to the organised milk processing sector in 52,509 villages across 18 states in which dairy cooperative societies were set up and strengthened and 17 lakh additional members were enrolled, of which 45% were women and 67% were smallholders. Under the VBMPS, 4,171 bulk milk coolers (BMCs) were installed, which created about 12 lakh litres per day of additional milk chilling capacity at the village level.Around 30,000 automated milk collection units (AMCUs) were set up, which ensured a fair and transparent milk collection system. Milk brought by the dairy farmers got tested for its quality, in terms of fat and SNF (solids-not-fat) content, using analysers; the quantity of milk was measured on an electronic weighing scale; and the payment slips were generated and given to the farmers on the spot. The payments linked to the quality of milk, not mere quantity, encouraged the producers to further improve the quality, which brought about efficiency right from procurement to transportation and processing. Market access to villages not covered under OF ensured that surplus milk of producers is collected round the year at remunerative prices. Mission Milk helped the country maintain its self-sufficiency in milk production in the post-OF era.Under Mission Milk, to ensure the accountability of producer-centric organisations, the grant for AMCUs and BMCs was restricted to 50% and the remaining was contributed by the end implementing agencies. This financing pattern helped in ensuring that these equipment are effectively put to use by these agencies.The other key intervention under Mission Milk has been training and capacity building of dairy farmers, members of the Management Committee, testers and secretaries of the village-level dairy cooperative societies and the field-level supervisors on various aspects of clean milk production, procurement, testing, cooling and transportation. More than 25 lakh participants attended the training and capacity building programmes under the VBMPS, which immensely helped in improving the depth and spread of operations and also in ensuring the quality of milk right from the villages.Further, leveraging Information & Communication Technology, several innovative pilot projects were also implemented, such as data loggers to monitor and control the performance of BMCs on a real-time basis and the installation of rooftop solar PV systems to provide clean energy at an affordable cost.An independent evaluation of Socio-Economic Impact of NDP-I by a leading research body, the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), has reported that the setting up of milk collection infrastructure at the village level resulted in greater transparency and fairness in milk procurement operations, while the installation of BMCs gave farmers more flexibility in terms of quantity as well as quality of milk. “It has provided rural milk producers access to organised markets, thereby increasing their income,” the NCAER study has said. The proportion of total landless households covered under NDP-I was 25.9% and the proportion of small and marginal farmers was 61.8%.The study also states that the household incomes registered an increase of more than 68% for the landless labourers, 73% for small and marginal farmers and 77% for medium farmers in the project areas. The study reported a noticeable and sustainable enhancement of the living conditions of households and villages in the post-NDP-I phase.The evidence suggest that the second phase of NDP (Mission Milk Phase II) will not only strengthen and modernise our unique smallholder dairying system but also increase our share of the organised milk business, especially in the context of Covid-19, which has created huge awareness among consumers about the benefits of hygienically packaged quality milk and milk products.Along with market access and the creation of milk procurement infrastructure at the village level, NDP-I also extended balanced ration advisory services through local resource persons to 2.14 million milk producers and 2.87 million milch animals in 33,320 villages.Much of India’s success in augmenting milk production for meeting the growing demand has been attributed to the successful implementation of NDP-I. During Covid-19, cooperatives have shown resilience in procurement and marketing of milk, notwithstanding the challenges.The author is Chairman, National Dairy Development Board. Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dairy-farming-village-based-procurement-pays-dividends-164827
02-11-2020||---||5.32L children to be given polio drops in Punjab: Minister||Mohali, November 1The three-day pulse polio campaign launched by the state government will target 5.32 lakh children across the state. For this, a total of 8,436 locations have been identified.This was stated by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while launching the campaign by administering polio drops to children at a state-level function held at a government dispensary at Sohana village.Only high-risk areas to be coveredDue to the Covid pandemic, the campaign would cover only high-risk areas, migrant population, brick-kilns, construction sites, slums and settlements, he said.Balbir Singh Sidhu said a total of 4,180 door-to-door medical teams had been formed to make the campaign a success. As many as 559 mobile teams had also been deployed for the purpose. A total of 21,143 vaccinators and 802 supervisors had been deployed to monitor the campaign. In addition to this, 2,734 ANMs, 7,696 anganwari workers, 8,965 ASHA workers and 2,143 other workers would also contribute to make the campaign a success.Director Health Services Dr Manjeet Singh appealed to people to give full support to the Health Department.Civil Surgeon DR GB Singh, state immunization officer Dr Balwinder Kaur, district immunisation officer, Mohali, Dr Veena Jarewal, village panchayats and other health officials were also present on the occasion.Campaign kicks off at PanchkulaPanchkula: The Panchkula Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, on Sunday launched the polio campaign at an anganwadi centre in Ashiana Colony, Sector 20, by administering anti-polio drops to children. The drive is to last till November 3. "High-risk areas such as brick-kilns, industrial areas, construction sites, stone-crushing and mining areas, slums where mostly migrant population reside will be covered," she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-32l-children-to-be-given-polio-drops-in-punjab-minister-164482
02-11-2020||---||Bathinda Youth Cong chief among five held with arms by Chandigarh Police||Chandigarh, November 1Five persons, including the Bathinda district Youth Congress president, were nabbed by the Chandigarh Police while illegally possessing pistols and cartridges at nakas laid by the police on the intervening night of October 31 and November 1.The miscreants, riding a Swift, tried to escape from the spot. However, the suspects were chased and nabbed near the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout.DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar said the nakas were laid in the wake of recent firing incidents reported from the city. The police had laid a naka on the road opposite the TDI mall in Sector 17 when a Scorpio was stopped for checking around 11.30 pm.The SUV was being driven by 31-year-old Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Bathinda. The police said during checking, a pistol and seven live cartridges were recovered from his possession.Lakhwinder is the Bathinda district Youth Congress president. On a complaint of ASI Tejinder Singh, a case was registered against Lakhwinder at the Sector 17 police station.In another incident at the same naka, the police signalled a Swift car to stop. However, the person driving the car sped away from the spot. A police party chased the car following which the suspects were intercepted by a team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, at the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout. During a search of the car, a country-made revolver and five live cartridges were recovered from 45-year-old Amritpal Singh, a resident of Bathinda, and seven live cartridges were recovered from Harpreet Singh (29), a resident of Mansa district.Both suspects are “farmers”. A case has been registered against them at the Sector 17 police station. All suspects were produced in a court today, which remanded Lakhwinder in one-day police custody and Amritpal and Harpreet in two-day police custody.Two suspects were also nabbed at a naka on the road separating Sector 8 and 18.The police said a Ford Endeavour (PB 31 V0011) was stopped at the naka followng which a person sitting next to the driver’s seat tried to escape. However, he was nabbed at the spot.The suspect was identified as Varun Garg (35), a resident of Zirakpur. The police recovered three live cartridges from him. The police then checked the person driving the SUV, identified as Kuldip Singh (32), a resident of Mansa district, from whom a revolver and two live cartridges were recovered.A case against the suspects has been registered at the Sector 3 police station.Special nakas on weekendsFollowing shooting incidents in the city, the UT police have started laying special nakas during weekends to check the movement of suspicious people in the city. Three persons were nabbed with weapons during a similar naka last week on the road separating Sector 8 and 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-youth-cong-chief-among-five-held-with-arms-by-chandigarh-police-164501
02-11-2020||---||Farmers ‘seize’ vehicles laden with corporate giant’s goods||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1Farmers, who are protesting against the Central farm laws, intercepted trucks laden with goods of a big corporate house on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road early on Sunday.Alleging the corporate house had evaded paying mandatory taxes, the farmers said the vehicles would not be released till the trucks laden with urea and other agrarian essential ingredients stranded near Ambala were allowed to reach here.Rajewala village sarpanch Dilbagh Singh said seven trucks were intercepted between 4 am and 4.30 am on Sunday near the Nijjar toll plaza on the GT Road where they had been observing a sit-in for the past 24 days.“We have been observing that these trucks are frequently passing through without interruption. When we intercepted one of the trucks, we found that a corporate house against which farmers are protesting was supplying goods. The consignment was supposed to be delivered directly to retail shops in Amritsar. We have seized the vehicles but would release them only after the trucks laden with urea stranded in Ambala reach here,” he said. Harjeet Singh Jheeta, press secretary, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, claimed that after scrutinising the documents, it was discovered that no taxes were charged on supplied goods.“The goods worth Rs 50 lakh were never charged any GST. There was no mention of either Centre or state GST on the papers. The police never checked these trucks on the inter-state border,” he alleged.Group to meet AG on BillsMeanwhile, the ‘rail roko’ agitation at Jandiala entered the 39th day today. A group of protesting farmers is scheduled to meet the Attorney General (AG), Punjab, to gain better understanding of the state’s farm Bills on November 3. The meeting has been possible after the intervention of Cabinet ministers Tript RajinderBajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.“We want to understand how the state government, which had passed the farm Bills in the Vidhan Sabha against the Central laws, would help our cause. To clear the doubts, a meeting has been scheduled with the Attorney General on November 3,” said Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-seize-vehicles-laden-with-corporate-giants-goods-164716
02-11-2020||---||Captain Amarinder Singh nod to 50 pc wheat seed subsidy||Chandigarh, November 1Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday approved the Wheat Seed Subsidy Policy-2020-21 to provide certified seed at 50 per cent subsidy to farmers in the rabi season.2.5L farmers to get Rs18.5 croreWith Rs 18.50 crore available as subsidy, a total of 1.85 lakh quintals of certified seed will benefit approximately 2.5 lakh farmers under the policy.The Chief Minister directed the Agriculture Department to give priority for providing subsidised seeds to small and marginal farmers. The subsidy should be given only to eligible farmers and transferred directly to beneficiaries’ accounts, he said.Directing Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Anirudh Tewari to issue detailed instructions to the officers and staff of the department to closely monitor the seed being sold in their respective area, Captain Amarinder asked him to ensure that only quality seeds reach to the farmers.“If any complaint is received in this regard or any malpractice detected, then the officers/employees concerned of the seed agencies, as well as the district and block-level agriculture officers would be directly responsible,” warned the CM.Tewari said all arrangements were in place for the smooth implementation of the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-singh-nod-to-50-pc-wheat-seed-subsidy-164718
02-11-2020||Sangrur||Protesters end siege  of Sangrur DC office||After the state government accepted their demands for Rs 10 lakh compensation, a government job and complete debt waiver to the next of kin of a farmer who died during the ongoing protest against the farm laws, farmers today ended the 11-day-long agitation outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office. All offices located in the district administrative complex (DAC) will reopen from Monday.“A cheque for Rs 5 lakh has been handed over to deceased farmer Meghraj Nagri’s family and the remaining amount will be given soon. The government has also assured a job to the next of kin. Following the development, we have ended our protest at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. However, our agitation against the Central farm Acts will continue,” said Jaswinder Longowal, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan).All government offices located in the DAC had been non-functional since October 23 as farmers had laid siege to the complex. Some senior officers had been working from makeshift offices at Red Cross office, Civil Hospital, PWD rest house and other locations. Hundreds of staff of various departments worked from home during the stir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-end-siege-of-sangrur-dc-office-164719
02-11-2020||---||Fertiliser, foodgrain stocks a ‘worry’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1As the state government prepares for another round of talks with the protesting farm unions over ‘rail roko’, the depleting stocks of fertilisers and hampering of the movement of foodgrain outside has left the state in dire straits.State may face storage issuesSources in the government said against the state’s requirement of 13.5 lakh tonne urea, only 2.2 tonne was currently left, which may lead to black marketing.With only 30 per cent of gunny bales available for the purchase of paddy, the procurement of the crop was slowing down. Many rakes meant to move the crop outside the state were stuck in other states.As for foodgrain, the state currently had 1.35 lakh tonne wheat and 57 lakh tonne rice stock. It will need another 110 lakh tonne rice once the milling of the current paddy is complete.If the movement of the foodgrain didn’t happen, the total food stock storage would rise to 302 lakh tonne, leaving little space to buy or store wheat in the next rabi season.Already, 289 rakes had been forfeited during the ‘rail roko’ period. This had hugely benefitted Haryana as it had been able to move additional stocks and create vacant storage space.Due to shortage of coal for thermal plants, the cost of domestic power was bound to rise, said officials.Darshan Pal, convener of the 30 farmer associations, said they were sensitive to the issues being red-flagged by the state government and were meeting on November 4 to take a decision in the interest of the state and also carry forward theirfight against the Central agriculture laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fertiliser-foodgrain-stocks-a-worry-164721
02-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Three trains carrying urea for  Malwa belt stuck in other states||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 1Farmers in the state may face a shortage of fertilisers in the coming days with the movement of goods trains to and from the state suspended.Presently there is a shortage of 10 lakh tonne urea and there is a requirement of four lakh tonne Diammonium phosphate (DAP) as well. The three goods trains laden with fertilisers for the Malwa region are stuck in other states.After the harvest of paddy, the sowing of wheat would soon begin in the region, Agriculture Department officials have advised farmers to begin sowing from November 1 to 15. Farmers would therefore require DAP as well urea. Sensing a shortage of fertilisers, farmers in the region have started purchasing it from cooperative societies and traders in large quantities.Sources say the three goods trains stuck in other states were to reach and deliver the fertilisers at the Rampura railway station in Bathinda, Mansa and Kotkapura in Faridkot district. However, it is not yet clear when these trains would reach the destination. Agriculture department officials claim that there’s sufficient stock of fertilisers with which farmers would be able to start the sowing of wheat in the region.They also claim wheat is likely to be sown on 15 lakh hectares in the state, requiring 5.50 lakh tonne DAP and 15 lakh tonne urea. Agriculture expert say if fertilisers do not reach within a week, farmers would face the problem.BKU (Ekta Urgahan), secretary, Shingara Singh Mann, says: “The Central Government has deliberately stopped the movement of trains carrying fertilisers and coal to the state. It is an attempt to suppress our protest. But we won’t succumb to any pressure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-trains-carrying-urea-for-malwa-belt-stuck-in-other-states-164722
02-11-2020||Jalandhar||At Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da, agri issues take centre stage||“Ghadri babeyan de kaaj adhoore, laake jindriyan karange poore”. This slogan reverberated across the 65 morchas of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta Ugrahan) on the day of the 29th Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da. Over 1,500 farmers across the state extended their support to the one-day event organised in Jalandhar today.Amid the Covid, a robust celebration of the mela witnessed a steadfast support to the farmers’ stir against the new Central laws.People’s groups, organisations and publications across the state also extended support by distributing posters, books, literature and even cartoons criticising the farm laws. From the stage, a declaration was also made to back the farmers’ agitation against the laws.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “We have to fulfil the 100-year-old dream of the Ghadarites. All our morchas started today with tributes to our Ghadarite ancestors. Over 1,500 workers from all prominent districts were sent in buses to participate in the mela. We are walking in the footsteps of the Ghadarites and want a Punjab they dreamt of.”Sukhwinder Singh, a Dirba-based farmer who came with fellow farmers Mela Singh and Santa Singh, said, “We have come to get enlightened here. It’s our pilgrimage. Our rights are talked about here.”Dr Swaraj Bir, journalist, playwright and Editor of Punjabi Tribune, was the keynote speaker at the mela. He said the farm struggles were imperative for the state in its fight for its identity and dreams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-mela-ghadri-babeyan-da-agri-issues-take-centre-stage-164724
02-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Afghan onion brings down soaring price||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1Afghan onion imported through the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post is replenishing supplies and bringing down the soaring prices.Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal in Delhi on Friday had announced to import 25,000 tonnes more onion before Diwali. All these moves contributed in crashing of onion price in domestic markets on Sunday, indicating hoarders offloading their holding in the open market.Importers said in the wholesale markets of Delhi, the rate nosedived from Rs 50 to Rs 35 per kg, in Maharashtra from Rs 70 to Rs 40 and Punjab between Rs 28 and Rs 30 per kg. Red onion brought from Afghanistan’s Balkh and Ghazni through the ICP is being supplied to Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.Charanjit Singh Batra, a wholesale trader, said the domestic supply of onion from Rajasthan’s Alwar and Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur commenced, which bridged the supply and demand gap.Jatinder Khurana, a leading importer and exporter, rued that they were incurring losses on account of not only crashing trend in the market but also due to various other reasons.He said the authorities at the ICP had objected to its packaging in gunny bags, increasing chances of contraband being concealed in them. Therefore, repackaging was ordered at the ICP. “It escalated the cost and denied the much-needed supply to timely reach the market,” he said. About five tonnes of onion either got damaged or stolen from each truck, carrying at least 35 tonnes.The arrival of trucks increased from 10 to 70 a day after Indian importers asked Afghan exporters to pack onion in plastic bags. It takes about six days for import consignment to reach here from Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghan-onion-brings-down-soaring-price-164725
02-11-2020||---||50 yrs on, Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna continues to inspire stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Even 50 years after his death, Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna continues to inspire the state farmers’ movement. On the 32nd day of their farm agitation, the Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) dedicated the protest to his memory.Baba Bhakna, the founder president of Ghadar Party who infused a new life in the country’s peasant movement by founding the All India Kisan Sabha, died on December 21, 1968, at the age of 98.When the farmers’ movement was still in its infancy in the country, he organised a Kisan Sabha conference in 1943 at his native Bhakna Kalan village in Amritsar.Historical accounts reveal the conference was an uphill task as the British government had tried to crush the movement by arresting a large number of peasant leaders.But even today, state farmers’ organisation draw inspiration from his struggle. BKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said they dedicated today’s protest to Bhakna’s memory as they were still fighting to realise his dreams. “A large group of farmers attended a Ghadar Memorial function in Jalandhar,” he said.Baba Bhakna was sentenced to death by the British government in 1915 but he was saved miraculously by Motilal Nehru, a few hours before the hanging.“He is the true icon of country’s peasant struggle. He not only fought with courage but also refused to compromise on the principles. His life is full of such anecdotes where he fought against draconian laws in pre and post-Independent India,” says Amolak Singh, member of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Trust and the editor of his memoir ‘Jewan Sangraam’ (Life Struggle). Around 10,000 copies of the book have been sold by the farmer organisations within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50-yrs-on-baba-sohan-singh-bhakna-continues-to-inspire-stir-164726
02-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Need to fight in unison against laws: Farmers||Abohar, November 1The Kisan Jagriti Yatra taken out by a joint forum of various farmer organisations from Sriganganagar to sensitise farmers against the farm laws evoked a good response when it reached the Hanumangarh grain market.Addressing the gathering, yatra convener Ranjit Singh Raju said farmers, labourers and traders would have to fight in unison against the three “black laws” so that the Central Government was forced to change its stand.Farmer leader Jaiveer Godara said the Narendra Modi government was playing into the hands of vested interests to ruin the mandis by enacting laws which would render millions of labourers unemployed. Also, farmers wouldn't find any place to sell his crop. The big corporate houses would not offer remunerative prices for any of the produce, feared Godara.Another senior farmer leader Raghubir Singh Verma said there was no legal provision in the Central farm laws to purchase crops at the minimum support price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-to-fight-in-unison-against-laws-farmers-164728
02-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Will vote for employment, security, say Bihar migrants||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1When the lockdown was imposed, scores of migrant workers suffered a lot and went back to their native places in Bihar. Now that elections are being held in Bihar, the migrants who work here said they couldn’t forget the pain and ordeal they suffered amid the lockdown. They said jobs and security was what they were looking for in their home state so that they don’t have to go to other places to work.Prabhu Manjhi had to buy a bicycle to go to his home in Bettiah district in Bihar from Hoshiarpur in May. He is now preparing to come back to Punjab after 15 days during the sugarcane season.Manjhi said, “There is no work here. We have suffered a lot during the lockdown. Now we want a government who can look after us. There should be jobs in Bihar so that we don’t have to move to other places as there is hardly any means to earn here.”He said now he would return to work to Hoshiarpur as he had a large family to look after.Tuntun Kumar from Madhepura district in Bihar had come to Jalandhar in December last year and had gone back in May. Now he is back in Punjab and working at a mandi in Bathinda. “We had to shell out Rs 3,000 on bus fare while we were coming back to Punjab from Bihar. I have loans to repay, which is why I came back to Punjab. I have asked my family to vote keeping in mind the agony we suffered during the lockdown,” he said.Kirpal Singh, a farmer from Moosapur village in Jalandhar and a member of the BKU (Doaba), said his farm labourer who hails from Bihar told him that they would vote for the party that could work for their security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-vote-for-employment-security-say-bihar-migrants-164729
02-11-2020||---||Vigilance seeks record of NOCs from technical education department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1A year-old case of officials in the Technical Education Directorate allegedly trying to extend undue benefits to a private university to run its polytechnic college is back to haunt them.Alleged wrongdoingThe officials had issued a no objection certificate (NOC) to change the affiliating authority of Chandigarh Polytechnic College, Gharuan, from the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training to Chandigarh University under the stamp of the Principal Secretary, Technical Education, without the latter’s knowledge. The NOC was later cancelled.Acting on a complaint, the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Punjab Vigilance Bureau, Iqbal Singh, has sought the record pertaining to the issue from the Directorate Technical Education. Earlier, the Secretary, Technical Education, had communicated to the bureau that no NOC had been issued by its office.The bureau has also sought the record pertaining to issuing of NOC for disaffiliating Thapar Polytechnic College from the Punjab State Technical Education Board and allowing its affiliation with Thapar University. The role of an additional director of the department, Mohanbir Singh, is under the lens.Besides, the bureau has summoned the entire record of the NOCs issued by the department pertaining to disaffiliation of polytechnics from the board since 2016 and the rules pertaining to seats allocated, fee structure and approved diploma-level courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vigilance-seeks-record-of-nocs-from-technical-education-department-164731
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 12 lives in Punjab||In the past 24 hours, 325 cases and 12 deaths have been reported, which have taken the tally to 1,33,975 and toll to 4,214. In the district-wise breakup of cases, Ludhiana topped the chart with 68 cases, followed by Jalandhar (61), SAS Nagar (32), Patiala (28) and Amritsar (23).The number of active cases has declined to 4,195. Of the deaths reported, Hoshiarpur, Tarn Taran, Jalandhar and Patiala have reported two deaths each and Ludhiana, Moga, Sangrur and Fazilka have reported one death each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/virus-claims-12-lives-in-punjab-164732
02-11-2020||---||JAC rejects new SC scholarship scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1The Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) has rejected the new SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme launched by the state government. The JAC said the new education policy was meant for 2020-21.Implement it this session, says SADIt has demanded release of the pending dues for 2016-17 (Rs 415.60 crore), 2017-18 (Rs 538 crore); 2018-19 (Rs 437.19 crore) and 2019-20 (450 crore), which comes to around Rs 1,850 crore.The Joint Association of Colleges said out of 1,650 unaided colleges in the state, a majority of them had turned into NPA because of four-year delay in payment of dues and still in the new policy nothing had been mentioned about the pending dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jac-rejects-new-sc-scholarship-scheme-164733
02-11-2020||---||Two robbers shoot ASI, injure son in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 1Two masked robbers shot an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) and injured his son near Kakka Kandiala village last night. The officer was on his way to the village to get some medicines.Was on way to buy medicinesGurdeep Singh, along with his son, was on his way to Kakka Kandiala on a moped to get some medicines after he complained of stomach ache. Gurdeep was riding pillionThe slain ASI has been identified as Gurdeep Singh (56), a resident of the local Police Lines’ quarters. His son, Manpreet Singh (19), who was admitted to the local Civil Hospital, was discharged this morning, the police said. Gurdeep, along with his son, was on his way to Kakka Kandiala on a moped to get some medicines after he complained of stomach ache. Gurdeep was riding pillion.Two unidentified bike-borne men hit Manpreet in the head with an iron rod, leaving him unconscious. As the robbers took away Manpreet’s purse and a mobile from his pocket, the ASI caught hold of one of them. As the suspect struggled to set himself free, his accomplice shot the ASI in the chest with a country-made firearm. He died on the spot.Manpreet later regained consciousness and sought help, but to no avail. He then called the police from his father’s mobile.DSP Sucha Singh Bal said the police had collected the CCTV footage of the incident but the image was grainy due to darkness. The police were trying to find clues, said a police official. The postmortem of the ASI was conducted at the Civil Hospital.The local police have registered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 397 (use of deadly weapon during robbery), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC, and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-robbers-shoot-asi-injure-son-in-tarn-taran-164735
02-11-2020||---||Despite online sale of sand, no let-up in theft incidents||Praful Chander NagpalFazilka, November 1Despite online sale of sand, announced by the local administration on September 12, thefts continue unabated in the district. The government has no separate record of those who have applied for online sand purchase in the district.Information gathered by The Tribune suggests 14 persons have been arrested, 16 booked and 28 sand-laden tractor-trailers confiscated so far. This translates to one case of theft being registered every alternate day since the announcement.On October 6, the authorities impounded two sand-laden vehicles bearing ‘on Army duty’ stickers, which were meant to deceive the enforcement agencies.Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu had announced online sale of sand in the district at the rate of Rs 9 per cubic feet from designated quarries. However, there are no legal quarries in the district. The sand was to be provided to the applicants from other districts, preferably Ferozepur, that has two legal quarries. The sources say most of the sand is excavated from the bed or banks of a Sutlej creek passing through Fazilka and Jalalabad subdivisions. The administration had announced penalty ranging between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 4 lakh, besides cancellation of driver’s licence and registration certificate of offenders. However, information suggests no such punishment has been imposed on the 30 offenders. Executive Engineer, Mining, Pawan Kapoor says no separate record is available with the department of those who have applied for online purchase in the district. “Since the sale is centralised, the record is available with the authorities in Chandigarh,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-online-sale-of-sand-no-let-up-in-theft-incidents-164736
02-11-2020||---||Punjab’s air quality ‘better’ than neighbours Delhi, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Punjab fares much better in terms of the air quality index (AQI) than neighbouring Haryana and Delhi and can’t be squarely blamed for the poor air quality, said a state government functionary.Pollution in Delhi, especially from October to December, has been increasingly blamed on the fires put to the paddy residue in the fields of northern states, specifically Punjab.The spokesperson said there were six continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations in Punjab — one each at Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh and Patiala.A comparison of data (on average basis) of these stations with those in Haryana’s cities bordering the national capital, including Gurugram, Panipat, Sonepat, Faridabad and Rohtak, and in Delhi, suggested in August and September (2018-2020), the average AQI of Punjab remained within 50 to 87.The average AQI in Delhi during the same period ranged between 63 and 118. In Haryana’s cities (2019-2020) and Faridabad (2020), the average AQI ranged from 67 to 115.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-air-quality-better-than-neighbours-delhi-haryana-164738
02-11-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Administration tightens noose around illegal cracker units, 5 served notice||Tribune News ServiceBatala, November 1The Gurdaspur administration has tightened the noose around illegal firecracker manufacturing units to ensure that September 4, 2019 blast incident, which claimed 28 lives, does not happen again.Shos to keep vigilAhead of Diwali, SHOs of Batala city, Civil Lines and Sekhwan have been ordered to keep a hawk’s eye. If anything untoward happens, they will be held responsible. - Parvinder Kaur, DSP(city)Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq has formed a high-level committee under the stewardship of Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman, Gurdaspur Planning Board, to check the scourge of such units coming up in the city and its vicinity. The committee comprises officials of the pollution, police, labour and town planning departments.Nijjar submitted his preliminary report to the DC in which he has pointed out that five large-scale factories were still operating without following norms. The administration has now issued notices to them. Sources say the norms are so strict that these units will never be able to fulfil them following which they will be asked to shut down.“I will get these factories closed if they fail to put in place adequate safety measures. The Nijjar committee has also identified some shops selling firecrackers without licences. These too face closure. The memory of last year’s incident is too fresh in our minds to be forgotten,” said the DC.DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur has got written assurances from all three police stations that fall in the city that no illegal unit will be allowed to operate. “Ahead of Diwali, SHOs of Batala city, Civil Lines and Sekhwan have been ordered to keep a hawk’s eye. If anything untoward happens, they will be held responsible,” she said.Residents, however, are not pleased. They claim that the town is sitting on a virtual powder keg with scores of unauthorised factories still operating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/administration-tightens-noose-around-illegal-cracker-units-5-served-notice-164740
02-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Debt on farm labourers in Punjab four times their annual income, claims study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1The debt on farm labourers in Punjab is four times their annual income. Eighty one per cent of farm labourer households in Punjab are indebted, with the average debt of each of these households pegged at Rs 1,01,837. Their average annual income is Rs 23,464. It is this high indebtedness that is pushing farm labourers to commit suicide.Recommendations to govt‘80% Compensation claims rejected’The latest study by state agriculture and revenue departments shows 898 farm labourers committed suicide between 2015-16 and 2018-19. But cases of over 80 per cent of labourers for compensation under the state government policy were rejectedSurprisingly, in spite of the Punjab Government’s policy to compensate and rehabilitate farmers and farm labourers who commit suicide because of their inability to repay their debts (Rs 3 lakh is given), majority of labourers do not get the compensation because they are unable to produce documents, including postmortem reports, to support their claim because of illiteracy.These are the findings of a study ‘Livelihood of Agricultural Labourers in Punjab: Emerging Policy Issues’ by Sukhpal Singh, an eminent economist from Punjab Agricultural University. The study was commissioned by the Centre for Development Economics and Innovative Studies, a Patiala-based think tank of economists working on different aspects of Punjab’s economy. The study is now being submitted to the state government by the centre.Talking to The Tribune, Sukhpal Singh said the study also highlighted the transition of permanent agriculture labour towards casual employment because of the monocropping culture that had set in Punjab’s agriculture practices. The proportion of solely labourer agriculture households had declined from 88 per cent in 1987-88 to just seven per cent in 2018-19. “The study probes the plight of agricultural labourers in a so-called agriculturally developed economy of the state. We have examined socio-economic conditions of this class. The reverse migration of labour in the aftermath of the lockdown imposed earlier this year only added to their woes. Thus, the study recommends that policymakers in Punjab need to do to ameliorate their sufferings,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/debt-on-farm-labourers-in-punjab-four-times-their-annual-income-claims-study-164742
02-11-2020||Mohali||Suspension of  trains hurting Punjab industry: Board||The Punjab Large Industrial Development Board has accused the Union Government of damaging the state’s industry by not plying trains.Board chairman Pawan Dewan, in a press release, said the Centre’s economic package would be of no use with the government bent on ruining the state industry.He said due to non-operation of trains, the industry was not getting the raw material for production despite the protesting farmers, opposing the agricultural laws, agreeing to let goods trains ply.He said goods made in the state could not reach their destination, jeopardising the future of Ludhiana’s famous hosiery industry, which was already running into losses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspension-of-trains-hurting-punjab-industry-board-164743
02-11-2020||Balwant Garg||New mgmt in saddle, Gian Sagar looks for fresh start||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, November 1Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital in Banur, which was closed in 2017 due to fiscal mismanagement, is once again on the path of revival after a Gurugram-based group dealing in real estate and automobile business has taken over its management. The college was originally owned by Nirmal Singh Bhangu, the main accused in Rs 45,000 crore chit fund scam by the Pearl Group.After taking over the college’s Rs 200 crore liabilities, the new management was successful in getting the Medical Council of India and Punjab Government’s approval to admit 150 students for the MBBS course from this academic session.It’s not only Gian Sagar Medical College which shut down in 2017. Similar was the fate of Chintpurni Medical College in Pathankot. While fiscal mismanagement was the reason for the closure of the Banur-based college, the Pathankot college was closed for various anomalies.The closure of both colleges was not only the loss of 300 MBBS seats to medical aspirants, it also left the Department of Medical Education and Research in a difficult situation when it had to shift about 700 MBBS students of Gian Sagar Medical College and 250 students of Chintpurni Medical College to other colleges in the state for the completion of their courses.Besides the shift causing extensive academic loss to the students of both colleges, the students were deprived of Rs 9,000 per month stipend in the last year of their course.One of the old staff members and Dean of Gian Sagar College AS Sekhon said the new management had paid the old pending power bills and salaries and had already started work to rebuild the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-mgmt-in-saddle-gian-sagar-looks-for-fresh-start-164744
02-11-2020||Batala||2 men linked to Lawrence Bishnoi gang held in Batala||The police today nabbed two persons said to be linked to the Lawrence Bishnoi gang here today after a brief encounter.SSP Rachpal Singh said a police team on the Ghuman-Mehta road signalled an SUV to pull over, but it sped past. Two of the four occupants opened fire at the police. The cops retaliated, forcing the vehicle to stop.Two gangsters — Stalinjeet Singh and Navjot Singh — were apprehended while the remaining two fled. One of the escapees has been identified as Himmat Singh, facing seven cases of murder and attempt to murder. Their fourth accomplice could not be identified.Two revolvers, a .32 bore rifle and a large amount of ammunition were recovered from the suspects. The Pajero car in which they were travelling has been impounded.“Two of the accused fled under the cover of darkness. Four teams have been formed to nab them,” said the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-men-linked-to-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-held-in-batala-164745
02-11-2020||---||BSF nabs Pak national||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, November 1Border Security Force personnel belonging to 129 Battalion have nabbed a Pakistan national near the DT Mall border outpost in this sector.The suspect has been identified as Adnan, a resident of Aarshul village in Kasur district of Pakistan.Sources said Rs 380 in Pakistan currency besides a double-SIM mobile and a slip had been recovered from him. The suspect was found roaming under suspicious circumstances near the border outpost following which he was taken into custody.After preliminary investigation, he was handed over to the Mamdot police. SHO Anubhav Chauhan said the intruder had been arrested and a case under relevant section of the Passport Act and Foreign Act registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-nabs-pak-national-164746
02-11-2020||---||1,600 classrooms to come up in govt schools: Minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1State School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has said the state government has taken an initiative to construct as many as 1,662 rooms in 1,626 government schools and Rs 124.82 crore has been approved for the same.The Cabinet minister said all classrooms would be converted into smart classrooms after the completion of civil works, including installation of projectors, CPUs, green boards and required furniture.The government had been working tirelessly to improve infrastructure and the standard of education of government schools, the Cabinet minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-600-classrooms-to-come-up-in-govt-schools-minister-164747
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||2-day school PTM from today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-day-school-ptm-from-today-164749
02-11-2020||Amritsar||Capt Amarinder Singh lays stone for Rs 50 cr works in Amritsar||A state-level function to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Valmiki was held at Ram Tirath, believed to be the ancient hermitage site of the sage, near here on Saturday.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh virtually laid the foundation stone for projects worth Rs 50 crore at the Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal (Ram Tirath), which includes a panorama on the sage, facade illumination, filtration plant in the sarovar, furniture for the sarai and construction of a ‘parikrama’. Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was present during the function.The CM also virtually inaugurated a new Ram Tirath ITI and gave the go-ahead for the establishment of a Skill Development Centre to prepare Dalit students for competitive exams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-lays-stone-for-rs-50-cr-works-in-amritsar-164750
02-11-2020||---||Student union opposes move to ‘change’ Panjab University status||Bathinda, November 1Members of the Punjab Students’ Union (PSU) (Lalkar) have opposed the decision of “doing away” with the Senate and Syndicate of Panjab University, Chandigarh.They have exhorted students’ organisations to oppose the move, as the decades-old university, which has been governed by the state government to date, would come under the direct control of the Central Government.In a press statement released today, the PSU members said it had been learnt that the UGC had sent a letter to the university stating that as per the new education policy, the Senate and Syndicate would not be formed, and instead a Board of Governors would be formed, whose members wouldn’t be elected but rather be nominated by the Central Government.The term of the Senate, the apex body of the university, ended on October 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/student-union-opposes-move-to-change-panjab-university-status-164752
02-11-2020||Abohar||Activists take up fogging to fight dengue||The Health Department has declared Street 7 as a micro-containment zone after a sudden spike in the number of Covid cases was witnessed in New Suraj Nagari here.Residents of the posh colony include former legislator Dr Mohinder Rinwa, ex-president of state BJP BL Rinwa, BJP Mahila Morcha state president Mona Jaiswal, three former councillors and teachers.Residents are also worried over the rise in dengue cases. The fourth person to have died of dengue is Ashish Nagpal (26), who used to run a fruit juice shop on Railway Road. Ashu is survived by his wife and a two-year-old child.At present, more than 100 dengue patients are undergoing treatment.Since fogging has not been launched in a big way by the authorities concerned, two social activists Rakesh Kalani and Amit Mittal arranged hi-tech equipment and started fogging from Hanuman Mandir today. The facility would be made available to other localities also to combat the spread of dengue, they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/activists-take-up-fogging-to-fight-dengue-164753
02-11-2020||---||Literary event marks ‘Punjabi Week’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1The state government is organising several events to celebrate ‘Punjabi Week’ this month.Seven events will be organised in different districts of the state to celebrate the week.Minister for Higher Education and Languages Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said these functions had been planned by the Punjab Languages Department as per the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He said the events began today with a literary programme dedicated to ‘Punjabi Day’ in Patiala. The Languages Minister said during the events, discussions would be held to promote the Punjabi language and state’s culture. Besides, the views expressed by scholars would be printed in the form of a booklet by the Languages Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/literary-event-marks-punjabi-week-164755
02-11-2020||Gurdaspur||Who’s behind felling of Ravan effigy on former MLA?||Now, get cow dung cakes onlineMuktsar: Many citizens will be amused to know that these days even cow dung cakes are available on online shopping sites. Besides, even the option of gift wrapping is available. However, what’s even more amusing is the cakes are priced much higher than the normal market price.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/whos-behind-felling-of-ravan-effigy-on-former-mla-164756
02-11-2020||New Delhi||Active cases 6.9 pc; Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh on track||The active cases dropped to a record low of 6.97 per cent of the total Covid cases (81,84,082) today even as toll surged to 1,22,111 with 470 more deaths over the past 24 hours.The number of active cases stood at 5,70,458 with cases per million in India being among lowest in the world at 5,930, against a high of 26,745 in the US. Seventeen states and UTs have cases per million lower than the national average of 5,930. These include Himachal Pradesh (2,960), Punjab (4,434) and Haryana (5,928).With 18,71,498 cases, October registered a decline of 28.6 per cent over the figure for September (26,21,418). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/active-cases-6-9-pc-punjab-haryana-himachal-pradesh-on-track-164773
02-11-2020||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh writes to Nadda, objects  to farmers being called ‘Naxals’||Chandigarh, November 1Expressing concern over the continued suspension of goods trains, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday wrote to BJP president JP Nadda, calling for a collective will to resolve the issue.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMDemeaning their role in food securityBy comparing the farmers’ stir with ‘naxalism’, they (BJP leaders) have demeaned their contribution to the nation’s food security.Referring to the statements by BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh and party’s Punjab unit chief Ashwani Sharma, the CM wrote: “Their frivolous allegation of Congress government’s connivance with the so-called ‘naxal forces’ shows lack of maturity and understanding. By comparing Punjab farmers’ agitation with ‘naxalism’, these leaders have demeaned their contribution to the nation’s food security.”He said the suspension of goods trains could have “dangerous consequences” also for the armed forces in Ladakh and Kashmir. He said no cargo movement meant huge losses to Punjab’s industry and agriculowing owing to critical shortages of raw material. This, he said, was likely to cause unrest in the state. “Pakistan could exploit the situation,” he warned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-writes-to-nadda-objects-to-farmers-being-called-naxals-164737
