14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers in Punjab to observe black Diwali||Amid the continued deadlock between the Centre and Punjab's farmer unions, the protesting farmers on Saturday announced to observe 'black Diwali' against the 'black' agricultural laws.Their day-long talks ended inconclusively in Delhi on Friday."We will light mashals (torches) on Diwali night as a sign of our sangharsh (protest)," a statement by the BKU Ekta (Dakaunda) said.A day earlier, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the positive spirit in which the farmers' unions and the Centre held discussions on the imbroglio over the farm laws and other related issues.Terming it a constructive development, the Chief Minister said the meeting had, for the first time, enabled the two sides to talk in an open environment and hoped it would pave the way for breaking the stalemate on the issue.The fact that both sides came to the table and agreed to find solutions suggests that they had come to a mutual realisation on the need to find solutions to the prolonged crisis triggered by the farm laws, he said.Citing media reports, the Chief Minister hoped the farmer unions' internal discussions on November 18, ahead of another meeting with the Central government on November 21, would help identify the concrete ways and means to thrash out the various points raised at Friday's extensive discussions.Punjab, which has suffered huge financial losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has been badly hit by the current crisis triggered by the Central agricultural laws, said Amarinder Singh, as stressed on the need for urgent resolution of the matter in the interest of the state and all sections of its populace. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-in-punjab-to-observe-black-diwali-170584
14-11-2020||Mohali||1,500 vacancies to be filled in Revenue Department||The Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB) has given its approval to fill more than 1,500 vacant posts in the Revenue Department. Raman Bahl, Chairman, Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB), said, “The board has also given approval to start the recruitment process for the 443 posts of junior draftsman in various departments and 1,090 posts of patwari in the Revenue Department.”“An advertisement in this regard will be issued soon. The board has also invited applications for the recruitment of Assistant Superintendent of Jails. Candidates can apply online from November 16 to December 7. The last date to deposit fee is December 10,” he added.“For the convenience of candidates, the syllabus of the examination for the post of Assistant Superintendent of Jail has been uploaded on the board’s website,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-500-vacancies-to-be-filled-in-revenue-department-170540
14-11-2020||---||NGOs revive handicrafts, light up hopes of needy||Amritsar, November 13In order to ease economic blow suffered by local business and artisans during the lockdown, several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) collaborated with self-help groups to give impetus to the ‘Local for Vocal’ campaign.As festive season hopes to revive the market, exhibits featuring Diwali and handicrafts made by local weavers would also help the needy to tide over difficult times.The Majha House collaborated with the Shramik Bharti who came up with an exhibition of handicrafts made by rural women. From durries to woven lamps, furniture, crochet and traditional phulkari, the exhibition at Art Gallery hopes to help women come out financial crunch.The Shramik Bharti, which supports the Virsa Women’s Craft, a self-help group comprising women artisans and weavers had been organising exhibitions in the past as well to promote local handicrafts.Harvinder Singh of the Shramik Bharati, said, “We collaborated with several experts from the field of deisgning and marketing to train rural women in not just reviving traditional handicrafts to suit modern tastes, but also teach them entrepreneurship skills, so that they can brand and market their products as well.”“The project is supported by four designers from reputed institutes. We increase the scope by identifying skills and potential of those women, who are not only producers of handicrafts, but also entrepreneurs.”Rejuvenating handicrafts, including phulkari and punja durries, the project aims to move beyond just festive shopping and create a network of loyal customers.The All India Pingalwara Charitable Society had also put up a Diwali specific exhibition to showcase creative efforts of special children. The one-day expo showcased wax and clay lamps, candles and other Diwali décor made by kids studying at Pingalwara-run school. Dr Inderjit Kaur, Director, Pingalwara, said, “Through this initiative, we highlight skills of our special children and give them a chance to earn. There is a scope of making them self-reliant.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngos-revive-handicrafts-light-up-hopes-of-needy-170444
14-11-2020||New Delhi||Punjab farmers' talks with Centre cordial, but no result||The meeting between Punjab farm unions and Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash on the Centre’s recent farm laws ended inconclusively today. Speaking to the media after the marathon seven-hour meeting, the unions said their stir would continue and they would meet in Chandigarh on November 18 to decide the next course of action.BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “The representatives debated each and every point. When they (ministers) started speaking about the merits of the Acts, how beneficial they were for the farmers, we told them that it was time that they listened to us.” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president JS Ugrahan said they told the ministers that the government’s promise of doubling farm income was meaningless as the new laws would result in the farmers “losing their land to big corporate houses.” The farmers accused the Centre of an economic blockade, claiming that goods trains were stalled even when they had vacated the tracks.Ugrahan said the Centre proposed to form a committee to discuss their demands on the condition that passenger trains in Punjab were allowed to run. “They (ministers) mentioned another meeting by November 21, but nothing was finalised,” he added.However, the farmers representatives said that unlike the last time, this meeting was held in “positive atmosphere”.Punjab BJP leaders claimed a breakthrough with “both sides agreeing to continue the dialogue”. The farm leaders said they would stick to their ‘Dilli Chalo’ programme.“If we are not allowed to enter Delhi, we will gherao the Capital on November 26-27,” they said, demanding a rollback of the ordinance to set up a commission to monitor Delhi’s air quality and withdrawal of cases against farmers for burning stubble.Union Agriculture Minister Tomar said: “The Government of India is committed to protecting the interest of farmers and is open to discussions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-talks-with-centre-cordial-but-no-result-170385
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||42,000 cops deployed in Punjab for safe and green Diwali||Wearing face masks and carrying sanitisers, 42,000 police personnel, more than half of the Punjab Police force, will be on duty tomorrow to keep a vigil and check violations regarding the bursting of crackers. Also, an additional force from reserve battalions has been mobilised, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said.Special patrol squads have been formed to check any violation of the NGT directions on firecrackers. Already, raids in Barnala, Ludhiana and Moga have led to the seizure of banned crackers. Police helpline 112 has been fine-tuned to ensure prompt response to complaints.Sources said owing to the firing in the Uri sector and announcement of “Black Diwali” by several organisations, the police were not taking any chances. “Joint teams of the police and civil administration have been deputed in the field. The cops have been made aware of the NGT guidelines to ensure a green Diwali,” DGP Dinkar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/42-000-cops-deployed-in-punjab-for-safe-and-green-diwali-170392
14-11-2020||Muktsar||Robbers open fire to snatch car||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/robbers-open-fire-to-snatch-car-170366
14-11-2020||Muktsar||3 accused of trespass||18 injured in mishapMuktsar: As many as 18 women were injured when a truck collided with a Land Cruiser on Thursday. The women, all employees of a thread mill in Bathinda, were coming from different villages in Malout. The injured were taken to Civil Hospital, Gidderbaha. Further investigation is on, the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-accused-of-trespass-170367
14-11-2020||---||Rework or cancel pacts with pvt power plants: MP Partap Bajwa to Chief Minister||Chandigarh, November 13Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to begin the process of negotiating or cancelling the power purchase agreements signed with private thermal plants as they failed to stock enough coal reserve during the farmers’ protest.In a letter to the Chief Minister, Bajwa said the legacy of the unfair power purchase agreements signed with independent power producers (IPPs) was the brainchild of the former Deputy Chief Minister and president of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Sukhbir Singh Badal.Failed to maintain coal stockThree privately owned thermal power plants did not maintain the mandatory 30-day coal stock as required by the power purchase agreements signed with the state governmentHe said the three privately owned thermal power generation stations had become a financial albatross that had caused huge losses to the exchequer of Punjab, while benefiting only a select few private companies.He pointed out that these agreements had been designed in a manner that ensured the subsidisation of these power operators to the tune of Rs 65,000 crore as fixed charges for 25 years.Partap Bajwa, Congress MPAgreements favour private operatorsAgreements had been designed in a manner that ensured the subsidisation of these (priavte) power operators to the tune of Rs65,000 crore as fixed charges for 25 years.“As you are aware that the third private plant run by GVK at Goindwal Sahib closed its operations on November 3, 2020, due to the shortage of coal. The other two private thermal plants at Talwandi Sabo and Nabha had shut operations earlier due to the same reason. It has been reported that these three power plants did not maintain the mandatory 30-day stock of coal as required by the power purchase agreements signed with the Government of Punjab.“Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has yet to initiate against these firms for failing to maintain their commitments with the state,” the Rajya Sabha MP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rework-or-cancel-pacts-with-pvt-power-plants-mp-partap-bajwa-to-chief-minister-170340
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||RBI extends CCL limit for procurement||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) today enhanced the Cash Credit Limit (CCL) to Rs 44,028 crore to the Punjab Government till November-end for the paddy procurement season for the second time. Notably, during the current kharif marketing season, the procurement has crossed the last year’s 150.46-LMT mark. As much as 191.72 LMT paddy has been bought till date, thereby registering an increase of 27 per cent. With the RBI extending the CCL by Rs 8,475.39 crore, the sanctioned limit has risen from Rs 35,552.61 crore to Rs 44,028 crore, according to an official spokesperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rbi-extends-ccl-limit-for-procurement-170341
14-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Few takers for costlier green crackers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 13Despite a call given by the state government to celebrate green Diwali, green crackers are in a short supply in the district. Besides, the environment-friendly crackers are not enthusing people to the same extent that conventional ones do.’At a firecracker stall at the Multipurpose Sports Stadium in Bathinda, only anar (fountain cracker) and phuljhadi (sparklers) are available, though people are looking for rockets, bombs, fire shots and chakris (wheelers). Stall owner Krishan Kumar said: “Anar and phuljhadi are the only green crackers available in the market”.Pushpinder Singh, a city resident, said he went to buy green crackers, which are supposed to emit less smoke and have lower noise levels, but returned home within 10 minutes, empty-handed and disappointed. “There aren’t many options as regards green crackers. Firecracker sellers are selling the same loud and smoky varieties this year as well,” he complained.Even Chinese crackers have flooded the market in the absence of any inspection of stalls at designated places in the district. “The firecracker business this year is down by 50 per cent. People are not buying green crackers, which are costlier than the regular ones. This is the reason that we have not brought green crackers as people are hardly opting for them here,” a firecracker seller said, adding that people from high-income groups who made bulk purchases were away from the market as there were no Diwali parties this time due to Covid-19”.“All crackers produce smoke and are harmful. Even green crackers at times produce noxious gases that can affect lungs adversely. But green crackers are less harmful than conventional ones,” said Dr Vitul K Gupta, a health activist.Some of the hazardous chemicals and metals present in firecrackers are charcoal, potassium nitrate and sulphur. These contain toxic dust and carcinogenic sulphur-coal compound, which affect the environment as well as human health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/few-takers-for-costlier-green-crackers-170342
14-11-2020||---||Amritsar farmers block highway||Amritsar, November 13Protesting the Central agriculture laws, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) today blocked the International Attari-Lahore route for a few hours and burnt an effigy of the Central Government at Shyam Singh Attari Chowk.KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said a statewide campaign of burning the Centre’s effigy had been launched from Amritsar today.“Unlike the other farm organisations which accepted the Centre’s invite for talks, we had rejected the proposal as the environment was not conducive with BJP leaders giving anti-farmer statements. But our goal is similar,” he said.He said the committee’s call to observe ‘black Diwali’ had evoked a good response from traders, transporters and the public. “We will further intensify the agitation from November 15”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-farmers-block-highway-170343
14-11-2020||Bathinda||Sales dip as farmers call for ‘black Diwali’||The call given by the agitating farmers to celebrate “black Diwali” has hit the business community hard.Sanjiv Kumar, a wholesale dealer, said farmers borrowed money from arhtiyas in advance or took money after selling their crops, which they spent on purchases. However, this time due to protests, farmers had vanished from the market. “The arhtiyas are also not ready to give money to farmers, whose crops have not been sold yet, lest it should turn into bad debt. Even the money-lenders seem to have disappeared from the market scene,” he said.Amit Kapoor, president, Beopar Mandal, Punjab, said, “We expected good business during the festive season, but the situation is bad. The orders have come down as people are not making any major purchases and spending on essential household items only.”“First recession and now the farmers’ agitation has dashed the hopes of revival,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sales-dip-as-farmers-call-for-black-diwali-170344
14-11-2020||---||Roads to be named after artists, historians||Chandigarh, November 13To mark the contribution of eminent personalities from the field of art and culture and noted historians, the Public Works Department (PWD) has amended its policy of naming roads and buildings.PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Friday prior to this amendment, roads or buildings were named only after religious personalities, gallantry awardees, war martyrs, freedom fighters or Olympics or world-level championship winners.“Our government has decided to include noted historians and renowned personalities of Punjab. The first road as per this amendment has been named after renowned Punjabi historian Giani Ditt Singh,” the minister said.He added that after the approval of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Kharar-Bassi Pathana road had been named after Giani Ditt Singh in honour of his contribution towards society. He said special repair of this 12.45-km road was also underway at an estimated cost of Rs 4.68 crore which would be completed by March 31, 2021.Singla said Giani Ditt Singh was known as scholar, poet, editor, besides a distinguished historian. He was an eminent Singh Sabha reformer, who wrote over 70 books, including famous “Khalsa Akhbar”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/roads-to-be-named-after-artists-historians-170345
14-11-2020||Amritsar||Get CCTV footage from shops around Golden Temple, cops told||A local court has directed the police to procure CCTV footage from shops surrounding the Golden Temple complex pertaining to the clash that took place between members of the SGPC and the Satkar Committee outside the Teja Singh Samundri Hall on October 24.The court issued orders after the police informed that the CCTV footage from the cameras that were installed in and around the SGPC office could not record the incident due to a technical fault.Accordingly, the SHO, E-division police station, was directed again by the court to get the video footage of the said date from CCTV cameras instaled in the surrounding shops of the Galliara.The complaint was submitted by Balbir Singh Muchchl, president of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee. He had alleged that besides the SGPC office, the CCTV cameras were there on the adjoining stretches and outside the shops around, but the police had never bothered to scan the footage.As many as 30 persons were injured following an altercation outside the Teja Singh Samundri Hall, where Sikh organisations were holding an agitation over missing “saroops” on October 24.The police had booked 60 Sikh activists in two separate FIRs on the complaint of the SGPC officials following which a cross-FIR was also registered against SGPC employees for illegal detention and injuring Sikh activists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/get-cctv-footage-from-shops-around-golden-temple-cops-told-170346
14-11-2020||Ropar||Three held with Rs 6.5 lakh fake notes||The police today claimed to have busted a gang involved in printing and circulation of fake currency. Accused Abhay Singh and Sushil Kumar, both residents of Ambala, and Nand Lal, a resident of Ropar, have been arrested. Ropar SSP Dr Akhil Chaudhary said the police got a tip-off that Nand Lal was involved in circulating fake currency in the area. When more information was gathered, it came to their notice that Nand Lal was in touch with two Ambala residents. The police recovered Rs 6.5 lakh in counterfeit currency of Rs 2,000 denomination from the accused. An Ertiga car along with a laptop and a cutter were also recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-with-rs-6-5-lakh-fake-notes-170347
14-11-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh writes to Vice-Prez, seeks early Panjab varsity Senate polls||Chandigarh, November 13Citing improvement in the state’s Covid situation, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Chancellor of Panjab University, seeking early elections to the university Senate since the inexplicable delay in polling was causing resentment among various constituents of the institution.In a letter to the Chancellor, the CM has urged him to advise the Panjab University administration and the Chandigarh administration for proper and timely conduct of elections to the Senate of the university.Stressing that failure to conduct elections to the university Senate was not only annoying but also against the cannons of any good governance and law, the Chief Minister said, “There is a substantial resentment among teachers, professionals, technical members and graduates of the university and representatives of various constituencies for the Senate elections.”Noting that the university administration and the Centre felt that the situation was not conducive to hold elections due to the pandemic, the CM said the situation had improved and the elections to Parliament, Legislative Assemblies and various other urban and rural local bodies had been held across the nation. “There is a need to ensure compliance of the protocol that has been evolved in the last few months to contain the pandemic and there should be no reason for the university administration and even the Chandigarh administration or the state government not to comply with these,” he added.The CM pointed out that ever since the university was set up, its Senate was constituted after every four years with the members elected through a democratic process.“Strangely, the elections to the Senate have not been conducted, though over the last six decades these were held regularly in August- September of relevant year,” he said, adding that in a situation when the Senate was not constituted, the Syndicate of the university would also not be constituted as its term would end on December 31.“There may be a need for some reforms for the administration of the university, but they may, if so required, be pursued with the active participation of all stakeholders, including the elected Senate of the university, and the Syndicate so constituted in keeping with the existing provisions of the Panjab University Act, its regulations and statutes. While the reforms will be welcome, there is no reason to amend any of the time-tested legislations, regulations or statutes governing the university,” read the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-writes-to-vice-prez-seeks-early-panjab-varsity-senate-polls-170348
14-11-2020||---||Fresh Covid cases double in 10 days in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 13With the state reporting 738 cases and 17 deaths in the past 24 hours, the number of cases has almost doubled in almost 10 days. On November 2, 415 fresh cases were recorded.As per a government bulletin, the total number of cases has reached 1,40,605 and deaths 4,428.In the district-wise breakup, SAS Nagar continued to top the chart with 124 cases, followed by Jalandhar (113), Ludhiana (85), Muktsar (80) and Patiala (73).As many as 153 patients are on oxygen support and 17 on ventilator support.As far as deaths are concerned, the state reported 17 deaths in the past 24 hours. Patiala topped the chart with five deaths, followed by Jalandhar (3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-covid-cases-double-in-10-days-in-punjab-170349
14-11-2020||---||CEO reviews progress of electoral roll revision work||Chandigarh,  November 13 Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju today held a videoconference with all DCs-cum-District Election Officers of the state to review the progress of the ongoing special summary revision of the photo electoral roll. Raju emphasised that it was essential to keep communication strong and keep everyone aligned with the overall larger goal of ensuring universal enrolment of all eligible citizens. Applauding the services rendered by all DCs as a team, Raju expressed confidence that soon Punjab would have the distinction of achieving 100 per cent correction in the electoral roll.  The CEO drew the attention towards the special camps that would be organised at booth-level across the state on November 21 and 22 and December 5 and 6.  He urged the DCs to ensure compliance as per the ECI guidelines and especially focus on youth, NRIs, transgender and persons with disabilities. He urged them to ensure that citizens of Punjab make the most of the special camps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ceo-reviews-progress-of-electoral-roll-revision-work-170350
14-11-2020||---||12 hrs after testing +ve, resident doctor dies||Faridkot, November 13Barely 12 hours after testing positive for Covid-19, a 25-year-old postgraduate medical student of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital died here this morning.Dr Ankit Kumar, who belonged to Haridwar in Uttarakhand, was a first-year junior resident in the Surgery Department. He had extremely low levels of oxygen.Had low oxygen levels Dr Kumar had joined the MS surgery course in the medical college around two months ago after completing his MBBS from Rajindra Medical College and Hospital, Patiala, earlier this year.After working for a week in the Covid ward, he had tested negative for the virus. However, doctors suggested a retest after he complained of acute abdominal pain and vomiting on Thursday afternoon. He later tested positive.Dr Kumar was taken to the ICU, but his condition deteriorated and he succumbed to the virus this morning.Doctors at the medical college are baffled at the rate at which Dr Kumar’s condition deteriorated. “In view of the second phase of the pandemic, we need to assess this elaborately,” said an official.“A young doctor died due to the virus. People should not take Covid-19 lightly,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.For the past four months, junior resident doctors have been accusing the medical college authorities of apathetic attitude, saying they were putting their lives at risk by performing duties in the Covid wards without full protection.The junior resident doctors, who are doing round-the-clock duties in Covid wards of the hospital, had even submitted a memorandum to the authorities voicing concerns over the risk involved. The association of the junior doctors had demanded safety and security for them in the hospital.80 infected in 4 months||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-hrs-after-testing-ve-resident-doctor-dies-170351
14-11-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||2 brothers shot over Batala land dispute||Tribune News ServiceBatala, November 13Two brothers were shot from point-blank range by a relative following an altercation over demarcation of farmland at Kaler Khurd village under the jurisdiction of Sekhwan police station in Batala police district.DSP (City) Palvinder Kaur, who visited the spot, said an old enmity over sharing of land led to the killing.“Brothers Amrik Singh and Harbhajan Singh and relative Virsa Singh were involved in a long dispute. The brothers were tilling their fields today when Virsa started an argument. Amrik tried to counter him but was stopped by Harbhajan after which the brothers retreated. However, Virsa, carrying a .12 bore rifle, started abusing them and opened fire at Amrik and Harbhajan, killing them on the spot,” said the DSP.She added senior officers, including SSP Rachpal Singh, were apprised of the incident. An officer said villagers took time to reach the crime scene as they took the gunfire for noise of firecrackers.Despite rumours that Virsa was being backed by some politicians, a senior officer made it clear no leader was involved. “Batala is a political hotbed. Whenever a crime occurs, even if it means a minor one, it is attributed to one leader of the other,” he said.The SSP said the police were on the lookout for the accused. “Villagers have provided us with several clues and we are working on them. We have raided some hideouts of the accused. Several teams have been formed and the accused will be arrested soon,” said the DSP.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, has been registered against Virsa at the Sekhwan police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-brothers-shot-over-batala-land-dispute-170352
14-11-2020||---||7 yrs on, no registrar at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University||Kapurthala, November 13It’s been nearly seven years now since IK Gujral Punjab Technical University had a regular Vice Chancellor.Dr HS Bains, who moved to Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, was the last registrar and served till January 22, 2014.Ever since he moved, the university has had four officiating registrars and all of them have held the post as an additional charge. After Dr Bains, Dr Rajneesh Kant Sachdeva was the officiating registrar for a year; Dr Amanpreet Singh held the charge for three years and Dr SS Walia served for two years. At present, Sandeep Kazal is serving on the post.The university had held interviews and shortlisted candidates, but the process got stalled after one of the candidates challenged the procedure.The university is also without a regular Controller of Examination and regular Finance Officer after Dr SK Mishra moved to the Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology as the registrar. The post of Dean Research and Development is also likely to get vacant next month, as Dr AP Singh is set to retire. The posts of other deans are either vacant or have an acting officer on the post.University’s Vice Chancellor Dr Ajay Sharma said: “Owing to certain glitches, we have not been able to strengthen our faculty. For the same reason, we have not been able to get 12 B approvals from the UGC or apply under the National Assessment and Accreditation Council.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-yrs-on-no-registrar-at-ik-gujral-punjab-technical-university-170353
14-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Weeks after ASI’s killing, cops clueless||Tarn Taran, November 13Even two weeks after 56-year-old ASI Gurdeep Singh was shot by two robbers near Kakka Kandiala on November 1, the local police have failed to make any breakthrough in the case. Victim’s son Manpreet Singh was injured in the incident.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 397 (use of deadly weapon during robbery), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act had been registered by the police.The ASI, a resident of the local Police Lines residential quarters, along with Manpreet was riding towards the village to fetch medicine when two masked men waylaid them. The assailants hit Manpreet with a rod and shot the ASI, killing on the spot.The city police had obtained CCTV footage of nearby residences but couldn’t identify the suspects. SHO Jaswant Singh said they had no leads in the case so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weeks-after-asis-killing-cops-clueless-170354
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Milkfed capacity expanding amid Covid: Minister||State’s vital cooperative institution Milkfed is executing projects pertaining to expansion of its handling capacities at a time when the country is reeling under economic slowdown in the industry and service sector due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said today.Randhawa was speaking on the Milkfed premises where he gave appointment letters to 27 candidates for the post of assistant manager. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/milkfed-capacity-expanding-amid-covid-minister-170355
14-11-2020||---||Sikh history depicted on canvas||Amritsar, November 13As a part of the centennial celebrations of the formation of the SGPC, a painting exhibition has started at the Golden Temple complex today.As many as 31 paintings are being exhibited. Painters from all over Punjab participated in the workshop organised by the SGPC, and depicted the Sikh history on canvas.Rajinder Singh Rubi, additional manager, Golden Temple, said, “The exhibition commenced today afternoon at the Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. The paintings depict important events such as the Khalsa Panth taking over the management of the Akal Takht from the mahants, the Nankana Sahib Massacre, Jaito Morcha and Kirpana Morcha.”Portraits of prominent personalities, including Jathedars Teja Singh Samundari and Teja Singh Buchar, and SGPC presidents have also been displayed.A brief description in Punjabi and English has been written to summarise the events. “The exhibition will continue during the ceremonies scheduled to be held as a part of the celebrations,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-history-depicted-on-canvas-170356
14-11-2020||Sangrur||NOC issued to Sangrur institutes sans fire safety measures; DC orders probe||The issuance of “temporary” no objection certificates (NOCs) by Sangrur Local Government Department officials to shopkeepers, IELTS and other educational institutes without fulfilling the mandatory fire safety measures has raised an eyebrow. Deputy Commissioner Ramvir has ordered a high-level inquiry to ascertain the role of the officials and an audit of implementation of fire safety norms in all institutes. Many IELTS, PTE and coaching institutes have come up in various parts of the city, including bus stand road, DC office road, Sunami Gate, near Guru Nanak Colony, outside Nabha Gate. As per the norms, they have to adopt required measures to prevent fire. But many institutes do not have exit points, while staircases of some are narrow. Besides, fire department officials have failed to ensure requisite equipment on such premises to control fire. Some shopkeepers alleged while officers posted at the Fire Station, Sangrur, were blind to violations in big institutes, they were harassing small traders. “Officers are issuing notices to us, but are not taking action against big institutes,” said a shopkeeper. “Fire officers have taken affidavit from institute owners that institutes will complete all mandatory formalities. How can they allow institutes to run without meeting safety requirements? We have written to the CM seeking action,” said Avtar Ealwal, an AAP leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/noc-issued-to-sangrur-institutes-sans-fire-safety-measures-dc-orders-probe-170357
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Minister meets child star Noorpreet Kaur Noor||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday met child artiste Noorpreet Kaur, popularly known as Noor, and her sister Jashanpreet Kaur, and conveyed his best wishes to them along with Diwali greetings.Exchanging pleasantries with them at his official residence, the Chief Minister offered sweets to the girls. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur also met Noor and her sister and wished them happy Diwali.Noor, seen on screen as a 5-year-old ‘boy in patka’, is actually a girl from Bhinder Kalan village of Moga district. She has a massive following on social media platforms. She is known for disseminating social messages subtly through fun and laughter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-minister-meets-child-star-noorpreet-kaur-noor-170358
14-11-2020||---||HC asks DGP to file reply on plea alleging inaction by police||Chandigarh, November 13 Nearly a year after a video showing a teenager and two others being paraded naked by the police went viral, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Director General of Police (DGP) and other official respondents to file “regular replies on affidavit” on the petition seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Justice Sudip Ahluwalia also directed the issuance of notices to two police officers “in their private capacity” after Jagpal Singh and other petitioners through counsel GS Brar sought directions to make them parties. The main grievance of the petitioner was directed against the two police officers. As such, they were necessary parties in the case, Justice Ahluwalia said. Brar asserted on the petitioners’ behalf that the DGP, after the issuance of notice on their earlier plea, initiated an inquiry by forming a special investigation team.  The inquiry was conducted and recommendation for registration of an FIR only against Inspector Baljinder Singh and Constable Varun Kumar was made. After the registration of the FIR, the SIT was not showing any interest in the investigation of the case.  Efforts were not being made earlier to arrest the accused nominated in the FIR. Even raids were not being conducted by the police, the plea said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-asks-dgp-to-file-reply-on-plea-alleging-inaction-by-police-170359
