11-11-2020||Bathinda||Out of coal stock, NFL switches to natural gas for urea production||With coal stock exhausted, National Fertilizers Limited (NFL) switched to alternative fuel natural gas, which not only helped them continue urea production in its plants across the state, but also ensured supply of fertilisers to farmers even during the ongoing “rail roko” stir.NFL executives had swung into action as stopping the plants during the rabi season would have caused shortage of urea. It was decided to switch to an alternative fuel in the boilers, which was otherwise a costly affair.Ensuring regular supply to farmersThe company also made arrangements to pick coal from its nearby Panipat unit as a temporary arrangement, as movement of trains in Haryana was operating normally. But this resulted in huge transportation costs to the company. With these collective actions, the company was able to manage sustained running of plants in the state under the crisis.The NFL’s production operations were initially affected due to non-supply of coal. Both the plants require around 2,000 MT coal every day and the supply of the same remained stuck in the state since October 1 after the halt of rail movement. With each passing day, the coal stocks were depleting in plants.The rail dispatch of urea from Nangal and Bathinda plants was also affected due to halt of movement of goods trains in the state due to “rail roko” agitation.More than 80 per cent of the 5,200 MT urea produced daily from Nangal and Bathinda plants is normally dispatched to fields through railway wagons. Rest of the quantity (20 per cent) is sent through trucks to nearby areas in Punjab and neighbouring Himachal and J&K.Due to the non-receipt of railway wagons after the agitation, the urea stock in these plants started piling up, taking the silo stock to the brim.To handle this situation, the company deployed additional trucks for transportation of urea. Mayank Sharma, an officer at NFL Bathinda, said: “With these efforts, the company not only maintained sustained production of urea, but also ensured timely supply of fertilisers to farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/out-of-coal-stock-nfl-switches-to-natural-gas-for-urea-production-168905
11-11-2020||Bathinda||Demands not met, ration depot holders gherao Manpreet’s office||The Ration Depot Holders’ Association, Punjab, today held a state-level demonstration over its demands in Bathinda. The protesters gheraoed Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s office on the Goniana road. Due to the protest, the road leading to Goniana, Muktsar and Malout was closed.Earlier, the depot holders gathered at Rose Garden, from where they took out a march to the Finance Minister’s office. Association president Sukhwinder Singh said they had been struggling for their long-pending demands, but were given false assurances every time.He alleged at the time of the Assembly elections, Manpreet had promised them a fixed salary and government ration, but did not do anything about it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/demands-not-met-ration-depot-holders-gherao-manpreets-office-168965
11-11-2020||Bathinda||Farmers' stir puts dampener on sales of retail giants||With farmers protesting outside corporate stores in the region since October 1, Best Price Walmart wholesale store at Bucho Khurd on the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway and Reliance Market on the Barnala Bypass Road are incurring a huge financial loss this festival season.The financial loss is also mounting for companies that have a contract of toll plazas at Lehra Begga and Jeeda in the district as farmer have been protesting there for past over one month.Besides, farmers are protesting at the main gate of private thermal plants at Baniwala village in Mansa and Rajpura.“Farmers have cleared the railway tracks. Despite this, the Union Government is not restarting good trains carrying fertilisers, gunny bags, coal and many essential items in the state on one pretext or the other. The Narendra Modi government doesn’t have any concern for the people of the state,” said Shingara Singh Mann, district president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-stir-puts-dampener-on-sales-of-retail-giants-168902
