05-12-2020||Hindustan||Farm reforms — how both sides faltered||Over the past fortnight, the agitation against the Centre’s agricultural reforms — led primarily by land-owning farmers of Punjab, but now supplemented by a range of other farmer groups — has assumed a political, economic and regional element. Irrespective of how the issue is eventually resolved, the protests throw open questions about the trajectory of India’s political economy and developmental model, the role of the State and markets in a sector that employs the largest number of people in the country, Centre-state relations, and the future of politics in rural India in general but Punjab in particular.But the issue has also highlighted the strengths and weaknesses of the two key actors involved in the issue — the government as well as the agitators. What have they done right, and where have they gone wrong?Take the government first.The Narendra Modi government — as this newspaper has argued — did well in turning the crisis presented by the pandemic into an opportunity for reform. Indeed, Indian economic policymaking experience shows that it is in moments of crisis that reforms are most politically feasible, giving room to governments to challenge status quo. If it was not for the balance of payment crisis in 1991, it is doubtful if the PV Narasimha Rao-Manmohan Singh duo would have been able to push far-ranging and necessary reforms which liberalised India, integrated it with the world, boosted growth rates, unleashed the animal spirits in the private sector, expanded the middle-class, enriched the government through additional revenues leading to enhanced welfare spending, and lifted millions out of poverty.But one sector which was largely immune to the trajectory of reforms was agriculture. No agricultural expert can today argue with any justification that status quo is tenable. The structural issues in Indian agriculture need not detain us here — but the mismatch between agriculture’s contribution to GDP and the number of people dependent on it is enough to show that urgent reforms were essential. And that is why the Modi government acted with the right intent in reframing how agricultural produce in the country can be procured and traded. It broke the monopoly of the mandi system, enabled greater interface between agriculture and industry by allowing structured corporate participation, and increased the freedom and choices available to farmers. This has the potential of enhancing farm incomes, infusing more capital in the sector, enabling diversification and possibly paving the path for the modernisation of India’s rural economy.But if it was right in its intent, as well as the overall substance of the law, the government faltered in building wider consensus around reforms.Do remember that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government has had a somewhat paradoxical relationship with farmers in general. On one hand, it has faced fierce opposition from a range of farmer groups on diverse issues — from its proposed amendment to the land acquisition act to the demand to implement the MS Swaminathan Committee recommendations on minimum support prices (MSPs). At the same time, through a range of policy measures — the PM-Kisan scheme which enables direct cash transfer to small and marginal farmers; the focus on rural India in terms of construction of homes and toilets, and provision of gas cylinders; occasional promises of loan waiver in states which it is in power (Uttar Pradesh in 2017); a genuine attempt to boost agri-infrastructure — it has also won the support of a large segment of farmers. So, in a sign of the heterogeneity of farmers and their aspirations, it is useful to remember that while segments have been upset, others have also voted overwhelmingly for the BJP in elections.But the Centre should have recognised that precisely because of this heterogeneity, there was a large constituency which could be uncomfortable with reforms and had the strength to express it. And that is why the farm reforms should have been preceded by much wider consultation in the public sphere. The government’s big mistake was in not allowing the farm bills to go through the parliamentary committee route — stakeholders would have not only got a chance to express their views and concerns, but it would have added legitimacy to the process. And even if this meant some delay, the democratic participation within the constitutional framework was worth it. The government also clearly underestimated the depth of anger, especially in Punjab, even though it was apparent that given the well-entrenched mandi system and the more widespread procurement of produce at MSP in the state, resistance could be fierce. The Centre’s actions led to the perception of unilateralism and only alienated those sceptical of the reforms further, providing the ground for a sustained movement.But what about the agitators?Irrespective of whether one agrees or disagrees with the farm reforms, there is no doubt that the farmers are within their rights to express their opposition to measures which they believe will hurt their economic interests. There is genuine apprehension at being left to the mercy of market forces without adequate protection. Farm unions have also done a remarkable political job in spreading their message down to the ground, forcing the entirely spectrum of political actors in Punjab and now nationally to support their demands, and registering their dissent. They have also built a remarkable coalition of diverse interests — though it is somewhat ironical to see those who would have been otherwise categorised as feudal elements in agriculture and Left farm unions and even economic liberals who have, in the past, argued for more openness in agriculture — come together because they oppose the BJP. This may be hypocrisy, but it is also clever politics.But where the farmers have faltered is in the method and idiom of the protests.Any interest group in a democracy has the right to oppose the government peacefully and through constitutional methods. But this cannot be at the cost of undermining the rights of fellow citizens. To gain leverage in negotiations with the State, protesters have been inflicting costs on society — by blocking highways and the right to free movement and disrupting supply chains and the right to trade. This has not only caused inconvenience but also led to inflationary consequences, the brunt of which is borne by the poor. It is easy for protesters, when they are in the middle of a movement, to think they have the edge and underestimate the State. And while the context is entirely different, farm unions would do well to remember that the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests eventually lost their moral high ground because of obstructionist tactics. The other big weakness of the movement is in its maximalist posture — of seeking nothing less than a repeal of the laws — instead of being open to compromise.Indeed, it is only through this political process of negotiation that both reforms can succeed and interests of those fearful of reforms can be safeguarded. Both the Indian State as well as dissenting citizens are on test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/farm-reforms-how-both-sides-faltered/story-P0nrDcyINuDUZP9MnD85aI.html
05-12-2020||Hindustan||The possibilities and limits of solar energy||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi recently told a conference of global renewable energy investors hosted by India that the country’s renewable energy capacity would reach 220 gigawatts (GW) within two years. He said he planned to reach 450GW by 2030. The largest supply of renewable energy is to be provided by the sun, with wind coming a poor second. India has plenty of sun and these targets, although ambitious, are achievable. The initial target by the government of 20GW by 2022 was achieved four years ahead of schedule. But there are problems which India still has to overcome. There are also traps India might fall into if it concentrates so hard on solar and wind energy that it ignores all the other measures that need to be taken to curb the climate crisis. Land is a major problem the solar industry is facing. In Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala, there are protests over the acquisition of land where solar parks are either under construction or planned. In Rajasthan, Adani Green, reported to be the largest solar power generator in the world, had to stop work on the Fatehgarh Mega Solar Park spread over 989 hectares because of a court stay order. Two sets of villagers had filed petitions saying they were dependent on the land. The local authorities have claimed the land is owned by the government and the villagers are encroachers because they have no papers. The American bank, Goldman Sachs, is as optimistic about renewable energy as the Indian PM. The bank maintains that in 2021 investment in renewable energy will, for the first time, surpass spending on traditional fuel sources like oil and gas. Explaining its optimism, Goldman Sachs says, “Green technologies are now mature enough to be deployed at scale.” But it also says that “an attractive regulatory framework is needed”. What is an attractive framework for the solar industry is not necessarily going to be acceptable to India’s environmental movement. Solar energy development also raises environmental issues. For instance, the disposal of material hazardous to the environment. Unless the government insists on green energy generators disposing of photovoltaic cells safely, India could accumulate 1.88 million tonnes of hazardous waste, according to the engineering consultants, Bridge to India. The lack of solar cells and modules manufacturing capacity is another problem. Although India has had a ministry for promoting unconventional energy for almost 30 years, it still imports 90% of its solar cells and modules. The excuse for this has been competition from cheap Chinese imports. Gautam Adani, chairman of the Adani group, said the investment he intends to make in manufacturing cells and modules will develop ecosystems in the solar industry in the way Maruti had developed them in the small car manufacturing industry. By concentrating so much on solar and wind energy, there is a risk of the government falling into the trap of thinking that we can rely on these alone to control the climate crisis. We can’t. We still need to reduce the demand for energy and increase the efficiency of the way we use it. Funding for research into other growing alternative energy technologies such as clean hydrogen should continue. The search for satisfactory carbon marketing also needs to go on. Then there must be far more effective measures to preserve forests and protect rivers. Just before I wrote this column, the United Nations secretary-general made an impassioned speech on climate crisis warning, “Our planet is broken. Humans are waging suicidal war on nature. Nature always strikes back and it’s doing so with gathering force and fury.” Despite its ancient tradition of living harmoniously with nature, India too is now at war with nature. It must do much more to make peace with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/the-possibilities-and-limits-of-solar-energy/story-fqS4Pce0HtLO5MJX17OPyH.html
05-12-2020||Hindustan||The right power balance in an interview||It’s not a question of earth-shattering importance, but it is one that I have been asked so often that I’ve begun to believe people are truly curious about it. So today, let me attempt an answer. “Why do you never address people by their Christian names in your interviews?” I’m often asked. “In fact, is there a general rule or principle that determines how you address them?”There is, and to my mind, it makes a lot of sense. First, however, it depends upon the sort of interview you are doing. In what I call chat show interviews, where you are talking to authors, directors, actors, musicians and the like about themselves and their art, it’s conventional to use first names. These are interviews where you’re encouraging your guests to tell stories about themselves. Stories that reveal their personality or their experiences and, thus, tell you something about what they’re really like without becoming intrusive or probing into areas that might discomfort them. In such interviews, the informality of first names is a huge help. On the other hand, if you address them as Mr, Mrs, or Ms Surname, you could end up erecting metaphorical barriers. That would distance rather than take you closer.The other sort of interview is of the current affairs or news variety. More often than not, the task is to sceptically question what someone in authority has said or done. The aim is to find out the truth, something they usually do not wish to reveal and will try hard to hide. This makes you protagonists. Although the interviewer must always be polite, the role also requires a need to be firm and assertive. Such interviews are best conducted when you call your guest Mr. Surname or, if it applies, Minister. A third alternative, which some find cumbersome, is Christian name Surname. But to call him Sir or Shashi, Sitaram and Amit would be terribly wrong. Let me explain why.When you address your interviewee as Sir, you place him on a pedestal and, therefore, above you. The term suggests a certain superiority. It’s rarely if ever used between equals. And when you have thus elevated someone, there is also a subtle message conveyed to the audience. You’re unlikely to handle him toughly. But if you can’t be tough you won’t get from him the answer he’s reluctant to reveal. Equally importantly, this sort of deference diminishes your capacity to control and guide the interview. Even if you are not following, you’re certainly not leading.I would say it’s equally wrong to use Christian names. When you call your guest Shashi, Sitaram or Amit, you’re suggesting they are chums. This is a familiarity that, equally effectively, precludes toughness. Instead, it suggests to the audience that you and your guest are on the same side. You, therefore, won’t push him to the point he becomes uncomfortable. You won’t expose his weakness. You won’t embarrass him.The conclusion is simple: When you call your guests Sir, you convey an inability to hold them to account. When you call them by their Christian names, you imply an unwillingness to push them to the ropes. In either event, you don’t inspire confidence. Of course, there’s a lot more that determines the impact of an interview. You need the right questions; they must be asked assertively, not hesitantly, and, perhaps above all else, you need to persist, particularly when your interviewee is reluctant to answer or is prevaricating. But the first impression depends on how you address your guest. If you get that wrong, retrieving the interview could be very difficult. Finally, if you think this is an old-fashioned way of conducting interviews, just watch the BBC for 10 minutes. Boris Johnson would never be called Sir. The chairman of British Airways would never be addressed by his first name. Even Rishi Sunak, who’s younger than every television anchor likely to question him, is always called Chancellor. Never Rishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/the-right-power-balance-in-an-interview/story-Bf2n0p6OJhPL3eU4GDh61N.html
05-12-2020||Hindustan||Joe Biden’s China plan and India’s role||United States (US) President-elect Joe Biden has a China plan and India has a role in it. Though it may look as if it begins by making Chinese president Xi Jinping sweat for his return call — Xi sent Biden a congratulatory message but they haven’t spoken — there is a lot more to it.Biden has not spoken about his China policy in a full-fledged foreign policy address yet, but he did lift the veil somewhat in an interview to Thomas Friedman of The New York Times, addressing a whole range of top-of-the-mind foreign policy issues.Indians anxious about Biden need not worry. Biden’s China plan is far more strategic than his predecessor’s approach that went from criticising China to coddling of Xi —Donald Trump made his young granddaughter sing for the visiting leader — to a full-fledged trade war to a trade pact to daily China-bashing in the wake of the pandemic that ultimately consumed Trump’s presidency.From Biden’s comments to NYT, there are key takeaways.One, Biden will not do anything immediately to undo the 25% tariff on imports from China, imposed by Trump. Two, Biden intends to carry out a full review of the relationship and develop a strategy in consultation with allies in Asia and Europe. “The best China strategy, I think, is one which gets every one of our — or at least what used to be our — allies on the same page,” he said in the interview. “It’s going to be a major priority for me in the opening weeks of my presidency to try to get us back on the same page with our allies.”Three, Biden will seek to shift the focus of trade policy from Trump’s deficit reduction to “actually produce progress on China’s abusive practices” of forced transfer of technology, theft of intellectual property, and bolstering Chinese corporations with subsidies. Four, he aims to bulk up the US’s capacity to fight by investing in research, infrastructure and education. “I want to make sure we’re going to fight like hell by investing in America first.”The underlying approach in Biden’s remarks was consistent with what his aides were saying even before his victory. Biden would be “investing in ourselves, renewing our democracy, working with our close partners like India, asserting our value and engaging China from a position of strength”, Antony Blinken, the nominee for secretary of state, had said at an outreach to Indian-Americans in August. He had added, it needs to be noted, “India has to be a key partner in that effort”.The president-elect and Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed the Indo-Pacific region — another term for the threat from China — in their call on November 17, their first after Biden’s victory. But clearly, New Delhi will look for an early and explicit expression of acknowledgment of this commonality of goal and purpose, and with a sense of urgency because of the growing Chinese aggression in the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/joe-biden-s-china-plan-and-india-s-role/story-tvfrR2NVVDdRiQMdprLO3L.html
