07-12-2020||Hindustan||Five lives from the land of five rivers||Ever since the start of the convergence of farmers on Delhi’s borders, I have been thinking of people from the Punjab who have left a permanent imprint on my mind.Five of them, I have been lucky enough to have met. First, the United States (US)-based campaigner for India’s Independence, Jagjit Singh (1897-1976); second, the great writer, Khushwant Singh (1915-2014); third, the communist leader, Harkishan Singh Surjeet (1916-2008); fourth, the veteran diplomat, Gurbachan Singh (1923-2012); and fifth, a lamp in the gloom of our times, the painter Arpana Caur (b. 1954).JJ, as Jagjit Singh was known, has been all but forgotten. But he was, in his time, a redoubtable figure, having brought to America’s attention India’s struggle for freedom much in the manner VK Krishna Menon did in the United Kingdom. And in the process, he gave expatriates from the Punjab in the US a sense of their self-worth. Over the decades, he was an associate and supporter of Jayaprakash Narayan (JP). I was a child when I first saw him visiting my parents. JJ and JP were kindred spirits, committed to human rights and human liberty. An Indian Sikh and a freedom fighter, he would have instinctively understood today’s protest.“India”, Khushwant Singh said to me in 1963, “is unwritten”. With Jayant Das, a contemporary of mine at the same college that the writer had studied in — St Stephen’s College, Delhi — I had gone to interview him for a college magazine Jayant had founded. Standing at the doorway of Vaikunth, the gracious house his father Sir Sobha Singh had built in New Delhi, the author of Train to Pakistan was telling us that our Partition-battered land is not through with its travails brought upon its hard-working and innocent people by myopic politics. And those will one day get to be written about — either with the regret of failure or the satisfaction of success.It was while studying the lives of the ten Sikh gurus recently that I realised Comrade Surjeet was named after the eighth guru, Guru Har Kishanji whose tenure lasted for but three years – 1661 to 1664, in which year he died at the age of eight. Eight? That is correct. He was but a child when he succeeded his father Guru Har Rai to the high seat, dying of smallpox which he contracted while tending to those stricken by the disease during an epidemic. But not before indicating his choice of successor — the iconic Guru Teg Bahadur. Surjeet, the great communist leader, member of the politburo of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) from 1964 to 2008 and the party general secretary between 1992 to 2005, would have been 104 if living today. I can imagine him motoring to the Capital’s borders and, telling the farmers to be mindful of the pandemic, merging his solidarity with their courage.Gurbachan Singh was an aristocrat if ever there was one, fingernails pared to the neatest roundedness, beard groomed to perfection, turban tied to a geometrical QED. He was India’s high commissioner in Colombo when I served under him as a junior stationed in Kandy, handling the repatriation of Tamil plantation labour to India under the Shastri-Sirimavo Agreemnt. All of old peasant stock, these farmer-tea workers left under self-doubt and great distress for a motherland they scarcely knew. And, ironically, customs authorities at the Indian end of their voyage — Rameshwaram — put them through the works. “Do a random check on them”, Gurbachan Singh told the customs officials on a visit to the port with me, “and if you find any contraband on any of them go the length of the law. But I say this to you with every force I can command, you will not harass these men and women who are the salt of the earth.”Is Arpana Caur art’s gift to nobility or the reverse? Be that as it may, she is the gift of meher to both. The Farsi word — meher — is untranslatable. The closest one can get to its meaning in English, is mercy but not in a plaintive sense, rather, in the sense of redemptive power. One of her acclaimed paintings is Resilient Green, showing a pair of scissors, menacingly parted above much smaller figures of trees in leaf. You can think of it as being about the environment, you can think of it as being about the perils of the world that live on good earth.These five Sikh Indians have tilled historical and cultural truths with the hoe of faith. If the protest remains peaceful and does not get co-opted into other agendas, it can be a landmark in India’s agrarian history. It is not for nothing that Rabindranath Tagore in his great song commences naming India’s regions with the seat of the Five Rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/five-lives-from-the-land-of-five-rivers/story-Jaqz4xWuPocoYfwfbyHvDK.html
07-12-2020||Hindustan||Make inclusive changes in the agrarian sector||The fifth round of negotiations between the government and representatives of the agitating farmers has failed. It is now clear that the agitation is likely to continue for some time to come. This is the first time in its six-year tenure that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has faced such a siege of the Capital and such a challenge from farmers. No single government or political personality is to blame for this impasse; this problem has been in the making since Independence.The next round of negotiations is on December 9. The conflict will end sooner or later, but will the problems that beset agriculture be solved? Will there be an end to agrarian poverty and farmer suicides?During the famine of 1967, my father was posted in Mirzapur. I had started going to school and could discern a visible change taking place in the city. Tribals and villagers from nearby used to come to the cities and big towns those days in search of work or food. But, they often went back empty-handed. Those who had the ability to lend a helping hand to them were themselves facing a crisis. Foodgrains like wheat had become a rarity. The red wheat that was imported from the United States (US) was being distributed through ration shops. People were not able to access wheat in sufficient quantities, as a result of which the black market was flourishing. During visits to my ancestral village in later years, I found that more than 90% of farmers were facing various problems. With the growth in population and an increase in members in households, land holdings were getting smaller. The farmers were sticking to traditional crops. They had no one to advise them on how to change cropping patterns which could benefit them financially. If the weather was conducive, life after the harvest was bearable. If not, they faced various adversities, the obvious one being the inability to provide for their families. Then the Green Revolution happened. India started growing more food than it needed. But the distribution system did not improve enough to deal with this surplus. So we had a situation where, on the one hand, the warehouses of the Food Corporation of India were bursting at the seams and, on the other, about 14% of the population did get enough food to survive. The farmer today does not get the right price for his crop and the consumer has to pay more than is required. It is time when we also looked at agricultural best practices from around the world. There is no doubt that the agricultural scenario has to change. The question is how. We already have seen the sort of fear-mongering we are witnessing today in the early 1990s. At that time, then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao and his finance minister Manmohan Singh brought about economic liberalisation. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, George Fernandes and all other Opposition leaders and parties declared this a conspiracy to sell India down the drain. There was unrest on the streets and in Parliament. The whole argument was that foreign companies would now come an enslave us as the East India Company had once done during the British raj. But, what liberalisation did was to pull at least 300 million Indians out of poverty. Coordination between the government, corporates and society improved. This helped set India on the path to becoming an aspiring economic superpower. Many things changed for the better with liberalisation. In the mid-1990s, it used to take hours on end to make a phone call from one city to another. Whenever we went abroad for reporting assignments, we spent an inordinate amount to time to send telex or fax messages to office. I wonder, what would have happened had we faced a pandemic like Covid-19 at that time. Today, if millions of Indians are able to save their jobs by working from home, they have the communications revolution to thank for this. This and many such important measures are the results of those 1991 reforms.To get back to agriculture, let us look at the market in milk. Milk is also an agricultural product. It has no Minimum Support Price. The dairy sector has no special government protection when it comes to the purchase and sale of milk. Barring a few semi-government institutions like Mother Dairy, most of the bulk buyers come from the private sector. The white revolution that Amul started in Gujarat through cooperatives has spread to many parts of the country. Most people who are primary sellers of milk are from villages and own one to six animals per family. No corporate entity has affected their business. This is not to argue in favour of mindless privatisation. Most sugar mills in India are in private hands. But working hand-in-glove with corrupt government officials, the business is exploitative of farmers. In such a situation, it is necessary that farmers’ rights be not only strengthened but that administrators should also be forced to implement the rules strictly. At the same time, farmers must be mobilised to grow alternative crops and also crops for agro-industries. We need to effect positive, inclusive changes in the agrarian sector in our quest to rebuild the economy in a post-Covid-19 world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/make-inclusive-changes-in-the-agrarian-sector/story-Zdh9wREBpPBk0YHKg5SfmO.html
