12-12-2020||Hindustan||For women, Mumbai holds a promise||In a 2019 ranking of global cities based on gender inclusion, Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru were near the bottom of the heap. Factors such as access, mobility, safety from violence, health, hygiene, climate resilience and security of tenure were among the indicators taken into account. All these assume an urgent edge as India tries to get back its economic groove in which women can and must play a crucial role.Cities are usually designed by men — a World Bank report shows that just 10% women occupy high-ranking positions in architecture firms across the world — and, so, they rarely take into account the different ways women can negotiate urban spaces. But the good news is that at least one city in India, Mumbai, is set to change things dramatically and for the better. A chapter “Gender, Special Groups and Social Equity” in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s revised Draft Development Plan, 2034 focuses on how to make the commercial capital friendlier for women in several crucial ways. This is a template for other cities to follow. Rather than a huge budgetary allocation, it calls for a reordering of priorities in urban planning. Women activists, academics and architects, among others, have been pushing since at least 2003 for the city to put aside its gender blindness in planning. The plan was approved by the state government in 2018. The solutions are quite simple really and if they are implemented properly – some recommendations are already being executed — it will make Mumbai one of the most women-friendly cities in India, perhaps in Asia.A skill development centre and a child care centre are almost near-completion. Women coming for work to the city face a serious housing problem, something that is being sought to be rectified by multi-purpose rental accommodation in several places along with guest rooms for women professionals visiting from out of town. Emergency shelters for women victims of domestic violence have been planned. The pandemic has deepened gender fault lines, especially for elderly women who are often the last to be taken into account when it comes to nutrition and medication within families. The draft plan includes the building of several old age homes for women across the city. None of this has come easy; women’s groups have had to keep up the pressure consistently but it is a credit to the Mumbai city planners that they see the benefit in making these changes at least now.The skill development centres are proposed to be in prominent areas next to busy markets, railway stations or other public institutions so that women do not have to navigate lonely and unsafe passages while on their way to these centres. Mumbai’s large population of poor urban women too need to catered to, but this is still a work in progress even in the revised plan. There are schemes planned for drinking water, toilets and health facilities for domestic workers and daily wage labourers who are often at the mercy of touts and other predators. The pandemic has led to many women domestic workers losing their jobs and being left to fend for themselves in cities with no social or governmental support. If even part of the schemes in this plan is realised, Mumbai will have opened the door for other cities to follow suit. At a time when women are being rendered invisible by the pandemic in all spheres of life, this brings cheer as a terrible year comes to a close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/for-women-mumbai-holds-a-promise/story-fSKrHfMxQxVo0tj2ItXPJJ.html
12-12-2020||Hindustan||Atal-Advani: The jugalbandi in the BJP||Today we identify the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Not so long ago, it belonged to two very different men: Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani. For almost four decades, they straddled our political consciousness. For my generation, they were either heroes or villains but never non-entities. Vinay Sitapati’s book on their relationship, aptly called Jugalbandi, shows aspects of their relationship — and their individual personalities — that are revealing, disillusioning and, possibly, controversial.During their years in power, we thought of them as near equals; Vajpayee as prime minister, Advani his deputy. But that wasn’t so. Sitapati suggests, though home minister and deputy prime minister, Advani made little contribution to either foreign or economic policy. He did not support disinvestment but was overruled. He favoured sending troops to Iraq but was ignored. On relations with Pakistan, an area where the Vajpayee government experimented more than any predecessor or successor, I always thought Advani had a critical hand to play. But Sitapati suggests Vajpayee was even more committed to improving relations with Islamabad. Advani’s advice was accepted largely because it suited Vajpayee. However, it’s what Sitapati says of their individual personalities that I find particularly fascinating. Reading between the lines, you can’t help feel he admires Advani but is somewhat disparaging of Vajpayee.Of Advani, Sitapati writes he “acted more bigoted than he really was”. He says “Advani was more a man of principle than Vajpayee, less altered by make-up”. Approvingly quoting, of all people, a Congressman, he suggests Advani’s problem was he wasn’t a good actor. “Sometimes in politics you need to be a good actor.”Of Vajpayee, the impression Sitapati creates is of a man who often would not stand up for his principles. At the last moment, he would buckle under pressure. The two telling instances are his opposition to the demolition of the Babri Masjid and his insistence Narendra Modi resign as chief minister of Gujarat in 2002. As Sitapati puts it: “He would initially oppose his party on principle, then overcompensate when he felt his position threatened.”In fact, Sitapati is pretty blunt. “The reason for Vajpayee’s U-turn(s) is not hard to divine … Vajpayee’s first ‘liberal’ reaction would be followed by the realization that he risked being cast aside by his party. He would then leap to his party’s defence, a leap not of faith but of moral acrobatics.”My generation would not quarrel with this final comment: “It’s easy to fall in love with Vajpayee. An epicurean, a charmer. It’s harder to feel for the colourless, odourless Advani.” But looks and feelings can be deceptive.Towards the end, Sitapati makes a few perceptive comparisons between the Vajpayee-Advani jugalbandi and that of Modi and Shah. For now, let’s overlook the fact the latter combination is not really a jugalbandi; Modi is master, Shah his follower. Yet Sitapati’s points merit attention.The BJP under Modi-Shah is “less upper caste than the BJP of old (but) it’s also more anti-Muslim”. Whereas “Vajpayee and Advani sought to appeal to both the moderate and the radical there is no such electoral incentive for Modi and Shah”. In fact, of the latter duo, Sitapati adds: “They have no training in appealing to the diversity of India as represented in Parliament. Their prism is the provincial politics of Gujarat”. Vajpayee and Advani always served at the Centre and their outlook was more national.If this is Sitapati’s conclusion, many I’m sure would agree: “The result is that Modi-Shah are more ruthless to political opponents than Vajpayee-Advani ever were”. He quotes Advani’s blog to take this point tellingly further. “In our conception of Indian nationalism we have never regarded those who disagree with us politically as ‘anti-national’.”On the other hand, Narendra Modi’s great strength is what Sitapati calls “an almost mystical connect with the voter”. His opponents in the Opposition may not like this but, if they’re honest, they can’t deny it. It could be a lot harder to overturn than Vajpayee’s charm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/atal-advani-the-jugalbandi-in-the-bjp/story-c8SOBanUsVoEY2EKxopvFJ.html
