19-12-2020||Hindustan||For the Congress, why status quo is untenable||The Congress is in crisis and this crisis has four distinct elements — of leadership, of effective messaging to take on the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), of organisation, and of social coalition.But to understand the scale of the crisis first, just examine what has happened in the electoral arena since 2019. The Congress, in the second consecutive Lok Sabha election, lost dismally, winning just 52 seats. The party managed to squeeze into government in Maharashtra and Jharkhand as part of a coalition. But it failed to win Haryana; it came a poor and distant third in Delhi, decisively losing its support base to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) yet again; it lost power in Madhya Pradesh and just about survived in Rajasthan; it dragged down the Mahagatbandhan in Bihar; it has fared dismally in Hyderabad’s local elections even as the BJP made impressive strides; it lost the local polls in Kerala to the Left Front; and its performance was below par for a ruling party in Rajasthan’s local polls.In the polls scheduled for 2021, the Congress stares at the possibility of coming fourth in West Bengal; it is facing a tough challenge in Assam where the incumbent BJP, despite the concerns over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and a flawed National Register of Citizens (NRC), retains the edge; it has a chance at coming to power in Tamil Nadu, but only as a junior ally of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam; and its best prospects of returning to power in a state — Kerala — have dimmed if the local polls are any indication. Therefore, it is entirely possible that between April 2019 and December 2021, the Congress would have failed to win any state election on its own.There are indications that the party leadership recognises that the status quo is untenable. Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with a group of senior leaders, including dissenters, on Saturday, indicates a greater willingness to listen to criticism. But cosmetic changes will no longer do. What is needed is a radical surgery that looks at each element of the crisis in the party.The first is the question of leadership. Sonia Gandhi is president — but all Congress leaders know that real power is being exercised by Rahul Gandhi, who is, however, unwilling to take charge formally. There is a simple way out here. Either the Nehru-Gandhi family takes full control or it lets go and allows a genuinely competitive electoral process to throw up a new leader.There are trade-offs with each scenario. If Rahul Gandhi does take over again, it will help bring back some clear authority in the party — but it is, based on two general elections, clear that he does not evoke the faith and trust of India’s electorate, especially when pitted against Narendra Modi in increasingly presidential-style elections. And so a return to his leadership may help the party organisation but may not help the party’s electoral prospects. If the family does step away, the question is who takes over, whether this new leader will be able to hold the organisation together, and whether the new leader will be allowed to operate autonomously or will continue to work under the shadow of the family. Either way, a decision on both party leadership and the projection of a face for 2024 elections cannot be postponed anymore.The second question is one of messaging. A set of regional parties have discovered that a way to politically challenge the BJP is to stay quiet on Modi (criticising him often ends up being counterproductive), stay away from issues related to nationalism and faith, mute Muslim support, and just focus on local governance and economic issues.The problem for the Congress is that it cannot replicate the same formula as a national party. If it keeps quiet on Modi, it gives the PM a free run, but if it criticises him, without being able to offer an alternative leader with the same credibility, it only reinforces his dominance. If it keeps quiet on the manner nationalism is now defined, it cedes the nationalist space to the BJP but if it criticises it, it opens itself to allegations of undermining national interest. If it stays quiet on Hindutva, it bolsters the BJP’s credentials with the majority, but if it criticises it, it comes across as “appeasing” minorities. This leaves it only with the economy (and how it is managed) card — but this is just one element in a complex set of factors which motivates voters. In any case, till the party is able to really provide an alternative economic paradigm, and counter the BJP’s complex class politics which hinges substantially on welfare, this approach will only fetch limited dividends.The third question is of organisation. The party’s loose structure — where it lacks a dedicated cadre — is incapable of taking on what is clearly the most formidable organisational machinery that India has ever seen. The BJP’s focus on its sangathan is now legendary. This helps keep the party machine going, allows it to mount effective campaigns, but most critically, enables it to convert support into votes on Election Day. The reason that the BJP is able to convert, in the first-past-the-post system, even a limited vote share in state elections into a high number of seats is often due to the organisation. It is aided in this by both its ideological affiliates in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and substantial resources.The Congress just cannot match these. Its ability to motivate people to join the party in large numbers, forsaking immediate dividends is limited; its ability to retain talent is even more limited since workers see little incentive in being with a party with no winning prospects; and since it is not seen as a winning horse, the ability to collect resources also diminishes. The fact that the party organisation is almost non-existent in three states which send 162 seats to Parliament - Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar — erodes its standing even further.And the final question is of its social base. The BJP is India’s Dalit party today — winning the highest number of reserved seats; it is India’s Other Backward Classes (OBC) party too — restructuring its organisation and leadership to accommodate members of backward communities, helped by the fact that the PM himself is an OBC; it is also clearly India’s upper caste party, catalysing an unprecedented consolidation of dominant communities. The Congress, for its part, no longer enjoys the support of upper castes; it is bereft of OBC support except in pockets depending on state leaders (Ashok Gehlot or Bhupesh Baghel bring in the communities in their states); it is competing for the Dalit vote with regional parties and the BJP; and wherever Muslims find an alternative, the community drifts away from the Congress. The Congress won 120 million votes in 2019, and, therefore, it cannot be underestimated, but its social coalition has shrunk and it lacks a core vote in key states. Unless the party recognises the scale of the crisis — and addresses each element of the crisis — it stares at a third consecutive loss in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/for-the-congress-why-status-quo-is-untenable/story-2H4xmzLaPiKrCJVPH1dyfL.html
19-12-2020||Hindustan||In the cold winter, keeping the Gods warm||The odd thing about winter in the plains of northern India is it suddenly hits you. For weeks, it’s balmy and then you wake up one morning shivering. Overnight the temperature has plummeted. Well, that happened last week.After unusually warm temperatures in the late 20s, the maximum on Thursday was just 15.2 degrees. The minimum was a freezing 4.6. If that wasn’t enough of a shock, the cold winds sweeping down from the Himalayas set your teeth chattering. Mine played a veritable symphony.Now I’m used to winter in Europe but, on Thursday, I simply couldn’t get warm. I tried sitting on my hands but that didn’t help. My wretched derriere felt cold. In this self-pitying state, I chanced upon an earlier article in The Indian Express that lifted my spirits. It claimed the Ram Lalla idols in Ayodhya are feeling the winter chill as much as I am. Now, if our Gods are shivering, who am I to complain?This is how the article began: “With the mercury dropping in the state, priests and authorities in Ayodhya are taking care to ensure the comfort of the Ram Lalla idol, and the idols of the deity’s brothers, in a makeshift temple in the town. They have installed a blower heater in the temple, and covered the deities with a blanket.”Frankly, with my feet frozen and my fingers icy, I felt like moving into the temple myself. But I had no option except to shiver in an unheated office, with cold bare floors and bone-chilling drafts blowing in from leaky windows.The arrangements for Ram Lalla filled me with envy. Mahant Satyendra Das, the temple’s chief priest, revealed the heart-warming details. “We have installed a blower heater in the makeshift temple to ensure that the temperature is under control and our deities do not suffer in this cold. Along with that, the deities have been given warm clothes and have been covered in a blanket. Earlier we thought of making a fireplace too but as the makeshift temple is made of wood and glass, it will not be safe. The arrangements made will continue till the winter is here and meanwhile, we will keep thinking of any other way we can ensure more comfort to the deities.”The truth is our Gods have a much better time than us. The Mahant says the Ram Lalla temple has “an air-conditioner to keep the deities comfortable in summer”. So neither the cold nor the heat worries them. And they’re not the only ones. All the Gods in Ayodhya are similarly taken care of. “Similar arrangements for both the seasons exist in almost every major place of worship in the temple town”, the Mahant adds.If office cupboards had blankets, I would have wrapped myself in one. If there was a blower heater around, I would be sitting on top of it. But the luxuries that are commonplace for our Gods were a distant dream on Thursday. So I reflected on the human predicament instead. If Adam, under the apple tree, felt cold, God did not give him blankets or a heater. Eve was poor compensation!In fact, our Gods are luckier than most. In December, churches in London are forbidding because they’re horribly cold. Central heating is denied to their Gods. And I’ve never met a priest who’s covered the shoulders of a Jesus statue with a stole, even though it’s snowing outside and the wind is howling all the way from Siberia.When Roman emperors died — actually, they were more likely to be murdered — they were elevated to the Gods. Consequently, there are quite a few looking down on us. But on Thursday, as I shivered in an unheated office, I decided if I’m to join them, I insist on clinging to my Hindu faith. I want an assurance of a blanket and a heater, not the indifference of a British priest who refuses to accept Jesus’s statue can feel the winter chill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/in-the-cold-winter-keeping-the-gods-warm/story-Ue83rocLrwdakJAzpxDnZL.html
19-12-2020||Hindustan||Parliament and the virtues of listening||Presiding over the bhoomi pooja, or the laying of the foundation stone, of the new Parliament building, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi said democracy was a matter of “talking and listening”. Unfortunately, the bhoomi pooja has taken place at a time when the government is doing the talking and not showing much willingness to listen. The PM’s voice was the only voice heard at the ceremony. It would have strengthened the symbolism of the occasion if the voice of the Opposition had also been heard. The Opposition boycotted the ceremony because it claimed the government had not been willing to listen to its views on the project. The Opposition claimed that the construction was being rushed through without adequate consultation in order to have the monumental new building ready to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence just two years away.Now, parliamentary affairs minister, Pralhad Joshi, has announced that there isn’t going to be a winter session of Parliament even though the Congress is pressing for a debate on the farm agitation. In his letter to Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, he explained his decision saying, “The winter months are crucial for managing the pandemic”. At the same time, he maintained the monsoon session, which was held during the pandemic, had been “one of the most productive sessions of Parliament with 27 bills passed by both houses in ten continuous sittings”. But that success was achieved by taking the opportunity of the session being shortened because of an outbreak of Covid-19 among Members of Parliament (MPs) and parliamentary staff, to steamroll those bills through Parliament without the customary time for debate. None of the bills was referred to a parliamentary committee to give a chance for further deliberation on them.The government is now paying the price for not hearing the concerns of the Opposition and farmers before rushing its three controversial agricultural bills through Parliament. If the agriculture minister and his team had listened to the farmers’ unions before drafting the bill, they would have learnt of their concerns about the corporate sector coming into agriculture, and had an opportunity to explain why their fears were not justified.Although ministers have appealed to farmers to talk to them, they have also adopted the familiar tactics of defamation which only increases bitterness and decreases the possibility of constructive talks leading to an agreement. The leader of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Group) Joginder Singh Ugrahan said, “First they called us Khalistanis, then they called us Pakistanis, now we are called Naxals. The same people harp on about the importance of dialogue.”The Ugrahan Group did wave posters demanding the release of the activists and intellectuals arrested in the Bhima Koregan case. This led to law minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, saying that the accused in that case, whom he described as the tukde tukde gang, “had got behind the farmers’ movement and were firing from its shoulder”. The frequency with which spokesmen for the government level charges of plotting to break up the nation reminds me of McCarthyism in the United States of the 1950s. Heightened tensions during the Cold War fuelled fears that communist spies had infiltrated the federal government, universities, and the film industry and led to paranoia which came to be called the search for “reds under the bed”. Creating the fear that there could be threats to break India seems to me designed to feed nationalist paranoia and insulting because it implies India is so fragile it could be broken. Of course, the government does need to talk but if it does not also listen more, what is the point of the new Parliament House?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/parliament-and-the-virtues-of-listening/story-0eMBUdcNl8eSfYW8mS0j5M.html
