04-08-2020||Calcutta||Bengal panel to vet National Education Policy||The Bengal government has set up a six -member committee to examine the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Monday. The panel, which will submit its report within August 15, will review every aspect of the policy, find out its pros and cons and the extent to which  students will benefit, if at all, one of the members of the panel said. The minister said the policy aimed to give less emphasis on Class X board exams, introduce one-year MA courses and abolish MPhil courses. The most contentious feature, though, is its ambiguous mother-language policy. There are allegations that it will end up promoting Hindi. Several aspects of the policy need to be reviewed, he said. The members of the panel are Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, Rabindra Bharati University vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhuri, chairman of the state’s syllabus restructuring committee Avik Majumdar, MP Saugata Roy, and academics Pabitra Sarkar and Nrisringha Prasad Bhaduri. Teachers’ organisations, students and individuals can give their opinion through emails and letters by August 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
04-08-2020||Calcutta||Bengal calls for ICMR antigen test guideline change ||People with negative antigen test results at fever clinics in medical colleges and hospitals need not immediately go for an RT-PCR test unless they have other symptoms, the state health department has said. At a recent meeting with officials of medical colleges and hospitals across Calcutta, members of the Covid protocol committee said doctors at fever clinics should look for at least two clear symptoms of Covid infection: cough and breathing trouble or loss of appetite and smell apart from fever. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had formed the committee. The person can be considered as a non-Covid-patient in this season of flu, the committee members have said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which has approved antigen tests for Covid identification, has said a person whose antigen test results are negative should go for an RT-PCR test. The past week saw antigen tests being conducted across medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta and in some in the districts. Health department officials have observed senior officials at fever clinics recommending RT-PCR tests at random. “We have told senior doctors at these fever clinics not to blindly advise RT-PCR tests to those testing negative in antigen tests,” a health department official said. “The ICMR guideline is fine. But there has to be an application of mind.” The health department has already distributed 50,000 antigen test kits to all medical colleges and hospitals across Calcutta apart from the ones in the districts. The health department has decided to scale up the daily number of Covid tests from the existing 17,000 to 25,000. Antigen test kits have been sent to School of Tropical Medicine Calcutta and to two hospitals, including Beleghata ID Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital. On Monday, 21,072 swab samples were tested, a health department official said. There have been several instances of patients getting their fever treatment delayed by at least four days because they are waiting for their RT-PCR test results, which turn out to be negative, an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. Several such patients from the fever clinics at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and Calcutta Medical College and Hospital have been found to be suffering from flu and nothing to do with the coronavirus, the official said. “We have written to the ICMR saying there should be a change in the guideline for retests. Let a patient, who has tested negative in antigen tests, be retested after three days and not immediately. The total viral load will show up by this time and the antigen tests can prove conclusive,” a health department official said. “The ICMR is still to respond.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
04-08-2020||Calcutta||Housing societies devise Covid waste rules for Calcutta||The number of Covid patients in home isolation has been on the rise and so has the amount of Covid waste. Housing societies across the city are fumbling when it comes to disposing the waste because they are not fully aware of the protocol. State pollution control board guidelines speak about segregated collection of biohazardous waste and solid waste from Covid-hit families, but most housing societies have devised their own methods to collect and dispose of such waste. There should be a separate mechanism to collect biomedical waste (used masks, gloves, tissues, toiletries or swabs contaminated with blood or body fluid of a Covid-19 patient) and general solid (household) waste, the state pollution control board has said. The civic body has to provide families of Covid patients with yellow bags for biomedical waste. The civic body has to ensure biomedical waste is collected and disposed separately from the household waste of families of Covid patients. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has outsourced the collection of medical waste to a waste management company named GreenTech Environ. Whenever someone tests positive for Covid-19, the corporation ensures the yellow bags for biomedical waste reaches the person’s home, an official of the company said. “Either we get in touch with the family or someone from the family gets in touch with us.” GreenTech usually collects biomedical waste once a week. They charge Rs 500 for every collection, the official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has been handing out a bin and plastic bags for biomedical waste to Covid-hit families, a corporation official said. The plastic bags are collected separately and dumped at the Salt Lake Sub-divisional hospital near City Centre, Devashish Jana, the mayoral council member in charge of solid waste management, said. The waste is then collected by the agency entrusted with collecting the hospital’s waste items, Jana said. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has engaged an agency to collect biomedical waste from homes of Covid-19 patients, an official said. The agency provides “large double sealed polythene packets” to houses where patients are in home isolation, the official said. Once the packets are filled, residents call up the number printed on the packet and the agency then sends people to collect it, the official said. An upscale housing complex in south Calcutta has prepared its own waste management protocol, which includes daily collection of waste from Covid-hit family by members of their staff in PPEs and dumping it in the common vat where garbage from others flats is dumped. Another housing complex along the Bypass follows a similar procedure. “Our people collect the garbage from the house of a Covid patient every three days. The garbage is emptied in a common vat, which is cleared by the CMC,” a resident of the housing complex said. In another housing complex along the Bypass, the residents’ welfare association has arranged for daily disposal of such waste. “The waste is collected from a Covid patient’s house only after garbage collection is over from rest of the flats. The waste is shifted into two thick polythene bags that are dumped into the common vat,” a member of the association said. Metro contacted representatives of these housing complexes. They said they had not received any “yellow bag” from civic bodies and that they had their own mechanism to manage such waste. The reason behind this possible lapse could be lack of enough people to handle the increasing number of patients. “After the distribution of the yellow bags, borough officials are supposed to record the address of a patient with a photograph of the person receiving the bag. I am not sure how this (lapse) can happen. It can be because of staff shortage, if at all this has happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
04-08-2020||Calcutta||Supply bottlenecks push up fruit prices in Calcutta||Fruit prices in Calcutta are on an upward spiral because of a rise in demand and bottlenecks in the supply chain. The prices of banana, apple, grape and mosambi have witnessed a sharp spike in the last seven to 10 days, Calcuttans across the city said. A resident of Sovabazar said he had to pay Rs 30 for four pieces of banana (Katali) on Sunday at the local market. A resident of Kasba echoed him. A resident of Behala said he had to pay Rs 40 for 6 pieces of banana (Katali) on Monday. Apples, too, have become expensive. The variety that cost Rs 200 a kilo only about 10 days back is now selling for Rs 250. “I fail to understand why banana prices have shot up so much. The Katali variety grows in Bengal. When I tried to bargain, the seller simply refused to sell,” the Sovabazar resident said. Asked about the price hike, a trader said: “Saturday was Id-ul-Adha and Monday was Rakhi Purnima. Janmash-tami is approaching. Because of so many festivals, prices remain high during this time. In addition, the supply bottlenecks have further pushed up the prices.” Bilal Khan, a fruit merchant in Mechua, cited the twice-a-week lockdown in the state as one of the reasons for the rise in fruit prices. “In May and June, vegetables and fruit markets were kept open. But the latest spell of lockdowns has not exempted fruits or vegetables. Wholesalers are procuring less stock, which in turn means lower supply to retail markets. On the days before each lockdown, the sale in Mechua is low. Fruits are perishable. Traders do not want to keep unsold stock for a day. As a result, there is a dip in procurement,” he said. Traders at the Jadavgarh market told the Kasba resident that they were buying fruits at higher prices. Wholesalers said apple prices had shot up as there was a supply shortage from Shimla. “Apples have not grown well this year. So there is a supply shortage. As a result, prices have shot up,” said a wholesaler from Mechua, the biggest wholesale fruit market in Calcutta. Several traders said they had witnessed a general hike in demand for fruits during the pandemic. To boost immunity, people have been buying citrus fruits like mosambi. With a surge in demand and drop in supply, the prices have increased. “I used to buy mosambi regularly for my family. But now I am buying only for my daughter. It is impossible for everyone to have mosambi at a price of Rs 10 per piece,” said a Behala resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
04-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather forecast: Rain alert after hot and humid days||After a lingering spell of heat and humidity, the city is tipped to get heavy rain on Tuesday. A low-pressure area is expected to form over the north Bay of Bengal on Tuesday, the Met office has said. The system is likely to trigger widespread rain across south Bengal over the next two days. “The system is still a cyclonic circulation over the northwest Bay. It is tipped to intensify into a low pressure tomorrow,” an official said. “On August 4, heavy to very heavy rain is likely in some pockets of Nadia, Birbhum, East and West Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. Heavy rain is expected in some pockets of all other south Bengal districts,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The showers will continue on Wednesday but the western districts of Bengal, like Purulia, Jhargram and Bankura, are likely to get more rain.” Calcutta is also tipped to see one or two spells of heavy rain on Tuesday, said a Met official. The intensity of the showers will go up in the second half of the day. If the forecast comes true, the city will see heavy rain after a while. Most of July was rainy but it was not “classical monsoon rain”. The rains in the city were caused by local thunderclouds and not because of any system over the Bay. “Since there was no system on the Bay, the monsoon trough remained stationed on the foothills of the Himalayas. Now, the trough has come down,” the Met official said. The weather in Calcutta has been hot and humid during the day for the past several days. The sweaty conditions will not go away but a spell or two of heavy rain could offer some temporary relief, a weather scientist said. Monday was sweaty in Calcutta. The maximum temperature was 37.1 degrees, five notches above normal. The minimum relative humidity was 55 per cent. July, usually the rainiest month with a quota of around 400mm of rain, saw around 350mm this year, according to figures with the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The deficit is around 10 per cent but the predictions come with a margin of around 20 per cent, the Met official said. July 2019 was among the driest in recent memory, with only 160mm of rain in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
04-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown: Entrance rules at Ramakrishna Mission college||Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) will test English honours aspirants through home assignments and viva voce, the decision necessitated by the Covid pandemic which forced the Narendrapur institute to scrap admission tests this year. As for the science subjects, students will be shortlisted based on their plus-II and Class X board exam marks. Till last year, the college used to select students based on their entrance test score and marks in the plus-II board exams. The college has uploaded the new admission modalities on its website. “This year we have introduced a new mechanism for screening candidates because admission tests cannot be held,” said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur. The selection procedure for English entails that “there will be an online home assignment test of one-and-a-half-hour duration carrying 50 marks”. The candidates will be required to attempt two questions, of 25 marks each. A teacher of the department said that last year they had awarded 70 per cent weightage to the admission test score and the rest to the plus-II score. “We worked out the model as this will help us get an idea about the prospective candidate’s command of the language,” he said. The admission notification says: “The answers must be written in the candidates’ own handwriting (preferably in black ink) which may be verified at any later stage after the pandemic situation gets over.” The test will be held on September 4. The candidates will have to send scanned copies of their answer scripts in “one single legible pdf format” to admengndp@gmail.com. The notice says short-listing will be done based on marks obtained in plus-II English and the home assignment score. The short-listed candidates will be required to attend a viva voce of 30 marks through video call/audio call/WhatsApp call. For physics, chemistry, math and statistics, students will be shortlisted based on their plus-II scores and the marks in the science subjects in the secondary board exams. Last year, the departments had given weightage to the admission test score as well as the marks in the subjects concerned and the other two allied subjects in the plus-II board exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-352
04-08-2020||Calcutta||Alleged trafficking survivor makes futile trip to Alipore court||A 17-year-old girl, a reported trafficking survivor, came from Basanti in South 24-Parganas to the Alipore police court on Thursday to record her statement in front of a magistrate. After a journey of close to three hours and a long wait, the girl was told the court was “closed” and that she would have to come again on Tuesday. The girl’s father, a daily wage earner, had paid Rs 3,000 to rent a car amid the Covid-19 curbs. The girl’s father had filed a missing person’s report on December 19, 2019, following her alleged abduction. The report was converted into an FIR, but the father alleged that he had not received a copy of it till Friday. Section 154 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure says a copy of the FIR “shall be given forthwith, free of cost, to the informant”. The case is a pointer to the challenges trafficking survivors face in getting judicial redress. After being subjected to physical and mental abuse, the long and tedious road to justice often proves too much for survivors, many of them minors. The pandemic has only made things worse. Under normal circumstances, the father and daughter could have travelled by suburban trains to and from Calcutta. An official of the Alipore police court said the court had been “functioning partially” ever since some judges, lawyers and officials tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, only people arrested in the past 24 hours were produced in court, he said. The girl was allegedly abducted and trafficked to Bangalore in December 2019. She was allegedly forced into sex trade. She had reportedly called her father multiple times from customers’ phones. “After being abused for days, she managed to run away. A stranger gave her shelter and her father reached Bangalore to bring her back in January 2020,” said a member of an NGO that is counselling the girl. A volunteer with an NGO accompanied the girl’s father to Basanti police station on Friday. The cops allegedly told the two that no photocopy of the FIR was available. The volunteer, Sushmita Mondal, then took a picture of the FIR on her phone, which she shared with Metro. The FIR charges the accused — the alleged abductor mentioned in the father’s first complaint — under IPC sections 363 and 365 (kidnapping and wrongful confinement). The girl said she had told the police everything — “how I was sold from one party to another, how I was forced into sex with multiple men every day”. When this newspaper called up the officer in charge of Basanti police station, he said he had been hospitalised with Covid-19. Asked why the charge of trafficking and sections under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were not included, an officer who was in charge of the police station said: “That is subject to investigation”. Rashid Munir Khan, the superintendent of Baruipur police district, said: “If there is any wrongdoing, the guilty will not be spared.” The teenager showed a resolve beyond her age. “It was frustrating to go to the court and come back without recording the statement. But I will see the end of this. I want my tormentors punished so they cannot abuse other girls like me,” she said over the phone. The girl’s father said the local police had initially pleaded helplessness because the teenager was “outside the state”. When they approached the police after returning from Bangalore, an officer is said to have told the father: “Now that your girl is back, withdraw the case”. Before running away, the girl had managed to take a photocopy of the Aadhaar card of one of her alleged abductors who had accompanied her to Bangalore. She also “stole” pictures of the couple she was first sold to. “All the evidence has been submitted to the police. But they have not shown any urgency,” said Mondal, a volunteer with Bansra Birangana Seva Samity, the NGO that is helping the teenager. Kaushik Gupta, an advocate at Calcutta High Court, said if Pocso and trafficking charges were not pressed despite the girl’s statement to the cops, it amounted to “dereliction of duty”. A section of rights activists said police often pressed “lesser charges” because including trafficking and Pocso meant many added responsibilities. The high court has detailed guidelines on how to deal with trafficking cases. Some of them are: ⚫ Cases involving commercial sexual exploitation of women or children should be investigated by a specialised agency like Anti-Human Trafficking Unit ⚫ Such FIRs registered with local police stations must, within 24 hours thereof, be transferred to the specialised agencies for further investigation ⚫ Victims must be extended medical assistance, which shall include psychological counselling. “Not to be trafficked is a fundamental right under Article 23 of the Constitution. If that right is violated, the state is bound to pay victim compensation. What have the cops done to facilitate the same? The higher authorities should initiate a departmental inquiry,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-353
