06-08-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake councillor dies after testing positive for Covid||A councillor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who had tested positive for Covid-19 passed away on Wednesday. Subhash Bose, in his mid-50s, was admitted to a private hospital after he tested positive for the virus, a corporation official said. Bose was the councillor of Ward 6, which includes Teghoria, Atghara, Kaikhali and Chinar Park. These places have seen a steady rise in the number of Covid positive people. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said Bose stayed with his family in a flat near Jyangra in Rajarhat. He had trouble breathing and required ventilator support, the official said. “But he could not make a recovery. His wife and son, too, have tested positive for Covid-19. They are admitted to hospitals,” a corporation official said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee took to Twitter to convey her condolences to his family. “Saddened at the demise of our colleague and councillor of Ward 6, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Subhash Bose. One of the many brave souls who risked his life while working in the frontline. My condolences to his family, well-wishers and friends,” she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
06-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board announces result websites||The engineering aspirants will have to check the results of the Bengal joint entrance examinations on www.wbjeeb.nic.in and www.wbjeeb.in on August 7. JEE board registrar Dibyendu Kar said the results could be checked from 2.30pm on Friday. The candidates will be able to download the rank cards from these websites. The board will hold a press meet through video-conference at its office in Salt Lake at 1pm on Friday to announce the results. Recently, some officials of the JEE board tested positive for Covid-19, casting a shadow on the publication of the results. The exams were held in early February. About 88,000 students had written the exam for admission to engineering colleges on February 2 as the JEE board had advanced it by two months so that colleges had more time to fill their seats. The schedule for online counselling will be announced on the day of the results. The number of seats stands at 33,000. Private engineering colleges set aside 10 per cent of the seats for students who crack the JEE-Main. These students, too, take part in the online counselling. But this year the JEE-Main has been pushed back to September. The JEE board is likely to hold counselling for these students separately, said a board official. This year, the number of applicants had come down to 89,000 from 1,13,912 last year, a drop that academics attributed to waning interest in engineering courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain eludes Calcutta but weather improves||Monday, above 37 degrees. Tuesday and Wednesday, 29.5 degrees. Heavy rain eluded the city but the sweaty conditions have been replaced by pleasant weather since the overcast conditions set in on Tuesday. The Celsius is likely to remain under check for the next few days, the Met forecast. The maximum temperature was 29.5 degrees on both Tuesday and Wednesday, during which the city got around 40mm and 25mm of rain, respectively. The sky was overcast and it rained persistently throughout Wednesday. The sun hardly appeared for the second day on the trot. The ACs were switched off at many homes. For the better part of the day, even the fan at full pelt was too much. “The maximum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 30 and 32 degrees over the next few days,” said a Met official. The change in weather was brought about by a low-pressure system that formed over the northern Bay of Bengal. It was tipped to trigger heavy rain in the city on Tuesday. The sky was supposed to have cleared from the second half of Wednesday. The system was to have passed over Bangladesh and central Gangetic Bengal, towards Jharkhand. It is following the same trajectory but the movement is slower than expected. “That is the reason for the clouds and rain to linger,” said Calcutta IMD director G.K. Das. The intensity of the rain and the volume of clouds are likely to reduce from Thursday. But since the monsoon trough has descended south, the next few days are likely to see some rain. “When it rains, it will not be a quick spell but a persistent one,” said a Met official. For most of July, the trough was stationed over the foothills of the Himalayas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Two rush to help those all fear to touch in Calcutta||Two women have been rescuing people abandoned on the roads of Calcutta, many of whom government agencies had hesitated to touch because of the pandemic. The two have been able to rescue seven people found abandoned near Nagerbazar, Amherst Street and Maniktala in the past 15 days. One of them who had been lying on the road for 14 days and had severe infection could not be saved. Priyanka Mitra, 33, and Priyam Dutta, 33, have been helping abandoned and injured people and animals for the past five years, from cleaning their infected limbs to nursing them. The Covid crisis has left them busier. Mitra works in a telecom company and lives with her mother in Baguiati. She is posted in Odisha but returns to Calcutta every weekend when she teams up with Dutta to serve the needy on the roads. She has been working from home during the lockdown and the number of “cases” they have handled has gone up. Dutta is a single mother. She lives with her 13-year-old son and father. She has been supporting Mitra outside her professional job as a physiotherapist. On June 4, officers of Baguiati police station called them to “remove” a man who had been lying on the road for two days. Mitra and Dutta took the man to RG Kar hospital where he was diagnosed with “severe malnutrition”. They kept visiting him till he was back on his feet in four days and discharged. The two have rescued hundreds of men and women lying incapacitated on roads in the past few years. In the initial days, people around them would mostly react with shock, Mitra said. “Many years ago I found a woman inside the Indian Botanic Garden lying motionless… only her eyes kept flickering. When I started to remove the maggots moving on her, one of my friends said ‘Pagal hai kya? (are you mad?)’.” She said she ignored such jibes and continued to do what she thought was right. Both Mitra and Dutta have always used gloves as their work involves touching strangers often covered in dirt and at times cleaning maggots at the risk of getting infected themselves. These days, they have started wearing masks in addition to the gloves. “I regret one incident… a woman was lying motionless in the Amherst Street area a few weeks ago. We cleaned her face with a wet cloth and tried to make her drink some water… she gasped for a moment and passed away,” Mitra said. “I later found out she had been there on the road for five-six days without food and water. I wish someone had spotted her earlier. She could have been saved.” Are they not afraid of a Covid infection? “Of course we are! At times we keep a count of 14 days after helping a person on the road,” Mitra said. “At the end of the day, we tell each other, ‘amader barir lok holeo toh etai kortam (we would have done the same thing had it been someone from our family)’.” Her father who was an insurance agent inspired her to do such a work. “He would always say we should feel lucky if we can support anyone who needs us. In his endeavour to help others, he left us nothing. I started from scratch.” Around a decade ago, when she was in college, Mitra gave tuitions and sold Oxford dictionaries and recipe books for a commission of Rs 30 a book in Howrah and Salt Lake to pay her college fees. Once a dog was unleashed on her in Salt lake as the family did not want any salesperson in their apartment, she said. Dutta, too, had her own set of struggles in her married life. She found a way to support her family by learning physiotherapy. “I used to be afraid of cockroaches. But seeing her pluck out each and every maggot… so sincerely to prevent the spread of infection, I have been able to overcome that fear, too,” Dutta who is more into feeding and curing stray dogs said. Every night, the two would step out with home-made “mangsho-jhol bhaat and biscuits” to feed strays across the city. The two have been taking uncared and unclaimed men and women to government hospitals where treatment is mostly free. The two bear any extra expenses. They said they were lucky to have the support of their families and police. In March 2016, Mitra had spotted a woman lying on the road near Baguiati Joramandir. One of her legs was bandaged but her clothes and the condition of the bandage made it clear she had been abandoned, Mitra said. “I contacted the police and got her admitted to RG Kar. She underwent multiple surgeries. We later learnt she hailed from Rajasthan and that her husband had thrashed and broken her leg before dumping her on the road,” Mitra said. “We managed to contact her home with the help of cops and various NGOs… her mother came and took her home. I will never forget her smile when she stood on her feet again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Phones for Calcutta kids to help them continue with studies||A city NGO working with women and children for almost five decades will provide underprivileged children in the city with phones to prevent them from giving up studies because of circumstances triggered by the pandemic. Their parents, mostly helps, rickshaw-pullers, and idol-makers, have to sign a contract that the phones, along with SIM cards and data plans, will be used only for online classes and to submit assignments and not for any other purpose. If the students miss two online classes, the NGO, Calcutta Social Project, will have the right to take back the phones. If the data pack is exhausted before the usual time, parents will have to recharge, a member of the NGO said. The idea behind the contract is to create a sense of responsibility and accountability among parents and children, the member said. Also, this will prevent any adult in the house from taking the phone from the child and using it. The NGO, though, understands it is natural for children to browse various sites if they have a phone and it is not possible for teachers to monitor the usage. “In fact, if they browse sites, it will familiarise them with the digital world… it will be a further learning for them,” Arjun Dutta, president of Calcutta Social Project, said. The NGO has been providing underprivileged children with worksheets for the past four months. Parents take the sheets and return them to the centres while collecting food and ration. “Street and slum children do not have access to smartphones/ computers/tablets… they have become completely cut off from academics. We have been trying to bring such children out of marginalisation by educating them, but Covid seems to have pushed them back into darkness,” Dutta said. “We are reaching out to children and parents who are committed to studying and making them sign a contract so that they value and recognise what is being given to them.” The phones will be handed out from next Monday. Initially, the programme will cover 60 children of Classes I-V. Some parents will let two other kids to attend classes, along with their children, a member said. “When parents visit the centre for food, they submit and collect the worksheets from us. For some parents food is an incentive to visit the centre,” Mohuna Dutt, the head of the NGO’s open shelters and child development programme, said. “There are some parents and some children who want the worksheets so that they can study… they can’t be left behind because their parents cannot afford phones.” But money is an issue during the pandemic. Many organisations or donors have been tight with resources with no end in sight. “Food involves instant gratification and more people are forthcoming. But for education, arranging finances is a difficult proposition because people don’t know whether they will get results,” Dutt said. “But we have some long-time donors who are worried about the academic progress of these children… they have raised funds for us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Madhyamik RTI check at home||Madhyamik examinees who want to check their answer scripts under the right to information act (RTI) will not be allowed to inspect the scripts in the office of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education this year. The examinees will be given photocopies of the scripts, which they can take home. The decision has been taken as a preventive measure against Covid-19, said an official of the board, which conducts the Class X exams. Till last year, the examinees who would apply under RTI to inspect their answer scripts were required to visit the board office on a particular day. They would be allotted one hour to go through the papers. “A good number of RTI applicants are usually called to the board office and allowed to inspect their answer scripts. We need to follow the social distancing protocol this time. So, too many students can’t be allowed to check the scripts at a time,” the board official said. Also, the applicants cannot be allowed in small batches to check their answer scripts in our  office because that would drag the process too long. “Certified photocopies of answer scripts will be handed over to the applicants or their guardians at the board office. Those can be taken home. If students detect any mistake, they will have to apply for rectification,” said an official. “Rectified mark sheets will be issued to the students accordingly and no extra fee will be charged for that.” The results of Madhyamik 2020 were declared on July 15. The board will accept applications under RTI for inspection of answer scripts till October 23, that is within 100 days of the publication of the results, a notice issued by the board states. Till last year, examinees could submit applications within 180 days of the publication of the results. Students who have applied for post-publication scrutiny (PPS) or post-publication review (PPR) of the Madhyamik results can apply for inspection of answer scripts under RTI after the publication of the PPR and PPS results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals stop home sample collection after cost advisory ||Some private hospitals and laboratories have stopped home collection of swab samples for the Covid-19 test or scaled it down, apparently because of a regulatory panel’s advisory that the facilities should not demand anything extra from the patient other than a conveyance charge. The hospitals and laboratories are also citing huge backlogs to explain why they have scaled down or stopped home collection of samples. A private hospital off EM Bypass, which has franchisees across Calcutta to collect samples, has temporarily stopped home collection of samples, officials at the facility said. “There is a backlog of around 200 samples. We will resume home collection only after the samples are tested,” an official said. The hospital was collecting nearly 1,000 samples from home every day. Another private hospital said they had almost stopped collection of swab samples from home a few days ago. “We are only sending our personnel to those homes where people have serious comorbidities and are unable to come to the hospital,” said the CEO of the hospital. The hospital is sending a doctor and another person to help him or her collect samples. “Both need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) and move in an air-conditioned vehicle. They need to change the PPE after collecting one or more samples at one venue. Given the new advisory of the regulatory commission, it is no longer viable,” he said. The Telegraph had on Monday reported that the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had issued an advisory that private hospitals and laboratories can only charge a conveyance fee of Rs 10 per kilometre, other than the cost of the test (which the government has capped at Rs 2,250), if they collect samples from home. The CEO of the private hospital said home collection would be viable if they were allowed to charge around Rs 3,000 for every test. Some diagnostic laboratories said they were forced to reduce home collection of swab samples because they did not have enough personnel. “Five of our employees who used to collect samples have tested positive for Covid-19,” said Somnath Chatterjee, the director of Suraksha Diagnostics. The laboratory used to collect about 130 samples from homes daily across the city. “Now, we are collecting about 100,” Chatterjee said. This newspaper has reported that private healthcare units are flooded with requests for home collection of swab samples as people are scared of going to a hospital or diagnostic laboratory to get tested. Most hospitals have created a waiting area for people but officials said it was often difficult to maintain social distancing. Another reason why some hospitals are not being able to collect samples from home is because they have tied up with other hospitals who don’t have big testing facilities. One private hospital off the Bypass has tied up with two other healthcare units in Calcutta, from where 100-odd samples come every day. Along with it, the hospital has its own samples collected from indoor patients and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University survey to map digital divide||Jadavpur University will carry out a survey among students to find out who need smartphones, which are a must for the learners to download study materials from the university’s portal once classes resume. Classes in non-contact mode, which will not require students to come to the campus, are likely to start in September. Once the list of students in need of smartphones is ready, the university will approach business houses for funds to buy the devices for the learners, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. The VC had on Tuesday asked the faculty councils of science, arts and engineering to come up with models on resumption of classes for the students in the intermediate semesters amid the pandemic. “The teachers have suggested models on how classes could start in September. Let the faculty councils come up with models. We will ensure that the students without a smartphone are not left out…. Once the list is drawn up, we will reach out to business houses to raise a corpus,” Das said. The teachers have suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. A university official said some teachers had proposed creating a central repository on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials would be uploaded. Partha Pratim Roy, a teacher of physics at JU, said they had urged the VC to adopt an inclusive approach so students lacking basic connectivity were not left out of the classes. Many students at the university are from remote places, where the Internet connectivity is weak. “Those living in the Sunderbans have their roofs blown away in the May 20 cyclone. They are still struggling to stitch their lives together. They cannot be expected to buy smartphones. The university has to do something,” said Roy. Das had asked teachers in April to be “cautious” about conducting online classes or sharing digital content as “many students may not be able to afford a desktop computer or laptop at home, or may be staying in a remote village, with limited or no Internet connectivity”. Will the university take steps to buy underprivileged students computers, as IIT Bombay has done by raising a corpus from the alumni? The IIEST alumni, too, has raised a corpus to buy its students devices to enable them to attend online classes. “Let us start with smartphones,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
06-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid stigma torments cardiac patient in Calcutta||A 32-year-old man from Arambagh, in Hooghly, who suffered “severe cardiac failure” on Monday, was allegedly refused admission by a nursing home after a doctor there learnt that the patient was suffering from respiratory distress, a Covid symptom. A government hospital in the town then allegedly kept Anupam Samanta on oxygen for a day. Finally, when the family wanted to shift him to Calcutta, the hospital authorities allegedly refused to help them get an ambulance. Family members said they had to bargain for hours with private ambulance operators in the hospital compound and paid Rs 4,800 to one to shift the patient to Calcutta. Anupam, a civic volunteer in Arambagh, was admitted to the intensive care unit of Peerless Hospital early on Wednesday. Doctors at the hospital said his condition was critical. Anupam’s plight once again highlights rampant violation of government directives that no patient could be denied admission and ambulances must be made available to patients when required. Anupam complained of abdominal pain and then severe respiratory distress on Monday, family members said. A local doctor advised hospitalisation. “We took him to a nursing home in Arambagh. A receptionist lady at the emergency ward spoke to a doctor, who was apparently upstairs, over the phone. The lady told the doctor that the patient was suffering from respiratory distress,” recounted Tapas Samanta, Anupam’s brother-in-law. “She immediately told us that the doctor said there was no vacant bed.” The family suspects the nursing home denied Anupam admission because the doctor thought he was suffering from Covid-19. Around 2am on Tuesday, Anupam was taken to Arambagh Sub-divisional and Superspeciality Hospital, where he was allotted a general bed and put on oxygen support. “We requested doctors to shift him to the ICU but they said the hospital did not have such a facility,” Tapas alleged. The doctors conducted an X-ray of the chest and an electrocardiogram. They said Anupam’s condition was critical and that he needed to be shifted to a hospital with better facilities. “When we asked a doctor to refer my brother-in-law to another hospital, he wondered where he should refer the patient to because most hospitals are only treating Covid cases,” Tapas said. Later, on Tuesday evening, the family contacted Peerless Hospital. On being told that the patient could be accommodated in the ICU, they tried to hire an ambulance. Tapas alleged that a nurse asked them to get in touch with the ward master for the ambulance. “But the ward master pleaded helplessness saying he lived 30km away and did not know any ambulance operator in Arambagh,” alleged Tapas. “When we requested him to arrange for an ambulance by dialling 102 (a government service), he said all ambulances were reserved for pregnant women.” A number of ambulances run by private operators had queued up on the hospital premises. “A few of them first refused to ferry Anupam. Then one driver said he would go after two hours,” Tapas said. But after two hours, the driver refused to move. “We realised they were trying to pressurise us. Finally, one operator said he would go but demanded Rs 5,500,” he said. Following repeated requests, he reduced the amount to Rs 4,800. The distance between Arambagh and Peerless Hospital is around 100km. “The patient was brought to the emergency early on Wednesday and has been detected with severe heart failure. His condition is extremely critical,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Siddhartha Dutta, the acting superintendent of Arambagh Sub-divisional and Superspeciality Hospital, said the hospital had only six beds in a high dependency unit with two step-down beds, but no ICU bed. “All these beds are occupied,” he said. “A Covid antigen test was conducted (on Anupam) and the result was negative.” Dutta said for 10 hospitals in the Arambagh sub-division, including six block primary health centres, there were only four ambulances to ferry Covid patients. “The rest are for pregnant women,” he said. “The patient was administered injection and given oxygen support. Whatever was possible with that infrastructure, we did,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-351
