07-08-2020||Calcutta||Rustle up dishes for a quick and tasty meal||Serves: 4 Ingredients Method Serves: 3 Ingredients For rice Method For preparation of rice Serves: 2 Ingredients For rice 150g white rice
Few parsley leaves, finely chopped
Salt to taste

Method For preparation of rice Serves: 2 Ingredients Method Serves: 4 Ingredients Method Serves: 3 Ingredients Method||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Tricks of trade to cast a spell||Ahili Das, a resident of EE Block who goes by the stage name of Magicianne Lee, takes a magic class for readers to learn from and impress others with. Like The Telegraph, she too has just turned 15 On the 15th birth anniversary of The Telegraph, I feel like sharing some magic with you. Yes, you too can do magic! “Don’t be a wallflower in your friend’s next birthday party; learn magic for fun and entertainment,” my magic mentor Solyl Kundu used to tell me and now I say the same to you. The type of magic I shall teach here is called close-up magic in magicians’ jargon and is normally done with everyday objects available at home without having to step out in the middle of lockdown. However, let me first share the three golden rules of magic- 1. Never share the secret of the magic with anyone.
2. Never tell the audience in advance what you are going to do.
3. Never repeat a trick for the same audience.
Finally, a magician’s mantra is practice, practice and practice. Practice will make your moves smooth. So learn, practise and entertain your family and friends. The magic: You will be turning an ordinary drinking straw so strong that you can pierce a big potato with it.
What the audience sees: Use a few paper straws and a big fresh potato. Ask someone in your audience to try to pierce the potato with any straw. They will find that it is not possible as the straw will bend or break. Finally, you take another straw from the bunch and announce that you will turn it into a Karateka and pierce the potato. And then do as you say. The secret: Carefully but casually, hold the straw with your right hand curling the fingers around the straw and the right thumb covering the top opening of the straw as shown in the figure above. Take care that no one notices your thumb covering the top hole of the straw. At the same time hold the potato stationary in the left hand about 10 inches or so below the straw. Stab the potato as fast you can while secretly bending the end of the straw, thereby trapping the air inside and making the straw strong enough to pass through the potato. The magic: Turn a glass upside down and watch it stay in the glass.
What the audience sees: Use a glass tumbler and a cotton handkerchief. Spread the handkerchief covering the mouth of the tumbler. Then with your fingers, poke a small well into the handkerchief over the mouth of the tumbler. Pour some water into the well to fill the tumbler almost to the top. Now, stretch the handkerchief tightly over the mouth of the tumbler, holding it down at the sides over the glass and quickly turn the glass over. The water will stay in the glass. Finally after a few moments, turn the tumbler back again. The secret: Frankly, there’s no secret in this magic which is self-working. When making the little well and pouring water in the glass, stretch the hanky as explained and the water will make a film and over the surface of the damp cloth and the water will not pass through. The magic: You shall make a knot in a handkerchief without letting go of the ends. What the audience sees: Make your presentation interactive by asking for an assistant from the audience. Ask the lucky audience member for a gent’s handkerchief and tell him/ her to tie a knot on it without letting go of the ends. He won’t be able to (unless he reads this article!) Now you take the handkerchief and put a knot in it without letting go of your hands. The secret: A cotton gents’ handkerchief is needed. It can be any other cotton handkerchief too but it has to be big enough. Now twist it along its length so it becomes rope-like as shown above. Now, cross your arms as shown in the picture above. Then ask your assistant to put the two ends of the handkerchief in the fingers of yours both hands as shown in the picture above. Now with a jerk, uncross your hands and surprise! There is a knot in the centre of the hanky as shown in the last picture. Practice repeatedly so you can do this faster and smoothly. The magic: A rubber that you place on the base of two fingers will skip to two other fingers. What the audience sees: The magician takes a rubber band and puts it at the base of his two fingers as shown in the picture right. Then he makes a fist as shown in the picture right. As he reopens his fist the rubber band magically jumps to his other fingers as shown in the picture right.

The secret: Get a couple of rubber bands. Make sure they are tight. Now note the pictures below, from the magician’s point of view — A) Put the rubber band around the base of your two fingers on your left hand towards the left side, as shown in picture.
B) Then close your hand by pulling the rubber band but secretly put all your fingers into the band. The audience will think you have just pulled the band to check the tension. While doing this movement say: “This band is tight enough” as shown  in picture.
C) Now, chant your magic spell. In the meantime note your fingers’ position as shown in the next picture.
D) After chanting the magic spell, quickly open your fingers and the effect will be seen in the picture.
The secret moves should be done in a fraction of a second. Practice well and your audience will be left speechless. Effect: Count off a number of cards from a deck of cards, and the rest of cards put aside. Any one of the packets is turned face up and put on the other face-down packet. Next, shuffle the packets together, intermixing the cards face up and face-down. The cards will show a mixed group of face up and face down cards. You can even offer the cards to anyone for shuffling. After receiving the cards back, place it behind your back for a few moments and bring it forth. Place the deck on the table. Announce that within a split second you have been able to make two packets, one face up and the other face down. Moreover, the face-up cards in each packet will be the same as in the other pack. Now the cards are divided again into two piles, both are spread out to show that if the first pile has four face up cards, the second pile too has four face-up cards. Knowhow: Count off 20 or 30 cards — the number does not matter as long as the numbers is even. The audience need not know the number of cards. You can place your little finger between cards as you are counting to make the piles even. Now divide cards in two packets, turn one of them face up and intermix the cards in any manner. You may even hand out the cards to a spectator for further shuffling. You now take the cards and place them behind your back. All you need to do is count half the cards off the top of the deck with your right hand. For instance, if the total number of cards was 20 count off 10 cards. The remaining 10 cards in your left hand are turned over. Both packets are brought in front and placed on table. The trick is done. All that remains to be done is to spread the packets and count the face up cards. The face up cards in both packets will tally. Here is a magic that is “sure fire”, no set-ups. It can be done with any deck and is very simple to perform. Enjoy friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
07-08-2020||Calcutta||The Telegraph Salt Lake turns 15||Independence Day August 15, 1947 was India’s Independence Day. The day marked the end of British rule in the country and Jawaharlal Nehru became India’s first Prime Minister. The day continues to be celebrated by Indians every year. A girl’s 15th birthday is a big celebration in Mexico and other Latin American cultures. Called quinceanera, the birthday marks the transition from childhood to womanhood. An important ritual at the ceremony is when the birthday girl hands over 15 candles to 15 people who have been influential in her life and dedicates speeches to them. March 15, 44BC is a notorious date as the Roman general Julius Caesar was assassinated by his senators, led by Marcus Brutus. The Ides of March, as the date is known, was a turning point for the region and led to the formation and rise of the Roman empire. Measure of time The number of minutes in a quarter of an hour is 15. Fifteen minutes past or before an hour is known as quarter past and quarter to, respectively. 15 minutes of fame is a phrase used to describe short-lived celebrity status, inspired by American artist Andy Warhol’s words at a 1968 exhibition: “In the future, everyone will be world famous for 15 minutes.” The phenomenon is particularly used in reference of people in the entertainment industry. First point in tennis The first point scored by a player in the game of tennis is not one but 15. This is, apparently, because back in Medieval France, the hands of clocks would be used to denote tennis scores. To indicate the first point, the minutes hand would be moved to the 15-minute mark. This is a game of 16 squares. The 15 numbered squares are muddled up and the player has to slide them to bring in numerical order, with the last slot left empty. 15 Park Avenue is a 2005 film directed by Aparna Sen. A multi-starrer with the likes of Waheeda Rehman and Shabana Azmi, it deals with schizophrenia that Konkona Sen Sharma’s character suffers from. Length of rulers 15 centimetres is the standard length of rulers used in schools. The compact size is suitable for drawing borders, art work  and fits into most pencil boxes. The Plus 15 Skyway network in Calgary, Canada, is one of the world’s most extensive overhead pedestrian walkways. Built in 1970, it has 62 bridges stretching over 18 kilometres. The system is so named as the skywalks are about 15ft above street level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Before you bring a pup home||With everyone home during the lockdown, many families are bringing home pet dogs. But there’s a lot to consider before making this big decision. Paramita Das, canine trainer and behaviourist and a resident of FE Block, held a webinar recently to address the issues. Here’s the first installment of what she had to say-

While a dog will enhance your life, you have to understand that he is not a toy. He has emotions and his own likes and dislikes and getting a dog is a big responsibility. Here are some pointers to consider before becoming a pet parent- The average life span of your dog would be 12-14 years so ask if you can make that long a commitment. Do you have the time, money and will you make the effort? Time- Keeping a pet means grooming him, training him, taking him to the vet for his shots and check-ups. Grooming is easier for short-haired dogs like Dachshund and Labradors but they will still need nails clipped, ears and anal glands cleaned periodically.
You must also be up for unpleasant jobs like inspecting your dog’s poop to report to the doctor and checking his coat for ticks and fleas. Money- The pet will have his share of expenses. It is sad that many dogs are being abandoned during the lockdown as their pet parents have lost their jobs. So be careful about your decision. Support system- Getting a dog has to be a family decision. Don’t take home a pup if your husband detests them. Yes, most of the time the person who hates the pup comes to love him the most after six months but what if this isn’t the case in your family?
What if you live alone and get Covid? Who would look after the dog for you? For that matter, who will look after him when you go for a vacation? Will you keep him in a creche, will a family member stay back with him or will you only go on pet-friendly holidays? What if you get a job out of town? Your dog has left his species to be with you and are you thinking of leaving him behind? Allergies- Get your family members tested for allergies before bringing home a dog. While most people melt seeing a puppy’s eyes, a pup comes with caveats. His baby teeth will be needle-sharp and you will be bitten as he grows. Your expensive shoes may get chewed up and you will be stepping on his pee everywhere till he gets toilet-trained. That way, adopting an older dog will be easier as he will be toilet-trained but you’ll miss out on the fun of watching a pup grow. There’s no right answer for this but you have to sure of which you want. The right age You must never separate a puppy from the mother before 60 days (eight weeks).
For the first 60 days of its life, a puppy is learning “primary socialisation” from his mother and siblings. He gets immunity from his mother’s milk too. After about four weeks (30 days) the mother needs “me time” and leaves the pups from time to time to play by themselves. When she returns, if the pups jump at her to have milk, she growls in a way that trains them. It teaches them that they are not to jump unless the other person wants it. If the pup bites too hard while feeding, again, the mother smacks him. The pup understands that he should not dig his teeth hard on skin.
If this had happened on a human, the human would have thrown his hands and legs in the air and created such a fuss that the pup would think biting was a game. The best trainer for the pup is his mother and even the best human trainer comes nowhere near her. After about seven weeks the mother starts rejecting the pups and this is the right time to bring home one. This is when “secondary socialisation” starts (to be discussed next week). Check the mother- After about seven weeks, the mother should let you touch the puppies. If not, she may have a behavioural problem, which may be passed on to her children. The mother should be friendly and not display visible signs of genetic problems. For instance, if she limps she may have hip dysplasia, which again may be passed on to her kids. Health and behaviour- Yes, even the sick puppies need to go somewhere but they need homes that are committed to caring for a weak dog. The average person should check for overall good health — the pup shouldn’t be skinny or with a poor coat. As for which pup to pick from a litter, it requires detailed study. A first time pet parent, for instance, is better off not picking a dominant or excessively timid puppy as he lacks experience to raise him. It would be easier if the pup’s nature compliments your and your family’s temperament. Living conditions- In all my years of experience, I have come across very few cases of genetic aggression. It is mostly “learnt aggression”, that can arise from childhood. So if there are five pups, there should be more than five water bowls and toys for them. Then the pups do not need to fight for resources and are not prone to food aggression or possessiveness. The sleeping area should be clean, hygienic and the toilet area must have a different ground texture, even if it is simply paper. That is how the mother teaches her pups where to do their business. Getting an adult dog Sometimes a family can adopt a dog that is given up another family due to some reason. Such dogs fit in seemlessly in their new homes; actually it depends on the new family. However, before taking in an adult dog a family should run behavioural tests to see if he is possessive, aggressive or has fear issues. For these, it is best to consult a professional. Once the pup comes home From the age of 60 days (eight weeks) to about 20 weeks, the pup’s sense of smell, sight and touch is developing rapidly and he is curious about his environment. Ideally you should expose him to 100 new experiences every month at this stage.
Throw steel vessels on the floor, open and shut umbrellas before him, burst fire crackers, play Rabindrasangeet and rock music…. Otherwise your summer-born dog may panic on Diwali night or in winter, when he sees people wearing hoodies. You also need 100 new people to handle him in this period. Sadly, we live in an age when we have 5,000 friends on Facebook but none that we can call to play with our pup. Nonetheless, allow the puppy to explore. Unless the pup explores now, his curiosity will get replaced by fear later and you’ll need a behaviourist to help him out of it. You’ll complain that he bites but you won’t realise that he bites out of fear and not aggression. Impose limits Your dog is learning from his first day and unless you teach him what’s acceptable, he will be teaching you his rules. This is especially the case with headstrong breeds like Beagles (more on this later). The more restrictions you put on your dog early in life, the more freedom he’ll enjoy later and vice versa. Otherwise, if you let him tear things and jump over people in his early days, you’ll have to keep him tied up later on when guests come calling. It’s all right to keep your dog in a crate for a couple of hours but don’t let it be only to discipline him. Make the crate a den that dog loves - make it is big, well-ventilated and enriching. Keep chew toys or ones home-made toys made of old towels and jeans. Choose a breed that suits your lifestyle. Spend time researching breeds and don’t just pick one up as it looks cute. Activity level- Do you sleep till 10? Do you watch TV all evening and want your dog to sit next to you or are you a runner who wants to take your dog on treks? Do you have kids at home or adults? These questions are important in picking a breed. People think Labradors and Golden Retrievers make great companions but this is not what they were bred for. These dogs were bred to retrieve fishermen and hunter’s catch. So you may want to relax in the evening but your Lab is energetic and wants to play then. Mind you, not giving your dog exercise amounts to cruelty. People think they can make Calcutta comfortable for a Siberian Husky by air-conditioning his room but that’s not enough. These dogs were bred for endurance, to survive miles in the snow. To keep a Husky healthy you have you wake up at 4.30am and take him for a long run before it gets hot. Can you do that? After the lockdown we all know how frustrating it is to be stuck indoors. This is how your dog feels if you don’t let him out. Flooring- Breeds like Labs and Golden Retrievers are prone to a condition called hip dysplasia. Pups of these breeds should not be running on marble floors, that can be slippery. Grown-up dogs with this condition should not be walking on marble either. Games- Beagles are extremely popular as they are compact-sized with short coats but they are also stubborn. You have to design mentally stimulating games for them else they’ll get frustrated and destructive. Beagles are scent hounds and so they see the world with their noses, even more than other dogs. To keep a Beagle happy you can hide his toys in the house or in the park and ask him to find them. Training- Should you want breeds like German Shepherd Dogs, Rottweilers and Belgian Malinois, you must train them well. These breeds were meant to rear sheep and cattle and nipped the legs of these animals when they tried to go astray. Unless trained, these dogs may bite children they see running. One need not always hire a professional trainer, you can do it yourself but you need to learn it yourself. While many homes are taking in pets now, it is not without challenges. No touch and feel- Many breeders are not allowing people to go over and see the litters. But it is not enough to choose a puppy by simply seeing his video. How will you check if his living conditions are clean? The deadly parvovirus is doing the rounds the now but how will you check if the pup is healthy on camera? Lack of socialisation- Secondly, even if you get home a puppy, how to give him 100 new experiences and 100 new people to interact with every month? The best you can do is dress up in different get-ups yourself. Wear a hat, shawl, lungi, hoodies, crawl on the floor, stand on a chair… even if your smell is the same, at least you’re looking different to your dog.
While exposing him to these new experiences, do not force him to go near it. Allow him time and distance and he will explore and overcome the fear himself. Separation anxiety- Dogs are getting used to their pet parents being around all the time now but what will happen when the lockdown is finally lifted? You will go to work, movies, wedding ceremonies and your dog will be miserable home alone.  
The solution is to not to allow him to around you all the time. Encourage him to relish some me-time. In fact, right from the day he comes, don’t spend the first 48 hours glued to him. He’ll cry for a bit but then quieten up. Otherwise he’s training you to be at his beck and call.
You can keep your dog home alone for six to seven hours safely as that’s how long he can hold his bladder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Land of rising sun, ramen and oolong||It was late evening, and we were walking down the streets of Nagoya. My Anime-fanatic friend stopped a stranger and spared no effort in trying to have a complete conversation in Japanese. I rolled my eyes, took a break from scanning random billboards and shop names with my Google Translator, typed out “Where’s the nearest 7-Eleven store?” and held it out to them. We were a team of 10 students and a professor from the department of instrumentation and electronics engineering in Jadavpur University, visiting Nagoya University for the Sakura Science Exchange Programme that is organised and funded by the Japan Science and Technology Agency. The intent of the programme was to promote a healthy relationship between the students of the two countries, make us aware of the academics and ongoing research work in our host college, and expose us to the unique and vibrant culture of Japan. In late January this year, we spent a week in Nagoya, one of the country’s most populated cities, famous as the hub of industry and commerce. Every day, we travelled between our hotel and the college on Japan’s immaculately planned subways with colour-coded route lines and unfailing punctuality, and our loud, excited team of 20-somethings soon learnt to blend with a crowd that was soft-spoken and unimaginably disciplined, compared to us Calcuttans. We interacted with the faculty and scholars at the department of agricultural sciences of the university and learnt hands-on about their research on the application of spectroscopic techniques — something that our department also works on rigorously — one of its most notable examples being the development of a complete setup for the quality assessment of tea leaves. After college, we would go out for walks along lines of DVD stores and restaurants. Occasionally, we would stop to appreciate homes depicting the unique Japanese architecture, made of wood and with a minimalistic design. Of course, we tried out the authentic ramen, sushi and other dishes whose names I’ve forgotten by now, and drank lots of oolong tea. Japanese cuisine is more of an acquired taste and I started loving it only towards the end of the trip (by this time, I had also perfected the skill of using chopsticks)! Although Covid-19 hadn’t become such an important part of our lives by then, people could be seen wearing masks in public places, and so did we. Japan boasts of high-rise buildings and there is only an extent to which one gets dazzled by the glitz and allure of modernisation.
As part of the itinerary, we visited a plant factory in Mie Prefecture, which is a quiet place away from the bustling city life. For me, it was a breath of fresh air, the most beautiful part of the trip. On our way, looking out of the train window, we could see a number of beautiful cottages and tiny cafes spread out on either side of the track. It rained that day, adding more colour to the trees lined along the roads.
We were also taken to visit the Nagoya Castle, a popular tourist attraction with historical significance. Built by the shogun Tokugawa Ieyasu in 1615, it was Japan’s first castle to be declared a national treasure. Large parts of the castle were destroyed during World War II but it has now been beautifully restored, and a replicated version of it is open for visitors. We also visited the Toyota Automobile Museum, which was a magnificent and spectacular experience. The museum features over a hundred cars from all over the world, with the entire region divided according to eras, tracing the evolution of automobiles from as old as 1936 to the modern-day advancements. Lined with models of the first cars with doors opening in opposite directions to the royal El Dorado Biarritz, it is complete with interesting trivia about each. It’s a treat for car enthusiasts. An Indian meal in Japan There’s one incident I must talk about. One night, we hunted down an Indian restaurant near us and visited it eagerly, yearning for some spicy dishes that tasted like home. Being the perpetually broke college-goers that we were, we first checked the price list hung outside. The restaurant being a well-known and reputed one in the area, its prices were far beyond our budget. Dejected, we stood at the door. As we were about to leave, the owner came out, invited us in and asked us the reason for our hesitation. What followed was the perfect Indian meal and a happy conversation with a Delhi-ite. As we thanked him later, he bid us a warm farewell and said: “Apne logo ko bhukha kaise rakhte?” Japan feels a little closer home to us Bengalis because our favourite person, Rabindranath Tagore, visited the country years ago, made friends, and was loved by its people. On our last day, my friend sang a Rabindrasangeet and I danced to another (our saris attracted quite a few stares on the subway!) The audience was delighted and curious and a student came up to me and asked: “Does every Indian know how to sing and dance?” Exploring a new land with friends by our side — Japan has been an unforgettable experience for us. If I had to describe the country in a word, I’d borrow it from their language — shibui — subtle, simple, modest beauty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Let the kids cook||If you think the only off-screen activities to keep kids busy during this lockdown are sit-and-draw and building blocks, you should let them cook. If you are still unconvinced, you should have visited AJ Block days before the lockdown. A food festival by juniors had an eight-year-old making Fish Tikia and a six-year-old cooking Chicken Biriyani! “I love eating biryani and wanted to make it for everyone today,” smiled Bhramoree Kar, rattling off the proportion of ghee, salt and food colouring that she added to the dish. “It’s only the layering of rice and chicken that my mother did as it was too heavy for me,” said the student of Class I who wants to become a chef when she grows up. Aranya Majumdar doesn’t understand why he has to learn math when he too wants to become a chef later in life. “A chef of Japanese food,” he adds. “Cooking is an art and this is what should be taught in school.” The Class II student had made Fish Tikia with a twist of mayonnaise and kasundi and all 22 plates sold out. The crowds thronged. Papiya Chakraborty, the lady whose brainchild the fest was, had got a Class XII student Esha Barman to make the announcements and a Class XI student Debargha Choudhury to man the cash counter but the queue became so long that adults had to step in and bail him out. Sampreet Saha’s Dahi Puris were such a hit that he could only scrape up three leftover pieces to serve his last customer instead of four that the others were getting. Mehul Chakraborti had begun his mocktail counter with nine bottles of cola but had to send his aunt rushing to the market for four more when he realised demand would fast exceed supply.
If the kids thought they would get a bite of what they had rustled up, they were so wrong. “Let alone the ghoogni I had made to sell, customers even took away the platter I had kept for display,” said Ambali Kar of Class VII. Nine-year-old Judhajit (Jude) Chakraborty did get a lick of his pani puri-flavoured ice cream but not how you’d imagine it. “I love this ice cream made of tamarind water and pani puri masala but the customers left nothing for me! I only got one lick and that too from a drop that had fallen on the table,” he grumbled. “I understand now how difficult it must be for waiters to control themselves from eating what they serve others at restaurants.” After facing the mad rush of customers, Ambali said she realised how parents must feel at being ordered by children to get tasty food every day. Aditya Sarangi too had new-found respect and empathy for waiters. “It was crazy making sandwiches and answering customers’ queries all at once. From now on, I’ll be patient with waiters when we go out to eat.” While some kids took part in the show for the love of cooking, those like Ronit Das, eight, did so for fun. “I’m not into cooking; I like football. But cooking is a skill we should all pick up, even if only the basics,” said the boy who sold Chicken Roll. Mimi Saha, mother of little Supriyo, was very happy with the Jhal Muri he had rustled up. “For once, we moms are carefree and the kids are tied up,” she laughed. With the money earned from the fest, Ujjesa Barman wanted to buy Barbie dolls. “My father runs the restaurant and catering company Scone at AJ and BJ blocks and he makes delicious snacks for us at home. I like learning cooking from him,” said the Class V student. The kids reportedly helped out in the kitchen when no cooks were allowed to come in the early days of the lockdown.
Chakraborty, who organised the event, was proud of the kids. “None of them could imagine a food fest for children before this but they sat attentively at meetings and listened to rules and guidelines. Kids are capable of a lot but adults usually show no faith in them due to their age. Well, this show proved them wrong!” Ingredients Tamarind chutney Soak 50g tamarind in hot water for 10 minutes. The puree will come out. Add some jaggery or sugar to this, along with some water, to reduce thickness. Your tamarind chutney is ready.

Method Mix all the ingredients and garnish with coriander and bhujia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Club offers cycle tours, lessons||New Town Business Club has three offerings on the anvil for cyclists and aspiring cyclists. The first is for women who would be invited to come together for cycling tours of the township. “This group, called The New Town Divas, will be kickstarted on August 13, 6.30am from the club itself,” says the club’s general manager Col (retd) Indrajit Roy. The women will use the cycle lanes on the street and ride down to the clock tower and then the Unbox Garden underneath Biswa Bangla Gate for tea and snacks. “While we may undertake longer routes later, the focus at the beginning will be to make women feel confident about cycling. Many have not ridden since their school days.” While the tour is free for members, non-members are to pay a token Rs 10 per day. While the women are expected to get their own cycles, the club will keep one or two as standby. The second group, called The New Town Leaders, to be launched on August 14, 6.30am, is for men and women who are in the habit of cycling. “Their tours will be longer. On the first day we shall ride from the clock tower to the Eiffel Tower replica in Eco Park and later we may visit the wetlands.” Rates are the same. The final initiative is cycle training. Primarily for children, the classes will be imparted at the cricket ground near City Centre 2 on Sundays from 4 to 6pm. “The fees will be Rs 200 a month and there is no upper age limit. Adults who wish to learn cycling are welcome,” says Roy. “Since the cycles will be ridden on grass, one would not be hurt much if one falls.” This service will start about a fortnight after the other two. “By encouraging cycling we will be guiding members towards an eco-friendly lifestyle,” says Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||IIEST waives mess advance of Rs 17,500||Students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, will not have to pay the mess advance and water and electricity charges this semester, an institute official said. The decision was taken at a meeting the students’ senate had with institute director Parthasarathi Chakrabarty on Thursday afternoon. Ever since the institute announced that classes will be held online from August 24, students have been demanding that mess and hostel fees be waived as they would not use these facilities, the official said. The Shibpur institute is entirely residential. “The fees will be charged proportionately if the campus reopens this semester,” he said. At the start of the semester, students are required to pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent, and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges. “In addition, the students activities fee of Rs 500 has been waived and the infrastructure fee has been brought down to Rs 1,000 from Rs 2,500,” director Chakrabarti said. But students will have to pay the hostel maintenance charge of Rs 2,200 and mess establishment fee of Rs 4,000 though they will stay at home this semester. These fees are a must so that members of the hostel staff who are temporary workers continue to get some support during the pandemic. At IIEST, students were asked to vacate hostels in the third week of March after the Centre announced the lockdown. “Chances of the campus reopening this semester are extremely slim. So, why will we pay for the hostel and mess?” a student asked. The institute will issue a notice this week regarding the extent of relaxation. Another institute official said the decision on waiving certain fees at IIT Kharagpur prompted IIEST students to demand a similar relaxation. The Kharagpur institute had waived mess fees and hostel overhead charges, along with some other charges, on July 21, following a demand for exemption from students. The students had cited online classes as the reason behind their demand. The students’ senate — the official representative body of the IIT Kharagpur student community — had written to the dean of students’ affairs, demanding that mess fees and hostel overhead charges be waived. “The move must have motivated our students. Besides, the argument of financial loss cannot be ruled out. Students, though, have to keep paying the tuition fees and examination fees as fixed by the Centre,” the IIEST official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||You’ve got talent? RKM Vidyamandira will give due credit||The Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira in Belur will give additional weightage to participants in math Olympiads and national talent search examinations for admission to undergraduate mathematics and physics courses. The college that has featured among the top 11 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for the past three years did not want to rely only on Plus II board results. The institute has scrapped admission tests this year because of the pandemic. Several top institutions have been trying new ways to pick the best students but no one has so far used performance in Olympiads and talent search exams as a screening layer. Apart from those, performance in mathematics and physical science in Class X board exams and scores in the subjects in the Plus II board exams will be taken into account to select students, Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of the college, said on Thursday. “This year, we are considering a student’s performance in competitions as admissions tests cannot be held. Tests have been scrapped for all subjects and new mechanisms that will test a candidate’s command over the subject have been put in place,” Swami Ekachittananda said. In mathematics, additional weightage will be given for successfully qualifying in the International Mathematical Olympiad and the Indian National Mathematical Olympiad. For physics, the qualification in competitive exams like the National Standard Examination in Physics (NSEP), considered to be the first stage in the selection of students for the International Physics Olympiad, and the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), will act as a screening layer. In mathematics, marks will be given for the competitive exams in order of preference. Qualification in the International Mathematical Olympiad will fetch 10 marks and in the Indian National Mathematical Olympiad nine marks. The institute will consider nine such competitions. Students will have to send scanned copies of certificates of such exams to mathematicsrkmv@gmail.com on or before August 21. “Last year, the college had considered qualification in these competitions in case a student narrowly missed the subject cut-off. This year we are awarding weightage,” Swami Ekachittananda said. In physics, qualification in competitive exams like the National Standard Examination in Physics, the National Talent Search Examination, and the Jagadis Bose National Science Talent Search, will fetch 10 marks. In case scores are tied, the marks in the competitions will act as a tiebreaker for both mathematics and physics. “Since the screening this year will revolve around board marks, the possibility of scores remaining tied are greater,” Swami Ekachittananda said. In chemistry and industrial chemistry, the student’s performance in the science group and aggregate score at the Class X board exams will be considered, along with Plus II board results. “In physics, chemistry and industrial chemistry, the Class X board results will be considered as the state Higher Secondary council could not hold some of the exams because of the pandemic,” a teacher said. “But the college is not making any specific rule for state board students to give everyone a level playing field.” For English, the Higher Secondary (or equivalent) score in the subject will be considered. The Plus II board aggregate and the mathematics score will be considered for economics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown: Tax and fee relief for private buses ||The Bengal government on Thursday waived all taxes for bus and minibus owners till September 30 and the annual permit fee, which together will provide a relief of around Rs 5,000 for each vehicle. The waiver, with retrospective effect from April 1, came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses have been reeling from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a sharp drop in the passenger count because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state cabinet at its meeting at Nabanna on Thursday decided that private bus and minibus operators would not have to pay any tax under the West Bengal Motor Vehicles Act 1979 from April 1 to September 30. They have also been exempted from paying the permit fee this year. If a bus or a minibus owner wants to clear his pending dues till March 31, he or she can do so by August 31 without inviting any penalty for the delay. “We had proposed a relief of Rs 15,000 for bus operators. They (bus operators) gave us this particular proposal. The finance department has accepted it. We have decided to replace the earlier offer with this,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. Earlier, the chief minister had proposed a grant of Rs 15,000 to 6,000 buses each for three months from July. Mamata had met represen-tatives of the operators at Nabanna on June 26, before announcing the dole, which she said would cost the state exchequer Rs 27 crore. The amount was expected to cushion the financial blow suffered by the operators and enable them to run buses at current fares. The operators refused to accept the offer saying the figure 6,000 (bus count) was discriminatory. Almost all urged the government to revise fares, which they said would be a lasting solution to their problem. Of the 21,000-odd private buses across Bengal, around 7,000 used to ply in Calcutta and its adjoining areas before the lockdown was imposed in March. Almost all operators have been battling financial distress since the diesel price started soaring. In Calcutta, diesel sold at Rs 77.06 a litre on Thursday, up by Rs 11.44 a litre since June. Most operators said fuel comprised almost 60 per cent of their expenditure and the escalating price of diesel had created a problem whose only solution was a fare hike. Private bus operators said they had long been demanding relief in some form from the government. “Only 40 per cent of the buses are plying. Bus owners are struggling to pay EMIs and arrange money for other regular expenses. Even a small relief is a big help for us,” said Tapan Bandyopadhayay, of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Transport department officials said a six-month waiver of road tax would help operators save Rs 2,800 for each vehicle. If other taxes are combined, the relief would come to around Rs 5,000 for each bus. “What if someone has already paid a quarterly tax? Will he be eligible for additional relief?” asked Rahul Chatterjee, of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanoy Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Cured of Covid but neighbours need proof||“Dear All, This is to inform you that… and family is out of quarantine.” This was the message sent on Thursday to residents of a housing complex in south Calcutta by its welfare association after one of the residents who had tested positive for Covid-19 completed 14 days of isolation. “Please get yourself tested after 14 days. Step out only if the result is negative.” This message was verbally communicated to a resident of a standalone apartment block by the residents’ welfare association when he tried to step out of his flat after completing seven days of isolation following his discharge from a hospital, where he was treated for Covid-19. The first message helped the person who recovered from Covid step out of home without facing any resistance from neighbours. The recipient of the second threatened to go to police. In the absence of any clear communication from the health department, the residents’ welfare associations of many housing complexes and standalone buildings across Calcutta are deciding when a resident will step out after recovering from Covid. A guideline issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research states: “After one week from sample collection or detection of Covid-19 symptoms, if a patient does not have fever and other symptoms for another three days, then no further test will be required and the doctor will discharge him/her with a certificate from the hospital or safe home. The patient must stay under home quarantine for an additional seven days before returning to normal life.” Many people who suffered from Covid told Metro that health department officials had called them up during the period of isolation but did not tell them when they could resume normal life. “I received two calls from the health department. On both occasions, the callers were very polite and wished me good health and speedy recovery. During the first call I was given a number, which the official said I could call if I developed any symptoms,” said a resident of Kasba, who was discharged from hospital a week back following his recovery from Covid-19. “The second call came a couple of days back. The caller wished me good health before hanging up. He did not tell me whether I could resume normal life,” the man said. The secretary of his building’s residents’ welfare association asked him to get yet another Covid test done and step out only if the report was negative. A Garia resident who has recovered from Covid alleged that members of the residents’ association of his building threatened him after accusing him of stepping out before completing the mandatory quarantine period. He said he had isolated himself at home for seven days after returning from hospital. “I received a call from a Covid patient who was under my observation, requesting me for a certificate that he could end his isolation. I told him he had completed 14 days and could go out but he said his neighbours might create problems,” said public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury. Chowdhury — a mentor of Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, government officials and people who have recovered from Covid — said the network was getting calls from people who alleged that residents’ associations were not allowing them to return to normal life. Health department officials said there was a protocol for the callers on how to communicate with Covid patients or those who have recovered from the disease. “Maybe some callers are not telling the recovered person when they can end their quarantine. We are looking into the problem,” an official said. Physician Amitabha Saha said several welfare associations have doctors as members and they were taking the decision after calculating the number of days a person should be in quarantine. “This is beneficial for the patient and their neighbours. A clear communication can dispel confusions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Unlock: Calcutta gym-goers relieved on reopening day||A teacher with mobility problems. A youth aspiring to be a professional powerlifter. An insurance sector employee who calls himself a fitness freak. A handful of Calcuttans hit the gym on Thursday, when they reopened after over four months. The attendees were yearning for the places to reopen for different reasons. Arpita Chakraborty, 40, came from her Picnic Garden home to a gym in Ballygunge riding her two-whee-ler. Chakraborty, a school teacher, suffers from severe rheumatoid arthritis, a chronic inflammatory disorder that leads to joint pain and impairs mobility. She was facing severe challenges in movement when she joined the gym last year. The gym, Endorphins, is known for not being a machine-oriented place. A daily routine of mobility exercises has improved Chakraborty’s condition. “But I have to do it without fail, every day. It is like my personal hygiene,” she said. For the past four months, Chakraborty had been working out at her home. “But working out in a dedicated space is important because of the guidance of a trainer and zero distraction,” she said. Her six-year-old daughter often interrupts her training at home. As the reopening day came close, Kinjal Paul, 22, started becoming restless. Before the lockdown, he used to spend over two hours every day at Devil’s Den, a gym in Salt Lake’s CB Block. Paul has just completed a bachelor’s in business administration but he aspires to a career in powerlifting. He had booked an afternoon slot for Thursday. “I did not realise how the time flew. I did squats, deadlifts and bench-press. It was the first day after four months. So, I did not go overboard,” said Paul. Moderation for Paul is lifting over 130 kilos. He said his usual quota was 170 kilos. Paul had mostly been working out at his Paikpara home for the past four months. “But serious powerlifting needs a lot of equipment. It is difficult to assemble them at home. I used to go to a friend’s place that has some,” said Paul. Some of his family members and friends had cautioned him against going to “a public place when Covid-19 cases are increasing”. But Paul said he was satisfied with the safety measures adopted by the gym. Most gyms had asked members to pre-book slots and come accordingly. They followed a 10 to 15-minute interval between two slots for sanitisation. Equipment inside the gym were being sanitised after every use. Face shields, masks and gloves were provided to the members. “Blocks” were carved out for each user. The guidelines issued by the Centre on Monday said gyms would need to space equipment and individuals six feet apart as a precaution against Covid-19. Many owners had reduced the number of functional equipment. “I used to have six treadmills. I have shifted three to the store room,” said the owner of a gym in New Alipore. Most members avoided public transport to reach the gyms. Himangshu Valechha had booked an hour’s slot from 8.20am at Karma Fitness Studio in Mudiali, which was his regular den before the lockdown. Valechha, an employee of a private insurance firm, considers “fitness to be his religion”. “I was so pumped up once inside the gym. I had been working out regularly inside my house. But there is no mind-muscle synergy. There are too many distractions,” he said. Valechha did shoulder exercises on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Moderate rains and choked drains swamp Salt Lake||The rainfall was moderate on Wednesday but several pockets of Salt Lake and areas off VIP Road still witnessed waterlogging. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said debris, leaves and branches had choked the rainwater drainage channels and gully pits, leading to flooding. To add to the problems, the Kestopur and the Bagjola canals, which drain out accumulated water from Salt Lake and VIP Road, are filled to the brim. The Dum Dum observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department recorded 27.94mm of rain, while the Alipore Met office recorded 33mm of rainfall over 24 hours till 6.30pm on Thursday. However, the showers proved to be enough to swamp several roads in Salt Lake as well as parts of VIP Road on Thursday. In Salt Lake, the Karunamoyee intersection and the Karunamoyee Housing Estate had ankle to knee-deep water, making it tough for motorists and pedestrians to move. Residents of the Karunamoyee Housing Estate and EE Block said they had a harrowing time reaching the nearby markets as well as going to their workplaces. “At least three app cabs cancelled the ride after seeing the water on the road leading to my house,” said Animesh Bhattacharya, a resident of Karunamoyee Housing Estate in ED Block. Similar scenes played out in several other blocks, including FA and AA Blocks. Several places along VIP Road, such as Chinar Park, were flooded on Thursday morning. Residents of housing complexes like Sriram Nagar and Space Town had a harrowing time reaching VIP Road or the Chinar Park crossing. “Every time it rains, this area gets waterlogged. The water doesn’t recede even after the rain stops,” said Shyamal Chaudhuri, who lives in the neighbourhood. A 1km-long stretch of the service road near the Haldiram’s bus stop was under knee to waist-deep water. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had cleaned up their rainwater drainage network after Cyclone Amphan. But the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation did not carry out such an exercise. Devashish Jana, the mayoral council member in charge of drainage at the civic body, said the entire drainage system in Karunamoyee needed to be upgraded. “We will need at least six months to upgrade the drainage network there,” he said. Places along VIP Road, Jana said, are prone to waterlogging because these are low-lying areas. The Bidhannagar civic body and Hidco, which builds infrastructure in New Town, will set up a drainage pumping station near City Centre II to solve the problem of waterlogging in these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-349
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid antigen test to focus on hawkers and traders  ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s drive to conduct antigen tests for Covid-19 will focus more on hawkers and traders, who get exposed to many people every day, than members of other professions once it opens testing centres, an official said. The civic body has planned to set up permanent testing centres in each of the 16 boroughs. An official said there would be at least three centres in each borough for conducting the antigen test. The first such centre was inaugurated inside the Roxy cinema building earlier this week. An official said hawkers of the Grand Arcade and other traders of the area would be asked to undergo tests at the centre. The outgoing councillor of Ward 46, which covers the central Calcutta shopping hubs, is talking to the various traders associations and hawker unions, urging the members to get themselves tested at the centre. Another centre will open in Ballygunge on Saturday. “After we open centres in the Ballygunge and Gariahat areas, traders and hawkers will be told that those with Covid-19 symptoms must get themselves tested at the earliest,” said a CMC official. “A hawker selling wares on a footpath or a trader inside a market talks to multiple customers daily. If a trader contracts the virus from one of the customers, she or he might pass it on to many others. Chances of the virus spreading from such people are much more than those who are mostly staying at home. If a vegetable seller or a fish seller is infected, she or he can go on to infect many of the customers. Hawkers and other traders are our initial target for the antigen test,” the official said. The CMC official said the plan was to conduct at least 100 antigen tests at each of the centres every day. The target is to conduct 1,600 tests across the city daily. “Each centre will remain open at least two days in a week,” the official said. The centres will also collect swab samples for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19, the traditional and more confirmatory test for the coronavirus disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Calcutta||A poem about being a 'true believer' ||Writer, educator and motivational speaker Barry O’Brien penned a poem on Thursday on what he thought being a ‘true believer’ was. A practising Christian, O’Brien feels “religion is a very private matter” and should be kept that way, especially in these most “crucial and changing times”. He said: “Unfortunately, over centuries, religion has ended up separating people more than bringing them together. The need of the hour is to live the faith, not shout it from the rooftop”. This is what he wrote: If Only...
By Barry O’Brien If only I was a true Muslim,
I would find the time to thank God five times a day.
Not fool myself to believe that Jihad is a synonym for 
violence against people. If only I was a true 
Christian,
I would forgive those who hurt my religion for they know not what they do.
Not bear grudges for 
centuries or fight wars In The Name Of The Father. If only I was a true Sikh,
I would feed people, comfort them, serve them at a 
Gurudwara, not desecrate it by stockpiling arms and ammunition beside the Granth Sahib. If only I was a true 
Buddhist,
I would shun idol worship and nurture the Buddha in my heart,
Not hero worship and spend millions on giant statues of gold. If only I was a true Hindu,
I would be the most tolerant person in the world,
Respecting other people’s 
beliefs much more than they 
do mine…as I have done for thousands of years,
Not force my way of life on them just because they are fewer in number. If only I was a True 
Believer...
I would build a Mosque, a Church, a Gurdwara, a Monastery and a Temple where it mattered most… where it would be safe from bombs, from ridicule, from harm, from all that is evil.
I would build it in the 
only place that matters… the silence, safety and sanctity of my heart.
There it will be pure and private and perfect
Far from the din of 
religiosity
Deep in the silence of 
spirituality
Me and my  religion…
If only...||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Calcutta||NKDA opens safe house for New Town residents||A safe house exclusively for the residents of New Town is ready to start operation. It will house Covid-positive patients who do not have severe symptoms. The facility, operated by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), is located in a two-storeyed house next to Tank 12. “With hospitals unable to accommodate all Covid-19 positive patients, many with little or no symptoms are being asked to stay in home isolation. For that, one has to give an undertaking that one can self-isolate in a room and avail the services of a caregiver. But those who share a single room with other family members cannot opt for home isolation. This facility is for such people,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of NKDA. The building that has been identified for the facility in Action Area II is owned by Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) for use of the public health engineering department as a water supply point. The unoccupied building has a 4,000 sq ft. first floor which will house 20 beds. “Of them, 15 will be for men and five for women. The two wards have been partitioned off. We have placed cots. The health department has provided medical equipment like oxygen cylinders and masks, nebulisers, personal protective equipment and pulse oxymeters. It has been fitted out with telephone and closed circuit television. Other rooms like chambers for doctors and nurses and a dispensary are coming up,” Sen said. The facility will have two nurses in attendance. Two doctors will do the rounds twice a day. “It is basically a resting place with food provided for by the government.” In case an inmate turns serious, the NKDA has tied up with neighbouring Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) and Charnock Hospital to get them picked up in their ambulance and admit for treatment. So far, NKDA could send patients to the safe house being operated by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation at Royal Banquets in Sector V for about two months now. The safe house, currently housing 13 inmates, can keep around 30 patients and is also tagged with CNCI for support. Only two people have needed hospitalisation so far, a civic official said. There are three safe houses in New Town — Haj House, NBCC Square and CFL Building. “But these are more a resource for all of Calcutta and the neighbouring districts,” Sen clarified. NKDA also plans to start Rapid Antigen Test at its health dispensary in Action Area III. “We are on the lookout for trained technicians which the health department is unable to provide us,” Sen added. The tests will start with the shopkeepers at NKDA markets who can be super spreaders as well as the Hidco and NKDA drivers. “Their lists have been drawn up. We have already started sending them to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital in Salt Lake in small batches. The hospital is testing seven patients referred by us daily. We can ramp up testing once we have our own testing facility,” he said. Another reason to start a facility in New Town is the reluctance of shopkeepers to travel all the way to Salt Lake for the test. “When our doctors are calling them up when their turn is coming they are refusing to travel such a distance, leaving their business unattended. If it is in New Town, it will be easier to convince them.” The Rapid Antigen Test gives out results almost instantaneously, unlike the RT-PCR test which takes almost 48 hours to yield results. NKDA had recently organised two health screening camps for labourers staying in New Town. Ten people were shortlisted for symptoms like loss of sense of taste and smell, high temperature and cough, and recommended for Covid-19 test by the attending doctors. “But they left their quarters once they learnt of the need to get themselves tested,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
07-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 patient takes shelter in CK Market stall||A shopkeeper who tested positive spent four to five days living in her shop inside CK Market after her family asked her not to return home. When other shopkeepers found out they hounded her out. The lady, in her late 50s, sells puja material and sundry items at her stall. On Friday, the sub-divisional hospital in DD Block handed her a report confirming that she had Covid-19. Since her case was not severe, doctors advised her home isolation. But her family members refused to take her in. “I stay in Barasat with my daughter, her husband and my grandson. But when I got fever a week back, they asked me not to return home fearing Covid. They were even more adamant when I went for my test and the reports came positive. Since our house doesn’t have separate rooms they claimed isolation would not be possible,” she said. With nowhere to go, she spent about five days and nights at her stall. “I have a second daughter who stays in a single room in the tenements near City Centre, a third daughter who stays with her family at a garage near Udayachal Tourist Lodge in DG Block and a fourth daughter who stays in Nayapatty with her family. Everyone refused to have me.” By Sunday, other shopkeepers got suspicious and confronted her about why she was wasn’t going home. “She had been moving about freely despite her condition,” said one of the shopkeeper who uncovered the case. “She could be a super spreader. When we found out we drove her out of the market.” With nowhere to go, the woman spent at least six hours on different pavements in Salt Lake. The Telegraph Salt Lake found her on the pavement opposite the Tank 9 petrol pump. Clad in a printed sari, carrying a black umbrella and a packet with her medical report, the lady was sitting on the pavement with a number of passers-by and commuters waiting close by to board autos and buses. A call was made to Bidhannagar City Police commissioner Mukesh, after which a police team alerted the health department and got an ambulance to escort the woman to a safe house. “It was unfortunate that the woman had nowhere to go. Our team stayed with her while maintaining proper social distancing protocol,” said the police commissioner. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said the woman had committed a grave mistake by living inside the market. “She could have called the Covid-19 helpline number or any of the councillors. If she needed help she could have asked us,” said Chakraborty. The woman, on her part, said she did not have any of these phone numbers. “No one from the corporation or health department got in touch with me to ask if I needed help,” she said. The lady is now in isolation at a Sector V safe house. “She only has mild fever,” said Maya Sarkar, the daughter who lives near City Centre. “It’s best that she stays there as none of us have homes big enough to keep here in isolation.” The state government has set up several safe houses across the city for people who have tested positive but are asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has a safe house in Sector V.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-350
