08-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid patient's escape attempt at CMCH||A Covid-19 patient in Calcutta tried to jump off a hospital building on Saturday after breaking the windowpane with an oxygen cylinder but was saved by an alert health worker, police said. The incident happened around 9 am at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, they said. The 56-year-old man tried to jump off the third floor of the Super Speciality Block of the hospital after smashing the windowpane with an oxygen cylinder, a senior officer said, adding that they are looking into the matter. The man, a resident of North 24 Parganas district, was diagnosed with COVID-19 around 10 days back. Since then he is undergoing treatment at the hospital. A source at the hospital said he has been under severe stress for quite some time. The source also revealed he had earlier beaten up other patients in the ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
08-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Body swap’ at BR Singh Hospital||The body of a woman who died at BR Singh Hospital after testing negative for Covid-19 has been handed over to the CMC for cremation instead of a Covid positive person’s body, her family has alleged. The Telegraph could not contact the hospital. Family members of the woman, a 67-year-old Howrah resident, have made the allegation in a letter to Narkeldanga police station. They said the hospital called them on Friday to collect the body as her test reports were negative. On reaching the hospital they were handed over another body. It was then they got to know the woman’s body had been handed over to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation for cremation two days ago in an apparent case of mistaken identity with another woman who had died of Covid-19, the family has said in the letter. The family received a communication from the hospital, signed by its director, saying the body had been “wrongly handed over after identification of the dead body” by the other woman’s son. The letter said the process of handing over the body had been videographed. This woman died on July 31 and the Howrah resident on August 3. A 72-year-old woman in Kestopur who had tested positive for Covid lay dead in her bedroom for over 15 hours till Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials removed the body for cremation on Friday. Usha Rani Mondal, who used to stay alone, had fever for several days. She took a Covid test on August 2. Her report on Tuesday showed she was positive and she was advised home isolation. On Thursday evening, neighbours alerted her son when she did not respond to knocks on the door. Her son got in touch with the local councillor. The body was removed on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Drive in for contactless pandal-hopping this Durga puja||This Puja, Calcutta will get to experience drive-in darshan of the goddess. Three pujas in a lane near the Rashbehari Avenue crossing have joined forces to offer an experience for which one would not have to get out of the safety of one’s car. The idol will be right on the streetside facing the street and one will simply have to slow down in front of the pandal, take a look and drive on. Two of the three pujas figure among south Calcutta’s crowd-pullers — Badamtala Ashar Sangha and 66 Palli. A third along the lane — Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club — has been pulled in to complete the triad. “This is the first time in the history of the city’s Durga puja that three pujas are coming together. Desperate times call for desperate measures. With social distancing being a mandatory safety norm, drive-in is the one way in which pandal-hopping can take place without jostling in the crowd,” said Sandip Chakraborty, the secretary of Badamtala Ashar Sangha. The idea was mooted by New York-based businessman Mridul Pathak who has roots in the neighbourhood and whose non-profit outfit International Foundation for Sustainable Development (IFSD) has been involved with Durga Puja since the mid-90s. Speaking to The Telegraph from Texas, he said: “The boys were crest-fallen at the uncertainty over organising Puja this year. So I called them together in a video conference in June. Here in the US, all shopping malls have started a drive-in counter whereby people pay online in advance and simply pick up their order from the counter without getting off the car. “Even if things do not improve by October in Bengal, people will still go out by car. So I told them to make the pandal two-dimensional, cutting out the third dimension of depth which requires visitors to go closer to the idols. That way people can watch while simply driving by. Another lane can be kept for pedestrians. Traffic would be easier to control if all three pujas in the lane follow the same principle. This will reduce budget and yet allow each club to retain its autonomy.” The drive-in concept is gaining ground across the world because of the zero-contact experience. Drive-in theatres, popular in the late 1950s and early 1960s, are making a comeback. Walmart, for instance, has announced transforming its parking lots at 160 stores across the US into drive-in theatres with customers having to sign up to reserve parking space. Each site usually has a pole with a speaker. Bangalore has started one in July. Drive-in eateries are also starting, with two already in operation in the city — in New Town and Salt Lake. “So why not drive-in Durga puja?” said Pathak. IFSD is facilitating a digital campaign to market the concept. Badamtala already had Satyajit Ray in mind as the theme, given that this is the start of his centenary year. With three pujas on board, the Apu trilogy became a natural choice. “Badamtala will portray Pather Panchali, we will do Aparajito while Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club will do Apur Sansar,” said Pradyumna Mukherjee, the general secretary of 66 Palli Sarbojanin. He pointed out that the area is connected to the trilogy. “Bachan Singh, the owner of Bachan’s Dhaba on the main road, from where our drive-in route will start, used to be a taxi driver earlier. It was his duty to drive the young Subir Banerjee, who played Apu in Pather Panchali, to the shooting spot every day,” he said. A second link is a scene in Aparajito where Apu is leaving the village after his mother’s death. “When his great uncle asks why he was leaving without performing the last rites in the village, Apu replies that he would do it at the Kalighat temple, which is right next door to us,” Mukherjee added. The organisers have asked their theme maker duo, Eshika Chandra and Deep Das, to incorporate the scene in the pandal décor. The worsening Covid-19 infection graph has kept all plans on tenterhooks. “We have only decided on an 11ft idol. How elaborately we can execute the theme will depend on the time we get once the government gives the go-ahead,” said Snehasish Maity, who is in charge of the Badamtala pandal. Chakraborty plans some basic safety measures — a piped sanitising shower for the cars at the entry point, hand sanitisation and thermal  check for pedestrians, and no stalls next to the pandal. “We want to dedicate the entire stretch to Ray. Food stalls, if any are allowed, will be booked in the lane between us and 66 Palli.” Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) observed the 79th death anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore at the Jorasanko Thakurbari, the poet’s ancestral house, on Friday. A team of senior RBU officials paid tribute to the poet at the Nimtala crematorium, where he was cremated. The team then went to the Thakurbari and placed flowers in the rooms where the poet was born and breathed his last. The officials then garlanded the poet’s bust. Since Tagore passed away in 1941, a programme remembering him would be held at the Thakurbari on this day. “The programme had to be cancelled this time because of the pandemic,” vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Advanced CT-scan unit at Fortis Hospital||Fortis Hospital in Anandapur has introduced a CT scan machine, which gives faster and clearer pictures of the lungs and the heart and helps doctors diagnose clots in the lungs of a Covid patient, doctors of the hospital said on Friday. The machine will be able to take images of every bit of the chest in one go and the patient need not be brought again and again for taking images of various organs. A city-based pulmonologist said pulmonary embolism, a blockage in pulmonary arteries of the lungs, is common in Covid-19 patients and doctors conduct CT scans to detect the complication. “At a time when the number of tests were low, a CT scan of the lungs was done to assess whether someone had symptoms of Covid-19. But now tests are done to assess the complications in a Covid patient,” said Sumit Sengupta, a city-based pulmonologist. Raja Dhar, a pulmonologist at Fortis Hospital, said clots in segmental arteries or branches of the pulmonary artery have also been noticed in Covid-19 patients. “The CT scan that we introduced in our hospital will be able to detect the clots even in the segmental arteries that an older CT scan machine may miss.” A CT scan gives more detailed pictures of organs inside a human body and allows doctors to diagnose an illness better. The images produced by a CT scan is more detailed, said a radiologist. The machine will also help in diagnosing ailments in elderly, children and trauma patients. “Unlike the older machine, this one can take the picture so fast that a trauma patient with multiple injuries does not need to be sedated before they are put in the gantry,” said Salim Pervez, the head of radiology of Fortis Hospital, Anandapur. Pervez added that children and elderly patients, too, would benefit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Plasma therapy for critically ill patients at Calcutta Medical College||The Bengal government has decided to start plasma therapy for a select group of Covid-19 patients as an alternative treatment at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Immunohaematology experts will join a team of doctors engaged in treating Covid patients and decide who all can get plasma therapy, depending on their degree of infection and status of immunity. A team of doctors will closely monitor those receiving plasma therapies. “We will start this therapy, hopefully, in the next two weeks,” Prasun Bhattacharya, the head of the department of Immunohaematology and blood transfusion at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said. The hospital is now a dedicated Covid treatment centre. “Given the rise in the number of Covid patients, we had to start this therapy,” Bhattacharya said. In plasma therapy, plasma from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid is transfused to a critically ill Covid patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from Covid develops antibodies. When injected into the blood of another patient, these antibodies are supposed to help the patient fight the virus. Doctors will rely on the plasma bank that is coming up at the hospital, a health department official said. Plasma cells — donated by people who have recovered from Covid — from the bank will be infused into patients undergoing treatment for the disease, the official said. Plasma collected from the blood of a person three to four weeks after he/she has recovered from Covid is expected to contain antiviral antibodies. As part of the therapy, a patient will get 200ml of plasma, thawed after being stored in -80 degrees centigrade, daily for two days. After a few days, the blood will be analysed for immune-response. “We have decided that only critically ill patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) will be chosen for the therapy,” Yogiraj Ray, a specialist in the Covid expert committee set up by the health department, said. “There is no shortage of plasma donors now; so, getting plasma will not be a challenge. A team of specialists will take the final call on the patient to receive plasma therapy. This team will include an expert in medico-legal affairs.” Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have already started plasma therapy as an alternative treatment for patients whose oxygen requirement progressively increases despite using steroids. Several private healthcare units in Delhi and Maharashtra have been giving plasma therapy to patients. In Calcutta, this alternative mode of treatment has started in a few private units. “We tried plasma therapy on a young patient. He showed signs of improvement but unfortunately we couldn’t save him,” Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, said. The infrastructure is ready at the Calcutta Medical College, a health department official said. The Drug Controller General of India has given the permission for this treatment. The immediate requirement, though, is kits to collect plasma. “Each kit costs anything between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000. We are getting kits so that plasma can be collected and stored in the bank,” the health department official said. The treatment will have nothing to with the ongoing randomised controlled trial on plasma therapy, Dipyaman Ganguly of the Translational Research Unit at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology said. The trial is taking place at the Beleghata ID Hospital and initial findings have thrown up encouraging results. “We expect to complete the trial in another one-and-a-half months,” Dipyaman Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Gym comes home as fitness gear sales soar   ||When you cannot go to the gym, bring the gym home. The sale of fitness equipment and weights has seen a sharp spike for domestic use in the past few months, according to several retailers in Calcutta. From treadmills and cycles to resistance tubes and dumb-bells, every equipment has takers. “There has been an almost 40 per cent jump in the sale of equipment like treadmills, cycles and cross trainers. The sale of dumb-bells, barbells and folding benches have registered a near 60 per cent rise. All of them are domestic orders,” Gagan Sachdev, the owner of Bodyline chain of stores, said. The chain has four stores — in Ballygunge, Hiland Park, City Centre II and Avani Mall. The spike has been visible since mid-April and has stayed so far, he said. Till March, Sachdev sold around 30 treadmills a month, from four stores combined. Since April, he has been selling over 50. Gyms have been shut from mid-March. But it took fitness freaks a while to realise the shutdown will be a lengthy affair. The trend is here to stay even after gyms reopen, according to retailers. Aishwarya Krishnan, 20, a rower and fitness enthusiast, was a regular at a Ballygunge gym before the lockdown. “But I am not ready to head to a gym now. My parents, too, are concerned. They have asked me to get whatever stuff I need and work out on the rooftop. That is what I have been doing for the past four months,” she said. Her list includes dumb-bells, barbells, kettlebell and resistance tubes. On Friday afternoon, she did an hour’s workout with resistance tubes on the rooftop of her Lake Road home. Rajdeep Lahiri, a Tollygunge resident, ordered a treadmill in the second week of May. “I used to run for three 15-minute sessions at a local gym to lose weight. Since the gym shut down, I tried running at a park. But the number of people at the park kept increasing with every passing day. So, I thought of buying one.” Even those who are not fitness freaks have woken up to the concept of fitness, thanks to the pandemic, Adeep Kapoor, the third-generation owner of GK Sports, said. “They are ordering treadmills and cycles.” GK Sports has outlets on Ballygunge Circular Road and Park Street. His stores have seen “an at least 50 per cent jump” in the sale of fitness equipment. Apart from treadmills and the usual dumb-bells, the hot-selling items include skipping ropes, toning tubes and twisters, Kapoor said. Lifters are not to be left behind. Sukhdeep Singh, 22, bought a pair of dumb-bells and barbells. “I cannot do without my daily dose of workout. Gym is better but if not, home has to be acceptable,” Singh, a Sinthee resident, said. Amid the craze for ordering equipment, strength and conditioning coach Ranadeep Moitra had a word of caution. “Any machine-based workout should be under the guidance of a trainer. Random use of treadmills and other equipment can lead to aberrations in muscles and injuries. If people are hesitant to step out, they can take the advice of trainers online,” Moitra, the co-owner of Endorphins chain, known for training schedules that are not machine intensive, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Chartered flights get Bengal nod||The state government will allow chartered flights to bring back stranded people from abroad from August 10, provided they test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure, officials said. The state government has prepared a standard operating procedure which states that a person from abroad with a negative test report (RT-PCR) need not stay in institutional quarantine for seven days, which they were earlier required to do. A number of chartered flights and evacuation flights had brought back people from Bengal stranded abroad till the state government suspended the services on July 1. Sources said this was the first step towards allowing evacuation flights to operate once again to Calcutta. The state government’s decision comes in the wake of the ministry of health and family welfare’s revised guideline which states that an international passenger with a Covid negative report within 96 hours before journey need not undergo institutional quarantine after landing in a city in India and can fly onwards immediately to their actual destination within the country. “.... the government of West Bengal has decided that presently only chartered flights carrying stranded Indian nationals from abroad having a negative test report (RT-PCR) conducted within 96 hours of flight departure may land at airports within the state of West Bengal,” states a letter from the state government to the external affairs ministry. The airlines whose aircraft will be hired for chartered flights should apply for a no-objection certificate from the state government by giving details such as the names of the sponsors who have hired the flights and an undertaking that all passengers have tested negative for Covid. On arrival, passengers will have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. If they develop any Covid symptoms, they will have to contact the local medical officer or the state government. A public health expert in Calcutta said the incubation period for the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, is five days, after which symptoms manifest. Evacuation flights to Calcutta were stopped on July 1, after the Bengal government requested the civil aviation ministry not to allow any such flight without a no-objection certificate from the state. When such flights were allowed, hundreds of evacuees, many of them medical students, had gone home straight from the airport in violation of the quarantine norm. A few days back, representatives of airlines had spoken to the airport authorities requesting them to urge the state government to allow resumption of evacuation flights. The Telegraph had on August 1 reported that the airline operators committee was planning to write to the state government on this. Later, the committee and the travel agents’ associations spoke to state government officials requesting them to allow evacuation flights. IndiGo airline said it was planning to provide aircraft for chartered flights. “We had operated around 15 chartered flights before July 1. Now, many operators are keen to hire aircraft,” said an official of IndiGo. “Calcuttans stuck in places such as Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Singapore are requesting us to operate chartered flights. We’ll arrange for such flights soon,” said Pallavi Singh, an official of Accretion Aviation, which arranges evacuation flights. “This is the first step but there are many passengers who might not get a seat on such chartered flights. So, the state government should think of allowing evacuation flights with the same SOP,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. State government officials said they were not allowing  evacuation flights by airlines like Air India because then the responsibility of testing would be on an individual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Hospitality career talk tomorrow||A virtual session on Sunday, helmed by seasoned hoteliers, will discuss careers in hospitality management in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Virtual Insights — an ABP initiative in partnership with IIHM presents a virtual session on “Careers in Global Hospitality Management” will be held between 5pm and 6pm on Sunday. The webinar will be held on Zoom platform. Like all other sectors, the pandemic has hit the hospitality sector hard. Hotel rooms do not have boarders, restaurant tables are vacant, tourism is crippled and airlines are struggling. Tens of thousands of students enrol in a professional course after their Plus II board exams every year. But this time, the Covid-19 crisis has left them worried. Parents, too, are in two minds about investing money in such courses because they are not sure if the course will fetch their children jobs. They are not sure when physical classes will resume. They are not confident of enough internship opportunities. On Sunday, the speakers at the session will answer these queries. Suborno Bose, chairman and CEO of IIHM and IHC London, will moderate the session and the panellists will be — Kumar Shobhan, general manager, Hyatt Regency Kolkata; Vijay Malhotra, cluster executive chef, ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar; and Abdullah Ahmed, director, IIHM Delhi, and associate director, Indismart Global. The programme will include a question and session after the panel discussion. “We expect many questions — on placements, on the possibility of resumption of physical classes, on the chances of good internship opportunities. Practical lessons and hands-on training are the key to a professional course. They can never be substituted by online classes,” Suborno Bose said. People who want to take part in the webinar can register for free at https://bit.ly/VIwithIIHM The first 500 to register will be able to interact with the speakers directly on Zoom. The session will be available on Facebook Live at www.facebook.com/ iihmhotelschool as well. “Right now, there is turbulence. But once this crisis is over, the sector will bounce back stronger than ever. People will start travelling — for business and leisure. Many people have been furloughed or have lost their jobs, creating a big gap. When the sector bounces back, there will be a demand for skilled professionals,” Bose said. Career prospects in hospitality management in the wake of the pandemic ⚫The shift from online to physical classes ⚫The lack of internships ⚫What: Virtual Insights — an ABP initiative in partnership with IIHM presents a virtual session on “Careers in Global Hospitality Management” ⚫Where: Zoom webinar ⚫When: Sunday, 5-6pm ⚫Registration: https://bit.ly/VIwithIIHM The first 500 to register will be able to interact with the speakers directly on Zoom ⚫Panel: Kumar Shobhan, general manager, Hyatt Regency Kolkata; Vijay Malhotra, cluster executive chef, ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar; and Abdullah Ahmed, director, IIHM Delhi and associate director, Indismart Global ⚫Moderator: Suborno Bose, chairman and CEO of IIHM and IHC London||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board to verify documents online||Students aspiring to study engineering this year won’t have to visit “reporting centres” to get their testimonials verified before admission because the Covid pandemic has forced the state JEE board to conduct the process online, a board official said. The board announced the measure while announcing the results of the Bengal JEE, which were held in February. Altogether, 73,119 candidates had written the test on February 2 and 72,298 will receive rank cards. The board’s vice-chairman, Dilip Kumar Mitra, said they had made some “special arrangements” this year so candidates could take admission without exposing themselves to any health hazard. “The engineering aspirants will not be required to go to any reporting centre to get their documents verified after they lock their choice for an institute during online counselling,” Mitra said. “The verification process will be held online.” The candidates have to upload documents such as the Class X and Class XII mark sheets on the counselling portal developed by the board during registration. “The documents will be verified by the virtual reporting centres. Candidates need not visit any reporting centre amid the pandemic,” Mitra said. An official said a candidate would get a text message if all documents were accepted by a virtual reporting centre. “An alert will be sent if any document is rejected. He or she can log in and find out the reason for rejection. The candidate can also contact the central control room in the board’s office,” the official said. Documents will be physically verified when campuses reopen. The counselling is likely to start on August 12. A board official said that earlier the candidates would have to visit reporting centres for verification of documents after locking their choice for an institute. They would pay the semester fee only after their testimonials were vetted by the centre. The special measures also include making provisions to help students encountering connectivity issues so they could take part in the online counselling. The board has set up more than 17,000 service centres across the state where students without internet connectivity at home could register for counselling, upload documents and choose an institute where he or she would like to study. Earlier, such students would have to visit cyber cafes to get the work done. “Services at these centres will be free…. The list of the service centres will be announced soon,” said Mitra. Figures released by the board shows that 51 per cent of the students on the merit list are from the Bengal board, compared with 31 per cent from the CBSE. But among the top 10, eight are from the CBSE. Only one student from the Bengal board is in the top 10, at the eighth position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
08-08-2020||Calcutta||Residential complexes urged to keep tabs on elderly||Residents’ welfare associations of housing complexes should keep a close watch on the aged in their communities and let the police or civic bodies know if they need any help, Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid-19 management said on Friday. The police and the civic bodies in and around Calcutta have been told to get in touch with the residents’ welfare associations and exchange phone numbers, said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the state home secretary who was recently named Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid management. “The members of the residents’ welfare associations of these complexes should have the phone numbers of ward coordinators, local police stations, the health department and other necessary numbers. The housing societies should be able to contact the authorities if there is any need,” Bandyopadhyay said. “On our part, we should have the phone numbers of officer-bearers of the associations. Police and municipal workers will establish this connection over the next few days.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Thursday spoken about the need to reach out to elderly people in gated communities and figure out a way to help them. At a meeting at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Friday, Bandyopadhyay said the police and the civic body would reach out to all housing societies or gated communities. Since health workers are often denied access to gated communities, the residents should keep tabs on the elderly neighbours themselves, he said. The police commissioners of Calcutta, Howrah and Bidhannagar and senior officials of the Howrah and North 24-Parganas district administrations attended the meeting. “We have seen that health workers get access to slums and middle-class neighbourhoods. But they are denied access to many gated communities. So we are requesting officer-bearers of the residents’ associations of the gated communities to keep a tab on the health of the elderly people living there,” Bandyopadhyay said. He said the nodal officer for North 24-Parganas was asked to adopt a similar strategy in Barrackpore and Dum Dum. On Thursday, Mamata asked officials to conduct a survey of senior citizens living alone, especially in urban areas, and set up a police helpline where one can seek help for elderly people. The chief minister said she had found out on Wednesday that one of her neighbours was ill and needed hospitalisation. “He is very senior. Both his daughters are professors. One of them came to visit him yesterday and then everybody came to know he had been running a temperature for three days, living alone…. Kalighat police station got him hospitalised immediately,” she had said. An official of the CMC said Friday’s meeting stressed the need to reach out to apartment buildings in Calcutta, Howrah, Bidhannagar and New Town. “All urban areas have to follow the same strategy. We are also asking all municipalities to open control rooms where people can reach out if they are in need,” he said. Bandyopadhyay said all municipalities have been told to increase the numbers of ambulances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-348
