09-08-2020||Calcutta||Private healthcare units can during admission demand up to Rs 50,000||Bengal’s regulatory commission has said private healthcare units in the state could during admission demand up to Rs 50,000 — or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost — whichever was less. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issued the related advisory on Saturday. The private hospitals cannot refuse admission if the patient cannot pay the sum immediately, but the money has to be paid within 12 hours, the advisory said.  If a patient fails to pay up within that time, the hospital can ask that the bed be vacated within the hour, it added. Patients’ rights groups said the decision gave private hospitals the “licence to fleece patients” and refuse treatment to those unable to pay. Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson of the commission, said the amount had been fixed for the benefit of both the patients and the hospitals. “I have proof that one hospital had sought a deposit of Rs 3 lakh. This had to stop. At the same time, hospitals need to stay viable,” he said. But Peerless Hospital chief executive Sudipta Mitra said the hospital was asking for Rs 5,000 as deposit from Covid-19 patients during admission. “Now we can ask for Rs 50,000,” he said. Although the advisory did not mention Covid-19, most people seeking admission at hospitals now are either coronavirus-positive or have Covid-like symptoms. “After due deliberations and careful consideration, it is decided that clinical establishments would not be entitled to demand more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum amount of Rs 50,000, whichever is less, at the time of admission,” the advisory issued by Arshad Hasan Warsi, secretary to the regulatory commission, said. The advisory said: “In case the patient party is not in a position to deposit the required amount at the time of admission, the hospital would admit the patient as and by way of provisional admission and give adequate necessary treatment required right at that moment. However, the admission would be regularised upon deposit of the amount within a period of 12 hours.” The advisory adds: “In case the deposit is not made within the time stipulated above, the hospital would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission and ask the patient party to take back the patient within one hour thereafter.” According to the advisory, it had come to the notice of the commission that patient parties “face hardship in fulfilling requirement of advance payment” at the time of admission. Some of the private hospitals said it had become a headache to secure payment in the case of patients who had died or whose discharge date had arrived without anyone coming to accompany them home. In a second advisory issued on Saturday, the regulatory commission said: “All investigations amounting above Rs 2,000 should be done on a prior documented intimation to the patient party.” If an investigation is regularly repeated, it said, the patient's family must be informed and the reason explained. This advisory was issued because the commission had noticed that costly investigations were being repeated regularly, the commission said. Patients and organisations campaigning for their rights criticised the decision to allow the hospitals to seek up to Rs 50,000 as deposit. “The new advisory gives private hospitals the licence to fleece patients and refuse treatment,” said Kunal Saha, president, People for Better Treatment. “Most Covid-19 patients need (only) monitoring and basic support because they have moderate to mild symptoms. This (advisory) will also make people with critical patients reluctant to go to a (private) hospital.” Hospitals welcomed the advisory. “Different hospitals were demanding different amounts as deposit. Now there will be a uniform rate. This will prevent misunderstandings,” said Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an organisation of private hospitals in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Phones are buzzing with cheat calls||More than 1,700 complaints have piled up in Lalbazar in the past two months. They are related to cheating or cheating attempts on the phone where callers posed as bank officials or restaurant managers. Close to 1,600 of these calls originated from Jamtara in Jharkhand with SIM cards from Malda, Nadia and pockets of South 24-Parganas, not far from Calcutta, police said. This is the first time cops have found a Bengal link with the Jamtara gang, which has been operating for years now, the police said. The total phone fraud amount in Calcutta in the past two months with a Jamtara connection is more than Rs 3 crore, an officer in Lalbazar said. The list of people cheated in June and July includes police officers and some of their elderly family members apart from lawyers, bank officials, IT personnel, teachers, homemakers, and retired people, the officer said. Youths, aged between 16 and 35 run the racket by calling up people at random and trying to persuade them into sharing bank details, the police said. Phone calls as well as WhatsApp calls are used in the fraud. The Jamtara gang has been trying everything, from offering bank loans to luring people with prize money from Kaun Banega Crorepati, to cheat people, the police said. “At times they pose as bank officials and tell people their debits cards are about to be blocked because they haven’t updated their KYCs… at time they offer bank loans or discounts on food items for home delivery,” an officer said. During lockdown, several people got into the business of home delivery of food. Many of them were cheated by members of the Jamtara gang who posed as customers and sought their bank details on the pretext of transferring money for food. “June recorded the highest number of complaints. The number was lower in July but it recorded the second-highest number of complaints related to Jamtara so far this year,” the officer said. Two men were arrested in Jamtara in July on the charge of cheating a north Calcutta resident of Rs 4.63 lakh. Investigations showed the SIM cards they used in their phones to make calls were from Bengal. It is not clear, though, how the cards reached Jamtara, the police said. “They transferred money through multiple accounts to sellers in Bengal for SIM cards. So many accounts make it difficult to track the money trail,” an officer said. Cops have been continuously trying to create awareness among people as well as take legal action against such frauds, Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma told Metro. “We request people not to share their bank or personal details with anyone over phone without properly confirming the caller’s identity.” The city police have arrested several youths from Jamtara in the past in connection with call centre rackets running in Calcutta. People of other states were cheated through these centres. Calling up people and cheating them is like a “full-time job” for many youths in Jamtara, a detective department officer who has visited Jamtara said. They usually use Truecaller before making calls to know the name of the person they are calling, an officer said. The modus operandi involves distributing the money from a fraud’s e-wallet to multiple e-wallets, the officer said. After several rounds, the money is transferred to bank accounts, which are opened with fake identity documents. The frauds withdraw the money from these accounts using ATM cards, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Season tips for parents of teens||Treat your teenagers as grown-ups; do not react differently to situations if you are in a foul mood and do not make excuses for the child if he/she cannot attend online classes. These are some of the advice schools and psychiatrists have for parents during the pandemic. Students are well-informed and parents should not give them “hollow reassurances” that the uncertain situation will soon be over but instead talk to them, according to psychiatrists. Parents are always the first teacher and now they need to be counsellors as well to tide over these unusual circumstances, several school heads have said. Children are upset to be at home and not being able to meet their friends and parents need to understand their situation and communicate with them. “The parent has to tell them that these are difficult times and one has to make use of whatever is available and feel grateful. Don’t say this pandemic will be fine and everything will be hunky dory. We don’t know that…. Don’t give hollow reassurances…. By doing so parents tend to underestimate the child’s ability to be discerning and they disconnect and feel they are not being understood,” psychiatrist Rima Mukherji told parents of students of Classes IX to XII at South Point High School on Friday. She was speaking at a session on Parents as Counsellors: Special Guidelines during the Pandemic. In several other schools, either counsellors or teachers are speaking to parents so that they can handle the situation more effectively at a time when they lose their patience easily because of stress. The heads of The Heritage School, Apeejay Schools and South Point High School feel children have to be treated as grown-ups who have a mind of their own and involve them in family decisions. “Parents treat children as they want to and according to their convenience. Instead they have to give children the confidence that their decision is valued. If they are given responsibilities they will never fail their parents,” Seema Sapru, principal of The Heritage School, said. The pandemic has thrown open many new challenges for parents. “Many parents make the mistake of brushing aside their children but these teens have a voice and if there is a crisis they can help out and give suggestions, which are pertinent,” Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee, principal, South Point, said. This is a time for parents to tell their children that they “are resilient, developing patience and coping skills” despite so many challenges, psychiatrist Mukherji said. “Don’t make excuses for the child that there was no Net connectivity or he/she was sick if he/she is not attending classes,” she said. Sri Sri Academy has been advising parents to use the time to “bond with children” and not to “over monitor” them as it can leave them frustrated. “Parents need to balance out the time they are spending with children… though they need to be watched and communication channels have to be kept open but parents should not over monitor,” principal Suvina Shunglu said. Parents are on the “front line”, spending time with them at a time when teachers are not present face to face, Mukherji said. “They have to attend online classes; they are anxious about their careers and how long this would continue… parents have a role to play and for that there has to be better self-awareness.” The role of the parent has expanded during the pandemic. “Parents are the first counsellors for their children but there are occasions when they might go wrong and hence they need the help of counsellors to guide them,” Reeta Chatterjee, administrator of the Apeejay Schools, said. Counsellors have to help parents with certain skills, the counsellor at Calcutta International School, Farishta Dastur Mukerji, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid test lab in Barasat hospital||The health department has decided to set up a laboratory at the district hospital in Barasat to increase the number of Covid tests in North 24-Parganas. The district, which has reported the most number of cases after Calcutta, has been carrying out around 750 tests a day, the bulk of it being in three Calcutta hospitals — RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, School of Tropical Medicine and NRS Medical College and Hospital. Once the new laboratory is ready, health department officials said the aim would be to test at least 1,300 samples every day. “With a population of around 1.1 crore, North 24-Parganas has only one dedicated testing centre at the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati,” said a senior health department official. “Once we have a dedicated testing centre, samples won’t have to be sent to Calcutta.” North 24-Parganas, with several thickly populated pockets spread around parts of Barasat, Barrackpore, Titagarh, Naihati, Bongaon and Ashoknagar, has emerged as one of most critical districts skirting Calcutta. The number of Covid patients has steadily grown despite complete lockdown measures by the board of administrators of the Barasat and Madhyamgram municipalities. On Friday, North 24-Parganas added 89 cases taking the total count of “active cases” in the district to 5,611. The health department has already begun procuring RT-PCR machines so that laboratories in the districts, including one each at Suri, Tamluk and Jhargram, can carry out tests. Interviews for laboratory technicians are being carried out. “We have decided to take the total number of tests in the state to 25,000 every day in the next few days,” the health department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Langar on Wheels save the day||The city was totally shut on Saturday and only a handful of vehicles were on the roads. Among them were two Boleros that criss-crossed the roads for most part of the day. The vehicles were stacked with cooked food for rickshaw-pullers, mutiyas (people who ferry load on vans or on their backs), workers at closed stalls and others whose livelihood has been hit by the pandemic. On Saturday, one of the car’s first stop was Howrah station. The driver parked it near the prepaid taxi bay in the old complex. The station was deserted. But scores of people soon flocked to the car. Volunteers of the IHA Foundation distributed the food — hot khichdi and a mishmash of vegetables — to the people who had gathered. One of them was Shyam Behari, a mutiya from Bihar’s Vaishali district. Behari had gone home in April. “But I don’t have land where I can work. Working at the station is better than working on someone else’s land. So, I came back in July,” he said. On other days, many of these people get some work. But on days of total shutdown, like Saturday, their earning is zero. Gurdwara Behala, IHA Foundation and Kolkata Response Group organised the drive, Langar on Wheels. “Lockdown restrictions are being relaxed but sources of income are still unreliable as of now, especially for daily-wage earners. On days of complete lockdown, they don’t have any source of food or water,” Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairperson of the IHA Foundation and general secretary of Gurdwara Behala, said. What had started as a drive to feed the poor at gurdwaras during the lockdown gradually shifted to food being carried on wheels and distributed to the needy across the city and suburbs. After completing over 100 days of food delivery on the trot till July, the drive is back again to feed people on the days of complete lockdown in the state. The association has provided more than a million meals, according to the organisers. “We could cater to hundreds of people when we served food at gurdwaras. But the mobile food service reaches many more. The scale of the drive has gone up manyfold,” an organiser said. The poor and destitute could not always reach a gurdwara. So, the organisers engaged a task force and mobile units to deliver food to the needy. The food is cooked at a couple of kitchens in south Calcutta in the morning. The distribution starts from noon. On Saturday, one vehicle stopped in Howrah, Posta, the MG Road and Central Avenue areas and Shyambazar. Another vehicle headed stopped at Park Circus, Gariahat and Taratala among other places. The civic body and police are lending support to the drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Target 10,000: New Town residents to adopt trees||Residents of New Town will be able to adopt trees and nurture them with help from Hidco and the forest department as part of a drive to replant trees by the township’s authorities. The spots chosen for this are near housing complexes, a Hidco official said. The decision was taken after Hidco conducted a survey among residents to find out what they wanted to do as a community-driven activity with distancing norms. Planting trees and gardening topped the list. Hidco and the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) have requested residents’ associations in all three action areas to plant more trees inside housing complexes as well. The target is to plant 10,000 trees in New Town by the end of the year, Debashis Sen, the chairman-cum-managing director of Hidco, said. The trees that will be planted will be at least three years old and of varieties that are resilient to storms. More than 4,600 trees in the township were uprooted or damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May. New Town has palm, coconut, cherry blossom, pine and casuarina — all trees with supple trunks and branches — planted along its dividers. Hidco plans to plant more of these varieties among others. “Planting trees and gardening is therapeutic. All of us are cooped up in our homes because of the pandemic… planting trees and nurturing them will come as a welcome break. We will ensure distancing norms during the plantation and the trees adopted by residents will have a small name tag to help them identify the trees easily,” Sen said. To encourage residents to take part, Hidco will run a Facebook page chronicling the re-greening drive. Residents can post photographs of their trees on https://www.facebook.com/GreeningNewTown, Sen said. E-certificates will be given to those adopting trees. Hidco has requested government agencies, corporates and banks to replant trees in New Town. The state pollution control board will give 4,000 trees to the NKDA to be planted along roads in action areas I, II and III. An NGO has promised to plant 2,000 trees, the CRPF that has a camp in New Town and a private bank will undertake greening drives as well. The NKDA will plant trees on vacant plots in New Town and turn them into tree banks to prevent the growth of weeds and the spots from turning into garbage dumps. “There are a lot of plots where construction activities are still to start. We will plant trees that are more than two years old and can be replanted easily. Once construction starts, the trees will be replanted elsewhere,” an NKDA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Diamonds on FB needn’t be best friend||A woman whose diamond-encrusted mangalsutra went missing from her home around two years ago spotted it on the Facebook profile of a former help whom she had suspected of having stolen it. Based on her family’s complaint on Friday, police have arrested the help and seized the mangalsutra and some other ornaments that had been missing from the woman’s home in Beleghata. Siddhartha Churiwal, who owns two flats on the third and fourth floors of a building on Dr Ashutosh Shastri Road in Beleghata, reported the matter to Beleghata police station on Friday. “The complainant had brought two photographs. One was an old family photograph, which had his wife wearing the diamond-studded mangalsutra,” an officer of Beleghata police station said. “The other was a recent photograph of their former help Durga Hela who was wearing a similar-looking mangalsutra.” Churiwal told cops that some ornaments and Rs 50,000 went missing from their fourth-floor flat between December 2018 and July 2019. They had terminated Durga, 30, because they suspected her of theft but they did not file any complaint for want of evidence, the officer said. Durga’s husband Kamalesh, who, too, worked as the family’s help continued with his services as there was nothing to prove his complicity, the police quoted the family as saying in the complaint. A diamond-encrusted mangalsutra, three pairs of diamond earrings, some expensive saris, some silver plates, silver accessories and Rs 50,000 had gone missing from the Churiwal residence between December 2018 and July 2019, Churiwal has said in his complaint. Earlier this week, Churiwal’s wife spotted her help’s photograph on Facebook wearing a mangalsutra similar to her’s. The profile was in the name of “Anjali Hela”, the police said. Cops gathered the suspect’s address from her husband Kamalesh and raided their home at Lattupara on BB Ganguly Street later on Friday in the presence of a woman constable. Durga has apparently admitted to the crime. Cops have seized the mangalsutra and a pair of diamond earrings, an officer said. The case became easy to crack because the help’s address was available, another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
09-08-2020||Calcutta||Many Covid zones in 2 boroughs||Twenty-eight of the 39 containment zones in Calcutta are from two boroughs that cover parts of Kasba, Tiljala, Patuli, Mukundapur in the south and Ultadanga, Beleghata, Kankurgachhi and Phoolbagan in the northeast. In the latest list of containment zones published on Friday, boroughs  III and XII of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) each have 14 containment zones. A containment zone is created if at least four Covid-19 cases are reported from a small area in 14 days. In Borough XII, 13 of the 14 containment zones are from Ward 101 that covers parts of Baishnabghata-Patuli and Baghajatin. It alone has 163 active cases of the 231 active cases till Saturday. The other containment zone is a slum in Mukundapur’s Dinesh Nagar. In Borough III, five containment zones are from Ward 33 in Beleghata. Four of these containment zones are on Suren Sarkar Road and one, a housing complex near Kadapara market. The other zones include an apartment near Pantaloons store in Kankurgachhi, an apartment in Kankurgachhi Second Lane, a stretch near Miabagan slum on Beleghata Main Road and a stretch of Motilal Basak Lane in Phoolbagan. The list of containment zones is updated every three or four days. A Covid-19 patient, 54, tried to jump out of a third floor window of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. A health worker spotted and rescued him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-347
