10-08-2020||Calcutta||Massive fire at Pollock Street multistory building ||A massive fire broke out in a multi-storeyed building at Pollock Street in the central part of the city on Monday and firemen have so far rescued one person from inside it, fire brigade officials said.
At least 10 fire engines have been pressed into service to douse the blaze which broke out in the evening in the G+5 building housing several offices, they said.
"The fire is not yet not under control but the fire officers have managed to reach near the source of the fire. The cause of the fire is yet not known" Firhad Hakim, the West Bengal Urban Development Minister and chairman of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation caretaker body said. The rescued man is fine now, he said. According to a fire brigade official, most of the offices were vacant with only a few employees attending duty because of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Our officers are fighting tooth and nail to douse the fire. We are trying hard so that the blaze does not spread to the nearby structures," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Cashless insurance trap over hospital deposit||Many private hospitals in Calcutta on Sunday said they would seek a Rs 50,000 deposit even from patients with cashless insurance policies, highlighting that the state regulatory commission’s day-old advisory allowing deposits stipulated no exceptions. Saturday’s advisory from the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has capped the deposits at Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated bill, whichever was less. On Sunday, commission chairperson and retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee told The Telegraph that the exception for holders of cashless policies was implied. “The private hospitals cannot demand deposits during admission from patients with cashless insurance policies. Otherwise what’s the point of someone having such coverage?” he said. But officials with several hospitals and insurance companies contended that since the advisory contained no clause saying deposits could not be demanded from beneficiaries of cashless insurance policies, the hospitals would be justified in seeking deposits from such policy holders. Asked, Banerjee said such policy holders can lodge a complaint with the commission through email if a hospital demands a deposit. Sudipta Mitra, chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said: “There is no separate mention of insurance patients in the advisory. So, it is clear that there is no bar on seeking deposits from patients under cashless insurance coverage.” A clause in the agreement between a particular private hospital in Calcutta and the preferred provider network —a consortium of four insurance companies — states the hospital should admit insured patients without seeking any deposit or advance payment. “Now the state government's new advisory will override this clause, like it happened with the personal protective equipment rates the patients are charged for,” an official of the hospital said. When the Covid-19 epidemic broke out, the private hospitals began charging varying amounts for the PPE kits their healthcare workers had to wear to treat the patients. This prompted chief minister Mamata Banerjee to cap the PPE charges at Rs 1,000 per patient per day, and the hospitals and insurance companies abided by it. Several hospitals, including Peerless, said their agreements with insurance companies had no clause about not seeking deposits from cashless policy holders, anyway. “We have been seeking deposits from patients within the limit of Rs 50,000 from the start of the Covid-19 outbreak to keep the hospital viable,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. “Patients with cashless insurance benefits are also being asked to pay the deposit during admission. This is because disputes often break out over payment of the amount not approved by the insurance company.” Tondon said that when a hospital sends a patient’s bill to the TPA or third-party administrator, the insurance company usually refuses to pay a portion of it --  particularly the charges relating to bed occupancy, certain investigations and the use of equipment such as gloves. “Usually, the amount not paid by the insurance companies even in the case of cashless policies varies between Rs 25,000 and Rs 1.25 lakh,” Tondon said. The CEO of another private hospital said that many patients, especially Covid-19 patients, were now refusing to pay the amount not approved by the insurer because the bills often ran into several lakhs — far beyond the sum they were insured for. “It has been an understanding of many years that hospitals would not ask for deposits from patients under insurance coverage,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical) with the National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. “They often asked for small (deposit) amounts that we ignored. Now we fear that the deposits will become the norm.” THE CLAUSE An agreement between a private hospital in Calcutta and the preferred provider network (PPN), a consortium of four insurance companies, states: Deposit And Advance Payments — In all fit cases meeting with the prescribed parameters for cashless admission, the Network Provider (hospital) shall admit, on priority and expeditiously, a Beneficiary to the Hospital for the purpose of Treatment without seeking any deposit or advance payment from the beneficiary or the TPA (third party administrator). (An official of the hospital said the agreement was in force till July this year and should have been renewed with the same clause by now. But because of the Covid-19 situation, the renewal has got delayed.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Teacher award to focus on relief, online classes||Contribution of schoolteachers to online or other mode of teaching, distribution of mid-day meal and relief work during the Covid pandemic and after Cyclone Amphan, among others, will be taken into account while selecting Shiksha Ratna awardees this year. The state government presents the award to school teachers, for their “outstanding” contribution to teaching and education, on Teachers’ Day (September 5) every year. “… Due consideration has to be given on the role played by the applicant during COVID-19 pandemic & Amphan super cyclone relating to relief works and academic support extended to the students, MDM (mid-day meal) distribution works, teaching through online and other mode, participation in social campaign and his/her role for achievement of the students in Kala Utsav, INSPIRE award, School Games Competition etc…” according to a notification issued by the school education department. Until last year, teachers applying for the award were assessed on the basis of certain criteria such as their educational qualifications, teaching experience, involvement in promoting education outside school, participation in social outreach programmes and role in helping poor but meritorious students. According to a senior official of the school education department, never before had students been out of regular school teaching for so long and taught by teachers through online classes. “Teachers had to adapt to this change. The new criteria for selecting teachers for the award were included to ascertain how effectively teachers are reaching out to the students, who are now confined in homes,” the official said. A teacher of a state-aided secondary school who is an applicant for the award this year said he had to mention in the application the number of relief missions he had joined during the pandemic and after Amphan, the total number of online classes he had taken between March and July 31, the number of students he had taught and whether he had offered to visit a student’s home to provide him or her extra help in understanding lessons. This year the Shiksha Ratna award will be presented to 40 primary and secondary teachers from state-aided schools. Teachers with at least 20 years’ experience are eligible to apply. A senior official of the school education department said around 310 teachers had applied for the award till Saturday. The government had started receiving applications on August 1 and the last date is August 10. The government is yet to announce how the awards will be presented this year. Teachers can apply through the portal www.wbdse.com, www.wbsed.gov.in or www.banglarshiksha.gov.in. Teachers can also submit hardcopies of the applications in the offices of the local district inspector of schools by August 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board to hold two-phase counselling ||The Bengal joint entrance examination board will hold a separate round of counselling this year for students who will crack the JEE Main exams, which are set to be held in September, an official of the board said. The board this year will hold counselling in two phases, unlike previous years when it used to be held in one phase. The decision to postpone the JEE Main exams, usually held in April, to the first week of September because of the Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the board to stagger the counselling schedule.The NITs and the IIEST, Shibpur, among other institutes, admit students through the JEE Main. Ten per cent of the seats in Bengal’s private engineering colleges are set aside for those who crack the JEE Main so that vacancies could be minimised. The 86 private engineering colleges in Bengal can admit 28,493 students to their undergraduate courses. A notice uploaded on the Bengal JEE board’s website says: “There will be two separate counselling: 1) for those WBJEE-rank holders for all those seats except those reserved for JEE-main candidates and 2) for JEE-Main rank holders and for those seats (in architecture) that require National Aptitude Test in Architecture score.” The rescheduled JEE Main exams are to be held from September 1 to 6. “This year, the counselling for students whose names figure on the state JEE merit list is likely to start on August 12. The counselling for the JEE Main students and those aspiring to pursue BTech in architecture would be held later,” said Dibyendu Kar, the JEE board registrar. The counselling for the state JEE-rank holders will be held in at least three rounds. A board official said that according to rules of the Architecture Council of India, an architecture aspirant has to crack the Bengal JEE and the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) or the paper-II of the JEE Main. The first test of NATA has been scheduled for August 28. The date of the second test is yet to be decided. “Until these tests are over, the counselling for admission to the architecture course cannot be held. The engineering colleges in the state together have 141 seats in architecture,” said Dilip Mitra, the vice-chairman of the JEE board. What if the JEE Main cannot be held because of the raging pandemic? “If such a situation arises, the state higher education department is authorised to decide that the 2,849 seats — the ones in the state’s private engineering colleges that are reserved for students cracking the JEE Main — be filled with students from the Bengal JEE merit list. “Seats cannot be allowed to remain vacant. However, we are not sure how the seats in the architecture could be filled in case the required tests cannot be held,” an official in the higher education department said. The JEE board will announce the counselling schedule for each round on Monday. The board will post updates on its Facebook page and YouTube about how to take part in the online counselling, which has several new features designed in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Mini-LPG cylinders  for Sunderbans fishermen||One hundred mini-LPG cylinders will be distributed to fishermen in the Sunderbans so that they don’t have to venture into the forests for firewood to cook on the boat during their fishing trips, said foresters. Fishermen, five or more in one boat, set out to catch fish from the rivers surrounding the mangrove delta. The journeys typically last over a week. The daily catch is stored in ice boxes on the boats. Every now and then, the boats are anchored and the men enter the forests to collect firewood for cooking on the boat. Tigers cannot attack a boat on the river but inside the forests, the men are vulnerable to attacks, said forest officials. In the first lot, 25 mini-LPG cylinders with stoves fitted atop were provided to as many licensed fishing boats in the Basirhat division of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve on Friday. “For now, the pilot project will cover 100 boat license certificate (BLC)-holders in the tiger reserve,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. “The traditional earthen stoves run on dry firewood. In the wet conditions in the Sunderbans, it is difficult to find dry firewood unless one ventures deep into the forest. Whenever they run out of firewood, fishermen are forced to anchor the boat and enter deep into the forest with sharp tools. That increases the risk of conflict, making both the tigers and the men vulnerable. This project aims to enable the fishermen to cook on their boats without having to enter the forests,” said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict. The cylinders are being supplied by the organisation. The forest department has prepared the list of recipients and is coordinating the distribution. Each cylinder comes with a stove and a metal case for support to provide stability in choppy waters. “A boat usually stays on the river for a week to 10 days. Each cylinder would last a fortnight. After that, it has to be refuelled,” said Kundu. Sources in the forest department said over 10 persons have died in tiger attacks in the Sunderbans this year. Though no official record is available, researchers working on tiger attacks feel there have been about 3,000 such deaths since the 1980s. A man was killed in a tiger attack on August 2. Another was killed in the second week of June. “If the project is successful, it can be a model for the entire Sunderbans. But it has to be implemented efficiently,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. The onus would be on ensuring that the fishermen use these cylinders on the boat and don’t keep them at home, he said. The Sunderbans is spread across 10,000sq km, a little above 4,000sq km of which is in India. The rest is in Bangladesh. The Indian Sunderbans is split between the tiger reserve and the South 24-Parganas division. There are around 3,000 BLC holders in the Indian Sunderbans, the tiger reserve and the South 24-Parganas division combined, a forest department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University entry based on board marks||Presidency University will admit students to its undergraduate courses this year on the basis of board marks as admission tests cannot be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official of the university said. The university decided on the admission model after going through the feedback teachers submitted to their departmental heads. Vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia had asked the teachers to share their feedback after being told by the JEE board that it could not hold the admission test on behalf of Presidency this year. “The tests cannot be held online because of connectivity issues. So, they have suggested admissions through board marks,” said an official. Sources on the campus said the teachers of the physics and chemistry departments had proposed that apart from factoring in plus-II board marks, the scores in physical science and math in Madhyamik be considered, given that the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education could not hold tests in the papers because of the pandemic. The students had the best marks in the papers they had written awarded to the ones they could not. “If we admit students based on the marks in physics so obtained, we will have no idea how proficient a student is in the subject. So we have suggested that marks in physical science and math in Madhyamik be also considered,” said a physics teacher. A chemistry teacher said the same concern had prompted them to propose that the marks in the science papers in Madhyamik be considered. “We need to have as many screening layers as possible, considering that the candidates across boards have notched up high marks at the plus-II level. The physical science paper in Madhyamik has chapters on chemistry. So the marks in the paper should also be considered,” said a teacher. The biological science department has proposed that the merit list be only based on the plus-II board marks. The marks in life science or related papers in Madhyamik or equivalent board exams would be considered only to break ties. “The chances of the scores getting tied are higher this time. Therefore, we have proposed that the scores from the secondary board marks be taken into account to break ties,” said a teacher. At Presidency, the political science department has proposed that they will admit students on the basis of the board marks at the secondary and the higher secondary levels. The sociology and the economics departments want to prepare the merit list based only on plus-II board marks. A clear picture on whether board-specific rules have to be made will emerge after the admission committee meets this week, said an official. VC Lohia said in a text message to The Telegraph that decisions about the mode of admissions would be announced this week. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, in Belur, which too has been forced to scrap admissions tests, will give additional weightage to participants in math Olympiads and national talent search exams for admission to undergraduate math and physics courses. The college may consider the secondary board exam marks to break ties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Extortion cuffs on civic volunteer||A 22-year-old youth who worked as a civic volunteer in the Calcutta police has been arrested for allegedly trying to extort money posing as a guard of a deputy commissioner in the city police. Police said Santu Sarkar, a resident of Jodhpur Gardens, and his uncle Shyamal Biswas were arrested for allegedly running an extortion racket and trying to extort money from a resident of Rahim Ostagar Lane, in the Jodhpur Park area. The police said they were alerted about Sarkar after a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation received a call on Friday night. The caller, who claimed that he was the guard of a deputy commissioner, complained that the staff of an agency hired by the parking wing of the civic body was harassing him for illegal parking fees though he was driving a “police vehicle”. “When I asked him to report the matter to the police, he said he was not sure whether the cops would act. That made me feel suspicious. If he were a policeman, why would he say such a thing?” said Ratan De, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. “When I questioned him, he became furious and threatened me by dropping the names of senior police officers. I disconnected the phone and reported the matter to the local police station.” The second complaint against Sarkar was lodged with Lake police station by a resident of Rahim Ostagar Lane. The complainant alleged that Sarkar had tried to extort Rs 2,000 from him by threatening him with dire consequences impersonating as a police officer. Officers learnt during investigation that Sarkar was neither the guard of any IPS officer nor attached to the division where he said he had been posted. “He was attached to a police station in the south-east division as a civic volunteer,” said an officer. Sarkar and his uncle were arrested on charges of extortion, cheating, common intention and wrongful restraint on Saturday. Officers said Sarkar would be suspended because of the criminal case against him. There have been several cases where civic volunteers have tried to extort money from people citing their connections in the police department. “It is advisable to verify the identity of the person if someone claims to be a police officer or attached to a senior officer as guard,” a senior officer in the city police said. The police said they were checking if there were any other complaints or cases against Sarkar or his uncle in the crime records section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Pandemic triggers blood crisis||A sharp drop in the number of blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a crisis in availability of blood in Calcutta and the rest of Bengal, family members of patients, doctors and blood bank officials have said. On Sunday, Metro found long queues in front of counters of several blood banks in the city. Most people in the queues were told by blood bank officials that there was no guarantee they would get blood even after waiting for hours. Many of them said they were running from one blood bank to another for a few units of blood. Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic hit India, the number of blood donation camps has kept decreasing. As time passed, the situation worsened, said officials of multiple blood banks. Almost all banks are supplying blood only if those in need are able to bring donors, said family members of patients as well as blood bank officials. Gairik Chakraborty, a resident of Patipukur, needed three units of blood for his mother, who was admitted to a hospital on Saturday. Chakraborty reached the Central Blood Bank in Maniktala on Sunday morning with two donors. He had hoped that he would get two units in return. “The officials at the counter told me there was no guarantee that I would get blood even after I took along two donors. I did not wait any longer and went to another blood bank. They agreed to give me two units in return of the blood the donors would give,” he said. Suman Pal, a thalassemia patient, was waiting outside a blood bank in Hazra. The 22-year-old, who needs one unit of blood three to four times a month, said he was having a donor accompany him every time he underwent transfusion over the past four months. He said he had been collecting blood from the Hazra blood bank ever since he was six months old and all employees there knew him well. “Despite knowing me so well they are unable to give me blood if I fail to bring along a donor. Such is the crisis,” he said. The shortage of blood is also being felt at hospitals. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, the daily requirement of blood during the pre-Covid times was 10 to 15 units. The hospital’s blood bank would always store another 10 to 15 units to meet emergency requirements. Over the past four months, the requirement has remained the same but the emergency stock has gone down to four or five units. “We have only four or five units of blood at any given point in time after meeting the daily requirement of patients in our hospital. We are being able to maintain this minimum stock because some patients’ families are bringing donors. It has become difficult to procure blood from outside, too, because most blood banks in the city have gone dry,” said Biju Pillai, who is in charge of the blood bank at the hospital. Pillai’s exasperation was echoed by officials of other blood banks, too. Anu Ganguly, one of the directors of Life Care, said the blood bank used to have a daily stock of about 500 units in the first half of August till last year. “Usually, there is no shortage of blood around this time of the year. The stock would go up post-Independence Day because many blood donation camps would be organised that day. But this year the blood bank has about 10 to 15 units in stock in the first half of August,” Ganguly said. “We are asking people to bring replacement donors… otherwise our stock would become zero. If someone needs blood from a group that the blood bank does not possess, we are asking the family to bring a donor of that group.” While the demand for blood has remained steady, the supply has gone down manifold. Doctors said patients suffering from thalassemia, haemophilia, cell disorders or blood cancer routinely need blood transfusion. They are among the worst-hit. Even Covid-19 patients who have other illnesses such as chronic kidney disease or are anaemic need a few units of blood at times. Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, a critical care expert who is treating Covid-19 patients, said: “Suppose there is a Covid-19 patient whose haemoglobin count is 6. Sometimes, they need a few units of blood.” Social activists who organise blood donation camps, doctors as well blood bank officials attributed the crisis to the fact that no blood donation camp was being held in the city. Political parties, clubs and social welfare organisations used to take the lead in organising such camps. But most people are staying away from organising camps because of the pandemic. “The few camps that have been held did not get the expected response. If the organisers thought there would be 50 donors, only 15 turned up. Besides, getting permission to organise camps is becoming difficult because the authorities fear people would violate the precautionary measures,” said D. Ashis, who organises blood donation camps every year. Ten people travelling in a Tata Ace were injured after the vehicle collided with a truck on Kidderpore Road, off the Maidan, early on Sunday. The injured were treated at SSKM Hospital. Drivers of both vehicles have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
10-08-2020||Calcutta||Online acts & safety measures||MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, Behala, started conducting online classes immediately after the lockdown had begun. “Apart from the regular lessons, our focus is on the music, dance, art and craft classes to keep the students occupied during their home-bound stay,” said principal Herbert George. The institute is sanitising the school compound every day as some staff members and the principal are visiting it. “The security personnel are doing thermal screening and hand sanitisation of everyone entering the school premises. Putting on face mask and sanitising one’s hands are compulsory on the premises,” he said. The management of Hindmotor High School and HM Education Centre has adopted a sympathetic approach towards the schools’ parents amidst the pandemic. They have reduced the fee structure and also waived off the tuition fee for a month. “We gave special concessions to a few parents, who couldn’t afford to pay the fees. We also allowed a few students, whose parents haven’t yet been able to pay the fees, to attend online classes regularly,” said Sudipta Bose, rector-cum-manager of HM schools. The schools have also implemented measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 on the school premises. “Since some maintenance work is going on, we have been carrying out the sanitisation process in the compound regularly. We have also distributed masks to the community at large,” said Bose. The schools have been conducting online classes for all the students from nursery to Class XII. “Our teachers are working full time and conducting regular classes online,” said Bose. St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, recently organised its first online annual prize day celebrations. Students of classes VI to XII, along with their parents, were part of the event that started with a welcome song and prayer. The participants performed from their homes. The event was divided into two sessions, involving the middle and senior schools. MP Birla Planetarium director (research and academic) Debiprasad Duari was the chief guest for the middle school, while surgeon Kunal Sarkar presided over the senior school’s celebrations. Principal Jhuma Biswas said online classes had started since April. “Parents and students are quite used to the set-up by now, and most of them log in for all online events. We had invited even those parents whose kids did not win any prize,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-346
