11-08-2020||Calcutta||Six-city flight ban extended till August 31||The ban on flights to Calcutta from six cities with high Covid prevalence, including Delhi and Mumbai, will be extended till August 31, officials said. The ban was to expire on August 15. “I am further directed to inform you that the suspension of flights from the aforesaid cities to Kolkata will continue till 31 August, 2020,” reads a letter from Bengal’s home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kharola. “We’ll announce the extension of the ban in a day or two,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. The ban on flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad, which have been reporting a large number of Covid-19 cases every day, kicked in on July 6 following a request from the Bengal government. The ban was till July 19 but was extended till July 31 and then till August 15. Airlines had opened bookings for flights between Calcutta and these cities post-August 15 but tour operators said they were not taking any bookings. “Every time passengers have to cancel or rebook. We will book tickets to these six cities only after the state government formally announces resumption of operations. Till then we are booking passengers to these places through other cities,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. An airport official said airlines were suffering heavy losses because of the ban. “The flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai carry at least 25 per cent more passengers compared with flights to other cities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Supply hit, chilli price at Rs 300 a kilo||The price of green chillies has touched Rs 300 a kilo in the city, up from around Rs 200 a couple of weeks back, with traders blaming the steep hike on erratic supply from other states in the run up to lockdown days. Green chillies usually sell for Rs 40 to Rs 60 a kilo in the city around this time. In contrast, the retail price at the Maniktala, Gariahat, Lake market, Entally, Kasba and Behala markets has remained around Rs 300 a kilo for three consecutive days since Saturday. At other markets, the price varied between Rs 250 and Rs 280 a kilo on Monday. Bengal produces around 9.5 to 10 lakh tonnes of green chillies a year, compared with its annual demand of eight lakh tonnes. It remains one of the biggest suppliers of green chillies to other states. But around this time of the year, Bengal has to depend on supplies from other states. Officials at the wholesale hubs in Sealdah and Howrah said that ahead of the lockdowns on August 5 and 8, trucks carrying chillies from other states got stranded at various points. Also, trucks from Nadia and North 24-Parganas were allegedly stopped at Boro Jagulia, Barasat and Kanchrapara, further widening the gap between the supply and the demand. “Nine trucks carrying 15 tonnes of green chillies from Aurangabad’s Buldhana were stranded at different points on August 5. The impact was felt almost immediately,” said Kamal  Dey, the working president of the West Bengal Vendors’ Association. “The wholesale price of chillies stood at Rs 105 a kilo on August 6. It shot up to Rs 150 the next day as the demand soared.” Green chillies, like other vegetables, are highly perishable. Traders said a delay of a few hours on transit could result in a loss of nearly 40 per cent of the produce from each bag. Reduced volume and high demand ahead of the lockdown pushed up the price. “I bought four pallas (one pallah weighs 5kg) of green chillies on Tuesday (August 4) for Rs 110 a kilo from Sealdah. Nearly 25 per cent of the total buy was lost on the two lockdown days. I have no option but to sell the remaining for Rs 300 a kilo,” said Subol Saha, a vegetable vendor at Lake market. “Since local trains are not running, the bulk of the supplies from the districts to Sealdah is dependent on trucks. There are obstacles on the roads, I’m told,” said Pradip Mazumder, adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on agriculture and chairman of West Bengal Agro Industries Corporation Limited. “We have started working on these bottle-necks.” Police officers said there were complaints that trucks carrying vegetables were being stopped. “Orders have been sent to the police superintendents to ensure it doesn’t happen,” said an officer. The state government has decided to regularly monitor the prices of some essential commodities such as potatoes and chillies. The price of potatoes, too, has risen from Rs 25 a kilo a few weeks ago to Rs 35. At a meeting in Nabanna last week, potato producers were asked to ensure that the Jyoti variety reached wholesale markets at Rs 23 a kilo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Students find parents too caught up with phones||Teenagers value family time but often find parents preoccupied with their devices and not trusting them to do something productive on the Net, a group of students have said. Students of various schools attended a workshop for parents on positive parenting — organised by a city school which wanted parents to understand what their children want from them and where they maybe going wrong — on Saturday. Parents should know how to give children time when they are ask for it instead of fiddling with their phones or watching TV, the head of a school said. The gadget can be a “distraction” for an adolescent or a teenager as well as for adults who, too, fail to use it “responsibly” many times, a teacher said. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, organised the workshop on positive parenting for parents of students of Classes IX to XII. Students of various schools voiced their thoughts during the workshop and parents heard them out. “The session was organised to let children tell their parents directly what they want from them. Often, parents do not do a lot of things intentionally but it creates pressure on children even without parents realising,” Bobby Baxter, principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, said. “Children need to spend time on the phone or the Internet… to talk to their friends and they don’t need parents to breathe down their neck always,” he said. A teenager said they valued the time they could spend with their families but parents were busy browsing the Net or on social media. “Whenever teenagers are on the computer or phone it does not mean that we are aimlessly browsing… on many occasions we do productive work. Parents need to trust their children,” Sreejib Pal, a Class XI student of Julien Day, said. “Online classes are tiring and we need breaks where we can refresh ourselves.” Often parents ignore signals because they are too preoccupied with their devices, according to teachers. “At times parents have to be sensitive to pick up the signals… when the child needs a break from studies, when they need to sit and watch TV or a film together and it is not necessarily passive viewing,” Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School, said. “Children can understand when parents are hard at work and when they are not. Adults should have a sense of responsibility and not be slaves to gadgets always but know when they have to keep it away. They need to behave more maturely with gadgets and not behave as teenagers,” Prasad said. The pandemic has forced children to be inside homes for months and the feeling of not being heard can be very dominant in the absence of school and friends, according to psychiatrists. “Children are used to their voices being heard by their peers and teachers. On many occasions teachers listen to children more than parents… since that school space is obliterated they need to be heard by their parents,” psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram said. “The use of a phone is a serious concern and instead of blaming children always for overuse, parents need to lead by example so that their instructions do not seem hollow.” “When the lockdown began parents did not know how they would spend so much time with their children because their day was structured in a certain way… whether it was spending time with their devices or at work,” Reeta Chatterjee, administrator at Apeejay Schools, said. “If a teenager is on the phone it can separate him/her from the family… similarly if parents are on the phone it will have the same impact on family life,” Aditi Bhattacharya, a Class XI student of The Central Modern School, Barasat said. Aditi said their parents were usually not single children like them. “Most of us are single child… we need that fruitful communication.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Hospital deposit for Covid patients leaves Calcutta doctor ‘aghast’ ||The Bengal health regulatory commission’s permission to private hospitals to take deposits for admissions and ask for removal of  patients within one hour after a 12-hour window belies its mandate of protecting patients, a senior doctor at the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid-19 said on Monday. “Saturday’s advisory allowing private hospitals to seek deposits (up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is less) during admission defeats the purpose for which chief minister Mamata Banerjee had created the commission,” said the doctor who requested anonymity because he did not want his opinion to be misinterpreted as a sign of divisions or an attempt at building personal popularity. “The commission’s mandate was to address the grievances of people in distress who had gone to hospitals,” added the doctor, who is part of the chief minister’s core Covid combat team. “The commission says it’s trying to strike a balance — but is it its job to strike a balance or to give relief to patients at a time Covid-19 has snuffed out livelihoods? Such regulatory bodies should be treading more carefully while trying to strike a balance between the fleecing of patients and keeping the private facilities viable,” he said. The doctor said the legitimisation of the “deposit culture” had left him “aghast”. Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, had said on Saturday that the amount had been fixed for the benefit of both the patients and the hospitals. No response could be ascertained from Banerjee on Monday evening to the doctor’s views as the retired judge had an appointment. The senior doctor said a fear of having to pay deposits could now give people with Covid-19 symptoms one more reason not to visit hospitals. Saturday’s advisory said that if a patient was unable to pay the deposit during admission, the hospital should provide “provisional admission and give adequate necessary treatment required right at that moment”. But if the patient’s family fails to cough up the amount within 12 hours, the hospital “would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission and ask the patient party to take back the patient within one hour thereafter”. On Monday, the senior doctor from Mamata’s Covid team said: “This could lead to some hospitals not starting the treatment even for critical patients. If they are put in the ICU and the relatives fail to pay the deposit, the patient can’t (morally) be shifted out. This (clause) might lead to more conflicts rather than solving the problem.” Some private hospitals, too, have complained about this clause. The CEO of a private hospital said it would be inhuman to remove such patients or have them shifted to another hospital. A state health department official said the authorities would go through the advisory in detail and then have a discussion with the commission “if necessary”. Another doctor, a member of the commission, raised similar questions. He said the commission had on Monday met to hear grievances lodged by patients and their relatives. “Most of the complaints against private hospitals were about billing. Only a few had complained about medical negligence. This crisis has left people short of cash, and billing is the biggest issue,” he said. Mamata had created the commission in February 2017 following widespread complaints against private hospitals over billing and treatment. “(Do) I have to sell my house, land, valuables, everything (for hospital treatment)? Give my land deeds and fixed deposit? Finish my life? It has to be kept in mind that there’s a social responsibility,” Mamata had said. Apurba Ghosh, senior paediatrician and director of the Institute of Child Health, said the state government should try to ascertain what benefits the private hospitals had received from it while setting up their units. “Many hospitals got land very cheap or almost free from the government on the understanding that they would treat some patients free of cost. This is the time for those hospitals to do it. The government should ask them why they are not doing so,” Ghosh said. He said his hospital, run on a no-profit basis, too asks for small sums as deposits from the patients. But if they are unable to pay up, treatment is not stopped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||JU aspirants can apply online from August 14 to September 4||Students aspiring to study humanities or science at the undergraduate level at Jadavpur University can apply online from August 14 to September 4, a notification uploaded on JU’s website says. Applications are to be made online through the university’s website www.jaduniv.edu.in. Details about the admission will be available on the website from August 14. The original plan was to have the site activated on August 10 in keeping with an advisory from the state government, but the start had to be delayed to make the system ready for online payment. “We ran several rounds of checks to ensure that the payment gateway for application and admission fees works smoothly. This caused a little delay,” said a university official. The higher education department has ordered that this year fees would have to be paid online or through designated banks. Candidates have been barred from paying the fees on the campus as a precaution against Covid-19. “Till last year, those who had the facility could make an online payment. Those who did not, had to go to a bank. This year it will be entirely online so that aspirants do not have to step out of home,” an official said. Each department will publish a provisional merit list as well as a list of provisionally selected candidates for admission. After verification, the provisionally selected candidates of each department will get a link to pay the admission fee online. “The admission fee has to be paid within three working days of getting the link, failing which the candidature will lapse,” said another official. Among the seven departments in humanities, five — English, comparative literature, international relations, sociology and Sanskrit — will admit students based on their plus-II board marks. The Bengali and economics departments will admit candidates based on their plus-II and Class X board marks. In science, while selecting students from the Bengal board, the university will consider marks in the higher secondary as well as Madhyamik exams. Students from the CBSE and the ISC council will be selected based on their plus-II board marks. Classes are likely to start in mid-September. The teachers have suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. The university will carry out a survey among students to find out who need smartphones, which are required to download study materials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Janmashtami plan at temple scares Jodhpur Park residents||A pandal spanning the width of a road has been erected near the Jodhpur Park market to mark the foundation day of a streetside temple and organise a puja on the occasion of Janmashtami. Members of the Jodhpur Park Baba Loknath Mandir Committee, which is organising the festivities on Tuesday and Wednesday, said nearly 1,000 devotees would be given prasad over two days. Three counters have been set up for that. Many residents said they were scared about the possible impact of a large congregation in the heart of their neighbourhood at a time the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise. Home to countless elderly people, this south Calcutta neighbourhood went to sleep on Monday night wondering if such celebrations could result in a spike in cases over the next fortnight. An order issued by the Bengal chief secretary on June 8 said “maximum number of persons permitted to enter the places of worship at a time shall be limited to twenty-five (25)”. A ministry of home affairs guideline issued on July 29 said “large public gatherings/congregations continue to remain prohibited”. It added that up to 50 people could be allowed for weddings and up to 20 for last rites or funerals. The organisers of the Jodhpur Park puja defended the scale of the celebrations saying the arrangements “are modest” compared to what happened in previous years. They cited the reduced size of the pandal — “from 240ft-long last year to 40ft this time” — to drive home their point. A member of the organising committee said they had cancelled illumination and a six-day fair, which was a fixture of the festivity, to prevent large gatherings. “Who would keep a check on whether these people are wearing masks or maintaining a distance of at least six feet among themselves,” a resident told Metro. Jodhpur Park residents’ other worry is that many traders from the Jodhpur Park market assemble for the celebrations. “If traders get infected in the gathering, residents may catch the virus from them in the market,” said a resident. Lake police station is aware of the celebrations. An officer of the police station said the celebration had been allowed because it was being held for several years. “They have informed us that they would perform the puja. They will follow government guidelines on holding such programmes,” the officer said. Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of Jodhpur Park Baba Loknath Mandir Committee, said they were “only holding the rituals but all other celebrations have been cancelled”. “We used to have a six-day fair where nearly 30 stalls selling various items were set up. We had decorative lights done by artists from Chandernagore. All these have been cancelled to avoid a large gathering,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Panel to set Covid patient test norm||The regulatory commission for private hospitals has decided to issue a guideline on pathological tests for Covid-19 patients following complaints that some hospitals are conducting unnecessary tests and inflating bills, the chairperson of the commission said on Monday. An eight-member committee of doctors has been formed to frame the guideline, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. Banerjee referred to a case in which a private hospital had billed a patient’s family Rs 23 lakh. The patient, himself a doctor, had passed away at the hospital. “We got hold of the bill and found that Rs 7 lakh had been charged for investigations. Out of that, Rs 5.75 lakh was for pathological tests,” said Banerjee. “We found that one test was done repeatedly. Hence, we decided to form a committee of doctors who can frame a guideline on the kind of tests that are necessary to treat Covid-19.” The commission chairman did not name the hospital. The committee that will prepare the guideline comprises Sukumar Mukherjee and Maitrayee Banerjee, members of the commission; Subhankar Chowdhury, the head of endocrinology at SSKM Hospital; Raja Roy, the head of microbiology at SSKM; Sarbari Swaika, of the critical care department at SSKM; Bibhuti Saha, from the department of tropical medicine at the School of Tropical Medicine; Sushruth Bandopadhyay, a critical care specialist from AMRI Hospitals, Salt Lake; and Tanmoy Banerjee, from Medica Superspecialty Hospital. An order issued by the commission’s secretary said the panel would request the “team of experts to prepare such a guideline to help the Covid-19 treatment that would ultimately reduce the financial burden of the patient”. The order also added that the guideline would be “suggestive and recommendatory” and not binding. The doctor treating a patient will have the final call, it added. An official of a private hospital said there was already a team of doctors appointed by the state health department that visited hospitals after every three to four days. The team checks prescriptions, treatment records and whether patients are being given medicines according to the protocol. “The team also checks the kind of tests being done for a patient,” the official said. Chairman Banerjee said the regulatory commission’s aim was to reduce the financial burden on patients and the team of doctors was appointed keeping that in mind. The official of the private hospital said Covid-19 patients who had low oxygen saturation had to undergo an arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis routinely. Besides, they have to undergo the liver function test because many of the medicines administered to them are toxic for the liver. Also, Covid-19 patients have to routinely undergo a coagulation profile as their body is often found to develop clots. A member of the committee, however, said he was not sure how the panel would function — whether or not the members need to enter wards to verify how Covid-19 patients are being treated. “There are too many committees now. One committee will overlap with the jurisdiction of another. We are not sure how as members of the committee we are going to find out how patients are being treated and what tests they are being subjected to,” he said. The state government has capped the rate of several items such as personal protective equipment (PPE). It had on June 26 issued an order stating that private hospitals could not charge an indoor patient more than Rs 1,000 a day for PPE and other protective gear. Doctors’ consultation fees for indoor patients have been capped at Rs 1,000 a day and the rate for a Covid-19 test at Rs 2,250. Even after the state government’s intervention, there was no let up in complaints of overcharging. Some hospitals were charging patients separately for gloves and sanitiser. There were complaints that hospitals were charging as much as Rs 450 for dispensing sanitiser and masks at the entrance to outpatient departments. The commission had earlier this month issued a series of advisories capping the rates of several services charged by private hospitals and diagnostic laboratories. Private hospitals should not charge an OPD patient more than Rs 150 for Covid gear and laboratories collecting swab samples from home should not demand any extra payment other than a conveyance fee of Rs 15 a kilometre, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Fake’ US cousin in Rs 8-lakh fraud||A Lake Town resident was cheated of Rs 8 lakh by three men, one of whom posed as his US-based cousin in dire straits and sought monetary help, police said. Two of them were arrested on Sunday night and one on Monday based on a complaint Apurv Garg lodged with Lake Town police station, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Garg said in his complaint he had received several WhatsApp messages from a number with the US country code. He could not recognise the number but it had a profile picture of his cousin Abhishek Goel, the police said. The messages sent to Garg pleaded for help and asked him to deposit Rs 8 lakh into a bank account, the officer said. The person sending the messages claimed Goel was using a new phone as he had lost his older one. Worried about the safety and well-being of his cousin, Garg deposited the money into the bank account, the number of which he had received on WhatsApp. A day later, he got to know his cousin hadn’t sent the messages. “He then filed a complaint,” the officer said. Cops started tracking the phone number from which Garg had received the messages and the money trail and zeroed in on Bhavesh Mehta, Nilesh Nimavat and Dhawal Panchami, the police said. They were picked up from their homes. “We tracked down the money trail and arrested all three. We are investigating if anyone else is involved,” the officer said. They have been booked under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating). A Salt Lake court sent them to police custody for two days. Another investigating officer said the police were trying to find out if the men knew Garg and Goel as the latter’s photograph had been used on WhatsApp. “We will question the men to find out if they know the two brothers. It is likely they do… they knew exactly which photograph to use and were careful to use a number with a US country code,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Trader shot at, friend arrested||A man was allegedly shot at by a friend he was having a drink with near his home in Beleghata on Sunday night. Sushanta Das, 38, who runs a catering business and lives near Beleghata Main Road, has been hospitalised with a bullet wound in his neck. The accused, Raja, alias Guddu Sharma, who works as a data entry operator, has been arrested on charges of attempt to murder. After being shot at, Das somehow managed to reach home, which is 100 metres from the spot, and knocked on the door. His elder sister opened the door and found him bleeding from his neck. “He had mentioned Guddu Sharma’s name to his sister before passing out,” said an officer of Beleghata police station. Sharma, a resident of the neighbourhood, also fled from the spot. He was arrested on Monday. Police said the two were drinking together near Das’s home when the incident happened. “According to the statement of the accused, he and the victim were friends. He said Das had taken out a gun and was pointing it at Sharma. The bullet got fired when the accused tried to snatch the gun from Das,” said a police officer. “Sharma has claimed innocence and put the entire blame on the victim. We are verifying his claims. Circumstantial evidence. however, suggests the gun belongs to Sharma. The motive behind the firing is still not clear,” the officer added. The police said they had seized the weapon, an improvised single-shot gun, from Sharma’s possession after he was arrested. Officers were checking whether any old enmity between the two friends had led to the firing. Das was operated on at a private hospital along EM Bypass on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Mother held on child murder charge||A 21-year-old mother of two was arrested on Sunday on the charge of murdering her three-day-old daughter in February after the post-mortem report suggested she had been strangled to death. The report came in the last week of July. Sonia Sen has admitted to the crime, police said. Sen, a resident of Jagarani Colony off the Bypass in Anandapur, is separated from her husband Provash Barui, who works in a bag-manufacturing unit, over allegations he is into an extramarital relationship, the police said. The couple have a one-and-a-half-year-old son. “She has said in her statement her husband did not help her financially with their son’s upkeep and that she was dependant on her father,” an officer of Anandapur police station said. “She was no longer in a position to ask for more money from her father for another child.” The post-mortem report suggested the infant had been manually strangled. Cops have found that Sen had visited a private hospital near her home with the infant in February on the pretext of illness. The hospital had declared the infant dead. After receiving the post-mortem report, cops apparently had to interrogate Sen for days before she admitted to the crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Fire breaks out in a city building ||A fire broke out on the third and fourth floor of a five-storey building at the crossing of Pollock Street and Hare Street on Monday. The fire in central Calcutta brought back memories of the fire at Nandaram market, barely 600m from the spot, 12 years ago. People of the area spotted thick black fumes emanating from the building, painted in white, at 18B Brabourne Road around 4.45pm. The building, known locally as PNB Building, has several offices across the floors. The fire brigade was alerted and members of the city police’s disaster management group joined in after a while. It took at least 22 fire engines to bring the blaze under control. Police said there were no casualties. The building, located amidst offices and wholesale markets in Dalhousie, posed a challenge for the fire brigade as the area has several multi-storey buildings in narrow lanes. Hydraulic ladders were used and a joint team of cops and firefighters began work on dousing the flames. Traffic on Brabourne Road was diverted and the area cordoned off. Most offices in the building were shut and the few that had opened in the morning had almost downed their shutters for the day by the time the leaping flames could be spotted from a distance. Firefighters and members of the disasters management group helped people struggling to get down the stairs of the building. Most of them were guards and members of the building’s maintenance team who live in the building, the police said. “One person had to be rescued from the rooftop,” Firhad Hakim, chairman of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said. He was later identified as Gopa Bondhu Das, 52, a liftman. He was taken to SSKM Hospital where he was treated and discharged. Hakim had turned up at the site, along with fire and police officers. Sujit Bose, the fire and emergency services minister, joined Hakim to oversee the firefighting. “It is still not clear how the fire began. A forensic test will be carried out on Tuesday. The fire was brought under control in three hours,” Bose said. “We were worried because several buildings are close to the one that caught fire,” a person in the area said. “The hydraulic ladders were very helpful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
11-08-2020||Calcutta||Hoteliers hold out career hope||The slump in business because of the pandemic is not permanent. Once it passes, skilled professionals in the hospitality industry will be back in demand, seasoned hoteliers said at a virtual session on Sunday. Aspiring hospitality professionals should hone their skills and be ready to grab opportunities that come their way as the economy kick-starts, they said. Virtual Insights — an ABP initiative in partnership with IIHM presents a virtual session on “Careers in Global Hospitality Management” was held between 5pm and 6pm on Sunday on Zoom platform. Over 1,000 people — mostly students and their parents — watched the session, according to organisers. “Our industry took the biggest hit. We depend on travel a lot. Since flights are closed… we are facing a challenge. But this is not going to be the new normal. The new normal is going to be same as what it was… with a little more emphasis on hygiene. This is just a phase,” Kumar Shobhan, general manager, Hyatt Regency Kolkata, said. The hospitality industry has overcome challenges in the past, he said, citing “2008, when the economy was completely flat”. Vijay Malhotra, cluster executive chef, ITC Royal Bengal and ITC Sonar, said safety and hygiene audits were not new to the hospitality sector. “We are the torchbearers for all these protocols now being followed at malls and shops.” On recruitments, he said: “The team is going to be spruced up…. Replacements are going to be sought as and when people move out. It is wrong to say that people are not going to be hired. It is just a passing phase where businesses are at a low. But the succession has to carry on. People have to be there… so that they are well-trained and ready to take on the mantle tomorrow when the responsibilities fall on them.” Suborno Bose, chairman and CEO of IIHM and IHC London, moderated the session. “Business cannot continue to happen over virtual platforms,” he said. “Once travel starts picking up, the hospitality sector will bounce back strongly.” Abdullah Ahmed, director, IIHM Delhi and associate director, Indismart Global, delved into the past. “Mankind picks up. It picked up after WW I. It picked up after WW II. It is going to pick up again the same way.” Ahmed asserted that India was poised to recover strongly once the pandemic was over. “We could not be at a better place than India at this point of time. We are 130 crore people. We depend massively on our internal consumption and our internal demand. We produce and we consume — 130 crore people need food, they have desires, they want to buy something. So, the moment Covid-19 passes away, we will be the fastest to pick up.” Multiple questions from viewers centered on the lack of practical training as classes had shifted online. Abdullah said: “We are keeping a tight eye on the situation. As soon as we get government approval, we will start physical classes and practical lessons. We will go for multiple batches a day… work on Sundays. We will ensure you get the required exposure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-345
