12-08-2020||Calcutta||Fruit-to-sapling mangrove drive in Sunderbans||Over 200,000 mangrove saplings have been planted in the Sunderbans in the past 45 days as part of a drive to preserve the ecology and generate income for local women. The fruits shed by the mangroves are washed away by the tidal water — away from land during low tide and into the land during high tide. During high tide, more than 350 women have been collecting the fruits at the banks of two rivers — Kalindi and Raimangal — and the Durgaduani creek. The areas are spread over Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. The fruits are taken to nurseries — under Gobindokathi, Kalitala and Gosaba village panchayats. The seeds are planted in the soil and sand mixture kept inside polythene packs. The base with the sapling is then replanted on the riverbank. Over 150 acres of land has been allocated by two village panchayats — Gobindokathi and Gosba — for replanting the saplings. According to government estimates, Cyclone Amphan ravaged 1,600sq km of the 4,200sq km of the Sunderbans forests. The project by Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage is aimed at preserving the ecology as well as generating income for people of the area. Mangroves are known for viviparous germination where seeds germinate and develop into saplings while still attached to the parent tree. “If they get favourable conditions, they can form a colony,” said Sugata Hazra, director, School of Oceanographic Sciences, Jadavpur University. The replantation drive started in the middle of June. “Over 800,000 fruits have been collected to date. Around 272,000 saplings have been planted,” said Sourav Mukherjee, the founder of the NGO. The NGO requests companies and individuals to adopt a bunch of trees. “Till now 60,000 trees have been adopted, each for Rs 50 on average,” said Arpita Mukherjee, the coordinator of the project. Tens of thousands of people have returned to the Sunderbans from other cities because of the pandemic. “Mangrove plantation is helping us economically and shielding the environment as well,” said Binodini Mondal, who has been working on the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Career tips for students today via webinar||Industry professionals and academics will address students on Wednesday on how businesses are overcoming challenges to continue operations in the midst of the pandemic that has taken a toll on the economy. Adamas University in association with Anandabazar Patrika presents #StandOutWithAU, a webinar on Business and Economics Careers post-pandemic for Plus II students will be held in the evening for two hours from 5.30pm. Students can register at http://bit.ly/standoutwithAU-2. The session is part of a series of webinars that is being conducted by Adamas University and Anandabazar Patrika. Students will get valuable insights into how businesses are adopting interesting models, the latest trends and job opportunities. Students are now confined to their homes and many high school students are confused regarding their careers and how things will play out in the next few years and in the post-pandemic world. “The pandemic should not put a brake on their aspirations and aptitude. The webinar will give them an opportunity to learn about career options from field experts,” an organiser said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Extortionist in bank fraud net||Sheikh Vinod, an extortionist with several cases pending against him, was arrested in the Regent Park area early on Tuesday in connection with a bank fraud, police said. The fraud came to light after officials of a nationalised bank in Purba Putiari unearthed “suspicious transactions” in an account, the police said. Vinod was trying to set up a network to call up unsuspecting account holders and dupe them into making payments. He has been booked for cheating, the police said. “We started investigating the matter after the bank’s branch manager filed an FIR claiming a Patna resident had complained to the bank saying money from his account had been siphoned off online,” an officer of Regent Park police station said. While investigating the complaint filed by Kumar Anand, cops stumbled upon Chaman Singh’s account, which showed “unusual transactions”. “On August 7, when Singh turned up at the branch to withdraw a hefty amount, bank officials questioned him about the sudden spurt in transactions in his account. When he failed to explain, the officials alerted us,” the officer said. Singh turned out to be Vinod’s driver. Cops later found Vinod had received money from eight similar accounts but he could not offer any satisfactory explanation regarding its source, the police said. The Telegraph  had recently reported how several people in Calcutta have been cheated on the phone by the Jamtara gang. “We are trying to find out if Vinod tried to replicate the Jamtara model here,” an officer said. “Vinod was out on bail and we thought he would mend his ways. It appears he hasn’t.” Having lived in and out of jails for over a decade now, Vinod’s name had cropped up recently in connection with an extortion complaint. The owner of a dhaba on Syed Amir Ali Avenue near Quest Mall had alleged that Vinod had demanded Rs 5 lakh as “goonda tax”. A car hit multiple barricades along Kidderpore Road and Mayo Road minutes before the Independence Day parade rehearsals were about to start on Red Road around 6.30am on Tuesday, police said. A 20-year-old college student, who was at the wheel, was arrested and later released on bail. He is a resident of Bondel Road in Ballygunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||NIT ‘crash semester’ to bridge digital gap||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), in Durgapur, will conduct an on-campus “crash semester” for students who lack the basic connectivity required to attend online classes in the upcoming semester starting September. The decision follows a survey among the institute’s 3,000-odd students on Internet accessibility. The survey revealed about 12 per cent students lack the basic connectivity. The institute plans to start online classes in September and will offer 350-odd students the option of attending crash semester on the campus to make up for the theory classes they could miss out on. “There is a possibility that some students will not be able to access the learning material online, because of the absence of reliable Internet or computing devices. For them a special crash semester will be conducted through conventional classroom lectures only when the situation allows,” said Anupam Basu, the NIT Durgapur director. Another official said the students who would attend online classes, too, would have to be brought back to the campus for practical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Craters on Calcutta roads blamed on Covid||The Covid-19 pandemic, apparently, has hit the city’s roads, too. Engineers of several state government agencies are blaming the battered state of so many roads in Calcutta on the lack of repairs ahead of the monsoon because of curbs imposed to slow down the spread of the novel coronavirus. Every year, roads in the city are repaired twice — before the monsoon and again before Durga Puja. This year, the pre-monsoon repairs could not be taken up in most places as the country was in lockdown in April and May, the crucial period for repairs, said engineers from the public works department (PWD), Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). These three agencies are custodians of most roads of Calcutta. Even after the “complete lockdown” was lifted, getting skilled hands proved to be a challenge, a hurdle the agencies are yet to overcome. On top of that, the government is having a tough time arranging for funds for repairs because of a sharp drop in revenues following the pandemic, a CMDA official said. “We have to now answer a much longer list of questions, compared with the pre-Covid times, before funds are sanctioned,” the official said. “The situation this year is quite bad. All agencies repair broken roads during summer. Still the road surface wears out during the monsoon. This year there was no repair. So, imagine how bad the condition will be,” said an engineer of the CMC. The result is evident for commuters. A resident of Gariahat had last week experienced a bone-rattling ride down Garia Main Road, which he said was riddled with potholes and giant craters. Multiple stretches of EM Bypass are in a sorry state, too. The stretch near the Ruby crossing is particularly bad, said a regular commuter. A 150-metre stretch leading to the crossing on the Ruby-bound flank of the Bypass has multiple craters and potholes. Puddles have formed on the undulating road here and there, making it more difficult for motorists to gauge the depth of a pothole. “I was about to fall off my two-wheeler when it hit a deep pothole while I was returning from office on Monday evening,” said Chandan Banerjee, a resident of New Garia. Metro spotted cops filling a pothole with crushed bricks at the New Alipore rotary crossing on Sunday. “Vehicles are skirting the pothole, resulting in long snarls. So we are filling it up,” an officer at the spot said. The police have also put up a guardrail to steer motorists away from a crater on Deshapran Sashmal Road, near its crossing at Tollygunge Phari. Several main roads in Salt Lake are also riddled with craters and potholes. The road leading to the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre complex, on Broadway, from the Tank number 13 bus stop in IA Block is filled with craters, some of which are spread across the width of the flank. On Tuesday, Metro saw several two-wheelers, cars and autorickshaws switch flanks and drive down the wrong lane to avoid the pothole-ridden stretch. Driving down roads adjacent to the City Centre, near the P&T Housing Complex, that cut through the DC Block, is a nightmare. Namrata Agarwal, a resident of DC Block, said roads in the block had not been repaired over the past six months. An official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said they had conducted a survey of the bad roads in the township and would carry out patchwork repairs for the time being.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Hawkers trigger VIP Road snarls in Calcutta||Hawkers selling fish, vegetables and poultry products have taken over multiple stretches of VIP Road resulting in traffic chaos almost every day. A 100m stretch in front of the Baguiati bus stop on the airport-bound and the Bypass-bound flanks, a 50m stretch in front of Kestopur and a 150m stretch in front of Kaikhali are the worst hit. Every morning and evening, hawkers set up stalls by laying plastic sheets on the road or park their vans and carts on the road eating into its space. People, too, park their vehicles at random and continue to shop. Also, shoppers headed to Baguiati market park their vehicles along VIP Road. The result: traffic snarls on both flanks of the road. These stalls and parked vehicles have been creating bottlenecks on an important road that connects the city with the airport, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “We conduct regular drives and ask hawkers to move away. The problem is the moment they see cops or a police vehicle approaching, they pack up and leave only to return the moment cops are gone.” Bangshagopal Dolui, who sells fruits on a van, said he had switched to selling fruits after losing his driver’s job during the lockdown. “I was asked to leave as Covid-19 kicked in. From earning Rs 12,000 a month I was staring at no earnings… I started selling fruits.” Dolui said he chose VIP Road as many motorists and two-wheeler riders stop to buy fruits from him before continuing on their journey. On a Monday evening, Metro saw at least 60 cars parked on VIP Road in a haphazard manner. Almost all of them were locked and had no drivers. A few drivers leaned against the vehicles and chatted. “Babu bazaar-e gechen. Ekhanei gari rakhi (Sir has gone to the market. I usually park here),” the driver of an SUV parked in front a “No Parking” board said. There was not a single traffic cop in sight. “No Parking” boards are spread all across the road but absence of cops make it easy for motorists and two-wheeler riders flout signage all over the road motorists and two-wheeler riders to flout the rule. Vehicles and hawkers occupy the road space daily, several residents Metro spoke to said. Also, many go for parallel parking and it adds to the chaos, some said. The service lane in front of the PWD office is almost filled with hawkers selling snacks on carts. There are hardly any cops and snarls are regular with buses, autos, cycles and rickshaws fighting for space on the road, Subhrojyoti Mukherjee, a resident of Baguiati, said. “Hawkers just set up their stalls on the road. As it is footpaths are with them, now they have started encroaching on roads as well. Mornings and evenings are a nightmare on the road,” Mukherjee said. “Most of the people who park here are residents of the area. They often ask officers to find them alternative parking spots when they cops try to prosecute them or their drivers,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||JEE board announces counselling schedule||The three-round online counselling for admission to the BTech programme, which starts on August 12, will continue till October 28, the state joint entrance examination board has said. The board has put up the counselling schedule on its website www.wbjeeb.nic.in. The first round of registration, uploading of testimonials such as board exam marks and mentioning the choice can be done from August 12 to 25. The choice for a specific institute can be locked from August 25 to 28. The first round of seat allotment results will be announced on August 31. An engineering aspirant can accept the allotted seats and make payment for provisional admission from August 31 to September 6. If the aspirant does not accept the choice and opts for an upgrade, a round of in-cycle upgrade will be held on September 7. A candidate can accept the upgraded seat and make payment for provisional admission from September 7 to 9. “If a candidate does not accept the upgraded choice, he or she can go for further upgrade in the next round of counselling, which will start on September 11,” said a JEE board official. The third and final round of online counselling will start on October 6, said JEE board vice-chairman Dilip Mitra. “The process will end on October 28. We will have at least three rounds of counselling. Any change in schedule will be uploaded on the portal.” This year, a candidate whose name features on the state JEE merit list can participate in counselling in every round. The JEE board will hold a separate round of counselling for students who will crack the JEE Main exams, which are scheduled for the first week of September. The board this year will hold counselling in two phases, unlike previous years when it was held in one phase. The decision to postpone the JEE Main, usually held in April, because of the Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the board to stagger the counselling in two phases. The NITs and the IIEST, Shibpur, are among the institutes that admit students through JEE-Main. This year the candidates don’t have to visit “reporting centres” to get their testimonials verified before ad-mission because the pand-emic has forced the state JEE board to conduct the process online, a board official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown: Travel agents write to Bengal government for flight resumption||Travel agents’ associations on Tuesday have written to the state government requesting it to resume flights between Calcutta and six cities and also international repatriation flights. Flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur Chennai and Ahmedabad — the cities that have high Covid prevalence — have remained suspended since July 6  following a request from the state government. The ban was to end on August 15 but has been extended till August 31. “We seek your support to reconsider this suspension so that the residents of West Bengal who are stranded in these cities and also the business travellers who could bring in business engagements/revenue to Bengal, can avail (of) these direct services,” reads a letter from the Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) and the Travel Agents’ Association of India (TAAI) to Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopdhyay. “We seek your approval to restart the Bubble flights/ Repatriation flights /operations from /by the International Carriers (subject to the approval from our State Government as per our State Government’s SOP) (Not just the charter flights).... We need your support towards restarting, restructuring and restoring the travel and tourism industry.” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, TAFI, said they had recommended safety measures such as making all arriving passengers undergo the rapid antigen test for Covid-19 at the Calcutta airport. “If a passenger refuses to undergo the test, he or she will have to undergo 14 days’ home quarantine. The health department counter at the airport will issue quarantine documents, copies of which will be given to the local municipal corporation/panchayat office and the local police station for intimation and close monitoring,” he said. “We have decided to write the letter together to make our voices heard. Resuming flights is vital for our business,” said Manav Soni, the chairman of TAAI’s eastern region. Representatives of airlines said they, too, would write a similar letter to the state government shortly, pleading for resumption of flights between Calcutta and the six cities as well as repatriation flights. The state had stopped repatriation flights after many passengers, most of them medical students, refused institutional quarantine after arriving in the city. The government has recently allowed chartered evacuation flights with passengers testing negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before the departure. “Special operating protocol can be put in place to ensure that,” said a senior official at the airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta hospitals contest panel’s deposit logic||The Bengal health regulatory commission’s view that its permission to private hospitals to take deposits during admission was aimed at striking a balance between patients’ convenience and keeping hospitals viable does not hold good, officials of several healthcare units said on Tuesday. The officials also described as impractical another part of the commission’s advisory, which states that hospitals can ask for removal of a patient if the family fails to pay the deposit within a stipulated time. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had on Saturday issued an advisory allowing private hospitals to take up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is less, as advance during admission. Private hospitals cannot refuse admission if a patient cannot pay the sum immediately, but the money has to be paid within 12 hours. If a patient fails to pay up within that time, the hospital can ask that the bed be vacated within an hour, the advisory said. A senior official of a private hospital said taking the deposit during admission and viability were not connected. “It’s true that if the hospital cannot recover the entire cost of treatment from a patient, its viability is affected. But I don’t think that paying the deposit during admission is a guarantee that the patient or his or her relatives would pay the entire remaining cost at the time of discharge,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said many elderly people are brought to hospital for admission by a relative, neighbour or some other person because their children live elsewhere. The person accompanying such a patient usually does not pay any deposit during admission. “Elderly people living in housing complexes are often accompanied by guards. There is no question that a guard will pay the deposit. But the patient’s son or daughter, who stays elsewhere, sends the money in a day or two or the patient makes arrangement himself or herself. At the time of discharge the bill is paid in full,” said Mitra. In many other cases, however, the initial deposit is paid, but the patient’s family throws up their hands when the treatment cost goes up. “In such situations we have to forgo a substantial part of the treatment cost. All private hospitals face such situations,” Mitra said. Relatives of a patient on Tuesday alleged that Desun Hospital, off EM Bypass, had taken a deposit of nearly Rs 3 lakh but did not treat the patient, who died in an ambulance. Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the regulatory commission, said the panel would look into the matter if a relative of the patient lodged a complaint. “Earlier, too, there were allegations against the hospital,” said Banerjee. Tapas Mukherjee, a senior official of Desun, did not take calls from Metro on Tuesday evening. The commission chairperson said the new advisory on deposit was aimed at striking a balance. “Many hospitals were taking huge amounts as deposits. We tried to cap the amount. At the same time, hospitals need to stay viable,” he said. Officials of several private hospitals said the advisory to admit a patient provisionally for 12 hours and then discharge within an hour if relatives fail to pay the deposit was “impractical”. “Treating a patient gets priority over money. If a patient is admitted, then treatment continues irrespective of whether the payment is made at that point in time or not,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, an organisation of private hospitals in Bengal. “To discharge a patient undergoing treatment, we need relatives to sign a discharge-against-medical advice form. Unless the form is signed with proper justification, we cannot discharge a patient undergoing treatment, irrespective of the payment status,” said Barua. The CEO of another private hospital said that a patient could not be discharged without the clearance of the doctor treating him or her. “On many occasions, when the treatment cost shoots up and family members say they cannot pay the amount, we counsel them to shift the person to a government faci-lity. It can take more than two days to shift such patients. It can’t be done in an hour,” he said. The commission’s advisory also says that for any inves-tigation above Rs 2,000, a hospital has to take the consent of a patient’s family. This was because the commission found that many expensive investigations were repeated, which was pushing up the cost. “Most investigations for a Covid patient cost more than Rs 2,000. Is it possible to take consent for every test over the phone?” the CEO of a private hospital asked. “My hospital has around 600 beds. It’s not possible to take consent for so many patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
12-08-2020||Calcutta||South Point trusts students with integrity pledge||South Point High School students have to pledge to uphold the school’s and their teachers’ faith in them and take a set of tests without the direct supervision of teachers. The school has sent the “code of honour” expected of students and a detailed plan to parents on the way the school will assess how much each student has learnt so far. Parents have been requested to invigilate the tests, which will be held in the pen-and-paper mode. Many schools in the city have been using technology to monitor students during exams but some have rested the responsibility on parents and students. It is time to inculcate a sense of integrity in students as well, a teacher of a city school said. “I do understand that I will be taking a set of tests to assess the learning outcome without the direct supervision of my teachers and my school. I promise that I will uphold my teachers’ faith in me and shall conduct myself with honesty.... I hope to live up to my teachers’ and parents’ expectations, now and always,” reads the code of honour sent to each student of Classes VI to XII. They will have to read it out before the start of the tests. The principal said in a note to parents on Tuesday: “Under these unusual and unpredictable circumstances, the collaboration between the parents and us teachers has taken a more meaningful turn, and based on that strength we hope to make... the process a complete success. Any outside help the child gets during this assessment process will only harm his or her academic progress.” Several other city schools are relying on the cooperation of parents to conduct tests during the pandemic. Some schools such as Modern High School for Girls and Calcutta Girls’ High School have worked out the modalities to conduct the terminal exams in September. The exams of both these schools will be held under the supervision of parents at home. In Modern High, students will have to download the question papers, write the answers and upload the answer scripts. “Parents have to supervise the exams and create a secure environment at home. We have been speaking to our girls… if they do something academically dishonest ultimately they will harm themselves,” Damayanti Mukherjee, principal of Modern High, said. Calcutta Girls’ High School has decided to split a question paper into sets of three and students will have to take the tests during online classes. The school will send out a note to parents to invigilate the exams. “It will be an appeal to parents to invigilate the exams at home. We have to teach the child to be honest and responsible,” principal Basanti Biswas said. Several teachers said the pandemic had presented an opportunity to teach children life’s lessons like discipline, responsibility and integrity. “It is part of self-discipline and teaching students to take full responsibility of their thoughts and actions. No matter whatever circumstances or disadvantages are one will not compromise if the person considers it to be wrong,” Mukherjee said. South Point has decided to award grades instead of marks and there will be no ranks. “While we expect students to follow what we have said, we have strategised the entire process… to take away from students any incentive to indulge in any unfair means,” Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point, said. Apeejay Schools will follow the same principle and teachers will have to frame questions that do not have direct answers. “If parents assist their children they should know they are throwing up their children’s future,” administrator Reeta Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-344
