13-08-2020||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission special ritual ahead of Durga Puja||Monks and brahmacharis of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission on Wednesday performed a puja of the wooden structure on which the idol of Goddess Durga will be placed during Durga Puja at Belur Math. Swami Vivekananda had started Durga Puja at Belur Math, the headquarters of the Math and Mission, in 1901 to institutionalise the respect for divinity of motherhood and sanctity of womanhood. Since monks cannot undertake this kind of ritualistic worship, Vivekananda had decreed that Durga Puja would be performed in the name of Ma Sarada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||CCTVs help crack baby goods theft||A consignment of baby products worth Rs 7.5 lakh, headed to a godown in Howrah’s Uluberia for sale through an online portal, was stolen and hidden at Maheshtala in South 24-Parganas, police said. The consignment was recovered after tracking a former employee of the firm engaged in transporting the goods, the police said. Cops scanned footage of CCTV cameras outside the transport firm, following a complaint by the company that owns the products, and found S. Mohan Rao moving around the truck minutes before it left. This made the cops suspicious. He was arrested on August 10. Preliminary inquiry revealed Rao had planned the theft with the truck driver, its owner and others. “The truck left the Taratala godown on August 3. It crossed Vivekananda Setu and Dhulagarh to enter the Barrackpore area via the Nivedita Setu,” an officer said. The footage of CCTV cameras at the toll plazas on the truck’s route was scanned to track its movement. The goods were shifted to another truck at Madhyamgram and taken to a warehouse at Shibrampur, Maheshtala. The first truck was abandoned at a parking lot along East Canal Road. Based on Rao’s statement, the police reached the warehouse and recovered the goods on Tuesday. The owner of the warehouse, Jitendra Roy, has been arrested.The truck driver, Debendra, and its owner, Phul Chand Mali, are still to be arrested..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Met forecasts wet Independence Day weekend||Independence Day weekend is likely to be rainy in the city. A low-pressure area is expected to form over the Bay of Bengal from Thursday, the Met office has said. Under its influence, there is likely to be a rise in rainfall in south Bengal between Friday and Sunday. The monsoon trough, passing over south Bengal, has been triggering rainfall in many places, including in Calcutta. The intensity is likely to go up because of the low-pressure system, the Met office has said. Several parts on the southern fringe of the city and South 24-Parganas received a sharp spell of rain on Wednesday afternoon. “The system is a cyclonic circulation on the north-west Bay of Bengal as of Wednesday and is expected to intensify into a low-pressure area on Thursday. The next three days are likely to see an increased amount of rainfall,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The rainfall could be heavy if the system is strong. But it is too early to predict. Things will become clearer on Thursday,” he said. August has so far received over 130mm of rain. The normal quota for the month is around 345mm. July ended with a marginal rain deficit in the city. Most of the showers over the month were because of local cloud formation. They were quick, sharp spells unlike slow and steady monsoon rain. A system over the Bay of Bengal — that could have dragged the monsoon trough down from the foothills of the Himalayas — was absent. A low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal had been tipped to bring heavy rain in the city and the rest of south Bengal last week. Calcutta received 40mm of rain last Tuesday and around 25mm last Wednesday. Heavy rain, in Met parlance, is over 60mm in 24 hours. The system’s route was farther from the city than expected, the Met office had said. The monsoon trough is now passing over Santiniketan and Canning to the north-east Bay of Bengal, a Met official said. “If there are a couple of more such systems after this weekend, the August rain will be normal or above,” said the official. The cumulative volume of rain in the city so far — from June 1 to August 11 — has been over 850mm compared with the usual quote of around 800mm, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||State to ‘consider’ evacuation flights plea||The state government will “consider” a request from airlines to allow international evacuation flights to Calcutta so that thousands of people stuck around the world could return home, said officials. On Monday, representatives of various airlines held a meeting with the state government and Calcutta airport officials on the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for chartered flights from abroad, which the Bengal government has allowed. “At the meeting, the airlines requested the official representing the state government to allow evacuation flights from other countries to Calcutta. The official promised to consider the request,” said an airport official. On Wednesday, a state government official said they were considering the request and that they were going through the SOPs before deciding whether international evacuation flights could be allowed. “If the state government wants to impose stricter SOPs, we will accept that. The airlines that can meet the SOP demands will operate evacuation flights and others will not,” a representative of the airline operators committee at the Calcutta airport said. The state government, while allowing chartered flights from abroad, announced that only those who would test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure would be allowed to board the aircraft. The agency hiring a chartered flight will have to ensure that all passengers follow the SOPs. Evacuation flights, operated by airlines, will have individual passengers booking tickets. The government had stopped such flights in July after hundreds of evacuees, many of them medical students, had refused institutional quarantine and gone home straight from the city airport. The Telegraph reported on Wednesday that travel agents’ federations had written to the state government urging it to allow evacuation flights. The airline operators’ committee made a similar appeal to the government during the day. “We appreciate the state government’s move to allow chartered flights. Now, if the evacuation flights are allowed, many who can’t afford to buy a seat on such chartered flights can get a chance to return home,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. The tour operators and airlines have also requested the state to allow resumption of domestic flights from six cities with high Covid prevalence to Calcutta. All flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur had been banned on July 6 following a request from the state government. The ban was to end on August 15 but has been extended till August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta police to contact doctors from IMA list for families in isolation ||The Indian Medical Association has sent Calcutta police the names of doctors who can be contacted by officers at police stations if families of Covid-19 patients in home isolation need any medical help. Officers clarified that the families can approach the local police stations for any emergency related to any member, not just the Covid patients. The list has tagged two to four doctors with every police station. The doctors either live or work in the areas guarded by the respective police stations, said a member of the association. Santanu Sen, the state president of the association, said the list of doctors was prepared after complaints emerged that the condition of some Covid patients in home isolation rapidly worsened between the time family members called the health department’s helpline for an ambulance and the arrival of the ambulance. The families panicked not knowing what to do and where to go. At a meeting held at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) last week, officials had discussed the problem faced by many families when a Covid-19 patient developed breathing trouble or other complications but had no confirmation when an ambulance would turn up to take the patient to hospital. “People should first call any of the health department’s numbers mentioned on its website for an ambulance. But an ambulance often takes some time to come. If the patient’s condition deteriorates meanwhile and the family approaches police, cops can call any of the doctors whose names are mentioned on the list and seek help,” said a senior state government official who was present at last week’s meeting at the CMC. A civic official said providing phone numbers of the doctors to the police stations was among several measures the government was taking to minimise hassles faced by families of Covid patients. The numbers of the doctors will not be displayed publicly and will only be available with police officers. “Police officers should exercise discretion and decide whether the condition of a Covid patient is such that the family should have a telephonic consultation with a doctor. There is a telemedicine helpline of the health department. So, officers should not call doctors whose numbers have been provided every now and then. It is only for emergencies,” said a member of the Indian Medical Association. The police can also call a doctor from the list if someone with fever fails to get a doctor’s appointment. There have been complaints that some doctors are refusing to see patients with fever. “In such a situation, an officer at a police station can call a doctor from the list with the request that he or she examine the fever patient,” the association member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Never-before slump in Burrabazar||A nearly empty Kalakar Street or a handful of people in Phageya Patti on a weekday afternoon would seem unimaginable to a Burrabazar regular who has not visited the trading hub recently. Ask any trader from the area. He will say the ever busy and crowded lanes of Burrabazar have changed during the Covid-19 pandemic and the change is far from pleasant. In the pre-Covid days, Posta in Burrabazar would see a turnover of around Rs 100 crore a day. That has come down to around Rs 4 to Rs 5 crore, a trader said. The textile trade is barely 15 per cent of what it used to be around this time of the year, post-Janmashthami and in the run up to Durga Puja, said a member of the Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry (Cotti). Businesses are down, many shops are opening on alternate days, some are yet to open and customers are few and far between. “We have not seen anything like this. Burrabazar has never seen businesses remain so low for so long,” said a Pawan Hamirbasia, a textile trader who has a shop on Jamnalal Bajaj Street. Eastern India’s largest wholesale market, Burrabazar is a place where one can find almost anything under the sun. Garments, groceries, utensils, toys, paper products, spices, plastic items, use-and-throw cups and dishes, steel products, tarpaulin sheets, jewellery and what not. Almost all trades have been hit. Textile trader Mahendra Jain, the secretary of Cotti, said they had already suffered huge losses during two peak business periods, Id and the Bengali New Year. “It seems the scene will not improve drastically before Durga Puja and Diwali. Usually around this time, we start supplying to our customers, most of whom are retailers. We had no time to breathe. But there is hardly any customer this year,” said Jain. According to him, the textile trade in Burrabazar alone has suffered losses worth nearly Rs 10,000 crore in the four-and-a-half months since mid-March. What that part of Burrabazar is to garment wholesalers, Posta is to those dealing with grocery items. Pulses, oil, flour, wheat, jaggery, salt, masalas — around 1,000 shops are in almost 24X7 business selling grocery items. Trucks used to bring stuff from all parts of India at night. During the day, traders from across Bengal would flock to Posta to pick up their consignments. Not anymore. “Posta used to witness sales of around 600 tonnes of pulses a day. It has come down to around 50 tonnes a day,” said Chandan Chakrabarty, of Posta Bazar Byabsayee Samity. “The daily turnover at Posta was around Rs 100 crore a day before the pandemic. Now, it’s around Rs 4 to Rs 5 crore.” Barring a small number of traders, who have been doing business for decades with several crores of rupees in credit, most regulars have shied away from the hub amid the pandemic. Many traders said the demand for grocery items across Bengal had come down and medium-sized traders were not feeling the urge to turn up at Calcutta for refills. Retailers who would earlier turn up at Posta from district towns hiring Matadors and trucks have started establishing contacts with mills and factories in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for their supplies. Factories and mills from those states have started accepting smaller orders, something they did not do earlier. This has meant further loss for the wholesalers in Posta. Faced with the downturn, several traders in Posta have decided to keep their shops shut for days. “Dukan khulney sey koi faida nahin. Bazaar nahin hain (There is no point keeping shops open. There is hardly any demand),” said a pulses trader from Jagannath Ghat Cross Road in Posta. After the lockdown was relaxed in June, most stores in Burrabazar started to open on alternate days. If one shop opened on Mondays, the one next to it would open on Tuesdays. Traders said they had made the arrangement to avoid crowding as a precaution against Covid-19. Another decision they took was that the shops would remain open from 11am to 4pm. “We had expected business to gain momentum with time and we would extend our hours. But nothing has changed and almost all shops in Burrabazar close by 5pm. Earlier, they would remain open till 7pm,” said a trader. The toy business, too, has been hit. Mohit Banthia, a wholesale trader of toys, said business was down by nearly 75 per cent. “We had a lot of customers from outside the state but not any more. I open my shop thrice a week. If the government imposes lockdown on one of those days, my earning takes a further hit,” he said. The dip in business means that the earnings of lakhs of people who work in the trade hub and are involved in allied services such as transportation and loading and unloading have been hit hard, too. The transport business, which thrived on ferrying stuff to districts or to other states in eastern India, is struggling, too. “A truck on an average is carrying 10 to 20 tonnes of goods, compared with its capacity to carry 50 tonnes. Orders from outside have dipped. Truck owners will not make any profit by carrying so little goods,” said one trader. Across Burrabazar, goods are unloaded from trucks from faraway places between 5am and 3pm. Even in early March, this would go on till 10pm. “Earlier, around 450 trucks would leave Burrabazar and Posta daily on an average. Now, barely 200 leave,” said Krishna Singh, a transporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Police stations told to ensure walkers’ safety||All police stations across the city have been asked to remain alert against snatchers, especially in the morning and the evening, when hundreds of Calcuttans step out for their daily dose of fresh air, officers said. Walking has turned out to be a popular work-out during the pandemic, as gyms were closed during the lockdown, and it has become more important to maintain vigil on parks and lakes where people usually gather for their daily walk. Anti-rowdy officers of the police stations have been asked to remain alert against criminals in their respective areas to ensure safety of morning and evening walkers. “Senior officers have observed that deployment is thin at lakes and parks, which are popular among walkers. So, all anti-rowdy officers have been asked to remain alert,” said an officer posted in the south-east division. The instructions came a day after a complaint of snatching was reported in north Calcutta on Tuesday morning. Hundreds of citizens are opting for morning or evening walk to stay fit during the pandemic. “I have been working from home for the last three months. The gym at my housing complex is yet to open. I was never an early riser. But now I have started jogging in the morning,” said Rahul Pramanik, a resident of south Calcutta who visits Rabindra Sarobar every morning. The night motorcycle patrol of every police station that has parks and lakes in its area is deployed on early morning duty at the walk spots. Cops are usually posted near lakes and parks between 5am and 7.30am. In the evening, at least two police cops of the rank of assistant sub-inspector and constable are entrusted with the security of walkers.  Despite phases of unlocking, many roads are deserted because lack of customers prompts shopkeepers to down their shutters after sundown. “Earlier, I would take a walk at Vivekananda Park, off Southern Avenue, every evening. But these days the entire Southern Avenue is deserted in the evening. I no longer feel safe to walk in the evening. So, I now visit the park in the morning,” said Debojyoti Choudhury, a 67-year-old resident of Hindustan Park. Officers said elderly people were most vulnerable. “It is easy to trick them and rob them of their valuables,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
13-08-2020||Calcutta||Fake news can land you in trouble, tweets top cop||The Calcutta police commissioner on Wednesday warned everyone against sharing or forwarding any social media message without properly verifying it. “Spreading #FakeNews can land you in trouble! Don’t forward any message/post on social media before properly verifying it,” top cop Anuj Sharma tweeted on Wednesday. In the past four months, police have arrested at least 50 people and summoned more than 100 for spreading fake news on social media. “People using social media should keep an eye on posts by others. In case they find anything offensive they should report it to the cyber cell or the detective department at Lalbazar,” Sharma told The Telegraph. The Telegraph had reported on Wednesday a study by health researchers in Bangladesh has identified India as the “topper” among five countries in spreading rumours and misleading information regarding the coronavirus on social media and online platforms. The other four countries in the top five are the US, China, Indonesia and Brazil. Rumours, stigma and conspiracy theories have circulated as infodemic waves between January and early April in these countries. The number of cases of “fake news” has gone up considerably after the outbreak of the pandemic, many officers said. “Half the cases (of fake news) are related to Covid-19. There have been several cases where information and incidents have been distorted to deliberately spread panic and unrest in society. At times the posts are unintentional, too,” an officer said. The police have come across cases where information about the body of a Covid-19 patient being dumped on the road by men wearing PPEs has been circulated on social media only to be found later that neither the patient had died of Covid-19 nor was the body dumped on the road, the officer said. Similar instances have been reported on social media where someone has posted the photograph and name of a person and identified him as a Covid-19 patient without any proof. This results in harassment of that person. A young woman was arrested in connection with this offence. A few weeks ago, a school teacher was arrested in New Alipore for posting false information that several people had tested positive for Covid-19 in some of the blocks in New Alipore, the police said. It had triggered panic among people in the neighbourhood. “Our social media cell has been keeping an eye on various social media platforms for necessary action. In most of the cases, it has been found that the person has circulated the information without realising it is false. In such cases we allow them to go after a warning,” an officer said. But in cases where it is found that a particular post has been circulated deliberately to spread communal tension, people involved are arrested, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-343
