14-08-2020||Calcutta||And the winners are...||Rhea Sen Age: 17
Sunrise Point, Action Area II Some new words which got added to our repertoire in the recent past have not been very happy ones. “Lockdown”, “containment”, “quarantine” all perpetrate a fear of bondage, of captivity in our normal lives. We have even coined a term such as “the New Normal” to console ourselves. If I ask myself, ‘Am I happy? Am I free?’ the answer is a big no. Although lockdown and Covid-19 have generated a fair share of laughter and given us fodder for humour in social media but the irony is not hidden. We have laughed at the poor guy waiting for his daily tea and made him into a social hero. Masking and unmasking have also given us memes to tickle our funny bone but yet we are still slaves to this ailment which has taken the world by storm. We blew conch shells, beat upon drums and utensils, lit candles to bring back the hope of regaining our freedom but alas, we are still down in the doldrums of coronavirus. A little microscopic organism has enslaved us. On this eve of Independence Day, I urge my countrymen to understand and adopt the true path to freedom. Let us be responsible to ourselves, our families and friends and to the world around us. If we apply our logical minds beyond candles and conch shells, the path is clear for us to see. The path defined by science, paved by doctors and health workers and a destination being identified by our researchers. As we wait for the miracle vaccine, let us all be aware, let us help each other to find that freedom where we will wake up one day as free souls. Untouched by fear, unmarred by mask and untethered by the chains of social distance, we will regain our freedom. What does this freedom actually stand for, is it only our ability to walk around, visit people, go on trips? It is much larger and more encompassing than that. It means freedom from economic downturn, it means work for daily wage earners, it means business for shops who do not have online selling facility, it means students on the other side of digital divide can start their education, it means less anxiety for our parents who live in fear of job cuts, it means lot of families can go home and meet their loved ones and it means peace to a lot of stressed minds. As we approach Independence Day, I pray to the almighty to give us patience to bear, give us reason to believe and hope to live for that new sunrise. A sunrise that will bring health, happiness and prosperity to the world. Into that heaven of freedom my father let just not my country but this world awake. Adrija Basak Age: 14
Rail Vihar, Action Area I, New Town
What is a person without his freedom? He is like music without notes or art without feeling. Freedom has always been mankind’s greatest wish. Every person works for his freedom, from dependence, from a cage or from restrictions of society. How many of the most celebrated figures in our history were harbingers of freedom? Freedom truly is the most fundamental requirement for a person to be healthy, happy and to reach their full potential. In a world which is growing and shrinking at the same time, where each person seems to have a fabricated life, where the world is available to us at our fingertips, this freedom has only grown in value. The emergence of the Covid-19 virus seems to have put a stop to social activity and the simple freedom of going out without danger. So many of the things that we had taken for granted like strolls in the park, going out with friends, a weekend outing, a long vacation and of course, travelling, are now lost to us. A world like this seems to be a gray world indeed. But, have we really lost all our freedom? I believe that we have not. Freedom is in the choice we make to not go outside unnecessarily, to protect ourselves and those we love. Freedom is in the way we choose to help and stand by others in a time like this. Freedom comes from having the power within ourselves to do something to help ourselves and
others. We must try to keep ourselves safe by repeated handwashing and going out only when required. There is a certain kind of quiet freedom in following rules, in knowing that what I am doing is for the good of everybody, even when it seems inconsequential. Let us not look at rules as restrictions but as the choices we make to protect others. Freedom comes from the mind. It may seem that we are physically in a cage, but if we truly believe that we are free in our hearts and in our minds, then there is nothing and no one between ourselves and freedom. This can be done by keeping our thoughts clear from negativity. When a person is surrounded by news of Covid-19 cases and the rising death-toll, there is a feeling of hopelessness and imminent danger. To prevent this, the best thing we can do is to turn off the news channels and focus on something positive, like learning a new skill or spending more time with family. We should and we must try to help the elderly people we know, both by providing mental support and also by helping them in their required shopping. Let us focus on improving ourselves, on being a better person and a good citizen. During a trying time like this, our freedom is in our hearts and our souls and we ourselves hold the key to freedom from Covid-19. So, let us work towards a brighter, better and healthier tomorrow, by choosing to follow rules, washing our hands, staying inside, maintaining social distancing and keeping our minds free and healthy. After all, freedom is in the little things in life, in the small steps we take and the conscious choices we make every day. Urjani Shah Age: 7 Anahita Housing Complex, Action Area II B, New Town
My parents took me out for a drive and I saw a strange sight. I saw unmasked grown-ups enjoying their ice-cream and phuchkas. They were standing in closed groups and chatting away. Do they know how many people have fallen sick or died today? I have been thinking how my family’s and my lives have changed since Covid-19 came. My mother stopped going to office and started working from home. It was fun at first but then she started nagging me for studying more and more. She is always running after me with her sanitiser. What I miss most is my school, my loving teachers, my class friends, the games we play in our huge playground, the computer lab and the school itself. Though we are having online classes, they are not fun at all. Voices break and my teachers sound like a machine. By the way, do you know I could not have a proper birthday party? So I have been wondering about what to do to get through this situation! Papa says this is the “New Normal”. I asked him what that means, he said that the world has changed since March 2020, when the virus came to visit the world. 7.32 lakh people have died in the world and 44 thousand Indians are dead. So I asked Papa how do we defeat this virus? Then Ma told us that until the vaccine comes we are all unsafe. So I told myself that I will have to fight Corona myself. What can I do? Ma told me this morning that Covid-19 is spreading fast in the poor countries because they do not have clean water to wash their hands, so I have decided not to play with water but to keep on washing hands without Ma having to tell me. Secondly, I will not touch unclean surfaces or unsanitised things. Next, I will never ever forget to wear a mask before going out. Every time I go outside, I will stay six feet away from everybody. I will never ask my parents to take me out to crowded places. Most importantly, I will eat the right food which will give me immunity. Lastly, I will request all my friends to follow SMS i.e. Sanitisation, Mask and Social distancing. I pray to God to give us courage to fight the war against Covid-19. I have faith that we can someday win this war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Dance & chant online for deity||Every participant of Gulabi Gang performed enthusiastically for their Rathayatra programme but a mother-daughter duo performed twice. Mousumi and Amisha Saha’s phone blared the song Kanha so jah zara but their screens blacked out. None of the others, tuned from their houses over video call, could catch a glimpse.  “If time permits, we shall ask the duo to give a repeat performance,” said the moderator Mahua De Sarkar. Gulabi Gang, a group by ladies from DB Block, usually celebrate Rathayatra at their community hall. “Every year, women take the lead in organising the procession and we celebrate the festival in a grand way. This year we found out alternative means of celebration,” said member Sonali Basak. The show had begun with the Rinku Banerjee blowing the conchshell and chanting mangalacharan.  Sampurna Das and Sambit Das, both tots, danced to Jagannath vandana. Lakshmimoni Sen logged in from Bangalore, chanting Vishnu sahasranaam. Priyanka Niyogi presented Sabdam in Bharatanatyam and Indrani Basak, logged in from Delhi, spoke on the history and significance of the chariot festival focusing on the Rathayatra of Mahesh, as depicted by Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay in the novel Radharani. Panchojonyo, comprising members Mahua De Sarkar, Basak, Chandrani Mukherjee, Mou Dubey and Anjana Banerjee, presented Dashabatar Mahatwo, depicting the 10 incarnations of lord Vishnu. This piece was brought to life with the chorus chanting of the Upanishad sloka Om Purnamadah Purnamidam accompanied by dance performed by Mukherjee and Basak, depicting each avatar. Other members chanted slokas on the avatars with their description in Sanskrit and Bengali. “This event gives us a sense of freedom in the present suffocating environment and we are rejuvenated,” said Dubey.  
“We members are active because of such events and are also getting tech-savvy,” added Anjana Banerjee. Child artiste Sharanya Mitra danced to Woh Kisna hai, Ishani Das danced to Jai Narayan vandana with Odissi steps while her sister Jhupan sang along. “We equate Narayana with Jagannath and we paid tribute through the song. I’m especially happy that I could involve my four-and-a-half year old daughter Sampurna in the show and teach her about the lord.”
And finally, at long last, mother-daughter Mousumi and Amisha got a chance to once again dance to a song from Baahubali 2. This time there was no interruption. Bharati Kanjilal If you want to get a programme featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street,
Calcutta - 700001 or e-mail to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Four out of 99 found positive in New Town rapid antibody test camp||A rapid test camp was organised by New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum on August 1 at a fishery association building, near Axis Mall. A total of 99 residents were tested to check whether they had already developed Covid-19 antibodies.
Of them, four came positive, indicating they had got infected in the past and recovered on their own. Two results were inconclusive. The others came negative.. According to a health department official, while positive results in a Rapid Antibody Test are confirmed, those who come negative but have symptoms of Covid-19 have to go for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. “Many health workers and social workers wanted to get themselves tested. Even people with slight sore throat are panicking. So we thought of holding this camp,” said Samir Gupta, joint convenor of the forum||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Footpaths to be fixed, not roads||You may be having a tough time negotiating potholes on your way to the market but for now it’s — not the streets but — the footpaths that are being repaired. Sidewalks being worked upon include main thoroughfares including the First Avenue that connects Salt Lake to Ultadanga, the Seventh Cross Road that leads from the Karunamoyee intersection to the Tank 8 Island as well as the roads inside several blocks of the township. But the work has come as surprise to residents who feel that it’s the roads that are crying for repairs. A CJ Block resident said that she was taken aback when several labourers started uprooting kerbstones in front of her house. According to Swati Choudhury, the stretch of pavement in front of her house had no broken stretches but the workers told her that the older kerbstones and paver blocks had to be removed as they would lay new ones in their place. “I was taken shocked. They had dug up a perfect pavement just because they wanted to replace the paver blocks. When I told them that they should repair the innumerable ditches that dot the roads they said that they were there to just carry out pavement repairs,” said Choudhury. A civic engineer said that pavement repairs would be carried out in AB, AC, CJ, and CK blocks. He said the tender for the pavement repairs had been called for before the pandemic struck and work started a few days back. When asked why no road repairs were being carried out despite the rains leaving crater-ridden streets across the township, the engineer said that they had not called for the tenders of the road repairs yet. Tapas Chatterjee, deputy mayor and the mayoral council member in charge of roads, said they had conducted a survey of the damaged roads in the township and would carry out patchwork repairs for the time being. “The top layer of the roads has got washed away by the rains in several places. We are drawing up a list of the roads that need repairs and will make do with patchwork for the time being. Once the rains are over we will carry out extensive repairs,” said Chatterjee. He also added that the pavement repairs were long overdue and that work had started in phases. “We will repair all roads and sidewalks before the pujas,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Freedom from Corona||Gopi Agarwal How I got it: I have no idea. Mine was the first case in Salt Lake but no one I had interacted with got Covid around that time. Family status: No one else at home got sick, but my son, driver and cook were sent to New Town’s quarantine centre as a precaution. My daughter has had a major surgery so she was allowed to stay home, along with my wife. My Covid battle: I got fever on the evening of junta curfew, on March 22. I took medicines but started maintaining a distance from my family members, just in case. When my fever persisted even after a week, my doctor asked me to get admitted to a hospital and get tested for Covid. My stay at the hospital was a stay in hell. Doctors and nurses never came close to me. They would enquire my health standing at the door. Only one person came to collect blood samples and he was so inexperienced that my blood wouldspill on the floor. Still I was charged Rs 1,20,000 for PPEs. I had to scream and shout before they gave me fresh clothes, the room had no TV, they didn’t let me keep my phone and I had no access to a toilet. I was asked to squat on the floor and use the bed pan as a toilet! The food quality was so poor that I lost 15kg in my week’s stay there. But at the time this was the only nearby hospital that was admitting Covid patients and I had no choice. What’s most insensitive is that a WhatsApp message had started doing the rounds in the middle that I had passed away. Relatives had started calling up my wife to console her. Current condition: I’m fine now and have resumed going to my factory. Since my recovery, over a 100 people have called me for Covid-related advice. I pulled through but there are many others who are in a worse state than me. I have also made a donation to the councillor to help Covid warriors. Manasi Bhakta How I got it: Probably from my husband, Dibakar. He was a kidney patient and needed hospitalisation. On the morning of June 22, I set off in an ambulance, with his head on my lap, only to be refused by five or six hospitals. His condition was critical but every place asked us to show his Covid report first. At 8pm, a government hospital took him in and collected his swab samples. But it was too late. My husband died in two hours. The next day his Covid report arrived. It was positive. Family status: I sat on the staircase of the hospital the whole night, crying, all alone. My daughter is in college, son in Class VI. I couldn’t muster the courage to tell them what had happened. I told relatives but not one of them came over, scared of getting infected. The cops posted around the hospital hailed a taxi for me in the morning to go home. Soon my daughter and I tested positive. We had to be hospitalised. My son tested negative but no relatives agreed to shelter him. He was sent to a quarantine home. My Covid battle: I would inhale as hard as I could but it still felt like the oxygen wasn’t going in. My throat felt like there was cough clogging it and any form of movement would drain all the energy out of me. It took me two weeks to recover. Current condition: Health-wise I am better but Covid has pushed me into a lot of difficulties. I used to be a homemaker who barely left the house but I now have to find a source of income, manage the home and raise the children. So scared are our relatives that they still haven’t come to meet us. Some have got Covid themselves now and are calling me up for advice. Still, the situation is teaching me to be strong. My husband was a poet and two of his books have gone to print now. I’m waiting for them to release. Ranjit Chakraborty Got it from: I don’t know but it all started when a 95-year-old resident, who broke his leg after a fall, was rushed to the hospital and tested positive. He died of a heart attack the next day but Kuntala Patnaik, president of Saptadweepa, the NGO that runs the home, got the health department to conduct tests for all 43 of us at Bairag and Pushparghya, their second home at HB Block. I tested positive. Family status: Ten residents of our homes tested positive and we were shocked. None of us had been going out.
I, along with another male boarder were moved to New Town’s Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) immediately. Another lady and a 90-year-old man were coming the next day but the man expired in the car itself. Our home has single rooms with attached bathrooms so the other six boarders stayed back. They weren’t keen on moving to a different facility. My Covid battle: We have been hearing horror stories of other hospitals but CNCI was so good that I got half-cured just entering the compound. It was cleaner than one’s house, doctors and nursing staff were caring and checked our parameters whenever we asked. Food was good and we were allowed to keep our mobile phones. Some staff members even went and bought toiletries for us when we requested them to. The lady from our home was very scared — both at having contracted Covid and at being in a new place. I asked the patient in her neighbouring bed to ensure she ate her meals. Current condition: I recovered after a week and have resumed normal life. I’m not going out. Sourav Mundhra How I got it: Cannot trace the source Family status: I got fever but my doctor said it was viral. Nonetheless they were organising a Covid test in CK-CL community hall and so my father and I decided to get tested. When both of us tested positive we decided to get everyone at home tested. Out of the 11 family members and one staff at home tested, eight had Covid. My Covid battle: Those of us who got infected stayed on the second floor of our house and the rest stayed on the ground floor. Besides a member of staff, this comprised my two sisters (one of whom is in school) and my nine-month old daughter. Our eight-year-old son was upstairs with us. My wife and I were both in quarantine upstairs and we were worried about how the baby would manage without her mother but my sisters took up the responsibility and she had no problem. Food was being sent by relatives, received by the ground floor folks and our share was being left upstairs for us to receive. We washed our own utensils and clothes. The quarantine period would have been difficult to spend had I been alone but with seven people around it was life as usual. We spent time praying, singing bhajans, doing yoga, cleaning the house, on our phones and TV sets and looking after one another. We ate a lot of fresh fruits, inhaled steam and gurgled to prevent our condition from aggravating. The elderly members of my joint family have co-morbidities but luckily, we only had mild symptoms. Almost every day I would wake up to phone calls from panicked friends and relatives asking about the virus. I kept telling them to get tested if they felt they had symptoms so treatment could start before it was too late. Our doctor had a big role in calming us down too. One needs much mental support at a time like this. Current condition: We stayed in quarantine for 20 days before leaving the house. Now all are fine. Neha Sharma How I got it: Both my husband and I were attending office. Though my office — the Liluah workshop of the Eastern Railways — is in a highly affected area, I suspect I caught the virus from my husband Dhritiman Sarkar. Being with the Bidhannagar Commissionerate, he was on duty at the airport during the Vande Bharat mission. On one occasion, there was a brawl and he had to contain unruly passengers. Within two days of the incident, he was down with fever. Family status: Husband and security guard tested positive as well. My Covid battle: The first few days after my husband got fever, I was going to office and he was resting at home. But after a couple of days, I too developed sudden chill and cough. On July 3, three of us went for tests at Apollo hospital. I was unable to even sit by then. Once we tested positive, we received a call from NKDA. Since all of us were within 32 years of age, we opted for home isolation. We were prescribed a course of antibiotics and vitamins. Our temperature veered around 100F. On the third or fourth day, we lost the sense of taste and smell. Along with cough, I also experienced some breathing discomfort, neither of which my husband did. I kept checking my SpO2 on a pulse oximeter, doing breathing exercises and taking cough syrup. All through, our security guard and I were cooking at home while a policeman deposited the supplies we needed with the complex guard downstairs. Sometimes we ordered outside food when we needed a break. After four days, we stopped taking Paracetamol to check if the fever would relapse. It did not. Though according to the current medical protocol, testing is not needed once 14 days are over, we still went for tests. This time, I was the only one who came positive. Though I was told it was likely to be a false positive, I still took a re-test after three days, on July 22. This time it was negative. Current condition: I rejoined work on July 27. Ankit Nahata How I got it: My father had a heart attack on May 23 and had to be hospitalised for angioplasty. He had to be taken for check-up on June 3. I got infected either that day or on June 6, when we had a family gathering.
Family status: Six out of our family of seven got infected. Only my mother tested negative. My Covid battle: On June 7, my father had fever. The doctor insisted on a Covid test. He could not believe when the report came positive as there was no case yet in either Rosedale or Uniworld City opposite us. He had to be hospitalised because of his health condition. The rest of us — my wife, brother, his wife and their one-and- half year old daughter- stayed home. Our apartment was sealed. We had mild fever. We received a lot of help from our residents’ association. We just had to call the facility manager to get what we needed. We gurgled with turmeric powder and drank hot milk with turmeric powder to boost immunity. Arnab Roy, the NKDA doctor, helped us a lot as did our house physician Amit Dey. A relative gave us a kada, which was a solvent to relax the throat. On June 23, my father came back from hospital. Our association staff members greeted us with flowers on July 2 when our period of isolation ended. Current condition: I am back to work. Last week, I donated plasma at Calcutta Medical College. I was told I was only the 25th person to volunteer this. They did a range of screening tests, including the Covid antibody test and asked me to come again after a week. It felt good to do this. Even now, I am asked by NKDA health team to call up and speak to Covid patients, which I happily do. Debanjan Kundu How I got it: I was on duty in the radiation oncology department of RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. I must have got exposed there. Family status: My mother tested negative. My Covid battle: In the first week of July, I developed headache, fever and body ache. There was no respiratory distress. After four or five days, I lost sense of taste and smell. That persisted for three to four weeks. Once I received the report by email, I isolated myself at home for 17 days after giving an undertaking to the local authorities. An NKDA team disinfected the house. Fear was there as one’s condition can deteriorate quickly. This is not like influenza in that even mild Covid-19 can be severe. The kind of lethargy and weakness it causes is unlike in any viral illness. Our complex had a protocol in place in case a resident tested positive. That protocol was put in place and we had no trouble sourcing groceries and medicines. Current condition: I came out of isolation on the third week of July and joined duty at the hospital on the same day. I am back to full strength now. I have also volunteered to help at the Covid care centre that my apartment complex has created for residents who are unable to self-isolate at home. Of course, there is still risk of infection in future. Nazish Pervez Khan How I got it: Probably from my husband. He runs a medicine shop and got fever. But he recovered in three days.
Family status: After my husband, next was my daughter and then son but they all recovered in two or three days. I have diabetes, high blood pressure and asthma. When I got fever, it persisted for eight days. My Covid battle: The doctor we consult wasn’t willing to check fever patients but he agreed to meet me over video call. He prescribed tests for malaria, dengue and the like but I asked him to add Covid to the list. I wasn’t scared of getting Covid. What I was scared of is the treatment I may get at the hospital. We have a relative who was admitted at a top hospital in the early days of Covid’s spreading. He was on the ventilator and was footing bills of Rs 1 lakh a day but the nurses were throwing medicines at him for fear of contracted Covid themselves. Once my report came out, I was moved to a nursing home as far off as Kidderpore as we had heard service was compassionate. And it was. I was put on oxygen immediately and it continued for the next nine days. I have never felt so sick in my life and thought I would die. I am very religious and offered namaz even with my oxygen mask on but on some days I would be so out of breath I couldn’t even utter the prayer. I didn’t want to use a bed pan as I wanted to be clean for namaz and would insist that the nurses escort me to the toilet. On one such day, I fainted. Current condition: I was in quarantine for some days even after coming home. I would stay in a room and my food would be kept outside. Now I am better. Amal Kumar Maiti How I got it: I had gone to my brother’s house in New Town for some work where an associate had come. The next day that person got fever and the day after, I fell sick. Family status: My wife and elder daughter, who has come from Bangalore for the lockdown, tested positive. My younger daughter, school-going son and domestic help were spared. My Covid battle: Initially the three of us who tested positive were living separately from the others within our flat. While my wife and daughter recovered fairly easily, my fever persisted. Doctors advised tests but no pathology lab would agree to run tests for a Covid patient. My younger daughter Pallabi learnt from her doctor friends that AMRI Hospital has tied up with Monotel and that patients with mild symptoms staying at the Sector V hotel would have their tests done from the hospital.
My wife and I checked in for about a week. While hotels usually mean a relaxed holiday, this experience was a new one. An entire floor there was dedicated to Covid patients and a nurse, who had a room there and checked our parameters thrice a day. Doctors came for rounds too. Current condition: Though weak, we have all recovered and I plan to join work soon. The doctor has asked us to exercise by walking on the terrace to maintain immunity. Jaydeb Ray How I got it: I am a doctor at Calcutta National Medical College & Hospital. In fact, I’m an anaesthetist and my work involves touching the mouths and faces of patients. However, I was careful and none of my patients had tested positive.
The other possibility was a fish market near the “loha pool” bridge between New Town and Sector V that I would visit. But no one at the market got Covid either. Family status: My daughters were looking after me but luckily, they tested negative. My Covid battle: Being a doctor I thought I had an understanding of Covid-19 but the experience was worse than I could imagine. It began with fever that lasted eight days. I was weak and couldn’t sleep a wink at night. I even blacked out once and had a fall while returning from the washroom. The hospital I work at is not handling Covid patients so I went to another private hospital to get tested and then shifted to the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. The environment in a Covid hospital is not for the weak-hearted. You’re shunned to a corner, no one comes to you, food is kept on a trolley at the door... I never even saw a nurse’s face and junior doctors would maintain a distance of about five feet from me. Only one senior doctor would come up close and we build a rapport. My strength was down to zero and the only thing that kept me going was mental strength. No drug can work like will power and that is what one needs to recover from Covid. Current condition: I lost 10kg in those 14 days. Now my trousers cannot be worn without belts and my colleagues at the hospital cannot recognise me! I joined work in end-June and am mostly on tele-medicine duty now. Subhajit Sarkar How I got it: The irony is that I was in China, working and meeting people, when Covid-19 was peaking there and had emerged unscathed. Months later, I got sick here in India where I was maintaining lockdown.
In the four months here, I left the house only seven times, that too with face shield and N95 mask. We didn’t socialise with anyone outside, would sanitise the house almost to a level of paranoia… I am in the merchant navy and had to undergo a medical test before joining duty. That was when I tested positive. Family status: I live with my wife and baby, who sticks to me like a magnet all the time. It’s very lucky that she, or anyone else, didn’t get it. My Covid battle: NKDA called me and gave me the option of institutional quarantine at the expense of the government but I chose to stay home, in a room with an attached bath. I have two paramedical licences — from Indian and the European Union and am also the medical officer on board my ship —so I knew I could handle it. I had mild symptoms — only headache and a bad stomach, but then the latter may have been from over-eating! My wife Olga is Ukrainian but she makes delicious Indian food. She would serve me lots, thinking it would improve my immunity and I would try to down it all as all my leftovers would have to be dumped in the biohazard bin otherwise. Olga has a medical condition due to which she can’t go out alone. Luckily two friends brought us groceries. Isolation was no big deal for me as I’m used to it on the ship. I watched movies, worked out, looked out of the window…the toughest part was staying positive. Covid is now the most feared disease after cancer. People would call me up every day, asking if I had got fever. It was as if they were waiting for me to get sick. Such conversations end up scaring you more. I wouldn’t pray much before this but when I got Covid, I prayed. Current condition: I recovered in end-June and was immediately called to join the ship as there is a major supply chain crisis around the world now. I had to fly to Mumbai but since Calcutta-Mumbai flights are suspended, had to change flights in Varanasi. I stayed in quarantine in Mumbai for a week, tested again and then flew to Paris (India and France have a diplomatic bubble allowing flights) and then Egypt, from where I joined my ship. We are now sailing around the dreaded pirate den of Somalia. If we stop working, the world will come to a standstill. Simple things like medicines won’t be available. So after recovering from Covid, I have become a Covid warrior! Debasish Banerjee How I got it: Tough to say. I was attending office and even went to Hasnabad for Amphan relief distribution. On June 30, I went to the court in Mayukh Bhavan. On July 3, I developed mild fever at night.
Family status: My wife had fever for just an hour the day before. My daughter had fever from the same day as me, going as high as 102°F. My Covid battle: All three of us got tested on July 6 and received Covid-positive reports the day after. By then, my wife and daughter did not have any more symptoms. From July 9, my condition deteriorated, with oxygen saturation level falling to 91 per cent. I felt pressure in the chest and was vomiting. Though I could manage a bed at Peerless Hospital, we had trouble getting an ambulance. My friend from Paschimbanga Bigyan Mancha Basab Basak of FE Block offered to drive me but I declined. Finally, an ambulance came from the hospital. Most people were supportive. Since my wife and daughter were confined at home, neighbours brought them supplies. Since the ATM was out of bounds, familiar rickshaw-pullers offered cash to tide us over. The ward assistant too offered help as did my office colleagues. Rajarshi Roy, our local doctor, refused to take fees. I had heard doctors rarely visit Covid wards. But at Peerless, they regularly came and spoke to me. Facebook messages from neighbours also cheered me. I was there for 14 days, from July 11. For 11 days, I was on oxygen support. The last three days they took me off oxygen and kept me under observation. The bill was not exorbitant. Current condition: I have still not joined office as I have a patch in my lungs and am on follow-up treatment. My daughter, 22, has decided to donate plasma at AMRI, Dhakuria. Ramaprasad Paul How I got it: Tough to say. I say in jest: Chin theke holo. Family status: My 72-year-old wife Ratna too tested positive. My Covid battle: I felt feverish on June 29. The next day I had cough. We got blood tests done for typhoid and dengue. When my cough increased and there was no let up in fever we went for a Covid-19 test on July 9. The report came on July Our apartment was sealed by NKDA the day after. My son stays in Mumbai and my daughter in the US. Yet within hours, they arranged for two oxygen cylinders, a thermal gun and a pulse oximeter delivered at our doorstep. My temperature was shooting up to 104°F and I had to take paracetamol every few hours. My son would consult with our doctor Joydip Pande even at 2am and procured the medicine FabiFlu within weeks of its launch in Mumbai. When our oxygen saturation level dropped, we would take oxygen for 15 minutes and check again after three hours. Since our blood pressure was fluctuating, we were asked to speak less for a few days. My temperature decreased after four days of the antibiotic course. From July 13 to 28, we sanitised the common areas of the building daily at our own cost. Yet the security guards and our driver were stopped from coming to our floor. Neighbours stopped calling us, as if the virus would pass through the phone line! Mind you, I am the president of the residents’ association. Current condition: I say I am back half way from Dhapa (crematorium)! saltlake@abpmail.co||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University seal on entry norm||Presidency University this year will admit students based on their board marks, the admissions committee of the institute decided on Thursday. The committee decided that the merit lists for all subjects, except statistics and economics, would be prepared based on marks in the Class X and Class XII board exams, an official said. Students aspiring to study economics and statistics honours will be admitted based on their plus-II board marks. “Due to the prevailing COVID-19 impacted situation, difficulties in conducting an admission test were discussed…. All members unanimously decided to prepare a merit list... based on marks obtained by a candidate in her/his Madhyamik/equivalent (10th standard) and Higher Secondary/ equivalent (10+2 standard) examinations,” reads a resolution of the admissions committee. Registrar Debajyoti Konar said the eligibility criteria would be announced soon. Vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said they wanted to keep as many screening layers as possible. “The teachers had proposed that the secondary exams marks be considered,” Lohia said. For physics honours, the marks in math and the average marks in physical science and life science in Madhyamik or marks in the science group in equivalent exams will be added to the aggregate and the marks in math in the plus-II exams. For chemistry honours, the average marks of physical science and life science in Madhyamik or marks in the science group in equivalent exams will be added to the marks in chemistry, math and English in the plus-II exams. The Bengal HS council could not hold tests in physics and chemistry because of the pandemic. Each student had the best marks in the other papers awarded to the two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||NUJS students seek fee relief||Students of the National University of Juridical Sciences have appealed to the authorities to waive some fees because they are attending online classes and not using some of the facilities. The students have demanded reduction of fees for the July-December semester to be charged for exams, students’ welfare, moot courts, hostel and study materials, an official of the law school said. A fourth-year student said the fee for the current semester of his batch was around Rs 1.6 lakh. A student of the batch will have to pay around Rs 46,000 less if the authorities accept the demand. “Almost every student is facing a financial crisis because of the pandemic. Reduction of Rs 46,000 will be of great relief to us,” the fourth-year student said. “If the students’ demands are accepted, the fees for the current semester will reduce by Rs 46,000 to Rs 51,000, depending on the batches,” an official said. Vice-chancellor N.K. Chakrabarti said: “The appeal is under consideration. The matter will be placed in the next meeting of the executive council (August 22). We will be in a position to say whether the fees can be reduced or not after the meeting.” An official said the authorities were in favour of granting relief to the students. “But all their demands cannot be accepted. The entire hostel fee can’t be waived off. The hostels are closed but each employee is being paid the full salary.” The authorities plan to offer uniform relief to all batches, the official said. “As of now there is no plan to offer any relief to the incoming batch,” he said. The institute’s five-year LLB course costs around Rs 15 lakh, including tuition, hostel and other fees, according to the existing fee structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Pet cat goes missing from home in Alipore||Max, the Maine Coon, from Alipore has left home and maybe moving around with cats beneath his status. The cat, one of the largest domesticated species in the world, has not returned home in the past week and its owners have launched a search on social media. The two-and-a-half year-old was last heard responding to a mating call on Friday night when his owners thought he was still inside their Alipore Road bungalow. It was only in the morning when Max did not turn up for breakfast, Sonali Lakhotia realised he was missing. “My husband and I were watching TV in our room when we last heard Max responding to a mating call. You cannot miss his baritone meow. I had thought like other days, he must be somewhere inside the house,” Sonali said. The next morning, when Max did not make his mandatory appearance at her room where he would usually cry trying to grab her attention towards his breakfast time, she realised he was missing. Nothing has been the same for Sonali and her family since then. Her daughter Mahi, 10, and son Viraj, 8, consider the cat their friend. Main Coon is a domesticated breed known for their size and elegance, Max’s vet Aparajita Chakraborty Roy said. “They are big house cats with no wild streaks in them. They are extremely friendly and would get into anyone’s lap without any protest. They are equally majestic, too, and their body language will make it clear they are loyal to their owners.” Max, however, is “rare,” she said. Unlike other male cats that usually lack the protective instinct for kittens, Max had rescued a stray kitten and brought him home. The Lakhotias have adopted him, too, and named him Chewy. Max spends a considerable time of the day sleeping. He is most active in the afternoon when he strolls out in the lawn and lazes under the trees or at times even walks outside the bungalow. The past one-and-a-half month has been different, though. “We were worried about the infection spreading through animals. So, we decided to restrict his movements inside the bungalow. He was not allowed to step out on the lawn. At times we took him out for a walk, just like a pet dog,” Sonali said. Sonali and husband Sidharth have been looking around for Max in the neighbourhood without any result. The family has posted an emotional appeal on social media with Max’s photograph, requesting people to report if they spot him. Max, who had pancreatic problems, has only hepatic diet. The fact he will not eat anything else outside has left the Lakhotias more worried. “Domestic cats take a long time to adjust to new surroundings. Even if someone has taken Max, he will not be able to adjust to the new home. He will stop eating and drinking water. It will lead to gradual dehydration and gas formation in his stomach and may trigger health issues,” Max’s vet Chakraborty Roy said. The family had adopted two-month-old Max after losing two Labradors and a cat in a row years ago. “We can just request people to return him. He is too docile to even protest if someone overpowered him. Whenever he picked fights with stray cats, he invariably returned home scratched. He doesn’t stand a chance for resistance. Please return him,” Sonali appealed through Metro. The lockdown and the scare of Covid-19 have hit pets, too. A few weeks ago, Shabby, a Labrador, had slipped out of the window of her owner’s car when she was taken out for a ride after weeks of confinement at their Phoolbagan home. She was found with the help of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cancer hospital issues appeal for blood||The Thakurpukur cancer hospital has appealed for blood saying the country is “not as Independent” as it was last year and people should come forward to help fellow citizens with blood. Hospitals like the one in Thakurpukur are suffering from severe shortage of blood because of the Covid pandemic. People are wary of donating blood in this situation and camps are few because of the distancing norms announced as a precaution against Covid-19. As a result, many blood banks are running dry. Arnab Gupta, the director of Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre & Research Institute, in Thakurpukur, made a social media post on Wednesday: “As we approach Independence Day, we realise that we are not as Independent as were last year. Along with the Corona pandemic where many people have fallen victims, what we are now seeing all over Bengal and many parts of India, is the severe scarcity of blood. We would request you to kindly come forward and save your fellow countrymen, especially children by donating blood. Many are afflicted with cancer, thalassaemia and now dengue. You may contact any local blood bank/hospital. That’s the best way to pay tribute to our freedom fight-ers and to Mother India….Of course one has to be fit to donate.” The blood crisis at his institute is delaying cancer treatment, Gupta told The Telegraph. The hospital caters to many underprivileged people, including children, who are treated at reduced costs or the hospital arranges for funds for them through sponsors to make treatment available to them. Many of the patients come from districts and it is even more difficult for them to arrange for blood. “Our average monthly blood collection used to be 600 units before the lockdown, which could just meet our requirements. Now the collection is less than 200 units per month, resulting in a huge shortfall. Availability in other blood banks is scarce, too,” said Gupta. The reserves are constantly depleting and on Thursday, the institute had just seven units of B-positive and two units of A-positive in its blood bank. This newspaper had on Monday reported that a sharp drop in the number of blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic had resulted in a crisis in availability of blood in Calcutta as well as the rest of Bengal. Last Sunday, long queues were seen in front of counters of several blood banks in the city. Most people in the queues were told by blood bank officials that there was no guarantee they would get blood even after waiting for hours. Ever since the pandemic started, the number of blood donation camps has been decreasing. The situation worsened as time passed, according to officials of multiple blood banks. Blood bank officials say almost all banks are supplying blood only if those in need bring donors. Gupta said that in the Thakurpukur hospital, the blood was separated into three components — RBC, platelet and plasma. The treatment in the hospital, he said, includes surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. “For any major cancer surgery, we need to have a back-up of blood, in the absence of which treatment is being postponed. Blood parameters have to be corrected for anybody who has low haemoglobin and low platelet for any further treatment. And blood is required for that,” said Gupta. “Children with blood cancer are more susceptible because there is a chance of internal bleeding with low platelet count,” he said. Gupta suggested that blood donation camps could be organised with small groups of people and by maintaining the distancing norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta teens fight cyber sexual peril||A group of students has started an online campaign to create awareness against trafficking and to stand up for human rights at a time when traditional ways of trafficking is going the online way. The students, from Classes IX to XII, have undergone a three-week training by NGO International Justice Mission, Calcutta, to encourage youngsters to speak up against human trafficking. The idea is to reach students through their peers at a time when the pandemic has forced every activity to be online and “spotters” are using the cyber space to track and trap students online and solicit sexual services for clients. The student leadership programme was held for four students each from La Martiniere for Girls, St Xavier’s Collegiate School, The Heritage School, Delhi Public School Megacity, South City International School, Sri Sri Academy and The Newtown School. Trafficking and child sexual abuse is not limited to those from slums or the lower-end of society, an official of the NGO said. Even children from the upper middle class or higher social strata or from broken families are vulnerable targets, the official said. “We have to tell kids about the dangers. Children are unaware of these dangers and the social protection they have in schools or at homes is not there in the online space,” Sisir Thanikal, the NGO’s community engagement head, said. “So, we need to talk about it freely… that anybody and everybody is vulnerable and has to be careful.” The perpetrators have adapted themselves to the online space, Thanikal said. “They enter platforms or groups of youngsters and befriend them with a false identity and seek salacious videos or photographs and blackmail them with those. They are generally asked to enter a private group online and perform or links are sent to clients and perpetrators get paid.” Students get to know of the dangers of the online world through value education classes but it is more acceptable when it comes from their peers, Rupkatha Sarkar, the head of La Martiniere for Girls, said. “In the current times when students are using the Net prolifically they must be aware of cyber security and bullying and of the kind of networking that happens online and that they can become victims unknowingly,” Sarkar said. “They need to know whom to befriend on the Net, the limits they need to set and how much exposure they can allow.” Young students take this online world to be real but it is filled with people with fake identities. “The perpetrators make students feel comfortable and win their confidence so that they share videos of themselves. Often, students are trapped online because they are misled by romance and excitement,” Agnes Toppo, the NGO’s senior coordinator for community engagement, said. “The current trend has shifted online with most young people holding a social media account.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||College applications to be free, says Partha Chatterjee||Universities and colleges across the state cannot charge undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses, the higher education department announced on Thursday. Applicants cannot be charged for scanning/uploading documents for online admission to undergraduate courses, the department said. While most colleges charge a student Rs 200 as application fee for a course, there are some that charge Rs 900. A candidate can apply for multiple subjects. Till last year, an applicant had to pay separately for each course, a department official said. “Now, be it a single application or multiple applications, a college cannot charge the candidate.” Candidates cannot be charged for applying in multiple colleges as well, the official said. While submitting applications, candidates visit cyber cafes to get their Plus II mark sheets and other documents scanned. Cafe operators charge them for the service. By saying no applicant can be charged for scanning/uploading documents, the department has advised colleges to develop facilities to offer such services free, another official said. “This year the state joint examinations board has created 17,000 common service centres to help BTech aspirants take part in online counselling free. Colleges can approach the board so that undergraduate aspirants can use these centres to upload their documents free of cost,” he said. The decision has been taken in view of the hardship students and their families are going through during the pandemic, education minister Partha Chatterjee said. Colleges have been outsourcing their admission portals to various agencies since the government introduced the online admission system in 2016. From receiving applications and offering payment gateways for services to accepting documents and preparing the merit list, everything is done by these agencies. Whatever colleges earn by way of application fees and uploading documents, a part of it is shared with the agencies, a principal said. Those who have already applied will now seek a refund, another principal said. The department had on July 16 issued the notification to start the undergraduate admission process. “Calcutta University had uploaded the admission notification on July 24 but hadn’t said anything on the fees,” a principal said. “We have to pay the agency that is managing the admission portal. The department should support us as it has waived the fees.” “Let the colleges appeal. We will then take the call,” a department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||BSF seizes Keel-billed toucans at Bongaon border||The BSF seized a pair of Keel-billed toucans near the Angrail border outpost in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, on Thursday, an officer said. Officers at the outpost along the India-Bangladesh border had received information that “foreign and expensive” birds  would be moved to Bangladesh, S.S. Guleria, DIG, BSF (South Bengal Frontier) said. Two men dropped a pack age near Halderpara village on  seeing a BSF tea. “Wee took the birds...  they have been handed  over to Alipore zoo,” Guleria  said. A pair of the birds will cost  around Rs 15-18 lakh, a bird lover said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Medieval traditions unite Bengal and Scotland||In the medieval societies of Bengal and Scotland, kings and priestly classes developed a way of recording transfer of property ownership in strikingly parallel terms using related vocabulary and philosophical concepts. In Bengal, land gifts were recorded in Sanskrit etched in copper plates and stone inscriptions. In Scotland, it was recorded in charter parchments in Latin. In both societies, it was the king who made the donations of land to the priestly class. John Reuben Davies, a research scholar at Glasgow University, came to Calcutta in 2011 and was surprised to find in Asiatic Society copper plates from the Pala era in Bengal (10th to 12th century CE) that had close similarities with parchment charters from Scotland belonging to the same period. Charters are written records of transfer of property. While the copper plates had the Sanskrit word “danam” inscribed in them, the parchment charters bear the word “donum” in Latin. Both of giving as a gift is ‘danam’. Latin, the same Indo-European root, provides the noun ‘donum’, a gift, indicate a gift of land from the king to the priestly class for eternity. “In Sanskrit, the word for the method and the verb ‘dono’, I give as a gift,” said Davies. “The concept of transferring ownership of property by giving as a gift is at the heart of property records both from Bengal and Scotland. And both in Bengal and Scotland, a word that has the same origin in Sanskrit and Latin was used to describe the transaction and give it legal force. So in two early medieval societies, 6,000 miles apart with no known contemporary connections or influences, had evolved an almost exactly similar way of recording transfer of property in strikingly parallel terms and using directly related vocabulary and philosophical concepts.” Davies made the statement during a recent online lecture as part of the Stories of World Culture, an Indian Museum’s virtual initiative during the pandemic. Davies and retired Calcutta University professor Swapna Bhattacharya, who has worked on Indian copper plates and European charters, collaborated and co-edited a book on these findings, Copper, Parchment and Stone: Studies in the Sources of Land Holding and Lordship in Early Medieval Bengal and Medieval Scotland, published by the Centre of Scottish and Celtic Studies of Glasgow University. Glasgow University has decided to include the findings of Davies and Bhattacharya in the first-year undergraduate and postgraduate syllabus. Classes on the topic will start next year. Regarding its inclusion in the history course, Joanna Tucker, a history lecturer at Glasgow University, said in a WhatsApp message to Metro: “The digitisation of texts and the surge in availability of digital resources have partly (and paradoxically) led to a new appreciation of the ‘physicality’ of our manuscript sources…. One recent publication (Davies, 2019) compares Indian and Scottish gifts of property in parchment charters and in copper and stone inscriptions. This provides a way to show our students that recent work in the field of medieval Scottish history has been taking a global perspective….” Davies found further similarities like properties could be owned outright forever. A very similar conceptual, linguistic and textual framework evolved to guarantee the conveyance and ownership of property. The king was the supreme authenticating authority, provided he is the legitimate heir proved by the publication of his genealogy in copper, stone or parchments that he could govern and guarantee the rights of his subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Flag sales drop||Not many shops in the twin townships will be decked up with Tricolour flags and badges this week. Like everything else, the pandemic has taken a toll on the Independence Day shopping list. “Remember how hawkers would run up to cars at traffic signals and sell miniature flags around August 15? They are selling masks now,” says Sarman Pandit of Modern Decoration Centre in CA Market. “These small time hawkers would buy flags from us before but this year none of them have showed up.” Students Corner, a stationery shop in GD Market, will not have a single Tricolour flag, badge or wristband on sale this year. “I am unwell and I don’t have the manpower to go buy these memorabilia from Burrabazar. Other stationery items are delivered to us by companies but such seasonal products have to be picked up in person,” says Bappa Sarkar, who runs the store. Another stationery shop in GD Market — Loknath Stores — has some paper printouts of the tricolour and table flags. “One or two customers have asked for flags on straws — that cost Rs 3 to 5 — but that’s it,” says Ajit Kundu. “Neither is there demand this year nor do we have much to offer.” Sri Guru Bhandar in IA Market will display flags, badges and tricolour wristbands from today. “But we haven’t bought anything afresh. We are simply selling leftovers from last year,” says Rishiraj Ghosh, who runs the store. “In other years, nearby hotels and hospitals would come buy merchandise to decorate their premises but this year one can hardly expect them. The bulk of buyers would be students using the items for programmes at school. Even that won’t be happening this year.” Nonetheless they are stocked with Rs 10 badges of India’s flag and map and Rs 10 synthetic wrist bands. The price of cotton flags begins from Rs 25 and the largest 6ft silk flags cost Rs 220. IA Market traders will themselves be hoisting the Tricolour on Saturday with a flag from this store. At New Town Gift Gallery in Eden Shop, Nasirul Islam says they have about 10 per cent stock of what they had last year. “And it is all last year’s leftovers taken out of cold storage. Students and offices from the nearby DLF building would be our main customers but now schools are shut and offices are operating from home so we haven’t bought anything new,” says Islam. Prasenjit Pal had gone to Needs, a miscellaneous store in Baisakhi, to buy drawing books for his three-year-old when he got attracted to an inflatable Tricolour. “My son has an online Independence Day programme from his playschool this year. They haven’t really asked him to get any flags but this inflatable one looks cute and I’m taking one home for him.” The Baisakhi store has a good collection of Independence Day merchandise — ribbons, paper hats with ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ written, paper flags, badges…. “We have the works but sales are low,” Nitai Chandra Debnath shakes his head. “In other years, customers buy big flags as well as small ones to place in cars and on bikes. This year the saving grace is this inflatable flag that is a novelty and hence being picked up by some. It costs between Rs 30 and 40.” Srimaa, a clothing store in CK Market, has a mannequin with a tricolour sash over a kurta. “We went and bought 30 to 40 such satin scarves before Independence Day. They are quite popular for dances and other stage programmes and even if they don’t sell this week, I’m sure they will sell off and on around the year,” says Tamosha Mukherjee. The scarves cost Rs 50. Even though retails sales may be modest, Modern Decoration Centre in CA Market says they have been contacted by offices in New Town to decorate their premises. “We shall do so with tricolour balloons, ribbons and flags. We’ve got to make the best of the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
14-08-2020||Calcutta||Green body glare on garbage||The National Green Tribunal has recently warned Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), New Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and the environment department of “civil imprisonment, withholding of the salary of concerned personnel, payment of penalty” if the agencies fail to comply its orders regarding waste management in East Calcutta Wetlands, an wetland of international repute. The order was passed on July 28 in response to a petition filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta in 2019, alleging illegal dumping of solid waste in Mollar Bheri over a long period within the wetlands area, seriously impacting the ecosystem. The wetlands are considered the kidneys of Calcutta and its fringe areas for their ability to naturally filter the waste water. A senior BMC official admitted to the delay but claimed that they had been trying hard to comply with the tribunal directive. The tribunal pointed out that the action of the civic body was not adequate on the basis of its submitted affidavit while pointing out that the NDITA, the NKDA and the environment department had not even submitted the affidavit despite the tribunal’s order. Petitioner Datta earlier pointed out with photographic evidence that all these agencies failed to protect the wetland area from waste contamination. “We have noted the action taken by the BMC… however we do not find the actions to be adequate in terms of its speed and no tangible result found tangible,” observed the principal bench of the tribunal constituted of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda. The bench also pointed out that the civic body had failed to stick to the timeline fixed by itself regarding proper solid waste management, including removal of legacy waste besides the Mollar Bheri (wetlands) located within East Calcutta Wetlands where Salt Lake and fringe urban local bodies have been disposing solid waste for a number of years. A Calcutta high court directive in the early 1990s prohibited the change of land use character in the East Calcutta Wetlands. The Ramsar ratification in the early 2000s came as a formal acknowledgement of its status as a wetlands of international importance; and finally the 2016 wetlands norms of the union government bar any change of land use within the wetlands including disposal of solid waste. Datta complained that the waste and its run off have been polluting the wetlands which, apart from impacting the wetland ecology, also affects the livelihoods of thousands depending on the ecosystem. During the last hearing on video, the bench expressed displeasure that its earlier orders have not been carried out by BMC, along with NDITA, NKDA and state environment department; the last three, according to the bench, did not even submit the affidavit. “We make it clear that failure to comply with the direction even during the extended period shall entail issuance of coercive orders which would include civil imprisonment, withholding of the salary of concerned personnel, payment of penalty, environmental compensation etc,” reads the order. “Our first two tenders about removing the legacy waste from Mollar Bheri have to be cancelled and now we are in process of a third tender which will be opened in mid-August,” said Debasish Ghosh, commissioner of BMC. Ghosh however claimed that they were now disposing of the waste in Dhapa and also shared that the process of shifting the legacy waste to the Dhapa area had started following the norm of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The next hearing is listed on September 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-342
