15-08-2020||Calcutta||Govt's nudge to authorities managing 'safe homes' for oxygen||The health department has told hospitals and the authorities managing “safe homes” to ensure adequate supply of oxygen, officials said. At the state-run MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge, for instance, the daily oxygen requirement was around 50,000 litres in the pre-Covid times. Now, the demand varies between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh litres. MR Bangur is a dedicated Covid hospital. At safe homes stay Covid patients with mild to moderate symptoms, who may suddenly need oxygen support. “When the coronavirus infects the lungs, it usually results in shortage of oxygen,” said pulmonologist Sumit Sengupta. “In order to make up for the shortage created by the viral infection, oxygen needs to be supplied from outside. It is not a treatment but support.” Health department officials said uninterrupted supply of oxygen was emerging as the most important “life-saving support” for many Covid-19 patients with lung infection. “We have asked hospitals and authorities of safe homes to make arrangements for uninterrupted flow of oxygen,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of the department of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital, who is leading the team of doctors for Covid-19 management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Mothers with Covid can breastfeed: Doctors||The Covid-19 pandemic has led to fear that breastfeeding mothers “might transmit” the virus to newborns, said doctors. The doctors asserted that the fear was unfounded and mothers who have symptoms of the disease or tested positive can continue to breastfeed their babies as long as they take some precautions like washing their hands frequently and wearing a mask while nursing babies. Breast milk is the best source of nutrition for babies and it is imperative that newborns are not denied the nutrition, they added. A city paediatrician said she came across multiple cases where the mothers who had tested positive for Covid-19 were scared to breastfeed their babies. “Doctors give a detailed explanation to mothers and they understand. But when they go home from hospital, family members separate the baby and the mother out of fear,” she said. Counselling of mothers and family members and awareness of the community play a key role in debunking myths, said experts. “There is nothing that suggests that the virus is transmitted through breast milk. Wearing a mask and washing hands regularly are two things that breastfeeding mothers should do regularly to ensure the safety of the newborns,” said Apurba Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health. Nurses in Covid wards are also facing resistance from family members in getting too close to their babies, said doctors. “All mothers should breastfeed their babies, irrespective of their Covid status. They should maintain respiratory hygiene. A mother should not be separated from her baby unless she is extremely ill,” said Neena Ghosh, a paediatrician associated with the Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan. Some “Actions for breastfeeding mothers” on the WHO website are: ⚫Practice respiratory hygiene, including during feeding. If you have respiratory symptoms such as being short of breath, use a medical mask when near your child ⚫Wash your hands thoroughly with soap or sanitiser before and after contact with your child ⚫Routinely clean and disinfect any surfaces you touch “We have witnessed a 250 per cent rise in Indians consulting online for gynaecology since March and one of the most discussed topics was breastfeeding,” said a spokesperson of Practo, a digital healthcare platform. Arockia Virgin Fernando, a gynaecologist who consults on Practo, said: “The Covid-19 virus does not spread during the time of delivery and the only possibility it might infect a child is through air post-birth.” August 1 to 7 was the International Breastfeeding Week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||IIEST hostel asks graduating students to clear out belongings||IIEST, Shibpur, has asked its graduating students, who had left hostels in the third week of March because of the Covid pandemic, to take away their belongings by August 31. The students have been asked to share information such as which states they are from, whether their homes are in containment zones and how they will travel to the campus so that a schedule can be drawn up for them to take away their belongings from hostels safely, an official said. The students have to report to their respective hostels from 10am to 4pm and each will get maximum one hour to remove their items. An official of the institute said the students had been asked to fill in a Google form uploaded on the institute’s website to share the relevant information by August 17. “Until the hostels are cleared of the belongings, we cannot sanitise the buildings,” said Nirmalya Kumar Bhattacharyya, deputy registrar, academic. Asked why the institute wants to find out whether any student is coming from a containment zone, an official said the information would help them take additional precautions before letting him or her into the campus. A notice issued by Debabrata Mazumder, dean, students’ welfare, says: “They (the students) will send prior intimation about their arrival to the warden, with the copy to the chief warden and dean (students’ welfare). All the personal health safety measures including physical distancing will be complied by the concerned students”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Prized localities on city's new Covid containment zones list||Several areas in Ballygunge feature on the latest list of Covid containment zones published on Friday. Among the new additions are Queen’s Park, Rowland Road and Ballygunge Circular Road. Rainey Park and Hazra Road, which featured on the previous list, are there on Friday’s list as well. The list of containment zones is updated every three to four days. The latest list has 29 places. Of them, eight are in Ward 69, in the Ballygunge area. “Ward 69 has become a place of concern for us. Over 30 cases have been reported from the ward in the last few days. So, we felt that some of the places from where the cases have been reported should be turned into containment zones,” said Sandip Ranjan Bakshi, the coordinator of Borough VIII that covers Ballygunge. Bakshi said two adjacent buildings on Rowland Road — 14 Rowland Road and 14A Rowland Road — have been declared as containment zones. One more address on Rowland Road is on the list. The previous list — published on Monday — had only one address from Rowland Road. That has been removed from Friday’s list. “Officials of the civic health department are trying to find out if there is any particular source of infection on Rowland Road,” said Bakshi. The latest list for North 24-Parganas does not have any place from Salt Lake. Duttabad, on the fringes of Salt Lake, is a containment zone. A dozen areas in Dum Dum have been earmarked as containment zones. Those include places under two civic bodies - South Dum Dum Municipality and Dum Dum Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University application from August 18||Students keen on joining undergraduate courses at Jadavpur University can submit application forms online from August 18, officials of the institute said. The process was to start on Friday but the university was forced to defer it to update its admission portal in line with a government advisory that aspirants cannot be charged any application fee this year. The higher education department announced on Thursday evening that the universities and colleges across the state could not charge undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses because of the adverse impact of the Covid pandemic. The applicants cannot be charged for scanning/uploading documents as well, education minister Partha Chatterjee had said. JU used to charge an applicant Rs 100 for each subject. The portal for admissions to BA and BSc courses was supposed to be activated on August 14. A notice posted on the university’s website said: “In view of an order of the government of West Bengal, concerning waiving of payment of application fees, some technical aspects have to be modified on the admission portal. Accordingly the online application process for admission to BA and BSc courses will be started from August 18. Details of the application process will be available on and from August 18”. Application forms will have to be submitted by September 4, pro-vice-chancellor Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya said. At JU, a candidate can apply for multiple subjects. Till last year, an applicant had to pay separately for each course, an official of the university said. Now, be it one application or multiple applications, a candidate will not be charged anything, he said. Candidates cannot be charged for applying in multiple colleges as well, an official of the department said. JU had originally planned to activate the site on August 10 in keeping with a July 16 advisory of the state government. But the start had to be delayed to make the system ready for online payment. The education department has ordered that this year fees would have to be paid online or through designated banks. Candidates have been barred from paying the fees on the campus as a precaution against Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Airport business stalls and retiring rooms take off||There’s hardly any commercial activity at the city airport because of the pandemic but the revamped retiring rooms and dormitories in the terminal building are doing a roaring business. The number of flights has reduced drastically and so has the number of passengers. But a long time gap between connecting flights and the fear of getting infected with Covid-19 have ensured passengers in transit who would earlier spend the night at a relative’s place in Calcutta are now check-ing into these rooms and dormitories. The airport’s new terminal building has 23 rooms, each with two beds, and two 10-bed dormitories for men and women. “After flights resumed, the retiring rooms and dormitories are having an almost 80 per cent occupancy daily,” Kaushik Bhattacharya, airport director, said. “We had to reduce the capacity by 50 per cent in the dormitories to maintain safe distance between two beds. We sanitise the rooms after each passenger checks out.” The twin-bed rooms used to be given to two passengers; now, only one passenger or a family is allowed, Bhattacharya said. Mouyukh Roy, who works in Bangalore, was headed home to Silchar when he landed at the Calcutta airport on Friday morning. He arrived with his wife and daughter, who is little over a year old, by an Air India flight from Bangalore. They are scheduled to take a SpiceJet flight to Silchar on Saturday morning. “Earlier, whenever I went home or returned to work via Calcutta, the transit time was two to three hours. If we had to spend the night, we used to stay at a relative’s place,” Roy said. “But this time, we didn’t go to any relatives’ place because of Covid. We are worried for our daughter.”
Roy said he was not aware of the accommodation facility at the airport. “The airport manager told me there is a facility that could be provided based on availability.” He paid around Rs 1,700 for staying the night. Another passenger said he was pleasantly surprised to see the cleanliness in the room he had taken. “We are used to seeing dirty washrooms at Calcutta airport. But the room and adjoining washroom are clean.” Almost 50 per cent of the standalone food and beverage counters, along with 75 per cent of the retail stores, have opened, an airport official said. “But these outlets do barely any business.” The food court and lounges are closed. Calcutta airport now has close to 110 flights arriving and taking off. Before the pandemic struck, the number was close to 500. The passenger count has gone down from the daily average of 60,000 to 14,000. But the retiring rooms and dormitories are always almost full. “On days of total lockdown, they are filled to capacity and we have to refuse many passengers,” an airport official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Insurance companies reject claims of mild Covid patients||Many Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms and admitted to private hospitals or satellite facilities are having their cashless insurance claims rejected because the insurance companies think they could have been treated at home. Insurance companies allege that many hospitals are admitting such patients because they need minimum treatment but the healthcare units can earn through diagnostic investigations. Public health experts and officials of various hospitals, however, said the purpose of taking out a medical insurance policy gets defeated if it is of no use during the pandemic. “As per the available documents/medical records, indication for the hospitalisation cannot be established hence cashless approval would not be possible at this juncture,” a Covid-19 patient who had been admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta received this message from the insurance company before he was discharged. The man was left with no option but to pay the entire amount from his pocket. In another case, a New Alipore resident alleged that his parents who had tested positive for Covid-19 were taken to Belle Vue Clinic for admission earlier this month. His father is 63 and mother, a diabetic, 61. “Belle Vue officials said that since my parents had mild symptoms, the cashless facility might be denied to them if they got admitted to the hospital.They suggested that my parents be admitted to the satellite facility run by Belle Vue,” said businessman Deepak Gupta. “A CT scan my father underwent before admission showed pneumonia. So, we got both admitted to the satellite centre. We were scared that if something happened to them at home and the doctor was not available over the phone, we might not be able to hospitalise them immediately,” he said. Later, the third-party administrator (TPA) said the claims were inadmissible. “The TPA told me I got my parents admitted only to get some investigations done. I told them that I could not have put their lives at risk by getting them admitted to hospital in this situation just to get some investigations done,” Gupta said. “The present claim is for treatment of Covid-19 positive. Patient is mainly admitted for investigation and observation purpose and treated with oral medicine and certificate given by treating doctor and discharge certificate revealed that it seems that present treatment is possible in an OPD basis or any institutional quarantine centre,” the TPA had written to Gupta. TPAs handle claims for insurance companies. Finally, Gupta had to pay Rs 2.25 lakh to get his parents discharged. He said he would file reimbursement claims with the insurance company. 
The health ministry and state government have advised asymptomatic Covid patients or those with mild symptoms to stay at home or satellite facilities so that hospital beds remain free for patients with moderate or severe symptoms. “But there are many asymptomatic patients who don’t have isolation facilities at home. There are others who have family members with co-morbidities, and so they want to be admitted,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “We have about 150 Covid patients at our hospitals, of whom around 35 are asymptomatic who have no home isolation facilities.” Officials of various private hospitals attributed refusals by insurance companies to confusion and mistrust. “Some insurance firms have issued clear guidelines for allowing cashless facilities for asymptomatic and mild symptom patients even if they are admitted at a satellite facility. Big insurance companies like National Insurance should come out with such clear guidelines, otherwise TPAs are confused over allowing claims,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. He said the hospital was frequently having patients whose cashless claims were rejected by insurance companies. Medica Superspecialty Hospital chairman Alok Roy said there were frequent problems over insurance claims for patients admitted at his hospital. Insurance companies said hospitals needed to have more transparency. “The advice for admission should be followed by an active line of treatment which is possible only in a hospital set-up. Otherwise, the claim might be inadmissible if it is only for quarantine or isolation. Hospitalisation should have a valid reason,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. An official of a private insurance company said there were homecare packages. “There are telemedicine and wellness cells of insurance agencies which support such patients (asymptomatic patients or ones with mild symptoms),” said Abhijit Banerjee, manager, claims department, Star Health Insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Taxi check reveals body in vegetable bag||Cops randomly checking vehicles near Science City early on Friday found a woman’s body in a sack stuffed with vegetables in a taxi’s boot. The taxi had two passengers, a man and a woman, apart from the driver when a police patrol from Pragati Maidan police station stopped the vehicle. The two have been identified as Malina Mandal, the prime accused, and Ajay Rang, a family friend, and the dead woman, Suja Mani Gayen, the police said. They apparently told cops they had killed the woman and that they were on their way to dispose of the body. Preliminary investigations showed Gayen was the mother-in-law of Mandal’s daughter, an officer of Pragati Maidan police station said. “It appears Mandal wanted to eliminate Gayen... she has said Gayen used to torture her daughter.” Mandal has said in her statement that she and her husband had thrashed Gayen, 60, with a bamboo stick before strangling her to death, the police said. Mandal, a resident of Arupota village in Chowbaga, is a vegetable vendor. She had chosen to hide the body in a sackful of vegetables, the police said. Gayen, a resident of Kabardanga in the Haridevpur area, was brought to Mandal’s home on some pretext. Mandal has claimed the motive behind the murder was the deceased woman’s torture against her daughter but cops are still to verify the claim. “We will question Mandal’s daughter to check the veracity of her mother’s claims. Even if the claims turn out to be true, it does not justify the killing,” an officer said. Mandal, her brother Basu Mandal, and Rang were arrested on charges of murder later on Friday. Her husband is still to be arrested. Investigations are on to find out if the taxi driver was involved in the crime, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
15-08-2020||Calcutta||Seized toucans in isolation at Alipore zoo||The pair of Keel-billed toucans that were seized by the BSF in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, on Thursday are in quarantine at the Alipore zoo hospital. The birds are “traumatised and have not been eating properly”, a zoo official said. The birds were headed to Bangladesh when a BSF team had seized them in the forests near Halderpara village close to the Angrail border outpost, the BSF had said on Thursday. “The birds are quite big… they could barely move inside the cage they had been crammed in. There was no provision for water or food,” S.S. Guleria, DIG, BSF (South Bengal Frontier), said. “Our men gave them fresh water, some fruits and maize.” On Friday morning, vets checked on the birds at the zoo and served them an assortment of apples, pineapples, pomegranates and citrus fruits. The zoo has a toucan at present, director Ashish Kumar Samanta said. “After the completion of their quarantine they will be moved into one of the bigger enclosures. We are not going too close to them… we are leaving them undisturbed as they are quite traumatised… they haven’t eaten much.” Smugglers transport birds and animals in dismal conditions, a forest department official said. “Their welfare is the last thing on the mind of smugglers. They just want to transport them secretly.” The Keel-billed toucans are native to the rainforests of South America.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-341
