16-08-2020||Calcutta||Salute to Covid fighters on Independence Day||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee stepped off the dais during the Independence Day parade on Red Road to  greet and felicitate 25 Calcuttans who have survived Covid-19 and returned to fight against the pandemic. The list includes doctors, nurses, lab technicians, ambulance drivers, resource teachers, block development officers, Asha workers, cleaning staff and police personnel. All the 25 people had got infected while on duty. Among them was hospital cleaner Manoj Kumar Ram from Beleghata ID hospital and Jitendra Hela from the School of Tropical Medicine. There were Asha workers Ratna Karmakar from the Nalmuri block primary health centre in South 24-Parganas and Sufiya Khatoon from the Biswanathpur block primary health centre at Deganga, North 24-Parganas. The list of doctors included Narayan Chattopadhyay from Howrah district hospital, Shabnam Banu and S.M. Ayaz Ahmed from Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and BDOs Kamrul Islam and Bipratim Basak from Minakhan (North 24-Parganas) and Kultali (South 24-Parganas). The list included ambulance driver Riyaz Gazi from Madhyamgram Municipality and laboratory technician Bani Kumar Patra from RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. Many personnel have been subjected to humiliation in their neighbourhoods, stigmatised for what they do and threatened. They have stuck on with their work despite the hardships. Unlike other years, the Independence Day parade was not opened to the public, keeping in mind the pandemic. The event was attended by a handful of dignitaries. At the beginning of the event, Mamata Banerjee came down from the dais and met the 25 Covid warriors on Red Road. “She spoke to each of them and greeted them for their courage for winning the Covid war and joining their office where they are again dedicated to fight Covid,” an officer present at the ceremony said. The chief minister had been praising and supporting the role of personnel who have risked their lives to serve others during this crisis. According to sociologist Upal Chakrabarti of Presidency University, the felicitation of 25-odd “Covid warriors” was not just a felicitation of a few individuals but it sends a larger message to society on the service rendered by the entire fraternity who are braving the pandemic to do their duty. “This is not just a positive message to all those who offered this service, which is no less than national service beyond political boundaries, but also a strong message that Covid is not about spreading panic but is a matter of management.” Around 50 members of the community had gathered at the mosque, wearing masks and maintaining social distance. A community scout band played the national anthem before the flag was hoisted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Calcutta||Bitcoin gang at work?  Probe on||The city police’s detective department is investigating if an organised gang is at work across Calcutta and neighbouring areas cheating people by promising them hefty returns from bitcoin investments. The investigation comes in the wake of the arrest of Sujan Rakshit from his office in Hazra on Friday. Rakshit was arrested for cheating Sayantan Bhanja of Rs 1.28 crore by making him invest in bitcoins, police said. In his complaint with the police, Bhanja has alleged that between January 2017 and March 2018 he had invested Rs 1.52 crore in Rakshit’s firm. He has said that Rakshit paid him Rs 24.22 lakh as returns from the investment to gain his trust. Of this amount Rakshit had returned Rs 3.5 lakh in two months in 2018. When the returns stopped from April 2018, Bhanja visited Rakshit’s Hazra office and found it to always locked, he has said in the complaint. He filed the complaint in December 2019 and the detective department’s special cell started investigating the matter. A team of officers froze two of Rakshit’s bank accounts in two private banks. But he remained untraceable. On Friday, officers learnt he had returned to his Hazra office. A team raided the office and arrested him. Rakshit has pleaded ignorance and said he has been framed. A city court has sent him to police custody till August 19, an officer said. “Bhanja had met Rakshit in the Baghajatin area in 2016. He had introduced himself to Bhanja as the CEO of an investment company,” a detective department officer said. “Bhanja was then looking for avenues to invest in order to expand his business.” In the course of the next few meetings, Rakshit told Bhanja about bitcoins. One of his executives even followed up the matter with Bhanja. Bhanja ended up paying Rs 1.52 crore, the police said. When he realised he had been cheated, he filed the complaint. In April, singer Anupam Roy had lodged a complaint with the police alleging he had received a mail where the sender claimed to have accessed his personal data and demanded payment in bitcoins to let go his personal data. The same month, two professionals, who were working from home and using an app to make video calls, had received ransomware threats demanding payment in bitcoins, an officer said. The complainants had said they received a specific link in their mails to buy bitcoins, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Calcutta||Time for all to speak out against fundamentalism||India completed 73 years as an Independent nation on August 15. With a total population of 138.13 crore as of August 7, 2020, which is 17.7 per cent of the world’s population, India is the largest democracy in the world. It is a fact that a third of the world’s poor live in India. In our country, 27.1 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line. The per capita income is $2,500, which is 1/13 of developed countries. India ranks 129 in the human development index in 2019. India faces, besides economic and political instability, frequent ethnic and communal outbursts, which have proved fatal to its overall development. India, the cradle of religions, is steeped in a sense of the sacred. We sense a cosmic worldview to life with rich cultural diversity expressed in art, architecture, music and the rich classical and folk traditions. But modern social media, IT and LPG (liberalisation, privatisation, globalisation) forces are posing a serious threat to its much-desired development. The glaring reality of the vast multitude of poor, the varied deprivation and dehumanisation, rampant corruption and injustice and the inevitable exclusion of the displaced, untouchable, women, indigenous and migrant communities confront India. The exploitation of our ecosystems further aggravates the plight of the poor. Democracy is a communications-intensive mode of governance in which individuals play a more direct role through “the power of citizen-to-citizen communications”, which benefits both themselves and their community. A successful society is one that gives opportunities to its citizens and promotes its capacities in equality so that citizens think, work, grow and develop in an atmosphere of freedom. The contentment of citizens is closely linked to the level of political and social empowerment they have. Where citizens control the agenda, stability and contentment is enhanced. Even though we have made some progress, government systems and administrative functioning have many weaknesses and inadequacies, which are proving quite a handicap in providing satisfactory deliverance of services to people. The present political system and the process require purification so that political will is strengthened to take necessary action against forces that generate corruption and sow the seeds of division, casteism, hatred and communal violence. There is a need for transparency and accountability at all levels. India’s legal and judicial systems are highly sophisticated and well developed. Despite that, it has not kept pace with the changing needs arising from increasing population, increase in number of laws, increase in industrial activities and other changes resulting in inordinate delays in disposal of cases. The present judicial system does not render speedy justice to people. A comprehensive review of the system is required. Secularism in India is different from the western concept of the state in confrontation with the Church. Indian secularism was born out of an experience, a painful process of national liberation struggles. The Fathers of our Constitution had reasons to introduce secularism in our country: fear of disorder arising from dangerous forces of political movements associated with militant Hindu nationalism, Muslim separatism, Hindu-Muslim communalism and so on. Nehru condemned casteism and communalism. He observed that communalism was fascism in India and favoured secularism. For him, secularism was necessarily a civilised behaviour. This was to transcend religious, cultural, caste differences and combat militant communalist forces. Human civilisation has brought into focus the significance of secular ideals, and there is a growing consciousness to support and nurture this type of societies. Today, almost all countries in the world have come to accept that secularism is sine quo non for democratic governance. To establish a peaceful and just society, secularist principles and democratic polity are indispensable. All true religions have an immense potential for tolerance. Each religious community claims that theirs is the most tolerant religion of our time. Their claim is true so long as they recognise other religions as different ways leading to the same goal. Tolerance is a normative value; yes, but it is not an answer to the fundamentalist danger to unity and integrity of our country. In today’s context, what we need is to affirm and perpetuate: rootedness of every believer in his/her religion; acceptance of the other and his/her religious belief and practice; and ongoing dialogues between different religions. These are the principles that will pave the way for a healthy atmosphere of respect, tolerance and acceptance of each other, of each religious tradition and enable us to live together as Indians in peace and harmony. There is an urgent need for spirituality that considers persons as subjects and not objects of history. A spirituality that considers men and women as sacred, unique, irreplaceable and irreducible human beings, free by nature and called to transcendence. A spirituality that is human and acceptable to all religions. It should recognise the cultural diversity, the uniqueness of national and local cultures and heritage. Steeped in the sense of the sacred, it should take a holistic approach to life that life is sacred and that all beings journey towards the cosmic unity. Spirituality plays a major role in building human communities based on peace and harmony. Spirituality liberates and empowers through a sense of shared purpose. Such a sense of purpose is a prerequisite for national unity and social cohesion. To lack a shared sense of purpose is to invite drift and division. Spirituality, with its regenerating power, holds the promise of a new beginning. Optimisation of the wholeness of humanity with a special focus on human development and well-being is the quintessential spiritual purpose. It is spirituality that sustains development in society. It is the soul of all human actions. It is a powerful tool, which could bring religions together to fight against the dangers of globalisation: materialism, egocentrism, consumerism, and destruction of the environment and the crises of family and neighbourhood ties. It is time now for all academics, thinkers, philosophers, theologians and the like to come out openly and speak out against the dangers of fundamentalism and its offshoots of disorder, and undo, with the weapon of their wisdom, all that has gone wrong. Politicians are not capable of doing this job. All that they normally seek is power and for more power, they justify any means. If the age of enlightenment and of science has brought changes in the west, our intervention at this juncture will definitely put the wheels of our country on the right track. What the German Bishop Niemoler said about the situation under Hitler might teach us something: “When Nazis put communists in the concentration camp, I did not protest because I was not a communist; when they persecuted the social democrats, I did not protest because I was not a social democrat; when they massacred the Jews, I did not protest because I was not a Jew; when they banned all political parties and trade unions, I did not protest because I was not one of them; when they came for me, there was no one to speak for me.” The author is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Kolkata||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
16-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency online form filing from August 18||Undergraduate aspirants at Presidency University can start submitting forms online from August 18. The process will go on till September 1. “Candidates will not be charged any application fee. They can apply for a maximum of two subjects,” registrar Debajyoti Konar said. Except for statistics and economics, the merit list for all subjects will be based on marks obtained in the secondary and higher secondary board exams. September 5 has been fixed as the tentative date for the publication of merit list and other lists. The admission notification uploaded on the university’s website on Saturday says how the subject-wise merit list will be drawn up factoring in the weightage from board marks. The admission notification contains two tables — one for the parameters and the other explaining the formula for preparing the academic score. The parameter for chemistry honours says average percentage of marks obtained in physical science and life science or the percentage of marks obtained in science in the Class X board exams and the percentage of marks obtained in chemistry, mathematics and English in the Plus II board exams will be factored in. The formula for preparing the score says from each of the four parameters, 25 per cent weightage will be taken to prepare the merit list. In physics honours, the percentage of marks obtained in mathematics, along with the average percentage of marks obtained in physical science and life science or the percentage of marks obtained in science will be considered from the Class X board results. “This will be added to the percentage of aggregate marks and that obtained in mathematics in the Plus II board exams. Here, too, from each of the four parameters, 25 per cent weightage will be taken to prepare the merit list,” a university official said. The teachers of the physics and chemistry departments had proposed in the previous meeting of the admission committee on the science that apart from factoring in Plus II board results, the scores in physical science and mathematics in Madhyamik be considered, given that the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education could not hold tests in the papers because of the pandemic. The students had the best marks in the papers they had written awarded to the ones they could not. In case of a tie, candidates will be judged considering their percentage of aggregate marks obtained in HS or equivalent exam at the first instance. If the tie persists, the process will be repeated considering the percentage of marks obtained by them in Madhyamik or equivalent 10th standard exam. “If the tie still exists, all such candidates will be placed in the same rank and considered for admission with a method called bunching effect,” Konar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
