17-08-2020||Calcutta||Alipore Zoo goes online||The Alipore zoo is closed to visitors because of the Covid pandemic. But animal lovers can now get a peek into the enclosures every day. The zoo authorities have started to upload live feed of the animal enclosures on Facebook. The feed is based on footage from the CCTV cameras inside the enclosures. The facility was launched on Sunday (in picture). “We will have two sessions every day —  from 9am to 10am, and from 3pm to 4pm. Each session will show an enclosure,” said a zoo official. On Day 1, the feed from the chimpanzee enclosure was shared. The service was inaugurated by forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who also felicitated the keepers and vets of the zoo for their role during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Children should be able to think independently without fear||Independence is not just about hoisting the national flag. It should also mean an ability to think independently without fear, said those working with children. Children should be free from abuse, child marriage and trafficking, said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Only by hoisting the flag one does not become free. Freedom has many layers to it. We know there are many challenges in people’s lives to live or think independently. So on this day we should all pledge that we will support anybody who thinks independently... and children should be free from exploitation, child marriage, sexual abuse, trafficking and they should be entitled to the right to study, play and lead a healthy life…. That is the independence we want for our children,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. She was speaking at a webinar on “Freedom from Fear” organised by the commission on Saturday, the country’s 74th Independence Day. “The adults need to understand that if we let children think independently and give them courage, then they will be able to lead independent lives,” said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram. Chatterjee Chakraborti later said fear was not a good thing to live with. “Parents have to trust their children and make them independent rather than impose their dogmas on them. Children should learn on their own and parents have to guide them and show them the path but the choice has to be the child’s,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. Adults often intrude on the free space of children, which in some cases could be as heinous as exploitation and abuse, and can have a serious outcome, said Ram. He stressed the need to work with families where children are abused but a complaint under the Pocso Act cannot be filed for various reasons. “If a family is not ready to lodge a case, we have to be respectful of their decisions also…but we cannot stop working with them… rehabilitation has a huge significance for the child and family,” said Ram. “There has to be systemic changes, handholding, reassurance that the family or the child needs,” Ram later said. The session was moderated by Yashabanti Sreemany, a member of the commission and a counsellor. “When children or their families come to us we counsel them to come out and talk about the wrong that they have faced. The perpetrators should also not go free,” said Sreemany. Other panellists included Sudeshna Roy, a special consultant of the commission, and actors June, Arjun Chakraborty, Sudipta Chakraborty and Chaiti Ghoshal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||New Town property tax deadline extended ||The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has extended the deadline for paying self-assessed property tax of the 2019-2020 financial year to December 31 keeping in view the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown to contain it. The original deadline for tax payment was June 2, an NKDA official said. The decision to extend the last date of tax payment was taken after several residents requested the New Town authorities for a “breather given the pandemic situation”, the official said. According to another NKDA official, a total of 17,353 residents paid their taxes by June 2. Another reason cited for extending the deadline is requests from non-resident Calcuttans owning property in New Town, who were unaware of the introduction of taxes and therefore failed to pay in time. “In consideration of the genuine time constraints faced by many, the authority has considered and reviewed the deadline for self-assessment and payment of tax,” the official said Tapan Chakraborty, who owns two apartments in Greenfield Heights, said he was happy that the NKDA had heeded their requests. “We are rarely stepping out because of the pandemic,” he said. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had trained Tax Sathis to help the residents go about the assessment and filing process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Sweet poise between old and new||A city usually comes with two kinds of environmental heritage: natural and built. In Calcutta both are under tremendous threat. About our city being the cultural capital of India, the less said the better. Calcutta, many feel now, has only one real heritage item to showcase: its food. The city lives, breathes and certainly eats its food. The past is never disowned when it comes to food. It is cherished, rediscovered, maintained and even fought over. Look how passionately Bengal staked its claim to rosogolla. True, tradition is often subjected to “fusion”; and the purist may object to a lyangcha tart. But done well, it leaves a much better aftertaste than bling on Tangail. Not that Calcutta food — especially its world of mishtis — is sweet and uncomplicated. The lyangcha is being challenged by the tart. Also, there is a caste system. When it comes to mishtis, the North looks down on the South. Ask a connoisseur about the heritage mishti shops of Calcutta and he is likely to rattle off a procession of names that spell vintage, class and refinement: Girish and Nakur, Bhabatarini, Makhanlal Das, Putiram, Haridas Modak and Bhim Chandra Nag. None of these addresses are located in the other side of Dharmatala. Yes, there may be a Balaram or a Mithai in the South, but North Calcutta is a star-studded show. So a place like Mrityunjay Ghosh and Sons, or just “Mrityunjay” as it is known in and around Lansdowne Road, where it is located, almost opposite Lansdowne Market, does not enjoy that privileged a place in this hierarchy. Those who know Mrityunjay, however, think of it as joy in the morning, to quote P.G. Wodehouse. The air around the almost 90-year-old shop, which has the names of its mishtis and savoury items written in clear bold, Bengali letters in white against blue on its spectacular front, is redolent with the smells of its kochuri and singara. The singara has a slightly sweet edge.  The matarshuti kochuri and the radhaballabhi are served with aloor torkari or chholar dal. They are fried fresh. It is hard for the morning walker to ignore that smell and keep going. The lyangchas are soft, succulent and plump. But the most special item served here is roshomundir payesh — tiny rosogollas half-drowned in sweet heavy thickened milk. The man behind the counter, which is a rectangle cut out on the front, is also the proprietor of Mrityunjay, Somnath Ghosh. He is as unassuming as the shop he runs. The sales from the shop has gone down quite a lot during the lockdown. But that does not prevent Ghosh from there every day at the shop from early morning. He admits that his shop is well-loved in the locality, and adds that one of the most famous Bengali celebrities was among his loyal customers, but he looks slightly surprised about his interview. The shop was started by his grandfather, Mrityunjay, a resident of Howrah who came over to the South. It was handed down to his father and then he joined the business. “That was in 1978, after I graduated in commerce from South City College,” Ghosh said. He takes me through the contents of the old-fashioned showcase that houses the mishtis. An unperturbed, jovial, friendly man, he is most willing to answer my questions, but has very little to say about himself. “The main thing is the chhana ,” he said. Almost nothing has changed in the shop since its beginning. Above hangs the beamed ceiling, from which are suspended two large whirring ceiling fans. On one wall hang two large framed photographs, of Ghosh’s father and grandfather. Two attendants help Ghosh man the shop. The only piece of decoration in the whole establishment is its inscribed front. “And we use fresh ingredients,” adds Ghosh, still answering the question on what makes the mishtis special. But listening to his voice inside the barely-lit shop, a feeling of stillness seems to be settling down inside you along with the gorgeous roshomundi you have just had, muting the din of a busy Calcutta street, noisy despite the lockdown. Everything around Mrityunjay has changed. The buildings, the shops. Just opposite Mrityunjay is a shop called Selfie. Mrityunjay items have not changed, too. The different types of sandesh with a coloured layer, chhanar jilipi, rosogolla, pantua, seeta bhog, kalakand — all remain the same as the past, from the time of his grandfather. “I have only added the gur-kalakand,” says Ghosh. The use of gur in making mishtis throughout the year is one big change from the past. He has stopped short of experimenting with the newer ingredients, like chocolate. At this point my reverie about the past is broken rudely. Ghosh informs me that he is just waiting to “modernise” the place. He is prevented from doing so at the moment because of some practical reasons, but will definitely as soon as he can. What will he change? “Everything,” he says. He points at the showcase, the wall cupboards with the wooden doors, everything. I suddenly feel another little piece of old Calcutta disappearing. But in a city like ours, one person’s heritage is another’s inconvenience. And in the absence of any real thinking about heritage by the authorities, modernisation only means a complete overhaul of the past. But Ghosh did not say anything about the modernisation of the mishtis. I hold on to that as I walk away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid note during discharge to clear confusion about double swab test||Covid-19 patients in hospitals or safe homes will get a note during discharge which will mention that they do not need to undergo any more swab test to confirm that they are free of the novel coronavirus, health department officials said. The department has taken the decision following reports that there is confusion among people about the need for a swab test immediately before a Covid-19 patient is discharged as well as after discharge, the officials said. “It has been observed that there is a large degree of confusion amongst Covid affected patients, their relatives, in the neighbourhoods and people at large regarding the need of testing before discharge from hospitals or safe homes,” reads the order issued on Friday by the state’s director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty. The order includes a text that should be part of every discharge certificate. “The patient was suffering from Covid-19 and was under treatment from… to.... The patient is now stable and discharged with advice for home isolation for next 7 days. He is instructed to follow all the home isolation guidelines strictly and to report to the local hospital if any symptoms appear at any time. Further test for Covid-19 is not necessary as per the ICMR protocol,” the text reads. The note will also mention the duration of a patient’s stay in hospital. “There was a lot of confusion among people whether a negative report of Covid-19 is needed or not during discharge. As per guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), such a test report is not needed. We have now circulated a text that doctors should write during discharge of patients,” said Chakraborty. The discharge note is necessary because several patients were asked to provide a negative test result before they are allowed to return to their apartments and/or neighbourhoods. Metro had on August 7 reported that a recovered Covid-19 patient in a south Calcutta apartment was asked by the residents’ welfare association to get tested after 14 days and then step out. In the absence of any clear communication from the health department, the residents’ welfare associations of many housing complexes and standalone buildings are taking it upon themselves to decide when a resident who has recovered from Covid will step out. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and mentor of Covid Care Network (an organisation comprising doctors, officials and people who have recovered from Covid-19), said the organisation had received requests for certificates from many recovered patients. “There was a need for a clear order from the government…. We have been receiving requests from many recovered patients to give them a certificate that they do not need to undergo a test,” said Chowdhury. Patients in home isolation can get such a certificate from the doctor who advised home isolation, an official said. Sanjib Bandopadhyay, a doctor at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Beleghata, said some doctors were issuing those certificates. “The ICMR protocol said any mild or moderate patient who is discharged from hospital and stays in home isolation for seven days does not need to undergo a test,” he said. “If any doctor declines to give the certificate, the patient can come to our Covid-19 follow-up clinic.” The clinic is held every Wednesday, from 11am to 2pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
17-08-2020||Calcutta||Smartphone, data pack for 800 Jadavpur University students for online classes||Jadavpur University will provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to 800-odd students so they can attend online classes, which are to start on September 14. The university had carried out a survey among the students of engineering, science and arts faculty and the study revealed that as many as 800-odd students are in need of support, said a university official. The students in need of help have been split into two categories. “The students who do not have a smartphone are in the first category. And those who do have a smartphone but lack a high-speed data pack to download lectures and audio visual presentations from the university’s website or social media are in the second category,” the official said. “We will distribute smartphones and high-speed data to the students who need them,” vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. “A large number of students need a data pack. We have decided to raise a corpus. The teachers have been asked to contribute a day’s salary. The university will approach business houses for funds to buy the devices for the learners.” JU has 600 teachers and around Rs 10 lakh can be raised if each donates a day’s salary, a teacher said. Classes in non-contact mode, which will not require students to come to the campus, will start in September. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had advised the teachers to come up with models on how classes can start. In response the teachers suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. A university official said some teachers had suggested creating a central repository on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials would be uploaded. “Since the central repository will fall short of adequate space for so many lectures and audio-visual presentation, it has been proposed that the lectures and study materials be also uploaded on YouTube. Students will be given a link to download the content from the platform,” said the official. Partha Pratim Roy, an associate professor of physics at JU, said they had urged the VC to have an outreach approach so that students lacking basic connectivity were not left out of the classes. Many students in JU are from the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas, which suffered immense destruction after being hit by Cyclone Amphan on May 20. “Those living in the Sunderbans had their roofs blown away by the May 20 cyclone. They are reeling under the twin blows of the storm and the pandemic. They cannot be expected to buy smartphones,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-340
