18-08-2020||Calcutta||Gunshot injury in Salt Lake guest house||A middle-aged man from Ludhiana in Punjab was injured after a gun an associate was holding allegedly went off inside a guest house in Salt Lake’s BJ Block late on Sunday, police said. Manpreet Singh, also known as Deepa, was taken to a private hospital in Salt Lake by five men with whom he had come to the city ostensibly to look for a woman from his family, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. An employee of the guest house accompanied the group to the hospital. The group had allegedly gone around the city for several days in a vehicle with a Punjab registration number looking for the young woman. The police had no whiff of the so-called search mission till an injured Deepa had to be admitted to hospital. The men had taken Deepa to the hospital in a Toyota Innova that bore Punjab registration plates. Those who had accompanied Deepa told the hospital authorities and doctors in the emergency room that he had met with an accident. All but one man left the hospital as soon as Deepa was wheeled inside. “We immediately called the nearest police station as the man had suffered a bullet injury. The bullet had ruptured his abdomen and the right femur bone,” said an official of the hospital. Deepa underwent surgery and was shifted to the intensive care unit. The cops tracked footage of CCTV cameras and questioned the man who stayed back in the hospital and tracked down the vehicle as well as the others to the guest house in BJ Block, an officer of the commissionerate said. The police questioned the men and guest house employees before arresting a driver in the group named Sunny Singh. “Sunny was handling the gun when it went off,” the officer said. Deepa had come to the city with eight others and checked into the Salt Lake guest house on August 12. Of the eight, two are relatives of Singh and the rest are drivers, the officer said. Three of the drivers checked out on August 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court gives parents a week more on school dues||Parents who are still to pay at least 80 per cent of their children’s fees in 121 schools that do not have any government financial support will get a week more to clear the dues, the high court ruled on Monday. The court had earlier set August 15 as the deadline to make the payment. A division bench of the court, comprising Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya, said the school authorities could not take any coercive steps against students who fail to pay the fees by next week. The court has decided to form a two-member committee to ascertain the income and expenses of schools and the constraints they have supposedly been facing because of parents’ reluctance to pay the fees. Suranjan Das, the vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, will be a member of the committee, the court said. The court asked the state’s advocate-general, Kishore Datta, to nominate an apolitical educationist by Tuesday who would be the committee’s second member. The committee will have the liberty to seek the help of chartered accountants for the job, the division bench said. The committee would be given one week to submit a report before the court. The committee will look into the impact of the long lockdown on a school’s finances. Scores of schools have complained that they are finding it difficult to pay salaries to teachers and other members of the staff because many parents are averse to paying fees. Several schools have pointed out that labs, buses and libraries that are shut now need expensive maintenance for their upkeep. Das told Metro that he was still to receive the court order. “I will see to it that the interest of all stakeholders, students, school authorities, as well as parents, is harmonised and school education moves forward.” The high court was hearing a PIL moved by Vineet Ruia, a social activist, alleging several schools had debarred students from attending online classes and writing online exams because they failed to pay the fees. Ruia had said these private institutions had turned into industries. Some people such as drivers of school vehicles and sweepers had requested the court that they be made a party to the case. They may tell the court about their problems; but they need not be added as parties to the case, the division bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Patients suffer as doctors catch virus||People suffering from diseases other than Covid-19 are facing a crisis because a large number of doctors, many of whom have contracted the coronavirus or been deployed in Covid wards, are staying away from their chambers and polyclinics. Unavailability of doctors have been causing inconvenience to patients since the Covid-19 pandemic started. But now the problem has taken a different dimension, said doctors and officials running polyclinics. Many doctors are getting infected by the coronavirus or are being forced to go into quarantine after coming in contact with Covid patients, making them unavailable at clinics. There are others who are working in Covid wards and so are unable to see other patients, many of whom are suffering from chronic ailments and are under regular treatment. Many doctors, however, are attending OPDs at hospitals because they feel safety protocols are better followed there than smaller chambers and clinics. Adding to the patients’ woes, many clinics are giving appointments to only a few in a week because of shortage of space and doctors. Some clinics are still shut because doctors are staying away. Officials of private healthcare institutes said most doctors are attending OPDs and are insisting that their patients go there for consultations. But many patients are reluctant to go to the hospitals because they are scared of getting infected. They prefer to meet their doctors in smaller clinics near their houses. A woman who is in her 20th week of pregnancy had wanted an appointment with her gynaecologist last week. The doctor told her the polyclinic in south Calcutta where the woman used to go for regular check-ups was closed and asked her to meet him at a hospital off EM Bypass. “Doctors say pregnant women are vulnerable to Covid and so she did not want to go for her check-up at the hospital, where hundreds of Covid patients are admitted. But because the doctor is not seeing patients at the clinic, she is consulting him over the phone,” said a relative of the woman. A 72-year-old woman often suffers from electrolyte imbalance (abnormal levels of sodium and potassium in blood). Whenever the imbalance occurs, her physician gets her admitted to a nursing home, said a relative. Last week, the woman had a similar problem and the doctor was not taking calls. “When her son went to the doctor’s home, he asked him to take the lady somewhere else. He said he was visiting neither the nursing home nor the polyclinic he was attached to,” the relative said. Private hospitals that run polyclinics said several such facilities were still not functioning. The Narayana Health group runs a polyclinic on Sarat Bose Road. “We have opened the clinic but barely 10 per cent doctors are going there and that too for only a couple of days. Also, because of space constraints, we are unable to give appointments to many patients,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region of Narayana Health. The owner of a polyclinic in Narendrapur said barely 50 per cent of the doctors were coming to the clinic because several were affected by Covid-19. Even in some of the clinics where most doctors are turning up, not many patients are being given appointments. “Because of space constraints and to maintain the norms of social distancing, we cannot accommodate every-one at the same time like before. Patients are being asked to sit inside, while those accompanying them have to wait outside for their turns,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, who is also the secretary of Bengal Oncology Foundation that runs a cancer clinic in south Calcutta. “Because of bad weather during this time of the year, we cannot make so many people wait outside. So, we have restricted the number of appointments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Alumnus donates Rs 50 lakh to IIEST to bridge digital divide||Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from Bengal Engineering College 64 years ago, has donated Rs 50 lakh to his alma mater and the money could go a long way in bridging the digital divide that is threatening the future of many students in the era of Covid. The 86-year-old Jodhpur Park resident did not mind the health hazard and drove to the institute — now Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) — in Shibpur, Howrah, on Saturday to hand over the amount. “With the money we will buy the students who are facing connectivity issues — smartphones and laptops so they can start attending online classes from August 24. The amount will also be spent on developing a digital education hub,” IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. Basu, who had retired from CESC as chief engineer in 1996, visited the campus on Independence Day to sign an MoU with the institute and attend the inauguration of the facility where the digital education hub, named after his mother Sushama Basu, will come up. “Be it for the digital education hub or buying devices, the amount will help students at the time of crisis. It’s good that the institute has taken an inclusive approach so that no one feels left out despite the absence or the poor availability of Internet connectivity,” Basu said. He had promised at the tech school’s global alumni convention in February to donate Rs 1 crore. Saturday’s contribution was the first tranche of the planned donation. “This is the highest contribution from an individualin recent times,” an IIESTofficial said. Basu said the culture of generous contribution from IIT Kharagpur alumni to their alma mater inspired him to make the donation. IIT Bombay was the first to engage the alumni to raise a corpus so that the digital divide could be taken care of. The Bombay institute has raised Rs 1.25 crore to buy its students laptops and broadband facilities. An IIEST official said that initially they had thought Basu’s contribution would be spent on developing hostels and classrooms so they can accommodate the increasing number of students. “But since on-campus activities have ceased because of the pandemic, there is no point investing the amount in these ventures,” the official said. A survey on Net connectivity being conducted by IIEST has so far covered half the students. “As many as 15 per cent of the students surveyed are facing connectivity issues,” director Chakrabarti said. The undergraduate student strength, leaving aside the first year, stands at close to 2,000. The students coping with connectivity issues have been split into three categories. Those who do not have devices such as smartphones and computers are in the first category. In the second are those who possess the devices but live in remote places with poor or limited networks. The third category comprises those who have devices but cannot afford a high-speed data pack. “We will buy the poorstudents the devices. As long as the institute will continue to hold online classes, the students are not required to pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges. They can buy a high-speed data pack with the saved amount,” said director Chakrabarti. The institute is trying to contact the telecom service providers to help out students who are struggling with poor connectivity at home. The IIEST is a central institute where half the students are from Bengal and the rest from across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Teachers advised to ignore home ‘disturbances’  ||Several city schools have been telling teachers to be more accommodating and to ignore background distractions at the students’ end during online classes. More than four months have passed and there is no clear end to the restrictions in sight. People are losing patience and it is not always possible for family members to vacate a portion of the house for the child’s class, at least two school heads said. Teachers should know they are “intruders” in the private space of families and they should not expect parents or other members to be always in perfect attire and not cause any disturbance, the principal of a city school said. For years, parents had to leave after dropping children off at the school gate but the tables have turned and teachers can no longer tell parents to “stay out”. It is the teachers’ turn to learn to ignore things they cannot control, a principal said. At times, there is background noise over which the child has no control. It can be embarrassing for the child if they are pulled up for no fault of theirs, an administrative head who also teaches said. “We have some guidelines for parents… we tell them to create an environment conducive to an online class but we cannot be rigid about it always because we are aware that not all of them have a dedicated space... there can be some distractions and teachers have to ignore and take it in their stride,” Meena Kak, director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, said. Teachers now enter the houses early in the morning; they should not expect parents to be dressed up in their formals for their child’s class, John Bagul, the principal of South City International School, said. “Classrooms have shifted to breakfast tables or bedrooms and teachers have become intruders… they need to understand that there are certain challenges in homes. It can be inconvenient for parents to dress up and teachers have to be realistic; accept the situation and move on,” Bagul said. “In some homes parents have to leave for work in the morning and in some they have to get the household work going… all from the same space. They cannot stay away as long as online classes continue.” The school recently had a meeting with its 150 teachers to tell them to be more accommodating and to ignore background distractions during online classes. At Mahadevi Birla World Academy, teachers in the junior section have been told to be more “empathetic and humane”. At St James’ School, teachers have been asked to be more considerate and understanding of a child’s home environment. “There will be disturbances like servants walking in, doorbells ringing, dogs barking or anything else, all of which can interfere with the child’s concentration,” Terence Ireland, principal of St James’, said. “But we have told teachers to be more considerate and to allow students the freedom to get up and then come back rather than expect them to sit in front of the device throughout the class. One has to understand that classes from home and at school are not the same.” There are homes where siblings or grandparents share the room and it is not possible for them to be always quiet and alert because classes are on. “Just as children, often parents have no control over all that happens in the house. There are occasions when toddlers or younger siblings enter the class… though the student tells the child to move he or she doesn’t,” Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal at Mahadevi Birla World Academy, said. “We cannot discount the fact that the mother is busy and it is easier said than done to tell parents to always keep the home in order. We tell our teachers to be more sensible, sensitive and mature and not to make a hue and cry about everything. Of course if it becomes a recurring issue we speak to parents individually.” For a teacher, the challenges are much more in an online class than in the classroom. They have to constantly innovate to keep students engaged, a school head said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Man hit on the head and mugged on Rashbehari||A man waiting for a hired motorcycle on Rashbehari Avenue on Friday night was hit on the head with an iron rod and robbed off his phone and wallet. Cops scanned more than 20 CCTV cameras in the area to find the assaulter who ran from Pratapaditya Road to SP Mukherjee Road before slipping into a blanket and taking shelter among a group of sleeping footpath dwellers, police said. Investigators used source information to track him down. Ajay Gayen, 21, was picked up from a night shelter for the homeless on Kali Temple Road in Kalighat on Monday morning. The phone and wallet have been seized. Ajay Kumar Prasad, 31, a resident of Sarsuna, who works at a departmental store near Phoolbagan, returns home daily by making a break journey on Rashbehari Avenue. On Friday, he got “exceptionally late”. He was waiting near the Rashbehari Avenue-Pratapaditya Road crossing after booking a bike, when he was mugged, the police said. The CCTV footage showed Gayen standing near Prasad and watching him. “A ragpicker comes into the picture and he shoos him away. He then picks an iron rod from the road and hits Prasad on the head,” an officer said. Prasad fell on the road but tried to resist the man, the officer said. “Gayen fled with the phone and wallet.” Prasad was bleeding from the head when he visited SSKM. He later lodged a complaint with Tollygunge police station. Gayen, who hails from the Sonarpur area, had been staying at the night shelter. During the day, he cleans the floor of the Kalighat temple compound, the police said. “We are checking his records. He looked desperate to snatch the phone and wallet… hitting someone with a rod can kill the person,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Stretch of Motilal Nehru Road closed for 30 days||A stretch of Motilal Nehru Road, in south Calcutta, will be closed for 30 days starting Tuesday morning to facilitate work on a drainage project launched by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, police said. There will be restrictions on the traffic movement on the stretch with diversions at multiple crossings, police said. The stretch comprises residential and commercial buildings. Traffic will be affected on Ritchie Road, Manoharpukur Road, Hazra Road, Sarat Bose Road and Lansdowne Place, which are directly connected with Motilal Nehru Road. Hundreds of vehicles ply along this road that connects Rashbehari Avenue to Hazra Road. ⚫The Motilal Nehru Road crossing with Hazra Road on one side and Manoharpukur Road on the other ⚫When the full stretch of Motilal Nehru Road between its crossings with Hazra Road and Manoharpukur Road will be blocked, north-bound vehicles on Motilal Nehru Road will be diverted through Manoharpukur Road and Sarat Bose Road between 8am and 1pm ⚫South-bound vehicles on Ritchie Road and Motilal Nehru Road will be diverted to Hazra Road through the Ritchie Road-Hazra Road crossing between 1pm and 10pm. ⚫Senior officers said there would be additional police deployments at the intersections to facilitate traffic diversions from Tuesday morning ⚫The road restriction will be for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation project that is meant for “improvement of drainage system” in the stretch, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
18-08-2020||Calcutta||Antigen test in all CMC clinics||The civic health clinics in all 144 wards of Calcutta will have the facility to conduct the rapid antigen test for Covid-19, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have said. The officials said a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases across the city had prompted the civic authorities to decide to start conducting the test, which produces results much faster than the conventional RT-PCR test for the coronavirus disease, in all civic clinics. “Widespread antigen tests will lead to faster detection and isolation of infected people,” a CMC official said. Public health specialists have repeatedly stressed that in the absence of any drug or vaccine for Covid-19, the best way to combat the disease is to test and isolate as many infected people and as quickly as possible. To start with, the test will be introduced in the clinics of the first 100 wards in the city. The remaining 44 will be gradually added to the list. The CMC now organises camps for the antigen test at various locations on specific days. But once all civic health clinics offer the service, people can get themselves tested on all days the facilities remain open. “Just like conducting dengue and malaria tests, our health clinics will conduct the Covid-19 antigen test,” a CMC official said. The antigen test is known to throw up false negatives but the Indian Council of Medical Research has still approved it because the results arrive within half an hour. The results of the conventional RT-PCR test take about two days to come. “A person who is suffering from Covid-19 is isolated within 30 minutes if she/he tests positive in the antigen test. This helps prevent spread of the infection more effectively,” the CMC doctor said. To deal with the problem of false negatives, the ICMR has said that people who test negative in the antigen test but have symptoms of Covid-19 must undergo the RT-PCR test. Those who are asymptomatic and test negative in the antigen test should be allowed to go. The CMC, which launched the antigen test late last month, had earlier thought about opening antigen test centres in at least three places in each borough. Air-conditioners will be fitted in at least one room in all the clinics where the antigen test will be conducted. The AC rooms are needed because medical technologists who will conduct the test will have to wear personal protective equipment (PPE). Working in a non-AC room wearing a PPE suit is not impossible, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-339
