19-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur inaugurates Academy of Classical and Folk Arts||IIT Kharagpur has inaugurated the Academy of Classical and Folk Arts on its campus, an institute spokesperson said on Wednesday. It will offer training on music, fine arts and other performing arts, she said. The academy, inaugurated on Tuesday, is in the spirit of the New Education Policy, 2020 to kindle innovation and multidisciplinary teaching, the spokesperson said. Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty will head the '100 ragas' initiative of the academy. It aims to formulate deep structures of Indian ragas by forging creative arts with cognitive sciences, she said. "It is essential for an institute of national importance to focus on the holistic development of its students, staff and faculty members. The Academy of Classical and Folk Arts is first-of-its-kind in IIT Kharagpur," institute Director, Professor V K Tewari, said. "Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty will deliver a lecture- demonstration on how learning music can help in developing necessary traits for scientific innovation," Deputy Director, Professor S K Bhattacharyya, said. The institute spokesperson said the academy will inculcate traits of experimentation and innovation in young minds. The academy is being supported by alumni Arjun Malhotra, Dr Kiran Seth, Mukund Padmanabhan and members of the IIT Kharagpur Foundation, USA, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Help held for Rs 35-lakh ATM theft||A woman who worked as domestic help of an elderly man in a highrise in Jadavpur for seven years has been arrested for allegedly stealing his ATM card after his death and handing it over to her son-in-law. The card was allegedly used to withdraw Rs 35 lakh from ATMs in Nadia and Hooghly districts. Police said Satyanarayan Agarwal, a resident of a highrise on Prince Anwar Shah Road, had passed away in January. Investigators said it was only in the first week of June that his son Anurag Agarwal, who lives in an apartment nearby, came to know that someone had withdrawn Rs 34.90 lakh from his father’s bank account after his death. Rita Roy, 45, the domestic help, and her son-in-law and another relative have been arrested. Police said the ATM card she had allegedly stolen from the house was in a wallet, which also had a piece of paper on which the PIN was written. “The deceased person’s son had gone abroad for a while. After returning, he checked his father’s mobile phone and his bank account and discovered that the money had been withdrawn between March 20 and May 30,” said an officer of the detective department. The police found that at least 30 ATM transactions were made to withdraw the cash from ATM kiosks in Karimpur, Krishnagar and Ranaghat in Nadia and Hooghly districts, sources said. Investigators collected CCTV footage from the ATM kiosks and spotted two men withdrawing money in all footage. But in all footage their faces were covered with masks and heads with caps. The cops became suspicious about Rita when they found that all the kiosks from where the money was withdrawn in Nadia were not far from her ancestral home. “We activated our sources in Karimpur, Ranaghat and Guptipara and one of the youths was identified as the son-in-law of the help,” said the officer. Ranjit Mallick, 31, a resident of Karimpur was arrested from his home. It was followed by the arrest of his partner-in-crime, Soumitra Sarkar, 45, a resident of Guptipara, in Hooghly district. Both were arrested on August 13. One of them allegedly said they had got the ATM card and the PIN from his mother-in-law (Rita).  “We arrested the woman from her employer’s home on August 14,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Fake’ doctor performs  surgery, patient dies ||A man who allegedly posed as a doctor and performed brain surgery on a man after taking more than Rs 1.75 lakh from his son has been arrested, police said. Balzur Rahman was arrested after a resident of Barasat, who had allegedly paid him for his father’s brain surgery, lodged a complaint with Eco Park police station in New Town after his father passed away on August 12, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Police said Rahman could not produce any document or certificate to establish that he was a doctor. Dipankar Roy, the Barasat resident, mentioned in his complaint that Rahman used to pose as a doctor at a private hospital on the fringes of New Town where he had admitted his ailing father on July 30. Rahman allegedly took more than Rs 1.75 lakh from Roy after telling him that his father needed brain surgery. “Rahman performed the surgery. After the operation, the patient’s condition worsened and he passed away on August 12,” the officer said. The police said Rahman has been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 420 (cheating) and 468 (forgery), among others. If convicted, he can be sent to jail for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid containment zone list||Two places each in Chetla and Behala’s Barisha have been included in the latest list of Covid containment zones in the city, which the Calcutta Municipal Corporation put up on its Facebook page on Tuesday. A building on Sabji Bagan Lane in Chetla and a slum on Chetla Road have been barricaded. In Barisha, a stretch of Sister Nivedita Road and a portion of Borobagan have been turned into containment zones. “The two places have reported eight cases in the last seven days,” said Rajib Kumar Das, the outgoing councillor of Ward 124, which includes both places in Barisha. The latest list has 20 places, of which five are new. A stretch of Jugal Kishore Das Lane from the Amherst Street area is the other new entry in the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
19-08-2020||Calcutta||110-bed Covid ward at NRS||The NRS Medical College and Hospital started admitting Covid-19 patients after opening a 110-bed ward for such cases on Tuesday. Chandirma Bhattacharya, the minister of state for health and family welfare, and senior officials of the health department inaugurated the facility, which is spread across parts of the chest and dermatology departments and the ground floor of the orthopaedic ward. “Nine ventilators and 25 beds have been earmarked for the High Dependency Unit for Covid-19 patients,” an official of the hospital said. “The other wings of the hospital will remain open for non-Covid patients.” The decision to reserve 110 beds for Covid-19 patients was taken by the hospital’s Rogi Kalyan Samity on July 14. “A team of dedicated doctors and nurses has been set up for Covid patients. They will operate in shifts,” the official said. A yellow bin on Aurobindo Sarani on Tuesday. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has started installing these yellow bins across the city where people can dump their masks and other gear that are worn to stay safe from Covid-19. These bins are meant for disposal of such waste. Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 should not dump their biomedical waste in these bins. Their biomedical waste is collected from home by a designated agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University seeks student-aid funds||Jadavpur University has appealed to its teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary and requested alumni, guardians and others to contribute to raise funds to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to 800-odd students so they can overcome the digital divide and attend classes. Classes through a semi-online mode will start on September 14. An official of JU said they would require Rs 40 lakh to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to the 800-odd students. On Sunday, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had said he would appeal to the teachers to contribute a day’s salary for the mission and would also write to business houses to build a corpus so that no student felt left out. Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the finance officer of JU, posted a notice on the university’s website on Tuesday, stating the university had expanded the list of potential contributors. “A provision has been created for receipt of such funds where teachers and other employees can give their option for recovery from salary and the pensioners from pensions, at will,” the notice reads. Current and former employees have to send a mail to itsupportforstudents@jadavpuruniversity.in to give their consent on deduction of a day’s salary and pension. Alumni, guardians and others have been appealed to directly contribute to an account in the Jadavpur University branch of the State Bank of India. Details of the account have been provided on the university’s website. The university had conducted a survey among the students of engineering, science and arts faculty recently and found that around 800 students are in need of support. VC Das said that despite some individual initiatives by teachers, regular classes have not been held in the online mode or through electronic means such as email, WhatsApp and Google classroom. “That is because a significant number of our students do not have access to stable high-speed data connections and some students do not even possess handheld devices,” he said. “I feel it is our moral responsibility to provide the students who do not possess a smartphone with a smartphone and to offer financial assistance to those students who need it to upgrade their data connectivity. I am sure everyone will agree that the adoption of these measures is required to address the challenge of the digital divide.” The students will have to return the smartphones to the university on completion of their courses. In an appeal posted on the JU website, Das has written: “I am sure the university’s faculty members will join hands to help our students and ensure that none of them is deprived of the access to academic activities during a period when normal classes cannot be conducted. This will be in the finest traditions of Jadavpur University, where we work together as a family in our continuing quest to provide our students with an education that combines excellence with equity.” The university earlier this month had advised the teachers to come up with models on how to start classes. The teachers suggested that study materials — notes, soft copies of textbooks, powerpoint presentations, and audio and video lectures — be delivered to the students through email and WhatsApp. “But at JU, a substantial number of students are from poor families. They lack smartphones or a high-speed data pack. So, we also proposed that a special fund be created,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Bay belt triggers ‘widespread rain’ alert||A fresh low-pressure belt, brewing over the Bay of Bengal, is tipped to trigger widespread rain in the city on Wednesday. The system, which led to steady showers and a consistent cloud cover on Tuesday, is the third over the Bay of Bengal this month. Monsoon is the season of rain-bearing systems over the Bay. But July, usually the rainiest month of the season, had hardly seen any such system. August has already had a couple and another is in the making, said Met officials. “A low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal by Wednesday. It is very likely to gain strength over the next 24 hours and move westwards gradually. Under its influence, widespread rain is very likely to occur in the districts of south Bengal from August 18 to 20,” said a Met official. “One or two areas in south Bengal could get heavy rain and the coastal areas are likely to see gusts at 45kmph and above.” As the system is tipped to move westwards, districts like West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia are likely to see more rain on Thursday. A low-pressure area that had formed over the north Bay of Bengal last Thursday led to a wet Independence Day weekend. “The rain was not heavy but typical monsoon rain. It was widespread and persistent rain,” said the Met official. The system has lost strength and was positioned over Chhattisgarh and adjoining areas on Tuesday morning. The back-to-back systems ensured that the monsoon trough remained over south Bengal for much of August. “The trough now passes through Digha to the northeast Bay of Bengal,” said a Met report. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will grant a trade licence to applicants within 24 hours if all documents are in order, a CMC official said on Tuesday. Officials will conduct inspections later and take action if there are any irregularities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Parents’ observations in school report cards||A city school has decided to include observations of parents in the children’s report cards. Sri Sri Academy will involve parents in the assessment of children because parents are collaborating with teachers in implementing online teaching during the pandemic. The parents’ observations will be part of the reports of the 1,400-odd students from nursery to Class V. For those in middle and senior sections, the school is planning self-assessment by the students with some observations by parents. The school has recently sent a feedback form to the parents of the students in the junior school. The parents have been asked to state whether the children are following the teachers’ instructions and whether they are showing any change in behaviour during this period. “During the pandemic, parents are partnering with the teachers to oversee learning. We felt that if we do not include their observations in the report cards, it will be an incomplete report. Teachers cannot make a complete assessment on the basis of what they see online,” said principal Suvina Shunglu. The school says in a note to the parents: “Thank you for being such a pillar of support for us as we navigated our way to newer methods of online teaching during the lockdown... This (the feedback document) will help us understand how your child has advanced through our online teaching sessions.” The feedback form that has been sent to the parents include questions like how the children have reacted to the lockdown and whether they have come to terms with the fact that they cannot go out to play. Other questions include whether children listen to instructions, whether the instructions need to be repeated, whether they are completing their task in an organised manner and whether the parents are helping the children complete the task. The questions have been framed according to age groups and expected learning outcomes, the principal said. The report card also includes observations on social behaviour and work habits, apart from mentioning the numeracy and literacy skills, the school authorities said. “If teachers are not seeing the child in the classroom, how will they judge the child?” Shunglu asked. On online platforms, all children in the class are not visible on the screen always. In in-person teaching, a teacher can observe every child. Observations include how a child is behaving in the class, with peers and on the playground. During online teaching, the video at times gets switched off because of poor connectivity, hampering interactions between teachers and students. Also, to eliminate any background noise, children are asked to keep their devices on mute when the teacher is speaking. For those in middle and senior school, self assessment will be a part of the reports. The students will be asked questions like how much effort they are putting in for online classes and how they think they can improve. “Even after the pandemic, self-assessment can be retained in the reports,” said Shunglu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Free forms drive applicant count||Most colleges have seen a jump in the number of applications for admission since they stopped taking application fees, following an advisory from the state government, as many students are now applying for as many subjects as possible. The trend has left many college principals worried that the admission process might be delayed. Students would usually seek admissions for studying honours courses in two or three subjects when they were charged fees for receiving and submitting online forms, the principals of some colleges said. Most colleges would charge Rs 125 to Rs 500 for every subject. Students have been submitting applications for five to seven subjects after the fee waiver was put into effect on August 13 midnight, the principals said. Shiuli Sarkar, the principal of Lady Brabourne College, said the institution had stopped charging students for admission forms and prospectuses after August 13 following the government advisory. “The number of online applications received by the college has increased many times in each subject,” she said. The college, run by the higher education department, used to charge Rs 125 for each form. After the fees were waived, many students with low scores applied for subjects which are in demand. “The demand for some subjects is high. Only students with very high scores would apply for those subjects before,” Sarkar said. This year the college has noticed that even low-scorers are applying for those subjects. A teacher at Asutosh College said that students who had just scored the required marks to be eligible to apply would not apply for the subjects that are in demand. “The trend has changed this year. Even low scorers are applying for the subjects in demand,” the teacher said. The principal of New Alipore College, Jaydeep Sarangi, said that like previous years, the institution had been charging Rs 200 per application from August 10 till the government advisory was issued. “We received around 500 applications a day on an average between August 10 and 14. We started receiving 750 to 1,000 applications a day after we stopped taking money for the form,” the principal said. The increase in the number of applications is likely to delay the admission process and lead to difficulties in preparing the merit lists, several principals said. Many high-scorers are applying for too many subjects and this can block seats in subjects in demand, according to a principal. “Say a student with high marks applies for seven subjects. She or he manages a berth in five. But the candidate will select only one. The seats in the remaining subjects will remain blocked until she or he surrenders them…. Or, we will have to devise a system to detect such cases immediately. This can delay the admission process,” the principal said. The merit lists will be very long, another principal said. The government had announced on August 13 that universities and colleges would not charge undergraduate aspirants for application forms and prospectuses. The colleges started distributing and receiving online admission forms on August 10. Forms can be submitted till August 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Digital hole in district schools||More than half the students of most state-aided schools outside Calcutta do not have a smartphone, laptop or a computer and are not attending online classes, according to reports submitted by the schools. Many state-aided schools in districts have been conducting classes through Whats-App and email since mid-April, according to a senior official of the school education department. The schools send study materials and notes to students through WhatsApp and email and teachers are supposed to take feedback from the pupils through video calls. The heads of several schools have informed the school education department that more than half their students do not have smart devices and have not been in touch with the teaching-learning system since online classes started, a school education department official said. A small number of teachers in some schools had taken a personal initiative and reached out to the students with study materials. “The bulk of the students lacking smart devices is completely out of the education system,” said the official. The school education department had asked all state-aided schools to send reports stating how many students of their institutions had smart devices and were using them to attend online classes. “The reports started arriving on Sunday evening,” an official in the school education department said. The situation is starkly different in Calcutta. Reports from schools in these areas say more than 85 per cent students had been attending online classes regularly and most students have smart devices. At several schools in the city, almost 100 per cent students have the devices and are attending online classes regularly. City-based state-aided schools use WhatsApp, email, Zoom and Google Meet for teaching. The headmistress of a city school that conducts online teaching through WhatsApp and Google Meet cited an example to highlight the level of students’ participation in online teaching: “We have 39 students studying math in Class XII. All 39 attend classes daily.” The report submitted by a school near Madhyamgram, in North 24-Parganas, states that only 57 of the 145 students in classes between V and X have a smartphone, laptop or a computer. The school has 27 students enrolled in Class X. Thirteen have the devices and the remaining 14 students have not attended the classes, though they will be writing Madhyamik next year. Only four out of 26 students in Class V in the institution have a smart device. The remaining 22 students have not been in touch with the school since April. In the same school, out of 23 students in Class VI, only eight have a smart device. In Class VIII, five out of 22 students have smart devices and the rest are not attending the teaching sessions. The report from a school in Diamond Harbour, in South 24-Parganas, states that only 45 of the 97 students in Class V have a smart device at home. Of the 151 students in Class VI, only 61 have such a device at home. The data to be gleaned from the reports is likely to be used to devise strategies if schools can’t be reopened in the next few months. “Around five months have passed since the lockdown was imposed. We still don’t know how long the schools will remain closed. We need to have a proper planning for online classes if the schools remain shut for many more months,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur scraps plan to call students to campus||IIT Kharagpur has scrapped plans to bring students grappling with poor Internet links at home to the campus so they can attend online classes using the institute’s network, following a spike in Covid cases in Kharagpur and other reasons related to the pandemic. The online classes for the autumn semester will start on September 1. The institute is studying alternative models being tried out by other institutes to help those students overcome the digital divide and take part in online classes, an official said. “The plan to bring students facing poor Net connectivity at home to the campus has been scrapped because of several reasons, including a surge in the number of Covid cases in Kharagpur and its surrounding areas,” Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affair, told Metro on Tuesday.  “We are also worried over maintaining physical distancing norms at hostels. Using a common toilet could also pose a serious health risk.” Asked what the institute would do to ensure that those students do not suffer academically, Kumar said: “I believe the authorities will do something to help them.” Another official of the country’s oldest IIT said the authorities were studying various models that other institutes were considering to bridge the digital divide. IIM-Calcutta, too, had planned to bring some students of its two-year MBA programme encountering network problems at home to the campus. The plan had to be shelved because of the pandemic. The B-school is providing the students lacking high-speed data packs with recordings of missed lectures and additional tutorials. The National Institute of Technology (NIT), in Durgapur, headed by a professor from IIT Kharagpur, will conduct an on-campus “crash semester” for students who lack the basic connectivity required to attend online classes. “We are taking feedback about these models to devise a mechanism to help students being affected by the digital divide,” an official of the Kharagpur institute said. A high court division bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Tuesday appointed a two-member committee to assess the income and expenditure of 121 non-aided schools. The committee, with Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das and former secretary of state higher secondary education council Gopa Datta as members, will consider the constraints the schools are facing. The court is hearing a plea by parents alleging schools are overcharging them during the Covid pandemic. The panel will have to submit a report by September 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
19-08-2020||Calcutta||Call to identify heritage precincts in Calcutta ||A group of Calcuttans has written to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) to conduct an exercise to identify heritage precincts and help protect from demolition houses that lend a character to a place. A heritage precinct is different from a heritage building. While an individual house can be tagged as a heritage structure, a precinct is a collection of houses on a road that together tell the story of a time, of a place or culture, said an architect who co-authored the proposal sent to the civic body. According to the group behind the move, cities like Mumbai and Ahmedabad have heritage precincts but Calcutta has none. Declaring a neighbourhood as a heritage precinct may not mean that demolition of all buildings in the zone will be stopped forever, said Partha Ranjan Das, an architect who is one of those who drafted the proposal. “There are many overlapping laws. I cannot force someone who doesn’t have the ability to maintain a large house not to sell it. But there are other ways to preserve a heritage precinct,” he said. Das added that the government had to create incentives for the owners of buildings in a heritage precinct so that they did not pull them down. If an owner is unable to maintain the property, the government must buy it or act as a facilitator so that someone interested in preserving the house buys it. The initiative to identify heritage precincts in Calcutta was taken up by author and singer Amit Chaudhuri and heritage conservationist G.M. Kapur. During a couple of their meetings with the CMC officials they had raised the issue. Calcutta High Court had asked the CMC to sit with the two following a PIL that objected to the delisting and downgrading of buildings from the CMC’s heritage list. “A heritage precinct is different from a heritage building. It could be that no single building is of any great historical significance but when they are seen together, they represent an unique architectural style or tell the story of a time or tell the story of culture of a people,” said Das. Chaudhuri said that in trying to identify heritage precincts, they were not looking at monuments but houses that gave a place an identity and remained as evidence of various phases of Calcutta’s progress over the years. “If you see a movie from the 60s that depicts the life in Mumbai or London of that time and go to these cities now, you will still find many of those houses intact. But the way things are being demolished in Calcutta, we will soon lose whatever remains. Therefore the need to identify and declare some places of significance as heritage precincts is necessary,” he said. Das cited the example of Southern Avenue, which has many buildings with an art deco architecture, and Bhowanipore, which has many buildings with two courtyards and a verandah. “None of these buildings was inhabited by any luminary, neither did any historical event take place there. But if one walks down the road looking at the buildings, they represent a unique style, time and a culture,” he said. Conservationist Kapur cited the example of Hastings, where roads evoke the feeling of European settlements but the houses have mostly disappeared. “Hastings could have been a heritage precinct if it were preserved,” he rued. The proposal sent to the CMC does not name any place. It calls for a dedicated team that will roam streets and lanes to identify heritage precincts. In July last year, the Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) and Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage had filed a PIL at the high court seeking to know the parameters set by the CMC to downgrade or delist a heritage structure. In November, the court asked the CMC to sit with the litigants and resolve the matter, said CAL founder Chaudhuri. Members of CAL and Intach had raised the issue of absence of heritage precincts in Calcutta during these meetings. “The CMC asked us to give them a proposal. We gave them the proposal on August 10,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-338
