20-08-2020||Calcutta||Free Covid rapid antigen tests for Calcutta fringe municipalities||Rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 will be conducted for free in 10 municipal areas on the northern fringes of Calcutta, covering nearly 20 lakh people, a health department official said. Kamarahati, Madhyamgram and Barasat are some of the municipalities the department has selected, based on a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks, to roll out the test. “Anyone with a doctor’s prescription advising a Covid test can get himself or herself tested for free,” the official said. Those who will test positive in the antigen test would be immediately referred to a Covid-19 hospital. A cell will be set up to trace contacts of those testing positive and arrangements will be made to get the contacts tested as well, the official said. If any of those testing negative has mild or moderate symptoms of Covid-19, he or she will be subjected to the confirmatory RT-PCR test. “The move will bring tests closer to doorsteps so more people can be brought under surveillance. We want to increase the number of tests in all hotspots,” an official said. Other than Kamarahati, Madhyamgram and Barasat, the municipalities where the test will be introduced are Garulia, Halisahar, Kanchrapara, Naihati, Titagarh, North Dum Dum and Barrackpore. Officials at Swasthya Bhavan said North 24-Parganas, with a population of around 1.2 crore, has the highest number of Covid cases in Bengal after Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Desun Hospital asked to deposit Rs 10 lakh||The state clinical establishment commission has asked Desun Hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh while dealing with a complaint that a Covid-19 patient died because the hospital refused to treat her as her family was unable to pay an initial deposit of Rs 3 lakh. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, which passed the order on Wednesday, also directed Desun to not take any advance payment from a patient before admission. “Ideally, Desun’s licence should have been cancelled for this. But many patients are getting treated there and we do not want to take such a step. We have asked the hospital to deposit Rs 5 lakh by Tuesday. They have to deposit another Rs 5 lakh within another two weeks,” said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairman of the commission. “We have also asked Desun to not take any advance payment as deposit while admitting Covid-19 patients. This order is applicable only on Desun Hospital and not other private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.” But there will be no bar on accepting payment for the bill raised for treatment at the hospital, he clarified. The commission had earlier issued an advisory that private hospitals could take up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is lower, as advance payment from Covid-19 patients. A 60-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid died on August 10 allegedly while waiting in an ambulance outside Desun Hospital for over an hour. The woman’s son had alleged that the hospital refused to admit her despite repeated pleas because the family could not pay Rs 3 lakh immediately as initial deposit. The son told Metro on Wednesday that his mother lay in the ambulance outside the hospital from 9pm to 10.30pm. “I will be happy if the commission is able to force all hospitals to start treatment without waiting for any initial deposit. I do not want anyone else to suffer what my mother had to suffer,” he said. Tapas Banerjee, a senior official of Desun Hospital, told this newspaper on Wednesday that they were yet to get a copy of the order. “No one is above law. We will abide by the law,” he said. The commission asked Desun, the woman’s family and the hospital from where she was transferred to file affidavits. “The hospital where the woman was initially admitted before she tested positive for Covid-19 had some responsibilities, too. They should have stabilised the woman’s condition before asking the family to shift her,” the  commission chairman said. Anandaloke licence off Banerjee said the commission had decided to cancel the licence of all units of Anandaloke Hospital as it had declined to pay Rs 2 lakh to a complainant. The commission had awarded a compensation of Rs 3 lakh to the complainant about a year ago. But the hospital paid only Rs 1 lakh. “Anandaloke officials recently informed the commission that it would not be able to pay the remaining amount and so we have decided to cancel the license of the hospital. We have communicated our decision to the state health department,” Banerjee said on Wednesday. The Telegraph could not reach any official of the hospital for a comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
20-08-2020||Calcutta||CMC housing complex directory for Covid fight||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has prepared a directory of all housing complexes in the city with phone numbers of the office-bearers of the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). Similar directories have also been prepared for Salt Lake, New Town and Howrah. None of these places had any such directory before. Senior state government officials said the directories would be distributed to the highrise buildings soon. RWAs have emerged as a crucial enabler in the fight against the Covid pandemic and officials said the availability of such directories would help the associations consult each other during crisis. The directories will have phone numbers of police stations, councillors and health department helplines, which the associations can call during an emergency, a senior state government official said on Wednesday. “The RWAs will have phone numbers of important government establishments that can be of help in fighting Covid-19. Similarly, the booklets also make available the contact details of the RWAs to the police stations and civic officials,” a state government official said. The secretary of an RWA in south Calcutta said consulting other condominiums on how to deal with an issue, such as allowing visitors or dumping garbage, would be very helpful. The directories, she said, will make it easier for the associations to contact police or other departments. The distribution of the directories to highrise buildings and various government establishments will start soon. The directories for Calcutta, Salt Lake, New Town and Howrah were released on Wednesday at the CMC headquarters. “There are many elderly people who live in these gated communities but their children live in other cities or abroad. There have been instances when the elderly people did not find anyone to help them when they had fever. If the residents’ welfare associations have the phone numbers of the police or the health department, they can get in touch with them immediately,” said Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who is Calcutta’s nodal officer for Covid management. “Similarly, if police or other government officials have phone numbers of the office-bearers of the apartment buildings, they can also get in touch with them” if needed, Bandyopadhyay said. A CMC official said they had made large posters with phone numbers of the health department, helpline number to call an ambulance to transport a Covid-19 patient and phone numbers of police stations. “The posters will be pasted in housing complexes,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Molest cry in Salt Lake Sector V, accused held||A woman who was walking home from her workplace in Sector V with a colleague was allegedly moles-ted by a man in front of the Aegis building in Sector V’s EP Block on Tuesday night. The woman mentioned in her complaint lodged with police that the man, later identified as Babu Halder, 22, had allegedly grabbed her hand from behind before groping her. He tried to run away but the woman gave him a chase. Seeing her run after the man, shopkeepers and passersby came to her aid and caught the man, an officer of the Electronics Complex police station said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said a police team, alerted by the woman’s cries, rushed to the site and detained the man. The woman then went to the police station and filed the complaint. Halder was arrested based on the complaint. The woman, who works in an BPO, alleged that the cops asked her a lot of “intriguing questions” and asked her to narrate the incident several times and also to rewrite her complaint repeatedly. “It was quite humiliating and I felt extremely bad as the personnel at the police station seemed reluctant to lodge the complaint,” the woman said. An officer of the commissionerate, however, said she had been asked to rewrite her complaint as the incident was not clear. “We tried to help her in every possible way. A lady officer attended to her all through,” said the officer. Halder has been charged under various sections of the IPC, including 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman). If convicted, Halder can be sent to jail for five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Garden High International initiative to encourage reading||A school has developed a library curriculum for students during the Covid pandemic to encourage them to read more. Garden High International School has introduced the curriculum in July, as part of which students from Class VIII to XII are being given a genre each month and they are picking books from the collection at home, downloading them from the Net or having links to e-books sent by the school. The reading is followed by discussions, quizzes, skits like inviting a character to dinner. A Class VIII student invited Rusty after reading Ruskin Bond’s Room on the Roof and had a conversation with him and a Class X student picked up the Avoxes from The Hunger Games to make a film on. They will also have an assessment each month and the grade awarded for that will be reflected in report cards. Remarks from the library-in-charge will feature, too, in the report cards. “Why should students focus only on subjects that they will appear for in the boards. They have to read, differentiate between genres, prepare for research and learn to independently access information,” said Anuradha Das, the director of Garden High International School. But the school does not want to take away the joy of reading and hence evaluation will be about book reviews, audio and video presentation. “The activities have to engage the child and not be cliches or such that they can do after reading the synopsis and not the book,” said Anuradha Ganguly, manager, resources and library systems. Each month till May next year will be dedicated to a different genre from classics, war stories or even band books and every class is given a library period once a week. The curriculum — designed by Das, Ganguly and Nandini Mukherjee, the dean of students — also includes library orientation, readiness, learning about bibliography, citation and ethics and plagiarism. The school’s library has 19,000 books comprising fiction, non-fiction and reference books. The library is the “heart” of the school, according to Indranath Guha, the chairman of Satikanta Guha Foundation, which runs Garden High International and two other schools. “If students and teachers make a requisition of a book which is not available, the school buys it if it is worthy to be in the library,” said Das. “We had to think about how we could include the library in our online classes. When the situation normalises we will pick up things that we introduced during this period and bring it in our physical classrooms.” The school feels it will introduce boys and girls to research and the age for doing research is also going down. Das said earlier students would do research only in masters or graduation but now in some of the  international curriculum even high school students are expected to do research. “It’s not that all students do not read. But even those who read they flounder when they have to do research and hence we want to prepare them for it also,” said Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur appeal after student tests positive||The IIT Kharagpur authorities have asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. An official of the institute said the student who tested positive was being treated at a Calcutta hospital. His condition is stable. Those who came in contact with the infected student have been asked to get themselves tested at BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus. “They will undergo the rapid antigen test at the campus hospital,” the official said. The 300-odd students who could not leave the campus because of lack of transport options in the middle of the pandemic are sharing three hostels. In a notice sent to the wardens, the dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, said: “In view of a Covid-19 case detected in one of the halls and since the student has taken dinner in the private mess, we were compelled to seal all the halls of residence.” The notice says: “All students who are presently staying in the campus must vacate the halls latest by August 23... and proceed to their hometowns.” Of the 3,200-odd students of the institute, only about 300 are still on the campus. The rest vacated the hostels by June 20, in compliance with a notice issued on June 10. Some of the 300-odd are from remote areas of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Jammu. On the campus, they have been put up at Madan Mohan Malviya Hall of Residence, Lal Bahadur Shashtri Hall of Residence and Sister Nivedita Hall of Residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: Rush to buy ahead of two-day lockdown||Calcuttans stocked up on groceries and packed refrigerators with ready-to-eats ahead of two consecutive days of “complete lockdown”. Except essential service personnel and people in emergencies, no one will be allowed outside between 6am and 10pm on Thursday and Friday. Even food stores and milk booths will be closed. Biswajit Saha, who runs a mom-and-pop store on Hindusthan Road, had sold 40 litres of milk more than he usually does. Around 7.30pm, he was lamenting he could have sold at least 120 litres more had he got the arithmetic right. “One man who buys two pouches took home 10 today,” Saha said. Many are worried about supplies on Saturday morning as well. Milk may or may not be there this Saturday but banks will be closed. The two-day lockdown means four consecutive bank holidays. There were longer queues outside ATMs across the city on Wednesday, amid apprehension that they may not be refilled over the weekend. The manager of a nationalised bank said his bank had refilled all their ATMs. The pharmacies were crowded as were liquor stores. Exemptions during the lockdown include health services, medicine stores, police stations, courts, jails, electricity and conservancy services, cooked food delivery services, newspapers and electronic media. Police teams across the city used loudhailers and microphones to announce the lockdown dates and rules. Officers in Gariahat said the market was unusually crowded on Wednesday and they had to announce again and again the need to maintain the social distancing rule. On Wednesday, several elderly citizens were seen queuing up outside a nationalised bank near Behala Chowrasta around 11.30am. As only four visitors were being allowed inside, the queue kept extending. Rishikesh Hazra, said he was more comfortable with withdrawal from a bank than an ATM. “I am scared someone will see my PIN and steal my money,” said the retired school teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||CESC ready with revised June bills||CESC on Wednesday said it had revised the bills for June and would send them out with an explanation of the method of calculation printed on them. Only those consumers who  have not already paid the earlier bills are expected to pay the revised ones. The announcement by the private power utility came almost a month after the Mamata Banerjee government had on July 20 advised consumers aggrieved over their bills against paying the amount and asked them to wait for revised bills. The RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group-owned utility — which enjoys a virtual monopoly over 33 lakh consumers across 567sq km in Calcutta and its surrounding areas — also decided to “keep in abeyance” the dues for March, April and May, after hundreds of consumers cried foul over “absurdly high” bills. The utility is yet to offer any clarity on what it would do with the sum kept in abeyance, except for the amount in June. “Let’s keep in focus that this (the reconsideration) was done only by us as a consumer-friendly initiative. There have been parallels in other parts of the country, but nobody else tried doing what we are doing,” said Debasish Banerjee, CESC managing director (distribution). The revised bills will be accompanied by a cover letter, in which CESC will explain the situation to the consumers. The bills for June, issued in July, became the subject of countless jokes and memes on social media, with numerous notable civil society members joining in. Prior to the rethink, the utility had been repeatedly asserting that the bills were based on actual meter readings and it had adjusted them with the previous ones drawn up on an average of the past six months because the lockdown had disrupted meter readings. The average on which the past bills were drawn up was based on power consumption in the winter months, when air-conditioners and fans were not in use. According to Banerjee’s estimates, the revised June bill would be a fraction of the total units consumed since March or April. “For instance, if the total units consumed in the four months from March were 1,000 units, then we are placing each month’s consumption at 250 units…. The 250 units for June is all the consumer will have to pay for in the revised bill, in this example,” he said. “Those who have already paid the previously issued June bill need not pay anything. The necessary adjustment for their payment made towards units presently kept in abeyance will be given subsequently. They too will not be denied of the benefit.” Sources in the state government said the utility’s management started taking the measures after pressure intensified through calls from the “highest possible level” of the government. Power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay and Trinamul Congress’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee had issued statements, claiming credit, after the matter  was picked up for agitation by not only all prominent non-Trinamul parties but also apolitical fora. The July protests were the second instance in two months when CESC faced the ruling establishment’s — and people’s — rage. The earlier one was in May when CESC was unable for around a week to restore normality to some pockets after Cyclone Amphan had caused havoc. In the wake of Amphan, Mamata repeatedly underscored that her government had nothing to do with the monopoly that was granted to the utility three decades ago. “CESC had claimed to the government that absurdly high bills were few and far between and an aberration,” a senior state minister said. “Nobody was questioning CESC for bills issued for higher than usual consumption in middle-income and high-income households during the lockdown months. A bill including the dues for those months would naturally be much higher. But bills with astronomical amounts, especially for low-income households with no ACs or other heavy appliances, simply cannot be justified,” said a senior minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
20-08-2020||Calcutta||Most patients helpless on hospital deposit, pledge to clear final bill ||A private hospital in Calcutta admitted 50 patients on Tuesday and Wednesday and asked for Rs 50,000 as advance payment from each. Only one patient could pay the amount, while 18 paid much less. The rest expressed their inability to pay during admission but promised to pay in full at the time of discharge. The data showed how patients are inconvenienced if a hospital insists on Rs 50,000 as advance at the time of admission. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has issued an advisory allowing private hos-pitals to take a deposit of up to Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated treatment cost, whichever is less, during admission. The advisory also states that if a patient is unable to pay instantly, the hospital has to admit him or her but the amount has to be paid within 12 hours. If a patient fails to pay up within that time, the hospital can ask that the bed be vacated within an hour. The chief executive of the private hospital that admitted 50 patients on Tuesday and Wednesday said none of them was shifted because their families had promised to pay during the course of treatment. “Several patients told us they would not pay because they had cashless insurance policies,” said the CEO, who declined to be quoted by name. Eighteen of the patients paid between Rs 5,000 and Rs 20,000, he said. “Some of them, Covid-19 patients, had come alone to get admitted. When our staff asked them for deposits, they said they had come to the hospital with whatever cash they had at home at that time,” said the CEO. “Their family members,  who did not come to the hospital but are in touch with us over the phone, said they were too hassled at that moment to arrange for more money.” The CEO added relatives of these patients had promised to pay the entire treatment cost before discharge. Some of those who could not pay at the time of admission said they did not have enough cash at home and had hurried to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. “At least one of these patients had severe symptoms and is admitted in the intensive care unit. Such patients don’t come to the hospital with credit or debit cards,” said the CEO. Asked why they were insisting on Rs 50,000, and not on 20 per cent of the estimated cost, the CEO said it was almost impossible to guess how expensive the treatment of a Covid patient with symptoms could be. “Such estimates can be given for someone who will undergo planned surgery,” he said. There have been allegations against several hospitals that they are asking for huge deposits and refusing to admit patients if their demand is not met. Public health experts point out saving a life is most important. “True, money is needed for treatment, but that should not be a pre-condition for access to healthcare, especially during a pandemic such as the one we are going through,” said a public health professional. A person testing positive for the coronavirus disease is usually under immense emotional and psychological pressure. Such people often don’t have instant access to adequate money. “We are asking for Rs 50,000 from each patient coming for admission, in accordance with the recent advisory of the regulatory commission. But few patients can pay the amount upfront. So we are taking whatever they are paying and admitting them,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Other hospitals, too, said patients during the pandemic were coming without much cash and are unable to pay Rs 50,000. “Most of these patients who come to the emergency do not carry money with them. So they are asked to deposit a small amount based on their immediate ability, which generally is between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000. We follow them up with daily estimate of charges and provisional bills,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.Calcutta: Calcuttans stocked up on groceries and packed refrigerators with ready-to-eats ahead of two consecutive days of “complete lockdown”. Except essential service personnel and people in emergencies, no one will be allowed outside between 6am and 10pm on Thursday and Friday. Even food stores and milk booths will be closed. Biswajit Saha, who runs a mom-and-pop store on Hindusthan Road, had sold 40 litres of milk more than he usually does. Around 7.30pm, he was lamenting he could have sold at least 120 litres more had he got the arithmetic right. “One man who buys two pouches took home 10 today,” Saha said. Many are worried about supplies on Saturday morning as well. Milk may or may not be there this Saturday but banks will be closed. The two-day lockdown means four consecutive bank holidays. There were longer queues outside ATMs across the city on Wednesday, amid apprehension that they may not be refilled over the weekend. The manager of a nationalised bank said his bank had refilled all their ATMs. The pharmacies were crowded as were liquor stores. Exemptions during the lockdown include health services, medicine stores, police stations, courts, jails, electricity and conservancy services, cooked food delivery services, newspapers and electronic media. Police teams across the city used loudhailers and microphones to announce the lockdown dates and rules. Officers in Gariahat said the market was unusually crowded on Wednesday and they had to announce again and again the need to maintain the social distancing rule. On Wednesday, several elderly citizens were seen queuing up outside a nationalised bank near Behala Chowrasta around 11.30am. As only four visitors were being allowed inside, the queue kept extending. Rishikesh Hazra, said he was more comfortable with withdrawal from a bank than an ATM. “I am scared someone will see my PIN and steal my money,” said the retired school teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-337
