21-08-2020||Calcutta||Old project barb at civic body launches ||A slew of facilities and services was inaugurated by fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, the MLA of Bidhannagar, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and other officials of the civic body on August 14. But the opposition claims these are old and revamped projects. Among the newly-renovated facilities is BD Market that the civic officials claimed had undergone a thorough makeover. According to mayor Chakraborty, the market’s toilet has been rebuilt, the floor relaid and a new shed for fish and vegetable sellers has been constructed. But renovation of the market in reality is far from over. According to official sources, what was inaugurated was work done in just the second phase of work. “Since shifting the shops is a problem, work has been going on for years. This phase started in 2018. The first phase had been approved by the previous civic board. The third phase of repair and renovation is currently under way,” said a civic official. A visit to the market on Sunday, the day after the inauguration, indeed revealed what can at best be described as work in progress. A board in front of a series of temporary stalls under a tin shed read that the shed has been set up as the market was being revamped. Plastic sheets made for the roof of several open areas and such sheets were seen on top of the market as well. “The roof leaks. The repairs for this place is taking forever,” said Bikas Saha, who owns a shop in BD Market. What had been achieved was at the back of the market — two toilets, one for the shopkeepers and another pay-and-use one for visitors. About a dozen stationery goods and grocery shops had also been repaired. Questioned about the current state and the need to “inaugurate” a market where work is yet to be completed, Chakraborty said that work would complete soon and majority of the renovation work had been completed. In addition to this, waste segregation at source for 10 wards of Salt Lake was also inaugurated. According to Chakraborty, separate bins for biodegradable and non-biodegradable household waste items have been despatched to houses in these wards. “We are encouraging people to segregate their household waste before handing them over to the door-to-door waste collectors. The response has been quite good,” said Chakraborty. Saheli Gupta, a homemaker in ED Block, said that although she had been segregating the waste at home and using the two bins, most collectors were dumping the separate packets into the same van. “Most of the collectors who come don’t have separate bins and are dumping the waste into a single one in their vans,” said . Chakraborty said that once the bin distribution was complete they would focus on handing out larger bins to waste collectors. “We have distributed around 1,000 large bins to our door-to-door conservancy teams. We will distribute more in the coming months,” Chakraborty said. Another service that was “inaugurated” is the online issue of birth and death certificates. This facility too existed but the mayor pointed out that they had streamlined the process and made it more user-friendly. A former councillor of the civic body said that it was disheartening to see that the corporation was digging up old existing projects, branding them as new and inaugurating them. Former mayor Sabyasachi Dutta who is now a BJP secretary, said that it exposed the fact that the corporation had not carried out any new developmental projects. “All these are old wine in new bottles. It is sad that old projects are being passed off as new and inaugurated. The residents will see through this,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Cancelled fairs a fell blow for weavers||The Bidhananagar Municipal Corporation has declared that no fairs will be held at Central Park in 2020-21, demoralising not just visitors but also boutique owners and artisans who depend heavily on these fairs for their income. “We shall not hold any fairs at Central Park in Karunamoyee in 2020-21. Some of the most popular fairs in the city like Saras Mela, Handicraft Fair, Taanter Haat and Bidhannagar Mela are annually held here but the state government has asked us not to accept any bookings for now. In case we already have bookings from early birds, we have been asked to refund the money," said Devashis Jana, mayoral council member, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. This comes as a big setback to small-time businessmen involved in the handicraft and cottage industry who participated in these fairs for years. In fact, for many of them this was their sole source of livelihood. Anjan Biswas, a 30-year-old weaver, has been setting up a stall called Fulia Sari Centre at Bidhannagar Mela for the last 10 years. “We have a huge customer base in boutiques of Salt Lake and Ballygunge and have been coming to Taanter Haat and Bidhannagar Mela for a decade now. But the lockdown has killed our business. Ever since the lockdown was declared in March we have not had any new orders,” said Biswas, who had to let go of his team of 30 weavers in April. “We are receiving dry ration from the local administration but have no cash in hand,” he said. Boutiques of Salt Lake and New Town are also facing the blues. Most of them have workshops in their garages where tailors work on customised orders or block print tables. Abira Roychowdhury, who runs a boutique called Ranikahini near Laboni Estate, said that her business has largely shifted online. “The shutters are down but I’m selling saris, blouses, jewellery online through Facebook and WhatsApp groups. I’m not buying any new stock, just clearing what I had in hand. If things don’t improve before the Pujas, why would people shop for new clothes?” she said. Agreed Arpita Roy, who runs the boutique Arpita’s in BA Block: “We have had very few customers since the lockdown was lifted in June. Even now with a semi-lockdown situation still in place, things are not likely to improve. The roads are empty and so are the shops. We do make some online sales but it is minimal,” said Roy. Besides Salt Lake, New Town mela ground, Eco Park fairgrounds and Biswa Bangla Convention Centres had emerged popular for exhibitions. Traditional art and craft forms - from patachitra to sitalpati mats and dokra jewellery - gained visibility at fairs and exhibitions held here. Most of the artistes who live in poverty and hail from marginalised communities, had started looking at fairs as a source of income and exposure to wider market opportunities. Once they started setting up stalls in the government fairs, many claim their average income increased by nearly 50 per cent over the last five years. “We have been receiving requests for booking quite regularly but have been delaying or postponing them since we don’t know when we can host the fairs again,” Sen said, urging weavers to set up online stores for their businesses. “Online is the only way forward now. Everything has shifted online right from films to birthday parties and business meetings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Locked down townships sing ode to freedom||CD Block, New Town New Town’s CD Block celebrated August 15 with a YouTube video on some of the elderly residents of the block but it was much more than music and recitation. It was about memories. A couple, Ratneshwar and Reba Guha, recalled their childhood in what is now Bangladesh and about how they moved to India and began their lives afresh. Dipika Ghatak, a college student of the block, narrated the story of her grandpa Jitendra Lal Sen and his brother Manindra Chandra Sen, both freedom fighters. “Jitendra Lal was part of the Chittagong armoury raid led by Masterda Surya Sen. He was later awarded by Indira Gandhi,” said the proud grandchild. “Manindra Chandra was part of a group that tried to kill a British official in Myanmansingha. He was arrested and sent to the cellular jail in Andaman for six years.” They even got a byte from Manindra Chandra’s widow Pulina Rani Sen where she said she is flown to Andaman by the government for Independence Day every year. “I would have gone this year too, if it wasn’t for the lockdown,” she says. Shila Bose of the block sang a Dwijendrageeti, Amra emni ese bhese jaiand Bijan Das, the block president, recited Sukumar Ray’s Jibon er hishab. Gouri Sanyal sang, Amalabha Dutta spoke on spirituality and Shiuli Sarkar, who is stuck in Mumbai for the lockdown, sang a thumri. “We are planning two more instalments of this video in the weeks to come,” said Sithi Kana Ghatak, who conceptualised the presentation, called Smriti Manjari. Somsuddha Palit was the anchor and the video was executed by a group of youths called Pancha Pandav comprising Saptarshi Choudhury, Mrinalini Banerjee, Shruti Chinha, Beas Bera and Dipika. BK Block The BK Block flag was hoisted by mayor Krishna Chakraborty and a garbage collector Arjun Yadav, who was commemorated for his uninterrupted services during the pandemic. Yadav was quite nervous and disbelieving of the honour.   In the evening, residents who are part of the block’s music-based WhatsApp group Cholo Gaan Gai presented a show over Google Meet. The largest participation was by kids - Shirshannita Majumdar, 10, recited Priyo Swadhinata, Debarpan Mukherjee, eight, sang Nanha munha rahi and the youngest participant — five year-old Ishani Bhattacharya — spoke on the Rani of Jhasi and sang a few lines of Main rahu ya na rahu from the film Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi. Those like Somogga Choudhury danced solo but there were some group dances too, if one can call them so. Tanishka Das began dancing to Des mera rangila in her living room but the visual soon cut to Titasha Roy on her terrace. “I didn’t even know my song was getting punched with another didi’s,” said Tanishka, a Class VI student, puzzled. “But the overall effect looked great.” Most performances were pre-recorded and presented by Tamashree Saha, who along with the anchor Arpita Mukherjee, also sang Sare jaha se achcha. Oishik Das strummed the national anthem on guitar, Sammridha Mukherjee played the violin to Kadam kaam badhaye ja and there was an adorable presentation by brothers Baishyayan Banerjee, of Class X, and brother Debayan, of Class II. “Debayan had felt left out when his brother took part in this group’s Rabindrajayanti function online and insisted he join now,” said mother Baisakhi. The elder brother played the keyboard and the younger one sang Bharat amar Bharat barsha. Moreover Baishyayan wore an orange kurta and Debayan (whose head has been shaved recently for a Gandhi look-alike event at school) wore a green one. Chandra Sekhar Bag (better known as Babloo in the block) sang Banglar mati banglar jol with Sathi Ghosh. “I had sung a few lines and sent her to check if the scale was agreeable. And then we performed live. Most other events were pre-recorded to avoid network disruptions,” said Bag. The senior-most participant was Sathi Dasgupta who sang O amar desher mati with a tricolour sash on. Block president Rajarshi Chandra wished everyone and requested them to continue staying indoors. “I know it’s difficult but you can keep busy with such cultural endeavours,” he said. The group presented a video collage of residents waving the flag at home and concluded by standing up to sing the national anthem together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Kedarnath temple at Sreebhumi this year||Sreebhumi will construct Kedarnath temple this year. And hope that it does not draw as big a crowd as the puja is known for. “This is not a time to show off. We are not looking for perfection this year. We have told the decorator that. So there should not be 100-150 labourers at work at the pandal at any point,” said Dibyendu Kishor Goswami, chief co-ordinator of the puja committee. The club hosted khuti puja on Sunday with about 300-400 people in attendance. “In other years, we have more than 700. It was difficult to reduce further as our members total over 200.” To keep onlookers away, no celebrity was invited this time. “Last time, we had actress Subhashree and filmmaker Raj Chakraborty. Actor Dev and singers Raghav and Rupankar have  also attended our khuti puja in recent years,” he said. The puja’s sponsors were also not invited. Lunch and dinner, customary at Sreebhumi on the day, were cancelled in favour of packets of sweets. “We also handed over a sapling each to all visitors.” Priest Somesh Sashtri came all the way from Behala to perform the puja. To ensure that attendance was staggered through the day, instead of asking people to come during the start of the puja, the entire duration of the ritual was mentioned — from 10am to 3pm — so people could drop by at their convenience. Explaining the choice of the theme, Goswami said the puja venue has a ready structure which cannot be downsized. “Moreover, our idol started being built right after Jagaddhatri puja. That was long before coronavirus struck India.” Idol-maker Pradip Rudra Paul said the traditional idol would be 20ft high with chalchitra as in other years. “Work was stopped for three months because of lockdown. Even now, we are short of hands. Labourers are hardly being able to come,” said Rudra Paul, who makes around 65 idols every year. “Idols of most pujas will be smaller this time. But Sreebhumi and BJ Block in Salt Lake will retain last year’s idol height,” said the resident of BJ Block. Yubak Sangha Club, that usually celebrates Ganesh puja near PNB Island, inaugurated this year’s celebrations on Tuesday — online. The Zoom meeting was attended by the likes of MLA and minister Sujit Bose, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee. “Due to the pandemic we have decided on the theme of ‘Grihakone Vinayak’ for our puja this year,” said Anindya Chatterjee club president and local councillor. The location of the idol has been kept a secret but those wishing to watch the rituals may, on August 22, watch the Facebook page ‘Bidhannagar Ganesh Chaturthi Mahotsav’. Payment can also be made online for the priest to perform puja on behalf of someone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Marching with Netaji ||It might have been 1999 before a woman — Gunjan Saxena — got to fly for the Indian air force during a war but women had an entire army regiment to fight for India as early as the 1940s. And the credit goes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. A webinar was organised last week on the women of the Indian National Army by the Indian Association for Asian and Pacific Studies. This is an academic think tank of college and university lecturers and researchers. “We had wanted to host this seminar for a while now and decided to time it around August 15 so as to arouse maximum interest in the audience,” said secretary Sarvani Gooptu. Speaking on the subject was Maitreyi Sengupta, former head of the history department of Shri Shikshayatan College and a resident of FE College. “Netaji was the greatest champion of women’s rights,” said Sengupta. “Our country is still battling dowry deaths and honour killings in the 21st century but Netaji had scripted this glorious chapter in Indian history with this regiment exclusively for women that was led by a woman too. It’s a pity that the Rani of Jhansi Regiment almost forgotten today.” Here is what Sengupta shared with the audience — All for a cause Netaji’s vision for women was more radical and progressive than his contemporaries. Women had joined India’s freedom struggle as early as the 1920s but passively, selling khadi and the like. But Netaji wanted women to devote their lives to the ideal of freedom, just like men. At the Calcutta session of the Congress in 1928, Netaji had wanted the young women members to parade in military uniform but the party did not allow it. So the women marched in saris, but draped in a smart way that looked no less than a uniform. After leaving India, it was on July 9, 1943 in Singapore that Netaji announced the formation of the Indian National Army. At the same time he announced that the Rani of Jhansi Regiment would be an important part of it. But no one took him seriously or even thought this possible. The Indian-origin women of south east Asia were barely educated and had no exposure outside their houses and after a week of campaigning Netaji had recruited only 15 women. But one of them was Lakshmi Swaminathan, an energetic and active doctor. Alongside Swaminathan, Netaji held rallies across Singapore, Malaysia and Burma and the response was unbelievable. Young women in the audience rushed to the stage to enlist themselves. They took off their jewellery and donated on the spot, held up their children and said they would leave their families behind and join Netaji if he sought them. Most of these girls had never even laid foot on Indian soil but Netaji’s towering personality made them yearn for their roots. In a year or two, the Rani of Jhansi Regiment had 1,500 recruits. The strength of the entire Azad Hind Fauj was about 40,000 but 1,500 women in it was a significant number. Some women had to coax their families into joining the army but for many it wasn’t difficult. Entire families had joined Netaji by making donations to the cause and sending their children to become soldiers. Tough training The training camps were held in Singapore, Malaysia and Burma and the women roughed it out like the men. They were taught to use fire arms, map reading, jungle warfare, guerrilla tactics, advanced nursing etc. It was also unprecedented that the women’s regiment was led by a woman — Swaminathan. The women went to Rangoon to fight but the British had already gained on the Japanese troupes there. They had to beat a retreat. Still, the regiment is of historical importance. Forgotten heroes After independence these women got a raw deal. The land they were ready to die for refused to acknowledge them as freedom fighters. They weren’t given citizenship or freedom fighter pension. Swaminathan married a fellow INA soldier Prem Sehgal and was better known as Captain Lakshmi Sahgal for the rest of her life. She had joined politics and continued to serve as a doctor in Kanpur, where she had settled. Another soldier Janaky Devar returned to Malaysia and joined politics there too. There were sisters Aruna Ganguly and Shanti Ganguly too who hailed from south east Asia but had homes in Calcutta and settled here. Several of these soldiers would come to Netaji Bhavan for his birth anniversary celebrations and I would get to speak to them. It was an honour. India today is moving backwards in every field but things would have been different had Netaji been around. He was a man who promoted true secularism and women’s emancipation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||3-day fest promotes cycling||Three cycling events were held between August 13 and 15 in New Town in a bid to promote cycling as a means of last mile connectivity in the township. The first event was exclusively for women. They took a ride from the business club to the clock tower. On the second day, a mixed group comprising mostly men rode a much long distance from the clock tower to the Eiffel Tower in Eco Park and on Independence Day two independent groups rode and culminated their rides in the township. “The events may seem one-off but they are part of a well-thought out strategy,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “Our aim is to lure residents away from using buses and totos for last-mile connectivity and switch to bicycles.” The all-women ride was introduced for gender balance. “We noted that elderly women, particularly, would be reluctant riding in a mixed group. One lady who turned up said she was riding after 25 years, another straight after her school days… Response was positive,” said Sen. The authorities are also planning to teach cycling to those interested. “These steps are required to change people’s attitude. At present many believe cycles are for those who cannot afford anything else. Parents forbid their children from cycling for fear of road accidents. So we are expanding our cycle track network, asking them to use service lanes and building an ecosystem conducive to cycling,” he said. He added that the sale of cycles had risen during the lockdown. “One large housing complex has informed me that over the past month or two 300 new bicycles have been purchased by their residents,” said Sen. Namrata Bhatta, a resident of Mahishgot, adjoining New Town participated in the event with her two sons, aged 10 and 8. “I am a Baidyabati girl. In our growing-up years, cycle was the preferred mode of transport for all of us. We would think nothing of cycling five-six kilometres daily.” Though she left her cycle back in her Hooghly district home after shifting to New Town post-marriage, she is now planning to bring it over. “My sons had a cycle but did not ride it much. This event has created such a craze that they are cycling on their own even now that the event is over,”  said the lady on Wednesday. She had borrowed her neighbour’s cycle for the event, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Blame it on Rajarhat||Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has about Rs 160 crore in property taxes arrears. This astronomical sum has accrued over the last four years, when residents failed to paid their dues. The authorities, however, blame Rajarhat for the chunk of it. Money received as property tax is used to provide civic services like streetlights, road repairs, water supply and solid waste management but several councilors and mayoral council members said that due to the accrued taxes, several development projects, including healthcare services, in the corporation could not be undertaken. Lack in Covid care facility “Had we managed to collect the taxes properly and on time, we could have started a hospital for Covid-19 patients that could also have started testing people living in the corporation area,” said a mayoral council member who did not wish to be named. At present, the corporation has three medical facilities — Matri Sadan Hospital in EE Block,  Vidyasagar Matro Sadan in Narayanpur and a third in Deshbandhu Nagar. None of these hospitals is now admitting Covid-19 patients. Matri Sadan Hospital has, in fact, been shut for the past few years and has not been thrown open to patients despite a Rs 1.25 crore revamp. Dark streets According to a mayoral council member, several areas in Salt Lake are plunging into darkness after sundown due to dysfunctional streetlights. “If we had money in our coffers we would have repaired our lights,” said the councillor. Several roads in Salt Lake, including the First Avenue, parts of the Broadway and roads inside blocks, are in bad shape. “Tenders for road repairs have not even been called as there is no money at hand,” said another Salt Lake councillor. A contractor who undertakes road repairs said that the civic body was yet to clear its dues for work that has already been completed. “We are still waiting for our last payments,” he said. Tax bills sent Of the total pending amount, Rs 150 crore is receivable from homes under the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality like Kestopur, Baguiati, Kaikhali and Teghoria. Rajarhat alone has more than 1.17 lakh holdings as opposed to only 26,000 in Salt Lake. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said they had already initiated tax collections and that tax bills would soon reach all corners of the corporation. “We have started sending out bills and have received assurances from several housing complexes in Kaikhali and Teghoria, who have outstanding taxes to the tune of a few crores, that they will pay up,” she said. But a mayoral council member said that in reality very little effort was being made to collect taxes from these areas. “We are extending all services to these places but not receiving any taxes in return. Without money we cannot buy new equipment or launch new projects,” he said. Deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee said that holdings in Rajarhat need to be reassessed for updated tax rates. “The area had a different tax structure as part of the erstwhile Rajarhat Goplapur Municipality. But now it needs to be reassessed as it is part of the corporation,” said Chatterjee, who was earlier the chairman of the Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality. Ward by ward In Salt Lake the scenario differs from ward to ward. Devasish Jana, councillor of Ward 34 that includes blocks IB, HB, GD, GE, FE, FF and IC, said that taxes amounting to at least a couple of crores were due. “I have sent all the tax bills with a request to residents to clear them at the earliest,” said Jana, who is also the mayoral council member of solid water management in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Anindya Chatterje, the councillor of Ward 41 that encompasses blocks AA, AB, AC, AD, BA, BB, BC and BD, said that around Rs 12 crore was due from these areas. “I have gone around the ward personally delivering tax bills to residents who have large sums pending. Several of them have said they would pay up. Others said they felt the received was too high and would like a review.” In such a case they are to send an application to the corporation seeking review. A mayoral council member even mentioned instances where residents have queued up to pay taxes but the civic body could not accept payment as the assessment procedure was not clear to resdients. Chairperson of the civic body and the councillor of Ward 30, Anita Mondal, too has been visiting AG, AH, BG, BH, CG and DG blocks to hand deliver bills. “At least 35 residents have handed over cheques since then. Most came to the ward office for it. We expect payments to be faster once the pandemic is over,” she said. Then there are those like Rajesh Chirimar, councillor of Ward 39 (including wards like blocks like CA, DA, DB), who say that most residents have already paid up. “There is not much due in from my ward. Residents of Salt Lake are law-abiding people and tend to keep their tax payments clear,” said Chirimar. Residents of Duttabad, an added area under his ward, do not have to pay taxes.   Tulsi Sinha Roy, the Ward 40 councillor, said that about Rs 2 crore worth of taxes was due from her ward.  “A chunk of these are receivable from commercial establishments like hotels and a shopping mall (City Centre),” said Roy whose ward includes CC, DC, CD and DD blocks. Kumar Shankar Sadhu, a member of the Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) Welfare Association said that residents of Salt Lake did not have much taxes pending. “We know for a fact that residents here have been making payments as most of them don't want to increase liabilities. Instead, the civic body should focus on areas that have been added during the formation of the corporation where no tax payments have been made over the past few years,” Sadhu said. An official said only 10 per cent of Salt Lake's taxpayers pay property tax online. This could be because there is a sizeable population of senior citizens here, many of whom are not comfortable making payments online. Unlike in New Town the corporation does not have any dedicated personnel to help file online taxes. In New Town the New Town Kolkata Development Authority has roped in services of “tax sathis” to help people pay their property tax.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Safe’ lamp post kills two in Shibpur ||Two men returning home after a dip in the Hooghly were electrocuted near the botanical garden in Shibpur on Thursday afternoon after they came in contact with a lamp post barely seven hours after a CESC team inspected it following a complaint and declared it safe. People in the neighbourhood said the technician in the CESC team told them there was no fault in the post and that some of the branches of an overhanging tree, in which wires were entangled, needed to be pruned. No one turned up to trim the tree. Residents said Suman Sharma and Srikanta Das, both in their 30s, might not have died had the branches been pruned in time. They said the wires were lying entangled with branches for a long time and caused a huge spark and sound that prompted one of them to register a complaint with CESC on Thursday morning. Officials of the utility said they received a complaint about a loud sound in a post around 6.30am and a team went to inspect the spot but did not find any fault. “There was a need for trimming of some branches for which an internal team was alerted,” the CESC spokesperson said. “But it started raining heavily after that (the morning inspection) and the place got waterlogged.” Officials in the Howrah Municipal Corporation said they had not received any requisition from the power utility for trimming the tree. Asked to respond, the CESC spokesperson said: “As no fault was found during the inspection in the morning, there was no reason to rush for the trimming as well.” The spokesperson also said the tree trimming was not related to the electrocution. “There are several wires that run through trees across the city. Then all the wires could have caused electrocution.” Around 1pm, Sharma and Das accidentally came in touch with the lamp post outside a government quarters while trying to negotiate the waterlogged lane. Both got electrocuted and were declared dead at the Howrah State General Hospital, police said. An unnatural death case has been started by AJC Bose Botanic Garden police station. “We have not received any specific complaint till now,” said a police officer late on Thursday. CESC officials said soon after the incident was reported in the afternoon, their team had re-visited the spot and switched off the supply line. “Necessary investigation to find the cause of the incident is on,” the CESC spokesperson said. The need to trim a tree with entangled power lines and the lack of action would ring a familiar alarm bell for many Calcuttans. After Cyclone Amphan had hit the city on May 20, Metro had published several reports on how lack of coordination between the linemen and the authorities responsible for trimming or removing uprooted trees was hurting the efforts to clear the debris left by the storm. CESC wanted the trees removed first and the tree removers wanted the power lines checked and the area declared safe first. In May, a young fireman was electrocuted in Belur while trying to saw the branches off a partially uprooted tree that had got entangled in electrical wires, allegedly after CESC had told his team that the supply to the area had been cut off. The death of the fireman had prompted a revised protocol among fire officials that they would not cut trees after a power cut, unless a technician of the power supply agency tests the line himself and declares it safe. The place where the incident happened on Thursday is frequented by hundreds of morning walkers. It was deserted on Thursday because of the lockdown. After the deaths, residents demanded “stern action” against the technician who had first visited the spot in the morning. Morning walkers demanded compensation for the families of the dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta|| Jadavpur University to conduct digital classes to clear backlog||Jadavpur University will conduct regular classes through “distance digital mode” from August 23 so that students of the intermediate semester can be compensated for the classes they had missed out on in the previous semester because of the lockdown. Half the classes of the previous semester could not be held because the campus had to be shut down as a precaution against Covid-19. The compensatory classes will be held for arts and science students. As for the engineering students, the date of commencement of such classes will be decided later. “Ahead of the start of the classes of the next semester from September 14, the teachers will hold classes through distance digital mode so that the students could make up for the classes they had missed,” said vice-chancellor Suranjan Das. An official said in the “distance digital mode”, study materials such as notes, soft copies of textbooks, and audio and video demonstrations would be made available to the students through email and WhatsApp. After a student goes through the study materials, he or she will get an opportunity to interact with the teacher concerned through email or WhatsApp to clear doubts. Teachers can form sub-groups of students and engage with each through conference calls to clear doubts. “Since making a conference call does not require any Internet connectivity on the handheld device, we want to apply this model,’’ said Partha Pratim Roy, an associate professor of physics department. The university is raising funds to provide smartphones and high-speed data packs to 800-odd students who have poor Net connectivity at home, so they can attend classes from September 14. Will these students be left out of the compensatory classes? “It is unlikely they could be given the devices or data packs before August 23. We have left it to the teachers to decide how to reach out to the students,” said VC Das. “If nothing can be done, then additional classes should be held for these students when they will be handed the devices and the data pack.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Two workers at Alipore zoo electrocuted||Two men, part of a group of labourers putting up hoardings at the Alipore zoo, were electrocuted on Thursday morning. A third was injured and is in hospital. An official of the hospital said his condition was critical. The deceased have been identified as Tarani Ghosh, 31, from Murshidabad, and Pradip Das, 45, from Odisha. The men were electrocuted around 11.30am, opposite the elephant enclosure. The chain of events leading to the deaths was not immediately clear. The group had been camping on the zoo premises for several days, said zoo officials. “Continuous process industries and industries with in-house workers” are exempt from the lockdown curbs, according to the state government guidelines. The team was working for a contractor, who had been hired by an outdoor advertising agency, sources at the park said. “The labourers were electrocuted while doing some maintenance work. Two of them were declared brought dead at the hospital. The third is undergoing treatment,” a police officer said. An official of the Delhi-based outdoor agency said: “From what I have gathered, the men were not erecting a hoarding on Thursday. The accident happened when they were collecting materials lying on the ground….” Asked if safety protocols were followed, the official said: “It is not possible for us to keep tabs on the minute details of every project. The contractor had hired the men.” The zoo is shut for visitors because of the pandemic. Only a handful of keepers and guards are now engaged, mostly for daily maintenance. “There was no keeper or guard at the spot at the time of the incident,” zoo director Asis Kumar Samanta said. “I was alerted around noon. The men were shifted to hospital immediately on a zoo vehicle.” “We have started a probe into the incident,” said VK Yadav, member-secretary, Bengal Zoo Authority. “Electrical engineers will visit the spot tomorrow to find out how the labourers came in contact with a live wire,” said a zoo official. “Prime facie, it seems to be a case of electrocution. The zoo authorities will conduct their own probe,” a police officer said. Asked why the police were not registering a case of negligence suo moto, the officer said: “Someone has to first allege there was negligence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Livelihood trauma for Calcutta bar employees||Till March, a 38-year-old man used to stir martinis and rustle up mojitos at a Theatre Road pub. For the past few months, the out-of-work Barrackpore resident has been scrambling to get a job. That includes trying in vain for a guard’s job at a housing complex. A 23-year-old man from Hind Motor had joined a Camac Street bar earlier this year after a short stint at a Park Street café. After a hotel management diploma, he had done a professional bartending course and liked to call himself a “mixologist”. His salary of “Rs 16,000” was a glimmer of hope for his parents, who had paid through their nose for his courses. Since April, the youth is “on furlough”. The pandemic has not only dashed the family’s hopes but posed a serious challenge in meeting daily expenses. The bar shutdown because of the Covid pandemic has robbed many Calcuttans of their weekend fun. But for thousands of people, it means loss of livelihood and an uncertain future for their families. Behind the tinkling of glasses, psychedelic lights and trippy music, these places also provided bread and butter to many families. “I have been working as a bartender for close to a decade. There is hardly anything else I can do. But I cannot sit at home, whimpering. I have to do something. I have not been able to pay my daughter’s school fees for the past two months,” said the Barrackpore resident. His wife is a homemaker. His daughter studies in Class XI. The man used to get a salary of Rs 22,000. He said he had not been paid anything since the pub downed shutters in March. The Telegraph spoke to many such people. They have lost their jobs or are on unpaid leave or furlough. A few lucky ones have been getting a small part of their salary. Most of the people this newspaper spoke to requested anonymity. They feared revealing their names would jeopardise the chances of getting back to work when the situation improved, as promised by several owners. The owners said they were struggling to stay afloat. Rent licence fees and other fixed cost components are continuing to deplete their coffers. Their revenue has been zero since March. “What options am I left with? I have to pay a huge rent even when the place is shut. I have to renew my excise license, trade and fire licences,” said a young bar owner, who has been “forced” to cut jobs and send employees on unpaid leave. The “uncertainty” is most disturbing, the owners said, especially when retail liquor shops have reopened. When the curbs were first imposed, they thought the shutdown would be short. Many bar owners did not go for layoffs or furloughs for initial months. But the prolonged ban on bars has left them with no other option, said the owners. “Had we known the burnout, it would have been easy to calculate our losses and go ahead. Gradually, all other businesses are opening up, except bars,” said the owner of a microbrewery that has remained shut. The lid on bottles has also affected revenue and footfall at some of the traditional favourite restaurants on Park Street, forcing owners to reduce staff strength. “If I am allowed to serve fresh lime soda on a table, what is the problem in serving a bottle of beer,” asked the owner of a Park Street bar-cum-restaurant. An informal association of bartenders in Calcutta has been trying to raise funds for out-of-work bar employees. “We have over 120 members. But thousands of bar employees are out of work,” said a member of the association. Sagar Daryani, the chapter head of the National Restaurants Association of India in Calcutta, said the number of places that served alcohol in the city would be over 1,000. “The lives of tens of thousands of people are at stake.” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Rain alert sparks flooding scare in Calcutta||Steady rain since Wednesday afternoon and the forecast for more showers over the next five days have triggered fears of waterlogging in the city. Calcutta has remained drenched since Wednesday under the influence of a low-pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal, a cyclonic circulation over the Bay that can turn into a low-pressure system by the weekend and an active monsoon trough. “Because of these consecutive two low-pressure systems, widespread rainfall is very likely to continue over the districts of south Bengal till August 25,” a Met office statement reads. The statement warns of a “rise in water level in different rivers of south Bengal and water-logging in city and suburban areas”. Between Wednesday and Thursday evening, the Alipore Met office recorded around 60mm of rain in Alipore. Dark clouds hovered over the city sky since Thursday morning and the rain came in multiple spells. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s measuring station at New Market recorded 55mm of rain in 24 hours from 6.30pm on Wednesday. The corresponding figures at Jora Bridge (Santoshpur) and Joka were 60mm and 49mm, respectively. In Met parlance, 60mm of rain or more in 24 hours qualifies as heavy rain. The roads were deserted on Thursday because of the lockdown. Friday is expected to be similar. But people stepping out next week will face problems if the rain persists. “If the rain continues, several low-lying pockets of the city could be flooded,” said a civic official. Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the civic body who is in charge of drainage, said: “We can drain out 12mm of water in an hour. But if the rain is heavy and persistent, there is little we can do.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Fire at tea auctioneer's office in Park Mansions||A fire broke out in the office of a tea auctioning company on the third-floor of Park Mansions on Thursday morning. No one was injured. Security personnel of the building rescued two men before the fire brigade reached. “When we reached the spot, thick smoke had filled the affected portion of the third-floor. We had some difficulty getting access to the office initially,” a fire brigade officer said. The fire was doused within an hour and a half. The office, a roughly 3,000sq ft space, was partially damaged. “The air-conditioned office had tea tasting facilities, furniture and documents,” the officer said. A few families live in the building but the fire did not affect those portions, said Susmita Bhattacharya, the outgoing councillor of Ward 63, which covers Park Street. Three fire tenders reached the building, at the junction of Park Street and Free School Street, within a minute of a call reaching the headquarters of the fire brigade, said an officer at the fire brigade’s control room. “We received a call at 7.15am.... Three fire tenders reached the spot within a minute and the fire was doused by 8.40am,” said the officer. The four-storeyed building has many commercial establishments, including outlets of Starbucks and Hard Rock Cafe and a Nexa dealership. The fire did not spread to the other parts, the officer said. “The primary objective was to ensure the fire could be arrested within the four walls of the tea auctioning company,” another officer who was at the site said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Survey to identify at-risk Calcuttans||The state government will conduct a survey in Calcutta to find out the extent of co-morbidities in the city's population because such people are vulnerable to Covid-19, officials said. As asked by the state government, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will send teams to houses across 144 wards in the city to ask residents whether they suffer from medical conditions listed as co-morbidities. The conditions include hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer and tuberculosis. According to the state health department, Covid-19 has claimed 2,634 lives in Bengal till Thursday. As many as 2,316 of the victims — 87.9 per cent — suffered from co-morbidities. State government and CMC officials decided at a recent meeting that the civic body would send teams to as many houses as possible to prepare a list of people suffering from co-morbidities, a government official said. “More than 2,000 workers of the CMC will be involved in the survey, which should be over in three weeks to one month,” the official said. Once the database is created, people suffering from co-morbidities will be asked to inform the authorities about any symptoms of Covid-19. “We have seen that many people with co-morbidities and symptoms of Covid-19 like fever and respiratory distress did not go for a test till their conditions became critical. The survey is aimed at preventing such delays. Health workers will reach these people proactively and ask them whether they have any Covid symptoms,” a health department official said. He, however, admitted that it might not be possible to reach every household and identify all people with pre-existing conditions. “But even if a percentage of such people could be identified, that would help save many lives,” he said. According to the official, when a Covid-19 vaccine becomes available, such a database could be used to prioritise the list of beneficiaries. A study conducted in Birbhum that showed non-communicable diseases to be the leading cause of mortality in the district could serve as a model for the new study. That study, conducted between 2012 and 2017, had recorded 2,320 deaths during the period. Over half the deaths were attributed to non-communicable diseases such as cardiac ailments, cerebral strokes and ischemic heart diseases. The study, authored by Rajesh Kumar Rai, senior research scientist at the Society for Health and Demographic Surveillance; Wafaie W. Fawzi, Richard Saltonstall Professor of Population Sciences at the department of global health and population, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health; and Prashant Mathur, director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Bangalore, among others, concluded: “NCDs (non-communicable diseases) are the leading cause of death among adults in a select population of rural Birbhum. Health programmes for rural India should prioritize plans to mitigate deaths due to NCDs.” “We wanted to highlight the importance of identifying and protecting the population with co-morbidities,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, member of the expert committee on Covid set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a co-author of the study.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||Signals flouted, cop hit amid lockdown in Calcutta||Two men, who were neither from an essential service nor in any emergency, allegedly jumped the lights at the Hudco crossing and in Kankurgachi and hit a traffic sergeant who tried to stop their car for violating the lockdown on Thursday morning. Police said the two were driving down from Kolaghat. The vehicle fled Kankurgachi leaving the sergeant bleeding. The police said he suffered a fracture in the shoulder. Hours later, the car was tracked down to Parnasree in Behala. The two men - Akash Halder, 24, a resident of a highrise in Behala, and Titash Mitra, 33, from Basudevpur Road in Parnasree – were arrested. A preliminary investigation suggests that the Toyota Corolla Altis belonged to Mitra but Halder was at the wheel when it knocked down the sergeant. Both have been booked for attempt to murder, rash and negligent driving and common intention and also under the Disaster Management Act. “Neither could give a reasonable explanation for violating the lockdown. They should have stopped at the first crossing. Instead, they tried to flee and when the message to stop this car was aired so that the vehicle could be intercepted at the next crossing, the vehicle sped past that cordon too,” said a senior police officer. “Not stopping at one crossing could be a mistake, but repeating the same at the next crossing and physically hurting someone amounts to a serious offence,” the officer added. Hundreds of policemen were on the roads on Thursday to enforce the lockdown. Friday, too, is a complete lockdown from 6am to 10pm. Rain, the men in uniform and Covid scare managed to keep people indoors on Thursday. Vehicles across the city were stopped to ask why they were outside. At the Shyambazar crossing, around 2pm, a man driving a private car said he was on his way home after dropping a doctor at his workplace but could not produce any documents and was prosecuted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
21-08-2020||Calcutta||IIEST drafts hostel-wise exit plan||IIEST, Shibpur, has issued a hostel-wise exit plan that its graduating students have to follow to take away their belongings from the campus. The institute has asked its outgoing students, who had left their hostels in the third week of March following the outbreak of Covid-19, to clear their belongings by August 31. “The exit plan, which has been uploaded on the institute’s website, specifies when students from each state will arrive on the campus to collect their items,” said an official of the institute. At the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), half the students are from outside Bengal. The plan has been prepared after students shared information, on a Google form created by the university, on which states they are from, whether their homes are in containment zones and how they will travel to the campus. Sudipta Mukhopadhyay, chief warden, IIEST, said in a notice that the students had been asked to complete the process of removing their belongings in an hour. The reporting time at the hostel is 10am to 4pm. “The student can accompany one of his/her parents to facilitate the process. An intimation through e-mail by the concerned student must reach the respective warden with a copy to the chief warden at least 24 hours before his/her arrival,” says the notice signed by Mukhopadhyay. The exit plan has the names of graduating students from each state and the respective dates that have been finalised for collecting the belongings. Until the belongings are removed, the rooms cannot be sanitised, said an official of the building. In the next phase, the institute will ask the students in the third year and second year to take away their belongings. First-year students have yet to move in as the JEE-Main exams, through which the institute admits students, have not yet been held because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-336
