22-08-2020||Calcutta||CESC issues monsoon safety guideline||A CESC team on Friday went to Botanic Garden Lane, in Shibpur, to trim branches that had entangled in electricity wires or been touching lamp posts, a day after two men were electrocuted after accidentally touching a post in the lane. Residents rued that Suman Sharma and Srikanta Das, who were on their way home through a flooded Botanic Garden Lane when they met with the accident, could have been still alive had the branches been trimmed on Thursday. They alleged that a CESC team had inspected the spot on Thursday morning following a complaint of a loud sound from a lamp post and declared that the post was safe. The team from the power utility allegedly left the spot telling people that some branches needed to be trimmed. However, no one arrived to trim the branches. Seven hours later, the two men in their 30s were electrocuted after touching the same lamp post. On Thursday, CESC officials had told The Telegraph that the incident of electrocution was “not related to tree trimming” and that an investigation had been started to ascertain the cause of the incident. On Friday, none of the CESC officials commented on the investigation. The utility during the day came out with a “monsoon safety guideline”, whose first point urged people to avoid coming in close proximity with electrical poles, stray wires, distribution boxes and kiosks during rain. People have also been warned against touching electrical switches with wet hands and using mobile phones when they are being charged. Residents of Botanic Garden Lane said the two men possibly could not have averted coming in contact with the lamp post as the entire lane was waterlogged. “A drain on the other side of the lane was overflowing. The entire lane was flooded. Only a small patch around the lamp post was dry as it was situated on a higher level. The men had stepped on the dry patch and came in contact with the lamp post,” said Sarada Pasi, who lives in a house in front of the spot where the fatal accident happened. On Friday, when two CESC men wearing gum boots and helmets appeared with a ladder, some residents complained how this act, if done 24 hours before, could have saved two lives. “They trimmed most of the branches that fell on the electrical wires. I wish this work were done yesterday,” one of them said. Power supply to the lamp posts in the lane was cut off on Thursday night. Residents said supply had not been restored on Friday. The Howrah City Police said they had started an unnatural death case but no “specific case” was initiated in the absence of a formal complaint from the families of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
22-08-2020||Calcutta||An appeal with a thought for others: ‘Eat out to help them’||Eat out to help those who are feeling the economic heat of the pandemic, a government agency that runs three restaurants in the city has appealed to people. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), custodian of properties like Eco Park and the Biswa Bangla Gate in New Town, has come out with an advertisement that mirrors the plight of most restaurants as they struggle to cope with low footfall. “The chef, the server, the manager and a lot of people whom you see or who work in the background are facing the heat of the pandemic. Eat out to help them,” says the appeal. The three Hidco restaurants employ about 200 people. Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, told The Telegraph on Friday that the appeal was prompted by someone he knew losing his job. “The man I know had moved on from our restaurant for a better career. But a few days ago, he wanted to meet me again. He had lost his job during the pandemic. The sector is bleeding and since we run three restaurants, I felt like making this appeal,” he said. Hidco officials ruled out immediate job cuts and said the workers’ salaries would not be affected although revenues had not kept pace with expectations so far. Many thousands who worked at other restaurants and bars across the city lacked a similar cushion. Many have lost their jobs or are on furlough, and the luckier ones have had their salaries cut. On June 8, during the second phase of Unlock, restaurants had resumed business with a “lot of hope”. However, with a spike in Covid-19 cases since late July, the number of people stepping out to eat, especially after dark, has dropped again although Unlock III did away with the night curfew. “The fear is there. People are thinking twice before dining out,” said Debraj Bose, who runs Pa Pa Ya on Park Street. A doctor at the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital said: “There is no problem eating out if one follows the safety protocols and maintains social distancing. But safety has to be ensured at both ends, by the customers as well as the restaurants. It is a continuous process that has to be followed while travelling to the restaurant, eating there and returning home.” Nitin Kothari, who owns Mocambo and Peter Cat, said people’s fears had deepened after Amitabh Bachchan fell ill. “Now that he is home and safe, things are looking better,” Kothari said. Many places, including star hotels, have started food delivery and are texting promotional and curated menus to patrons. Some are offering discounts on weekdays. Weekends are drawing diners to Dhaba Ajante, the open-air restaurant at Eco Park. “People are preferring to eat in a non-enclosed space. But in our indoor restaurants we have movable partitions that are installed between two adjacent tables the moment they both get occupied. So, people can safely come and eat,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Yellow bins not meant for kitchen waste||The yellow bins put up across Calcutta to collect Covid waste have been filled with food, vegetables and construction waste. Cleaners of the private agency that has received the contract to clean the yellow bins were stumped when they went to clear them in some places on Friday. The bins were filled with fruit peels, vegetables, cooked and discarded food. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has installed 2,000 such bins across the city. The bins have clearly written on them what can be dumped but people haven't followed it, an official of the private agency said. The dumping of kitchen waste in the bins shows the lack of waste segregation culture in Calcutta where all kinds of waste are packed together and dumped in wheeled carts every morning. “People should dump only biomedical waste in these yellow bins. They should throw their used masks, face shields, hand gloves and PPEs in these bins. The bins are not meant for kitchen waste,” Ramakant Burman, the managing director of GreenTech Environ, the private agency, said. The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, applicable across the country had mandated that household waste be segregated at source. The waste must be divided into biodegradable, non-biodegradable and domestic hazardous waste. But the segregation did not take off in Calcutta barring in seven wards in the Calcutta municipal area. The CMC is now extending the segregation at source infrastructure in 20 more wards. Still that covers only 27 of the 144 wards of the CMC. Sourabh Manuja, a fellow at the Centre for Waste Management at The Energy and Resources Institute, said the municipal corporation should conduct an extensive awareness campaign to let people know the purpose of the yellow bins. “Effective waste management is dependent on awareness among people.” Greentech Environ is collecting biomedical waste from close to 4,000 homes where Covid patients with mild symptoms are in home isolation. The company is charging Rs 500 for each yellow bin. It will get an additional payment if the weight of the waste in a bin exceeds 1kg, an official of the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Antigen test focus on mobile groups like household helps and toto drivers||Rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 are being conducted in New Town with a focus on household workers in senior citizen’s homes, construction labourers, shopkeepers and e-rickshaw drivers. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and the state health department have opened a testing centre between the Condor building and the Rosedale Garden complex in Action Area III. The tests, which started on Thursday, are being conducted free and results are available within 30 minutes. One can turn up at the centre between 10am and 2.30pm any day to get tested. “We are focussing on household help, shopkeepers and e-rickshaw (toto) drivers because they come in contact with a large number of people daily. If they are infected by the coronavirus,  the risk of it spread among a larger group is high. Construction workers are also being given priority because many of them, engaged at various sites in New Town, have tested positive,” an NKDA official said. The NKDA will reach out to these groups and try to convince them to get tested. “We want to get domestic help, especially those hired by senior citizens, because they move from one house to another,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The agency will approach residents’ associations and block associations to prepare a list of domestic help. A cell will be set up to trace contacts of those testing positive and arrangements will be made to get the contacts tested as well, the official said. If any of those testing negative has mild or moderate symptoms of Covid-19, he or she will be subjected to the confirmatory RT-PCR test after a check by doctors at the centre. “The move will bring tests closer to doorsteps so more people can be brought under surveillance. We want to increase the number of tests in all hotspots,” an official said. Residents who want to get themselves tested can do so by calling the 24X7 New Town helpline — 1800-103-7652. After getting an appointment, one can download a form from the Hidco or the NKDA website. The forms can also be downloaded from https://www.wbhidcoltd.com/uploads/announcement/Ann841.pdf. “To save time, one can take a printout of the filled-in form and report at the testing centre,” an official said. Twenty-eight tests were performed on Thursday and Friday. One person’s report came positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Doctor panel advice to free up ICU for critical patients  ||A panel of government doctors is visiting hospitals and requesting authorities and doctors to shift Covid patients out of intensive care units when they show signs of improvement. The move will help hospitals in admitting more critical patients to ICUs, the panel has said. Hospitals in several countries have faced shortage of ICU beds during the pandemic. In countries like the US and Italy, many hospitals have said they could not provide critical patients with proper care for want of ICU beds. “In India and Bengal, the situation is still not that bad. But with thousands of fresh cases being reported in our state daily, keeping ICU beds available, as many as possible, is one of our top priority,” a health department official said. “We cannot force doctors to shift critical patients out of ICUs but we are advising them how they can be less rigid in evaluating the criticality of a Covid patient.” Had Covid not struck, such patients would have been in ICUs till they became completely stable, the official, who is a public health expert as well, said. “But Covid treatment should be a mix of scientific decision-making, pragmatism and humane approach.” If a patient’s oxygen requirement drops to less than two litres a minute for the past few days and his/her oxygen-saturation level in the blood doesn’t fluctuate, that person maybe shifted out of the ICU, Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital, said. “He needs intensive bedside monitoring either in a cabin or a ward.” Dhali is leading the panel of government doctors to check if treatment protocols are being followed in Covid hospitals. “It is important to create facilities for more serious patients who require immediate intervention.” The panel has been suggesting to doctors that elderly people who don’t show any major fluctuations in their oxygen saturation level in the blood can be shifted out of ICUs if their blood pressure stabilises. “Patients with no reports of any organ distress and who don’t require high-flow nasal cannula for their oxygen support and can do with an oxygen mask maybe considered for shifting out of ICUs,” a health department official said. “Once out of ICUs, nurses have to continuously monitor them.” An increasing number of asymptomatic or mildly-infected Covid patients are suddenly developing breathlessness because of a fall in the saturation level of oxygen in blood. Such patients can recover fast if they are shifted to ICUs, the official said. “The idea is to start non-invasive ventilation at the earliest for critically ill Covid patients. This can prevent rapid deterioration where the patient might need invasive ventilation,” the official said. “So, ensuring a bed in an ICU remains vital. Doctors can’t shrug their responsibility and keep a patient in ICU to play safe.” Several senior doctors said ICU management had emerged as the most vital element in treating serious Covid patients with pneumonia. If these patients are shifted to ICUs in the early stage, they can recover fast, the doctors said. “We have seen close to 50 per cent of Covid patients in ICUs recovering fast and moving out,” Sumit Sengupta, a senior pulmonologist in Calcutta, said. “Usually, ICUs have trained nurses to constantly monitor patients and alert doctors about their condition. That makes all the difference. So, if a patient has to be shifted out, the monitoring has to be ensured.” One problem of shifting such patients to general wards was the lack of infrastructure, the CEO of a private hospital said. “The wards and private cabins don’t have high-flow oxygen supply system that is there in an ICU. High-flow oxygen supply means more than 20 litres of oxygen can be supplied in a minute. Also, many crucial monitoring gadgets are not there that record a patient’s vital parameters. But if experts advise, we have to see how this can be managed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||State-aided colleges to upload admission data||Every state-aided college in Bengal will have to upload the details of students’ admissions to undergraduate courses on the state higher education department’s portal on a daily basis from the day admissions start till the process is completed. As part of the move, aimed at ensuring transparency in the admission process, the colleges will have to state the number of students admitted every day in each subject. They will also have to enter the number of male, female, SC, ST, OBC and physically handicapped students admitted. Undergraduate admissions will start on September 1 and continue till September 25. “The colleges have been asked to upload the details of each day’s admission from 5pm that day till 5pm the next day on the portal Banglar Uchchashiksha,” an official in the higher education department said. “Once a college submits a day’s details, the module for that day will be locked and the data cannot be changed. Once all details are uploaded, the admission data will be matched with the merit lists,’ the official said. Each college will have to post the merit list on its website on August 28. The higher education department sent the guidelines to every college this week on how they will have to submit the admission details on the portal. This is the first time the department will monitor college admissions centrally. “The main intention of the government’s move is to ensure transparency in admission and prevent colleges from admitting students in excess of their capacity,” the higher education department official said. Before starting admissions, every college has to upload on the Banglar Uchchashiksha portal it’s intake capacity in each subject, infrastructure available for each course and teacher strength and also mention whether the courses are self-financed or run with assistance from the government. Such data have to be uploaded from August 18 to September 1. Till last year, the colleges were required to send admission details to their respective affiliating universities, which would forward the data to the higher education department. But most colleges would allegedly not follow the instruction. Many would send admission details of a particular day seven to 10 days later, an official said. Some colleges would allegedly keep seats in certain subjects that were in demand vacant in the initial stage of admissions. These seats would later be offered to students with low marks on recommendation of local political leaders or student unions. The colleges have been accepting application forms for admission from August 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Showers and tide  threaten waterlogging||Parts of Kalighat and Bodyguard Lines in Alipore were flooded on Friday and several other pockets of Calcutta could witness such inundation as the weather office forecast more rain from Sunday, officials and engineers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have warned. The continuous rain for several days has already raised the level of the Hooghly. The height that the Hooghly’s water reaches during high tide in August and September is more than that in the rest of the year. “There could be waterlogging if it rains heavily and during the high tide hours,” a CMC engineer said on Friday afternoon. “During high tide, the sluice gates that drain out water from the city’s drainage network are kept closed to prevent entry of Hooghly water into the network. Usually, the sluice gates are kept closed for at least an hour before and after the peak of the high tide,” said a CMC engineer. “But in August and September, the gates are kept closed for a longer duration as the level of water is higher during high tide.” The sluice gates are operated to drain out water from the underground drainage network into the Hooghly in the west and Bidyadhari river in the east. The city received over 115mm of rain between August 17 morning and August 21 morning under the influence of a low-pressure area that had formed over the Bay of Bengal on Wednesday. “The system has lost strength and travelled towards central India. But a new low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal on Sunday. Under its influence, widespread rain is expected in south Bengal. One or two places, including Calcutta, might get heavy rain from Sunday,” said a Met official. “The monsoon trough still passes through south Bengal. The monsoon currents are strong and are expected to trigger rain on Saturday as well,” said G.K. Das, the director of IMD Calcutta. The city sky remained overcast throughout Friday and there were multiple spells of rain. The incessant rain that the city had witnessed over the past few days was missing. A resident of Kalighat said water in the Adi Ganga had breached banks and flooded roads nearby during high tide on Thursday. “It happens every year quite a few times in August and September. And if high tide is accompanied by heavy rain, waterlogging endures for some time,” said the resident. Tarak Singh, a member of Calcutta Municipal Corporation board of administrators in charge of drainage, said the civic body had kept ready 650 portable pumps to drain out water from low-lying areas. “All 74 drainage pumping stations have been kept ready, too, so they can work in full capacity,” he said. The civic body also employs teams of people who clean the mouth of gully pits on flooded roads so the accumulated water could flow into the underground drainage network. The men also open man-hole covers to quickly drain out water. “There is some shortage of personnel because of the pandemic but we have kept teams ready in the boroughs,” said one CMC engineer. Vast portions of the Sunderbans riverine belt were inundated because heavy rain, accompanied by tidal waters, breached earthen embankments in North and South 24-Parganas. The water levels in the Roymangal, Bidyadhari, Kalindi and Goureshwar rivers have risen, said district officials. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Writing on the wall nets ‘killer’||A threat message to a CID officer written on the wall of a pulse mill where a labourer was found murdered on Wednesday gave away the killer, police said. Cops matched the writing of the message, “CID officer Raj Sadhan…. Agar zyada chalaki karoge toe khud fas jaoge”, with that of the jottings in a notebook, the police said. Suman Sheikh, 29, who is a labourer at the mill in Ultadanga has been arrested in connection with the murder. Sheikh, who hails from Birbhum, could not flee the city because of the lockdown on two consecutive days and he spent two nights inside Deshapriya Park, the police said. He was picked up from the park on Friday morning. “He wanted to warn cops to stay away from him. He had made up the CID officer’s name,” an investigator said. “There were two writings on the wall. One was about the ‘CID officer’ and the other about another labourer, Kanbali. Initially, we had detained Kanbali and questioned him. But we realised the culprit was trying to divert us.” Rakesh Shaw, 30, was found dead with multiple injuries inside the mill on Wednesday. Kanbali had told cops that Sheikh used to jot his songs down in a notebook. “We got the handwriting sample from the notebook... prima facie it matches with the writing on the wall. He has confessed to the crime,” an officer said. Shaw and Sheikh had an old quarrel and on Tuesday night, Sheikh had tried to take some money out of Shaw’s pocket, the police said. He woke up and resisted and got killed with a knife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Alipore zoo death focus on cable below ground||The two workers electrocuted at Alipore zoo on Thursday might have come in contact with an underground cable, CESC sources said. A team from the power utility visited the site, near the elephant enclosure, on Friday. “A portion of the ground was dug up. Prima facie, it seems the workers had come in contact with an underground wire that was damaged while digging the ground,” a CESC official said. “The hole was filled with water because of rain and the team could not access the wire. The team is likely to visit again on Saturday.” Two contractual labourers were electrocuted and a third was injured after 1pm on Thursday, a zoo official said. Metro erroneously reported that the accident had occurred around 11.30am. The injured person, Liton Das, was brought out of ventilation on Friday. Tarani Ghosh and Pradip Das had been declared dead on arrival at a private hospital. A contractual labourer who was part of the group said on Friday that Ghosh had come in  contact with the wire first. Pradip Das had tried to save him and Liton Das had tried to save Pradip Das. The Bengal Zoo Authority has ordered a probe. A team comprising electrical engineers was to have visited the spot. “They could not come today because of the lockdown. They will come tomorrow,” said Asis Kumar Samanta, the zoo director. Police have registered a case of unnatural death. “The post-morten report is awaited. There is no complaint of negligence till now,” said an officer. Calcutta High Court advocate Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee said the absence of a complaint did not prevent the police from registering a case suo motu. “Two people have lost their lives. The police cannot wait for the zoo to conduct a probe. They should have registered a case of death due to negligence and started a probe to ascertain what happened,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Career webinar on law and liberal arts||Students aspiring to pursue law and liberal arts can get an insight into career opportunities by joining a webinar on Saturday. The webinar will help them analyse the way forward during the pandemic, an organiser said. What: Adamas University in association with Anandabazar Patrika presents #StandOutWithAU, a webinar on Law & Liberal Arts Education Today When: August 22, 5.30-7.30pm For: Plus II pass outs Panel: Justice Pradip B. Majmudar, former judge, Gujarat and Bombay high courts; and (from Adamas University) Mrityunjoy Chatterjee, dean, school of liberal arts & culture studies; Jyotsna Yagnik, pro-VC and dean, school of law & justice; Sumona Datta, assistant professor, department of psychology; moderator: Ujjwal K. Chowdhury, pro-VC and dean, school of media, communication & Fashion, Adamas University Log on to: bit.ly/standout withAU_5||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur students can pay fees in instalments||The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, will let students pay tuition fees in instalments in the coming semester. Hostel and some other fees have been brought down considering the hardship students are facing during the pandemic, an institute official said. The normal practice is paying the fees in full at the start of a semester. An exception has been made for the autumn semester, scheduled to start from September, the official said. A meeting of the NIT’s Deans council decided that 60 per cent of the tuition fees of Rs 62,500 has to be paid by September 30. The remaining by December 15. Hostel and other fees can be paid by December 15. The hostel fees of Rs 7,300 has been brought down to Rs 2,800 and that of the other fees of Rs 5,300 to Rs 2,850. “The revised fees structure for the upcoming semester will be announced after the NIT’s board of governors approves it,” Anupam Basu, the institute director, said. The revised structure is likely to be uploaded on the institute’s website next week. “The pandemic has caused economic stress to families across the country… we are trying to give them as much relief as possible. Although the decisions will impact our internal revenue generation, we will allow payments in instalments,” director Basu said. Basu, on lien from IIT Kharagpur, has been helming the institute since 2018. “We have reduced the hostel and other fees as well.” A few students wrote to teachers, seeking relaxation in fees citing family hardship. The hostel fees in each semester comprises, seat rent, electricity and water charges, hostel employees’ welfare fund, students’ aid fund, maintenance and development charge, an institute official said. The other institute fees include library charge, computing charge, students’ health care, examination fee, students’ activity fund, and comprehensive insurance premium, including medical insurance. The fees under all heads have been reduced, he said. The institute plans to start online classes in September and will offer its 350-odd students with connectivity issues the option of attending crash semester on the campus to make up for theory classes they might miss out. “We will help those grappling with connectivity problems… similarly we are trying to help all amid the crisis with a revised fee structure,” another official said. Several institutes have revised their fee structures during the pandemic. Students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, will not have to pay the mess advance and water and electricity charges this semester. IIT Kharagpur has waived mess fees and hostel overhead charges, along with some other charges. In every instance, students have cited online classes as the reason behind their demand to reduce fees, another official of the Durgapur institute said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-334
22-08-2020||Calcutta||Durga to reach doorsteps||If visitors are unable to step out of their homes during Durga puja, the puja will reach their doorstep. Jodhpur Park Saradiya Utsab Committee is rolling out Durga Gari which will take the Goddess on tour across the city. This is the second Covid-19 induced innovation coming to light after the drive-in darshan announced by another south Calcutta puja hub of Badamtala Ashar Sangha-66 Palli-Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club triad, reported earlier in Metro. “Every year, people visit us from neighbourhoods near and far. But with the pandemic raging, many will be scared to go pandal-hopping. This is one way we thought they can have a feel of the Pujas without any risk,” said general secretary of the Jodhpur Park puja Sumanta Roy. The concept was mooted by theme-maker Bapai Sen. “The inspiration is the chariot of Lord Jagannath. I thought if He can roam the streets and grant darshan to devotees on Rathyatra, why not Devi Durga?” said Sen. He is carving an idol out pf wood to protect against the elements. “The first vehicle with the goddess will be decorated with patachitra carrying visual messages to defeat the coronavirus demon,” he added. The second will carry the dhaki, residents’ body members and the theme-maker. There will be theme music and lights too. The tableaux will be out on the streets from Panchami to Dashami. “The bodhon can happen in say, Shyambazar, the Saptami arati  in Garia and the Ashtami anjali in Howrah,” Roy said. “If we get requests from any locality, we will try to reach there. Our  slogan this year is Jodhpur Park paray paray (in every locality).” If travelling Durga is a part of the 68th edition of the puja, virtual Durga is another. Visitors brave enough to reach the puja site will watch the puja on screen. The rituals happening behind closed doors will be beamed live on half a dozen  giant LED screens set up close to the pandal. “The kind of footfall we get will make it impossible for us to maintain social distancing in the visitor queue. We do not want any infection-related accidents,” said Roy. An app will  stream the puja live, as will the puja committee’s website www.jodhpurparkdurgapujo.com. Sen said he is not charging any remuneration this year. “I have been earning from this festival for 22 years now. This is my turn to give back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-335
