23-08-2020||Calcutta||Kingston Educational Institute-Career Aspirant’s dreams and aspirations are our objectives||Dreams forms the basis of a career aspirant’s upward trajectory towards career related goals and milestones. These dreams ought to be given shape, and Kingston Educational Institute (KEI) has always been at forefront to provide the necessary support for the future professionals of India. KEI has several constituents in the same campus, based in the heart of the Educational hub of Barasat, North 24 Parganas. The sprawling, picturesque campus covering an area of 30 acres of land is located in a semi-urban place surrounded by lush green meadow in the serenity of pollution free and eco-friendly environment. Founded in 2004,  under the visionary leadership of Late Utpal Bhattacharjee, Founder President of KEI and Mrs Uma Bhattacharjee, Secretary of KEI, the different colleges under the umbrella of Kingston Educational Institute are--“Kingston Law College”  providing Law Graduate (5 years) and 3 years Post Graduate Degree Course, “Kingston Polytechnic College” offering Diploma Engineering Courses of different disciplines includingMechanical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Computer Science & Technology, Electrical Engineering and Electronics and Tele-communications. “Kingston School of Management and Science” offers B.Sc in  Hotel Management course, Bachelor in Business Management and Hospital Management, and BCA.“Kingston College of Science” offers BA and BSc Honours program in Microbiology, Mathematics, Computer Science, Biochemistry, Physics, Economics, Geography, Electronics, Food & Nutrition, library and Information science. “Kingston Teacher Training Institute”offers two years full time B.Ed programs. Kingston Model School, is a ICSE affiliated institution providing value based education from nursery to class 10th.  A virtual tour of the campus as well as the detailed information of the courses and resources can be seen by clicking on www.keical.edu.in The aim and objective of the organization and management is to make the alumni employable and entrepreneurial while pursuing various academic programs at KEI.The institute conducts active projects and assignments by collaborating with the industry that provides the faculties to consult the industry practitioners, while making the students understand the practicalities through industry run projects, internships and on the job training exercises. All these have led to the students being placed in best of the organizations for internships and final placements year after year. The state of the art infrastructure, including the laboratories, equipment and business incubation center provide the learner the much needed resources so as to align with the employment related situations of this century. The faculty members comprises of senior professionals from the world of industry as well as academia along with academic advisories from India and overseas. This allow all the constituents to have a GLOCAL (GLOBAL plus LOCAL) model of teaching and learning culminating in making the graduates prepare for the national and international employment market. Even during the pandemic, all the constituents of KEI ensured there is a novel, uninterrupted education for all the students. All the constituents of Kingston Educational Institute (Kingston Polytechnic College, Kingston Science College, Kingston School of Management Science, Kingston Law College, Kingston Teacher's Training Academy, Kingston Model School, Kingtson's Skill Development Initiative) were one of the first educational institutes to embrace electronic learning. Kingston Educational Institute leveraged their pan-India and global contacts to use multi-platform based learning initiatives, including the likes of Learning Management System (LMS), YouTube Channel, Slideshare, Blogosphere, WhatsApp, Helpline and other multi-medias to provide quality education to the students, precisely following the college and school schedule, on a day to day basis. The academic rigour as well as the punctuality of the students and the teachers weren’t compromised and all the stakeholders understood the importance of work from home and college/school from home to a nicety. The classes were being conducted by the faculties through zoom, google classrooms, as well as the aforementioned tools after following the basics of instructional design as well as SCORM norms. Opines, Dr. Manishankar Chakraborty, Academic Advisor of Kingston, based in Dubai, "The effort put in by the KEI family to ensure none of the students are deprived of learning and growth during this moment of crisis speaks volumes of the commitment of the management as well as all the staff members". All the classes are being individually monitored by a crack team having hands on expertise in learning and development, so as to measure their effectiveness, from a qualitative and quantitative standpoint. Regular feedback is being sought through surveys, discussion forums from the students, their parents and peers from the academic fraternity, so as to ensure the quality is enhanced periodically. Mr. Tipam Bhattacharjee, President of KEI was forthright when we commented, KEI ensures that knowledge reaches every nook and corner of the country, in order to have the developmental curve of the pupils intact, even during this moment of crisis. This was evident from the process based approach followed by Kingston while ideating, customizing and implementing electronic learning, catering to the specific needs of their pupils. Value added initiatives by networking with industry professionals and academic experts, as well as professionals provided the students with numerous self-help developmental platforms. In order to reach out to the masses who are probably stranded at home, devoid of education, Kingston has also started free electronic tutoring, electronic mentoring and electronic counseling by their in-house experts as well as the external resources targeting all the class 10th, class11th and class 12th students of India. The students registered in https://keical.edu.in/elearning/ and sought need based educational as well as academic support at absolutely free of cost. Furthermore, the emphasis of holistic learning that has always been the key foundation at Kingston was brought to the fore when the group's secretary, Mrs. Uma Bhattacharjee provided with a competition based learning opportunity whereby, the students can develop their extra-curricular activities by registering in the link https://keical.edu.in/compete-for-excellence/.at no cost. She added that such activities are the fulcrum for the students to activate lateral thinking as well as the development of an analytical mindset. The group has also requested the governments of West Bengal, Tripura and Megalaya to provide free teaching-learning support to all the class 10th, 11th and 12th students of those respective states. The whole electronic learning experience and the sojourn thus far was aptly summed up by the Academic Chairman of Kingston Group, Prof (Dr.) Ambarnath Banerji when we said, Kingston is always for the students, who are the torchbearers of the society and Covid-19 cannot defeat us in achieving our objectives of being the facilitators of learning 24x7x365! Furthermore, all the constituents of KEI has ensured uninterrupted value added learning and development for the pupils, faculties and the community at large by roping in national and international experts from the industries as well as the world of academia. The dedicated YouTube channel , Facebook page(www.facebook.com/keduins) provide all the recordings of these events free for the usage of the in house audience as well as the society. Furthermore, a two day virtual symposium was also held on the 24th and 25th of July 2020, whereby,  a galaxy of national and international academic stalwarts presented their perspectives on uninterrupted education during and after COVID 19. This platform was also used to hone the abilities of the faculty members of all the constituents of KEI, by making them present their experience and opinions to a global audience. The institutes uses a host of platforms like Microsoft teams, Google Meets, Zoom, Google Classroom, LMS and numerous social media tools to make the teaching and learning simply simple for the learner. The college is well connected by suburban trains, public buses and other modes of transportation of Kolkata, and is very close to the international and national airport of the city. The details of the courses offered are given below:- For Free Career Counselling: Please Ping us on WhatsApp OR Apply Now The institute provides lot of impetus on co-curricular as part of holistic learning and this is made a reality through a football academy in the name “KINGSTON NIKHIL NANDY FOOTBALL ACADEMY” under the guidance of Sri Nikhil Nandy, veteran Olympian of India.  This football academy organizes  different inter college and inter school tournaments (“KINGSTON CHALLENGE CUP  INTER SCHOOL SOCCER ”) at the district level  every year to imbibe upon the spirit of unity , harmony and competitive environment among the upcoming generation. Likewise, KEI also arranges Annual Function in the name and style “KINGSTOXCATION” every year for showcasing latent abilities and talents of the students, teachers and people from the local community. In order to leverage its calm and serene atmosphere there is a Yoga Centre for enhancing mental peace and stability among students and teachers, with a multi gymnasium as well. KEI is committed to the dedicated to the well-being of the weaker section of the community KEI arranges functions to distribute clothes among people from different corners of the locality twice a year as part of their community imitative. Even during the COVID 19 pandemic the institution has organized such events that provides the learner as well as the staff members to undertake community services. The college has their in-house transportation system for the students and staff members. The buses ply to various parts to the city of Kolkata and the sub urban areas to bring students to the campus. The in campus food court and cafeteria also provides a wide range of cuisines to the students and staff at a very nominal charge. Apply Now : - https://keical.edu.in/admission-common/||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid discount nudge to private hospitals||The state’s clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price (MRP) of medicines and consumables to lessen the burden of bill on patients or their families. The commission has fixed at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables. If hospitals are unable to offer the discount, they should allow a patient’s family to buy medicines and consumables from outside where discounts are offered. The commission has found that medicines and consumables are among the costliest components of a Covid patient’s bill. The discounts will provide patients and their families with some relief, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Saturday. The members of the commission met at New Town on Saturday to discuss the matter, after which the commission issued a series of advisories, including the one on discounts. In another advisory, it asked hospitals to keep their bed charges at March 1 rates. “We know certain pharmacies and medicine stores offer discounts of up to 20 per cent. But hospitals are charging patients the MRP. So, we have asked hospitals to offer at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and at least 20 per cent discount on consumables on the MRP,” Banerjee said. “Hospitals should ask their pharmacies to offer the discount. In case the discount cannot be offered, hospitals should give a patient’s family the option of buying medicines and consumables from outside where discounts are available.” Medicines and consumables together make up between 25 per cent and 40 per cent of a Covid patient’s bill, an official of a private hospital in the city said. “If a patient is administered Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug, the bill is bound to shoot up. A course of six doses of this drug costs Rs 40,000,” the official said. “We have to give Remdesivir to any patient with moderate symptoms but whose condition starts to worsen. This drug has to be given at that juncture so that the condition does not become critical,” he said. The consumables include masks, PPEs, syringes and catheter. The contribution of consumables is higher in the bill of a Covid patient compared to patients with other  illnesses as doctors have to wear PPEs to treat Covid patients. The state government has capped PPE rates at Rs 1,000 per patient per day. Metro had on August 14 reported that insurance companies were refusing to pay the money spent on PPEs, face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers. The commission has requested hospitals to display their treatment rates for Covid patients in three prominent places on their premises, Banerjee said. In one of its advisories, the commission allowed doctors to charge an additional Rs 1,000 if they had to examine a Covid patient more than once in a day. “There was a capping on doctors’ consultation fee at Rs 1,000 per day. It was brought to our notice that in many cases a doctor had to examine a patient several times in a day,” Banerjee said. “We have allowed a doctor to charge another Rs 1,000 for more than one examination in a day. But the Rs 1,000 additional consultation fee will include any number of visits after the first visit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients can’t be evicted: West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission||A private hospital cannot ask a Covid patient to vacate the bed if the person is unable to pay an advance, the Bengal health regulatory commission said on Saturday in the wake of criticism over an earlier advisory. The earlier advisory had said that if the deposit was not made within 12 hours of admission, “the hospital would be at liberty to cancel the provisional admission and ask the patient party to take back the patient within one hour thereafter”. The commission chairperson, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, said the “clarification” had been issued because the earlier advisory had been criticised. A senior doctor had told The Telegraph on August 10 that the legitimisation of “the deposit culture”, including the permission to ask for removal of patients within one hour after the 12-hour window, belied the commission’s mandate of protecting patients. After a meeting on Saturday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issued the clarification that made it plain that a private hospital cannot deny treatment to a patient “under any situation, whether that person has paid a deposit or not”. Banerjee, the chairperson, said the commission had never intended patients to be asked to leave a hospital. “There was criticism from one side as if we had said that after 13 hours the patient should be thrown out. No act or law has given any hospital the licence that a patient will be thrown out of the hospital only for money,” the retired judge said. The earlier advisory had allowed private hospitals to demand from patients an advance of Rs 50,000 or 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment, whichever was less, at the time of admission. The quantum of the deposit stands unchanged after the clarification. Banerjee told a news conference on Saturday: “Taking into consideration the criticism, as a clarification we issued Covid Advisory 11 today where we said that under no condition can a patient be denied treatment, whether that person pays a deposit or not. If despite that a clinical establishment feels it is facing any problem, then that clinical establishment can get in touch with Swasthya Bhavan (the state health department headquarters) or our commission.” He added: “During this Covid situation, it has been stated by the government that if any patient comes to a hospital, that person has to be treated. If the hospital does not have the infrastructure to treat the patient, then the condition of that person has to be stabilised and then (he or she can be) sent to a hospital with better facilities. At no point can treatment be denied to that patient.” Banerjee continued: “We were hearing about some hospitals taking advantage of the situation, demanding abnormal amounts of money as advance. To prevent that, we had issued an advisory, No. 9. But we had said that because of (failure to pay) the deposit, the patient’s treatment should not face any problems. At least that person should be given ample time — we had said ‘12 hours’. If he cannot pay even after that, more time should be given so that they can arrange for treatment elsewhere.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Now streaming live: puja in the time of pandemic||A Salt Lake club on Saturday streamed live Ganesh Puja rituals to a giant LED screen near the PNB roundabout from a member’s house. The Yubak Sangha Club, which has held its puja at the same spot in the BA Block for the past 11 years, decided against erecting a pandal this year to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The giant screen has been fixed on a stage, along with speakers. As the streaming started in the morning, passers-by clicked photographs. Several residents in masks and caps stood with folded hands as club volunteers ensured there was no crowding. The men also put sanitisers on the hands of the visitors and asked everyone to maintain social distance. A set of masks was also kept at one corner and people could take one home. “The puja has become a regular fixture for people of our block. We were a bit sad that this year the organisers decided to do away with the pandal… but I quite liked the fact that all rituals were live-streamed here,” Rudrani Chatterjee, who lives in the AB Block, said. Chatterjee stepped out of her house in the afternoon, clicked a few photographs of the LED screen and a selfie with it in the background before going back home. At Maharashtra Niwas on Hazra Road, priests started the puja with a small Ganesh idol and a few devotees. The Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations organised by the Maharashtra Mandal is among the oldest in Calcutta, a tradition it has upheld since the 1930s. For Maharashtrians based in the city, the Hazra Road address is still the place to be during this time of the year. At Satyanarayan Park, the organisers of one of the biggest Ganesh Puja in the area decided to call off the celebrations. In Burrabazar, too, the celebrations were muted. In Salt Lake, the rituals were live-streamed to the LED screen from a house in the BB Block. A priest offered the puja to a small idol, along with a few puja organisers, one of whom acted as the cameraperson. “We set up a camcorder on a tripod. The images were streamed live to the screen… our regular electrician who deals in sound and video equipment helped us set it up,” Kaushik Chanda, one of the puja organisers, said. Another member of the club said the location of the house where the puja was held was “deliberately not made public”. “Many people would have landed up at the house to offer puja. We would not have been able to say no to anyone…. We did not want to take any chance during the pandemic.” A real estate developer in Salt Lake who is associated with the puja said the arrangement suited the club’s budget, which underwent a “huge cut” because of the pandemic. “We could not raise any subscriptions this year. We wouldn’t have been able to afford a large-scale puja,” the developer said. People can view the puja live on a Facebook page created by the organisers. Those willing to donate money can do so online; they will receive prasad, including khichdi, and hand sanitisers and masks delivered to their homes, an organiser said. The Salt Lake Maitri Sangha Club, which holds its puja in the CF Block, is doing with a small pandal this year. Former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Sabyasachi Dutta is the president of club. The club decided to do away with big celebrations as people “would not step out”, he said. “We don’t want a huge gathering. We have an open pandal where people can get a glimpse of the rituals as they pass by.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Hilsa seized by BSF from India-Bangladesh border||The BSF seized nearly 600kg of hilsa from the riverine India-Bangladesh border on Saturday. The consignment in jute bags was being transported by suspected smugglers swimming alongside. The men managed to flee, the BSF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta to witness increase in rainfall over next 2 days||An already drenched city will have to grapple with “an increase in rainfall” on Sunday and Monday. A low-pressure area is expected to take shape over the Bay of Bengal by Sunday evening, a Met official said. Under its impact, the intensity of the rain is likely to go up from the second half of Sunday. “The next two days are likely to see an increase in rainfall in the city. Heavy rain is not ruled out,” the Met official said. Heavy rain in the city is much more likely if the low-pressure area forms over the north Bay, the official said. The other possibility is the Northwest Bay, in which case Odisha’s coastal areas will be more affected. The whole city received rain on Saturday, mainly in the afternoon. A few areas in the south were more drenched. Saturday’s rain was triggered by the monsoon trough, which now passes over Calcutta on its way to the Northeast Bay of Bengal, the Met official said. “Because of very strong monsoon currents, many thunderclouds had formed over the city. Some parts in the south had more thunderclouds.” Some bylanes around Bansdroni market were waterlogged, residents said. Less than 3km away, stretches of Kalighat had knee-deep water in the afternoon. For a second consecutive day, the rain coincided with high tide and water in the Adi Ganga breached banks and flooded nearby roads, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. “In August and September, when the level of the Hooghly is already above normal, rain and high tide lead to more inundation,” said the official. Seven portable pumps had drained the water out by evening, said Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of drainage. The forecast for more rain threatens to flood more areas. Singh said there was little the civic body could do if heavy rain and high tide came together. “But the waterlogging will not persist for days. We have 650 portable pumps to drain out water from low-lying areas,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||NUJS cuts fees for monsoon semester||The National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) on Saturday reduced the fees for various facilities that students haven’t been using since the campus is closed and classes are being held online. The institute’s executive council, its highest policy-making body, decided to waive the fees for examinations, students’ welfare activities, moot courts, hostel accommodation and study materials. Students of all batches, excluding those of the incoming first year, will now have to pay around Rs 38,000 less for the July-December monsoon semester. “Students of all batches (excluding first year) will have to pay Rs 1.21 lakh instead of Rs 1.59 lakh for the current semester,” N. K. Chakrabarti, the NUJS vice-chancellor, said after the meeting of the executive council. Students, though, had demanded a waiver of up to Rs 48,000. “Several students have been talking of financial difficulties because of the pandemic. The executive council unanimously agreed to provide students with some relief. We have reduced the fees as much as possible,” Chakrabarti said. The institute does not receive any financial aid from the government. It depends entirely on student fees, a university official said. “It was not possible to accept all the demands of the students. The institute has been closed for five months. But we have had to pay full salaries to every member of our staff… and we will continue to do so in future,” the official said. “There was a proposal to reduce the library fees. But it could not be considered as ours is a law school and we have to maintain the library services even if the institute is shut.” Students had recently requested the authorities to reduce the fees under the heads they were not using because of online classes. The students’ proposal on the fee waiver has been placed before the institute’s finance committee. The committee had approved the proposal and forwarded it to the executive council for ratification. The vice-chancellor said a notice would be issued next week asking students to pay the reduced semester fees. Those who have already paid the fees will have the surplus amount adjusted with the fees for the next semester. The monsoon semester (July to December) online classes are being held from July. But the payment of semester fees has been kept on hold since July because of the students’ demand for a waiver. As of now the university has no plans to reduce the fees for the next semester that starts in January, the vice-chancellor said. “We will take a decision depending on the Covid situation at that time,” the vice-chancellor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||On request, CMC set for rapid antigen tests in housing complexes||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will conduct rapid antigen tests in housing complexes if residents request for the tests, Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. Residents, though, have to ensure at least 20 people would undergo the tests.  They must provide an AC room to conduct the tests, Hakim said. A request for the tests can be WhatsApped to 9830037493. There will be no charges for the tests. Civic officials will get in touch with the sender of the message and fix a date and time for the tests. “We have decided to conduct rapid antigen tests at housing complexes if at least 20 people agree to undergo the tests. Residents have to provide an AC room to conduct the tests… it is very difficult for a medical technologist to conduct the tests wearing a PPE in this weather,” Hakim said at the civic headquarters on Saturday. “The need of the hour is to conduct more tests so that those who test positive can be isolated,” he said. Conducting tests on a few people will be a waste of logistics; so, the minimum requirement of 20 people for the tests, a CMC official said. The civic body can conduct the tests in a locality as well if residents can provide an AC room and there are at least 20 people interested in taking the tests, the official said. The rapid antigen test is conducted to detect the presence of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in a person’s nasopharyngeal swab sample. The results arrive within 30-40 minutes whereas it takes one or two days for an RT-PCR test result. But the rapid antigen test is known to produce false negatives, which means someone who tests negative can actually be Covid positive. A symptomatic person who tests negative should undergo an RT-PCR test to confirm if she/he is actually negative, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines for rapid antigen tests. An asymptomatic person who tests negative in the antigen tests should be considered as not infected, the ICMR has said. Someone who tests positive need not undergo further tests and should be considered as Covid positive. Despite its deficiency, the ICMR has okayed rapid antigen tests because the results are available in 30 minutes. “Someone who tests positive in the test can be isolated soon. He/she will be asked to stay isolated at home if symptoms are mild. If such a person keeps mixing with others, he/she can spread the virus to more people. This is one of the reasons why antigen tests are being done,” a CMC doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
23-08-2020||Calcutta||Cycle row||In the 1950s and 60s, cars had expelled cyclists from the streets of Holland, but at great expense. By the early 1970s, road accidents were claiming thousands of lives every year and among the dead were many children. This led to a movement called Stop de Kindermoord, meaning stop child murder. In the Dutch capital of Amsterdam, activists adopted the bicycle in protest. Around this time, the Arab countries had imposed an embargo on export of oil to Holland and a few other European countries for supporting Israel. This led to a steep rise in oil prices. Even politicians began to see the advantage of a lifestyle not too dependent on oil. Holland, and especially Amsterdam, began to change. Amsterdam is currently known as the bicycle capital of the world. Calcutta today, despite all obvious differences, may be where Amsterdam was in the 1970s, feels Bicycle Mayor of Calcutta Satanjib Gupta. The title conferred on Gupta by BYCS, an Amsterdam-based global network that promotes the bicycle, may sound absurdly grand, but the lockdown has led to so many absurdities already. “Have you seen photographs of the Howrah Bridge during lockdown,” asks Gupta. “Full of bicycles, it was a wonderful sight.” The number of bicycles in the city’s streets, estimated to have been over three lakh before the lockdown, has gone up several times. Its sales have soared since June. “The cycle is not only helping maintain livelihoods but also opening up livelihood options,” says Gupta. It is helping the delivery of products and services. This, for Gupta, could be the moment of change for Calcutta. The bicycle is the perfect vehicle for social distancing, for exercise, especially for lung power — advocated during the Spanish Flu, too — and for immunity. It is fuel-free and hence an antidote to climate change; cheap and almost zero-maintenance. It ensures equality of all and had played its part in empowering women. And yet, how poorly it has fared in Calcutta, which also has the highest percentage (11 per cent) of bicycle commuters among all Indian metros. Over the last two decades, it has slowly been pushed off the streets by the authorities. A circular issued by the police commissioner in 2008 had banned bicycles, categorised as “slow-moving vehicles”, from 38 city streets. In 2013, another police circular raised the number of streets to an impossible 174. In 2014, that was brought down to 62 by yet another circular. Cyclists would complain of harassment by the police, who would stop them and impose fines arbitrarily. So this year, after a nod from the chief minister, on June 9, the latest police circular raised hopes. It stated that with public transport restricted because of the pandemic, all bicycles would be allowed in the lanes and bylanes. But the harassment of cyclists continues, claim enthusiasts, and there is no clarity about routes. “Why can’t the main thoroughfares be opened for now to bicycles,” asks Gupta. A humiliating fine had led Raghu Jana to found the Kolkata Cycle Samaj with his friends in 2009; its primary aim is to get the ban lifted. Jana, a private tutor, who took part in political movements, speaks about the peculiar position the bicycle occupies, or does not occupy, in the law and regulations of the city. The classic way to undermine someone is to look through. It applies to bicycles too. “The bicycle is never addressed,” rues Jana. It is only banned. “Two years ago, we saw a police notice asking cyclists to follow the rules. We were glad. They were speaking to us,” he says. Encouraged, he and his Kolkata Cycle Samaj colleagues met a senior police official. But nothing changed. Jana points out that the police circulars were issued under the West Bengal Traffic Regulation Act, 1965, and the West Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, but there is no specific body of rules in the city relating to the bicycle. “We are only told what we can’t do,” he says. The roads have only “No Cycling” signs. Sabuj Sathi, the state government showpiece programme, is far more successful in distributing bicycles among school students in the districts.  This is ironic for a city in which the bicycle, which became popular in its contemporary form from the 1880s, had enjoyed pride of place. It is even said that in 1870, a Santragachhi resident manufactured a bicycle that would require two persons to ride it, says Gupta. Eminent Bengalis, including Dwijendranath Tagore, J.C. Bose and his wife Abala Bose, P.C. Ray and Nilratan Sircar, had all patronised the bicycle, Gupta adds. In Rabindranath Tagore’s short story Ponrokkha (1911), a young man yearns for a bicycle, which promises him freedom and joy, at only Rs 125. Personal Assistant, a 1959 Bengali film, has a beaming Bhanu Bandyopadhyay breezing through the still elegant and roomy central Calcutta roads on his bicycle, at par with motor cars. “Just the joy of riding a cycle,” says Jana. “Your body develops a unique relationship with it.” He questions the right of the police to decide the fate of cycles in the city. “This is a matter of urban planning,” he stresses. And of policy. Yet he is hopeful. “This is a moment of transition. Many may not want to give up on the joy of riding a bicycle when things normalise,” he says. The bicycle just needs a little encouragement in the city.“At the moment, it will be enough if the guard rails, lying everywhere now, are used to mark off a part of street at one end for cycles,” says Jana. Official bicycle lanes can be created later. “This is also the best moment for the ban to be lifted,” he adds. State transport secretary Prabhat Mishra is happy that so many cycles are in the streets. “But finding space in the city (for bicycles) is the biggest challenge,” he adds. In Calcutta, roads constitute only 7 per cent of the city area. The larger issue is an absolute lack of transport policy, says leading environment activist from the city, Naba Dutta. Since the formulation of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (2001-2025) and discussions around another plan in 2011, there has been no planning for the city,” says Dutta. Roads, flyovers, overbridges have been built, but in a piecemeal, ad hoc way. “CNG buses are yet to roll out in the streets and bicycle lanes were part of the original plan of the E.M. Bypass.” The lack of planning has been made worse by the lack of environmental concern, says Dutta. Like bicycles, trams have been removed from the city streets. The car culture has overtaken everything and the bicycle has become the poor person’s vehicle. All this despite the fact that vehicular emissions are the biggest contributor to air pollution in Calcutta. At more than 350 cars per kilometre, Calcutta is one of the country’s most car-dense cities. Since the lockdown, with many cars off the street, the air feels much clearer. A study by the Centre for Science and Environment shows that peak levels of particulate matter or PM 2.5 and nitrogen dioxide have dropped by 46 and 74 per cent, respectively, during the lockdown compared with pre-lockdown days. “The stretch from Sealdah to Dalhousie can be made car-free. Before the lockdown, lakhs of people walked down the stretch every day to reach their workplaces and back. Same for the Chitpore to Esplanade stretch,” says Dutta. Calcutta could also use its waterways, he adds. “From our environmental platform Sabuj Mancha, we have been repeatedly asking the government for a comprehensive transport policy,” says Dutta, a cyclist himself. Urban planner Tathagata Chatterjee, who is professor in the department of Urban Planning and Governance at Bhubaneswar’s Xavier University, also insists on an overall transportation policy, but with planned intervention. “Just setting up bicycle lanes is not enough. This happened in Bhubaneswar, where now they are mostly used as parking.” “Planning for cycle and pedestrian infrastructure needs to be addressed together,” says Chatterjee, stressing on a strategy that uses different modes of transport. He assesses the disadvantages of Calcutta to accommodate such transport: the population density, extreme low road space, mixed traffic, road condition, encroachments, car parking, garbage dumps, movement of pedestrians, chances of collision with motorised vehicles, particularly autos, scooters and motorbikes, weather conditions of rain and heat, and lack of supporting infrastructure. Where does one park the bicycle is an important question he raises. But Calcutta has its advantages. It is a city of small distances. An average trip length in Calcutta is about five to six kilometres. Chatterjee says that this and a system of feeder transport can help the bicycle here. “In Calcutta, cycles should be used for short neighbourhood streets, not main roads. Dedicated cycle lanes are more suitable for planned areas such as New Town and Salt Lake,” he adds. According to him, while treating trams as feeder transport, authorities need to focus on creating a non-motorised rail-based mass transit system linking suburban rail, Metro rail and trams. Attention should be paid to good pedestrian infrastructure too. Thought has to go into creating parking spaces for bicycles. Cycle-friendly cities such as Copenhagen, London, Singapore — have done all of this. “The Comprehensive Mobility Plan has to be revisited,” says Chatterjee. In the meantime, here, the public sector undertaking Hidco is encouraging bicycles in the New Town area and the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority has decided to take part in the national-level competition “Cycles 4 Change Challenge” organised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. A 56-year-old Calcuttan, Sudipto Roy, chief public relations officer of a multinational company that also manufactures car batteries, has turned cycle fan. He has taken to cycling to work every day during lockdown. He says, “In two months my blood pressure and blood sugar levels have come down.” He too has a question — “Why does this city reward the motorists and punish the cyclists?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-333
