24-08-2020||Calcutta||Razor attack in Calcutta hospital ||A man has been arrested for allegedly trying to kill his wife’s colleague who works as a Group D employee at a private cancer hospital in Nayabad, off EM Bypass, on Saturday evening. Police said the accused, identified as Lakshman Mondal, 50, a resident of Chawl Patty Road near Beleghata, was arrested from the hospital compound on Saturday evening after he allegedly attacked Ranjit Konar, 45, with a razor. Konar, originally a resident of Monteswar in Burdwan, suffered serious injuries on his chin and needed multiple stitches. Based on a complaint by hospital officials, officers of Panchasayar police station went to the spot and arrested Mandal. The razor that was allegedly used for the attack has also been seized, officers said. Investigators said they suspect the two had a personal enmity that led to the attack. Senior officers said an investigation had been started. Mandal has been charged with attempt to murder. The police said the victim had suffered injuries on the left side of his chin. He is admitted to the ICCU of the hospital where he works.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology allows staggered payments||Candidates who have been selected for the professional courses such as bachelor of business administration (BBA), bachelor of computer application (BCA) or master of business management under the state technology university can pay their semester-cum-admission fee in instalments. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), to which all private engineering and management colleges in Bengal are affiliated, has taken the decision keeping in mind financial hardships families are facing because of the Covid pandemic. A student who till last year had to pay Rs 32,000 for the BBA or the BCA course during admission is required to pay Rs 15,000 by August 25, according to a notice issued by MAKAUT registrar Partha Pratim Lahiri. The rest has to be paid by October 15. Till last year, a student of the master of business management programme was required to pay Rs 35,000 during admission. “This year, they can pay Rs 15,000 by August 25 and the rest by October 15,” said a university official. The August 25 deadline for payment of the first installment is for those who can pay online. One can also pay offline on the Haringhata campus of the university or at the Salt Lake office on August 25, 26 and 27. “Those having online payment related issues, can avail any of the places as per their convenience. The timings are from 11am to 1pm only as banking hours have been reduced to 2pm,” says the notice by the registrar. “This facility (staggered payment of the semester-cum-admission fee) is being extended only to those who are facing fund crunch due to this COVID-19 pandemic and not to consider this gesture on part of the university as a general one,” reads the notice signed by registrar Lahiri. He said that the university had received appeals from prospective students who have been selected through CET-1 (Common Entrance Test) and JEMAT (joint entrance management aptitude test) for a relaxation in payment of fees on the ground that they are facing financial constraints because of the pandemic. “After going through the appeal, the university decided to introduce the mechanism of payment through instalments,” said Lahiri. Many of the students who had appealed for relaxation have told the university that earning members in their families had a part of their salary reduced after the start of the lockdown. Some said their family members had lost jobs. The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, will let students pay tuition fees in instalments in the coming semester to give its students a relief amid the crisis. A meeting of the NIT’s deans’ council has decided that 60 per cent of the tuition fee of Rs 62,500 has to be paid by September 30 and the rest by December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Hospital uploading order  on Covid patient vitals ||The health department has asked all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to ensure that the vital signs of all admitted to intensive care units, cardiac care units and high dependency units are uploaded on the Covid Patient Management System four times a day. The circular, sent to all government and private hospitals, says the vital parameters of critical patients have to be uploaded twice a day and those of others, once a day. The data will have to be fed into the patient monitoring score in the newly-launched software — Covid Patient Management System. Senior health department officials said the directive comes at a time when several hospitals were allegedly failing to upload the details, leaving a team of experts at Sasthya Bhavan in the dark about the condition of critically ill Covid-19 patients across the state. “Unless the parameters are uploaded, it is not possible to monitor whether a hospital is regularly checking all the vital parameters of a patient in ICU, such as his or her oxygen saturation level in the blood and electrolyte balance,” said a senior health department official. “Our team of experts wouldn’t know if a patient is getting the proper treatment or is fit enough to be moved out of the ICU.” A team of experts from the health department observed while visiting various Covid hospitals recently that nurses assigned the task of feeding information into the new software were not doing so at regular intervals. In a few cases, patients who could be moved out of ICUs were being kept back because the doctors were not ready to take the responsibility of continuous monitoring in wards. As a result relatives of patients were unable to ascertain their status online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta housing complex rapid tests begin||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Sunday started its drive to conduct the rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 in housing complexes by sending a team to Surjakiran, a complex in north Calcutta’s Paikpara. The civic body had on Saturday announced that it would conduct antigen tests for free at housing complexes if at least 20 residents in each were willing to be tested. Sixty-two residents of Surjakiran, on Umakanta Sen Lane, underwent the test. All were negative, a CMC official said. Residents of the complex requested the CMC to conduct the tests a few days back. On Friday, the CMC informed them that a team would visit their complex Sunday. “After the CMC responded to our requests, we spread the message around. Sixty-two of the 125-odd residents underwent the test,” said Amitabha Panda, the secretary of the residents’ welfare association of Surjakiran. The antigen test can detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, in a person’s nasopharyngeal swab sample. The result of an antigen test comes in 30 to 40 minutes, compared to one or two days it takes for the result of the more confirmatory RT-PCR test to arrive. For the RT-PCR test, a person’s nasopharyngeal as well as oropharyngeal swab samples are collected. The rapid test is known to throw up many false negatives, which means that someone who tests negative in the test could actually be infected by the virus. The guidelines for the rapid antigen test issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said a symptomatic person testing negative should undergo an RT-PCR test. An asymptomatic person who tests negative in the antigen tests should be considered uninfected, the guidelines said. Someone who tests positive need not undergo further tests and is considered Covid positive. Despite its deficiency, the rapid tests have been approved because they give results in 30 minutes and help in faster isolation of infected people, said a CMC doctor. Panda, of Surjakiran, said none of the residents had to undergo an RT-PCR test. Santanu Sen, a past national president of the Indian Medical Association and a member of the CMC’s Covid core team, said the authorities were trying to take testing to the doorsteps to increase the number of tests. “More and more tests is our strategy,” he said. “If someone tests negative in the antigen tests but has symptoms of Covid-19, we will collect her/his samples for the RT-PCR test.” The CMC had on Saturday said that residents would have to provide an air-conditioned (AC) room if they wanted the civic body to send a testing team to their housing complex. The AC room is needed for the personal protective equipment -clad medical technologists to work comfortably. Panda said the samples were collected in the office room of the residents’ welfare association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||New Market: 1 in 5 shops close||Inside his small shop in New Market, Pradip Kumar Shaw would usually find it difficult to spare time for a cup of tea around this time of the year. Customers would crowd in rows inside his shop looking for various home appliances, from mixer-grinders to air ovens, and he would be busy attending to them. On Saturday, a day after two back-to-back lockdowns, the man in his early sixties sat on a chair outside his shop, his face covered with a mask, counting hours. Shaw was one of the few who had opened their shops. “About one in five shopkeepers in New Market are not opening their establishments,” said Debu Bhattacharya, the secretary of the New Market Traders’ Association. For many, keeping the shops open doesn’t make sense. All have been reeling from a sharp drop in footfall and returns since the Covid-19 pandemic struck and struggling to pay wages to their staff. New Market has never seen such times in living memory. “Never ever,” said Shib Shankar Nandan, who has been running their family’s watch shop at New Market, along with his grandfather, for over five decades. Some of Calcutta’s most prized watches would get repaired at their shop. Not anymore. The 144-year-old shopping address in central Calcutta has 27 entrances and exits covering various zones, including the old market complex, multi-storeyed new complex, masala patti, vegetable market and the poultry-fish-meat area. Ahead of festivals such as Id, Durga Puja and Christmas, these entrances and exits would hum with the cacophony of buyers turning up from across the city as well as neighbouring districts. At other times, nearly 40 per cent of the 50,000-odd daily visitors to New Market would be from Bangladesh. All that has gone missing. Corridors are no more humming with buyers talking aloud or children screaming at the top of their voices. All the fashionable apparels the mannequins are decked out with have no takers. “The fear (of getting infected by the coronavirus) is so deep that even those who would earlier visit the place at least once a month have not turned up even once since mid-March. There is hardly any transaction throughout the day,” said Bhattacharya, of the New Market Traders’ Association. “Owners open their shops hoping against hope. But it doesn’t work.” Just how bad is it? Most shops have staff engaged on weekly contracts for wages varying between Rs 1,800 and Rs 2,500 a week. Around this time, when festivals are around the corner, many shops would engage more hands to cope with the demand. “I managed to sell just a lighter, for Rs 60, in the entire day,” said shop owner Shaw. “What will I pay my staff?” With lanes dimly lit and frighteningly empty, most shop owners at New Market who open their shops usually end up discussing the owners who had not turned up for the day. “We count the shops that are closed for the day ... G-108, G-109, E-110, G-12...” said the owner of a shop that sells suit pieces. Some owners said they were trapped in the decades-old tradition of keeping the shutters up. “It has never been so bad in the last four decades,” said Jagadish Halder, the manager at Nahoum’s and Sons Private Limited. Sale of cakes and other popular items have dipped drastically, casting a cloud of uncertainty on survival. “Still, we keep the shop open. It’s an age-old tradition for us.” Others hope that the pandemic would end some day and New Market would spring back to life. “The market is scarily quiet and there is no business,” said Tshering Yangki of Chamba Lamba, which sells silver jewellery. “We only hope that this will come to an end some day.” “If it continues like this, many of us would find it difficult to foot the electric bills,” said Ashim Bardhan, a shop owner. For years, most traders at New Market would usually complain about lack of adequate parking space posing a challenge to a section who enjoyed marketing in the afternoons. Parking space is no more a problem now. There aren’t buyers who will park their cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Driver ill and falls off,  bus runs into tree in Calcutta||The driver of a government bus fell off the vehicle apparently after suffering a stroke near the Maidan, while the bus kept moving for about 200 metres till it smashed into a tree on Dufferin Road on Sunday morning. The eight-odd passengers on the bus escaped unhurt. Police said a major accident could be averted because the bus was moving slowly. Driver Mangal Mondal, 44, a resident of Falta in South 24-Parganas, died later in the day at SSKM Hospital. Police said he died of his aliment and the injuries he suffered from his fall. “The accident happened at the crossing of Outram Road and Dufferin Road around 8.45am, when no other vehicle was on the stretch. The driver fell around 10 to 12 feet,” a traffic police officer said. The bus on route number S-4C was on its way to Haridevpur from Howrah station when the accident happened. “Initially, we thought the driver had fallen off the bus because the door beside his seat was defective. But later we discovered that he had taken ill. We took the driver to SSKM Hospital, where attending doctors said the symptoms he displayed were that of a stroke,” said an officer of Maidan police station. Senior officers of the traffic department failed to recall the last time a bus met with an accident after its driver had fallen off the vehicle. “Had the bus been moving at a higher speed, which was only normal on an empty stretch like the one where the accident happened, the consequences could have been disastrous. Fortunately, the bus was moving slowly and none of the seven-eight passengers on the bus did not suffer any injury,” an officer of the traffic department said. The vehicle was taken to Maidan police station, where it will undergo a mechanical examination. “It is important to find out whether there was any defect in the gate beside the driver’s seat. We are also analysing the CCTV footage of the area to see how the driver’s door suddenly opened. Such defects, if any, could be dangerous to any driver,” another officer of the traffic department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University tweaks criteria for humanities||Presidency University has decided to allow students from the ISC-ICSE council to apply to study undergraduate courses in five humanities subjects even if they didn’t have math and science in their Class X course. Till the condition was withdrawn on Thursday, the university was not allowing ICSE candidates who had pursued pure humanities from Class IX to apply to study undergraduate courses in humanities. Those candidates had written to the Presidency authorities drawing their attention to the problem they were facing. The ISC-ICSE council allows students to study pure humanities, and no science subjects at all, from Class IX. The university has tweaked the format allowing applicants not to mention the marks of math and science at the secondary level while applying to study honours in English, history, political science, Bengali and Hindi, an official of the university said. However, three departments — sociology, philosophy and performing arts — will still give weightage to the marks in mathematics in the Class X board exams while drawing up the merit list. “The students who will apply to study any of these courses will have to mention their math marks in the Class X board exams,” the official said. But why are these three departments, unlike other humanities departments, still giving weightage to Class X math marks? “Those studying these subjects need to have sound logical and analytical skills. Till last year, the admission tests for these subjects would focus on such skills. Since admission tests are not being held this year because of the Covid pandemic, the departments are giving weightage to the candidates’ math marks in the Class X board exams to assess their logical and analytical skills,” the official said. “As the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the CBSE do not offer the option of pursuing pure humanities from Class IX, the students of these boards did not encounter any problem. Now, we have introduced a mechanism whereby an applicant can keep the columns of science subjects blank while applying for the five humanities subjects,” another Presidency official. The schools affiliated to the ICSE council ask students whether they want to pursue pure humanities when they are promoted from Class VIII to IX. “Sometimes students make up their mind to pursue pure humanities from Class IX and do not want to burden themselves with science subjects,” he said. Why did this provision of the council escape the attention of the Presidency authorities? A professor said Presidency did not have to factor in the marks of the secondary board exams as students over the past four years were being admitted on the basis of admission tests only. Before that, students used to be admitted on the basis of equal weightage to the admission test and plus-II board scores. As admissions tests are not being held this year, the authorities decided to consider the Class X and Class XII board exam scores while drawing up the merit lists. “While finalising the eligibility criteria, this provision of the council escaped our attention,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Wi-Fi hotspots for New Town road||At least six new Wi-Fi hotspots will be set up in various places along the Major Arterial Road (MAR) of New Town, said an official of Hidco, which builds infrastructure in the township. According to the official, the places that have been shortlisted for setting up the hotspots include Eco Park, Eco Urban Village, community markets and zones such as the Unitech intersection which have a number of offices. “The idea is to provide a seamless high-speed Internet connectivity across the township and these new Wi-Fi hotspots will be a step towards it,” the official said. Users can log into the network using either smart phones or laptops. Most of the Wi-Fi hotspots will be solar powered and fitted with a back-up system powered by conventional power. The back-up system will keep the hotspots active on days the solar panels cannot generate enough power or malfunction. The decision to extend the Wi-Fi  coverage across various areas in the township was taken keeping in mind it's relatively younger population compared to other parts of the city, as well as the fact that all action areas in New Town have a large number of offices, colleges and universities. Small public data offices will also be set up in community markets that will be able to extend Wi-Fi services to the locality against a small fee. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said they wanted to create an ecosystem that will enable people to finish assignments while travelling. “It is important to ensure that since most offices are encouraging people to work from home,” said Sen. “Wi-Fi connectivity is already available on the Major Arterial Road. This new network will bolster it.” Many New Town residents said the Wi-Fi network available along the Major Arterial Road was "glitchy". "I used to get good speeds earlier but of late the network has become quite bad and logging in is a task in itself," said Maitreyee Bhattacharya, a techie and a resident of New Town. The New Town authorities are also in talks with technology experts to have a high-speed broadband Internet in Bengal Silicon Valley in order to draw in data-centre developers, ISP providers, gaming and mobile application companies as well as telecom players to set up offices there. “Every sector needs stable and high-speed Internet connections and we want new-age companies like those developing games and mobile applications, among others, to set up their offices in New Town,” said a Hidco official. Hidco had floated an expression of interest (EoI) for allotting land at the Bengal Silicon Valley IT hub in New Town in May. According to the EoI, 22 plots spread over 63.35 acres are being offered in the fifth phase of land allotment at Bengal Silicon Valley. The largest plot is 21.75 acres. All plots are available on a 99-year leasehold basis. Hidco officials said that they had received one serious enquiry for the setting up of a data centre there. Out of the total 200 acres of land, there are about 169 acres of allotable land, excluding the roads and commercial space. Some companies who have already applied for plots in the previous phases are Reliance Jio (40 acres), CTS (25 acres), TCS (20 acres), Capgemini (7 acres), Indian Statistical Institute and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
24-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather forecast: Rain and flooding alert from today ||Rainfall in Calcutta and surrounding areas is likely to increase from Monday because of a low-pressure area that is set to form over the north Bay of Bengal by Monday, Met officials said on Sunday. Under its influence, the entire south Bengal, including Calcutta, is expected to get widespread rain from Monday. The system was to have formed on Sunday. “It is a dynamic process and depends on several parameters like atmospheric pressure over the sea and the sea surface temperature,” said a Met official. The city got light but persistent rain throughout Sunday. The sky remained overcast since morning. The intensity of the showers is likely to go up from Monday, said a Met official. The previous low-pressure system had led to around 115mm of rain in Calcutta between August 17 morning and August 21 morning. “The fresh system is also likely to trigger over 100mm of rain in Calcutta over the next three days. One heavy spell is due,” said the official. The Met office has warned of “a rise in the water levels of the rivers and waterlogging of low-lying areas” because of the rain. Officials of the civic body in Calcutta said if heavy rain coincided with high tide, waterlogging was inevitable in low-lying areas. “But once the rain stops, there are enough pumps to drain the water out quickly,” said an official. The fresh low-pressure area is likely to travel westwards. As a result, the western districts of Bengal such as Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram can get heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday. The monsoon trough extends up to northeastern Bay of Bengal via Calcutta. That is leading to strong monsoon currents in the city, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
