25-08-2020||Calcutta||Video: IIT Kharagpur official implies forceful hostel eviction||A video has emerged that purportedly shows an official of IIT Kharagpur, accompanied by several guards, telling students at a hostel to leave the campus immediately, failing which their belongings would be taken away. The students at the Madan Mohan Malviya Hall of Residence could be heard pleading for some more time, saying they could not return home because of lack of transport options in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. The dean of students’ affairs at the IIT, Somesh Kumar, denied that the authorities were trying to evict students from the hostel. Those in charge of Madan Mohan Malviya Hall, he said, were only trying to persuade the students to return home because three students have tested positive for Covid-19 on the campus since last Wednesday. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. In the video clip, students could be heard saying that they could not leave because of lack of transport options. “We cannot leave. You lock us in from outside. We cannot step out,” a student was heard telling the official, who was accompanied by a number of guards. At this point, the official told the students: “Aapko nikalna padega. Dekhiye abhi bahaut aadmi aayega, aap logo ka samaan le jayega (You have to leave. See, a group of men will now come and take away your belongings).” When the official sought to know when the students would leave the campus, they pleaded helplessness. “We don’t know when we will be able to leave…. Trains are not going to our home (states),” one of the students said. “How will we go?” another asked. The official then asked if 10,000 students of the institute could go home, why couldn’t the 300-odd? The students countered him by saying the institute had prevented them from leaving. The official then told the students: “Go to the dean and tell him that ‘the warden has thrown us out’.” Dean Kumar said it was no longer safe for the students to stay on the campus. “We are going to each hall of residence to make them understand. There is no question of forceful eviction. While the warden was speaking to the students, there could be some exchange of words,” he told The Telegraph. How can the students leave in the absence of transport? “There are several travel agencies on the campus. They should speak to them,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Rains trigger severe traffic congestion in central Calcutta||Tens of thousands of vehicles were stranded in central Calcutta on Monday — the picture reminiscent of the days before the lockdown when commuting in the heart of the city was often a nightmare. A Lake Gardens resident started for Esplanade, about 9km away, from her home around 5.10pm. She reached her destination at 6.55pm. It takes about 30 minutes otherwise to cover the distance during the lockdown. Police blamed a 300m waterlogged stretch at the crossing of Central Avenue and MG Road for the traffic snarl 5km away. Ranjan Sarkar who had boarded a bus for Park Street from Minto Park around 5.30pm said he was stuck in the bus for more than 45minutes to cover the distance that he usually does in 15 minutes. Traffic police officers said waterlogging at the crossing of MG Road and Central Avenue was responsible for the snarl. “Once there is waterlogging on roads, vehicles tend to avoid that stretch and start moving in a single file… and their speed automatically drops. Waterlogged footpaths mean pedestrians, too, walk on the roads,” a traffic police officer said. A bus that broke down near Howrah bridge apparently hit traffic on MG Road and the ripple effect was felt on Central Avenue as well, another officer said. Traffic moving on one flank made matters worse for commuters. The north-bound flank was waterlogged; so, the south-bound traffic was not affected that much, the police said. A person who was waiting for a bus at the KC Das crossing said vehicles approaching from the side of the Park Street flyover were moving “very slowly”. “There was no waterlogging in sight. But all vehicles were moving at a very slow pace. As far as I could see, there were vehicles lined up all over this flank of Central Avenue,” he said. A professional who was headed home said he had to wait for 40 minutes at Esplanade before he could get a Barrackpore-bound bus. Tarak Singh, a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, in charge of drainage, said the area had received more than 40mm rain in an hour and the place was prone to waterlogging. “But we have done our best to clear it. All the water was drained out by 7.30pm,” Singh said. The number of vehicles on the roads has gone down in the past few months because of the lockdown. Several police officers posted on Central Avenue, Park Street and in the Park Circus area said the volume of traffic on Monday was greater than other days during the pandemic. “It (increased traffic) could be because it was the first weekday after four days of consecutive holidays last week (two days of complete lockdown before the weekend),” a traffic police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||CM flags bad roads, calls for repairs||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised the matter of battered roads in the city and neighbouring areas during an administrative review meeting in Nabanna. She said she had found the top coat of a road missing while on her way to Nabanna a few days ago. She spoke of a road in Howrah’s Kona that was repaired only after she travelled on the road and messaged the municipal authorities regarding its poor state. “A few days ago I found the top layer of a road I took totally worn off. The Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC) is its custodian. I found a road in Kona in poor condition. The municipality repaired the road only after they were told,” she said. Battered roads have been greeting people across the city for many days. The Telegraph had on August 12 reported about the poor condition of some of Calcutta’s roads. Engineers of several state government agencies had blamed the absence of repairs ahead of the monsoon during the pandemic for the condition of the roads. Every year, roads in the city are repaired twice — before the monsoon and before Durga Puja. This year, the repairs ahead of the monsoon could not be carried out in most places because of the lockdown. April and May are the crucial period for repairs, according to engineers from the PWD, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority. “I had to take the Park Circus-Parama Island connector on Monday as cops were not allowing motorists to take the Parama flyover from the Park Circus seven-point crossing,” a state government employee said. He was headed home to New Garia on his two-wheeler from his office in Esplanade. “The ride through the connector was a nightmare. The road was flooded and there were multiple deep craters… it was difficult to ride my two-wheeler on the road. I could have fallen but fortunately that did not happen.” Long stretches on the Bypass, especially the ones near the Ruby and Avishikta crossings, are dotted with large craters. Motorists and two-wheeler riders have a hard time negotiating craters on the road. Mamata asked government officials on Monday to pass on the message of the need to repair roads in poor condition. “Keep your eyes open when you are travelling. It maybe that your department doesn’t maintain the road but you can pass on the message to the department concerned for repairs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Woman molested by Uber driver over AC||A woman has alleged that an app cab driver molested her on Sunday night when she asked him to switch on the car’s AC after finding it difficult to breathe. The driver was arrested based on a complaint she lodged with Garfa police station. The driver, Raj Shaw, 23, has been booked for outraging a woman’s modesty and criminal intimidation. A court on Monday remanded him in judicial custody for two days. The police said the driver has claimed that he works for Uber. The woman in her mid-30s was returning home to Selimpur with her husband from her parent’s home in Behala on Sunday night when the alleged offence took place, police said. A Uber spokesperson told Metro on Monday night: “This is a regrettable incident. Safety of all our riders and driver-partners is paramount. We are investigating the matter and stand ready to assist the law enforcement authorities in any way possible.” The couple had booked the cab in Taratala and immediately after boarding the cab, the woman asked the driver to switch on the AC. The driver did not turn it on and after about a kilometre, the couple asked the driver why he hadn’t switched on the AC, the police said. The driver apparently refused to switch on the AC. The woman insisted on the AC because she suffers from asthma, she said in her complaint to the police. It was getting difficult to breathe inside the cab, she told the police. The woman said an argument broke out between them and the driver. The driver apparently told them it was “quite cool” outside and that there was no need for the AC. As the couple insisted he switch on the AC, the driver said there was no such rule that said he had to meet a passenger’s unjust demands. When the couple said they would call on the app cab company’s helpline to find out if it was so, the driver dialled the number from his phone. “The couple said the driver was told on the phone that he had to switch on the AC if a passenger demanded so and in this case, in the mode should be ‘fresh air’,” an officer of Garfa police station said. “She alleged that the driver still refused to switch on the AC.” The driver took out his phone and kept taking their pictures in the “video mode” every time he stopped at a traffic signal, she alleged in her complaint with the police. The driver apparently stopped the car on Prince Anwar Shah Road near Jadavpur police station and slapped the woman as her husband protested. He then called some youths of the area and a few of his fellow drivers and threatened to thrash the couple. It was around 10pm and there weren’t too many people on the road. “The couple spotted a traffic sergeant on a bike. They stopped him and narrated their plight. The officer advised them to file a complaint at Garfa police station,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Residential complexes divided over Durga Puja celebrations||Residential complexes across the city are divided on how to celebrate Durga Puja amid the Covid-19 pandemic: to have idols like every year or just a ceremonial ghot. And what about cultural programmes that almost every complex organises on Puja evenings? As health authorities have advised against gatherings to prevent infection, WhatsApp has emerged as the platform of choice for residents to discuss and debate on how big or small Puja should be this year. WhatsApp groups of many residential complexes are simmering with ideas and counter-ideas on whether it would be prudent to organise just a ghot Puja (worshipping an earthen pot) and how safe it would be to go ahead with cultural programmes and community lunch. “Some residents have suggested that we only perform ghot Puja. But most are in favour of traditional idol worship. We have already placed an order for the idols,” said a resident of Upohar — the Condoville, off EM Bypass. Residents at Sanjeeva Town Bungalows and Duplex in New Town are divided on how to organise community lunch this year. Rajoshi Gupta, who lives in the complex, said a section of the residents wanted food to be served in boxes that could be taken home. Others are lobbying for food to be served outside the pandal like previous years. Some New Town complexes such as Rosedale Garden, however, have decided to do away with community lunch. In the absence of any guidelines from the administration on the Durga Puja celebrations inside housing complexes, most residents’ welfare associations Metro spoke to are still struggling to strike a balance between tradition and safety. The associations of some big housing complexes expressed helplessness, saying they were struggling their way through a multitude of opposing views to a decision acceptable to all. Recently, Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at Urbana, off the Bypass, attracted protests and criticisms from many residents. “There was a lot of hue and cry on the way Ganesh Puja was organised. Some residents wanted to celebrate, others did not. As for Durga Puja, we are still undecided on whether to organise cultural events. Most probably we will try live streaming of performances,” said a member of the residents’ welfare association of Urbana. The housing complex has already placed an order for the Puja idols, which will be worshipped in a 10,000sq ft space inside the complex. “We will have to prepare a protocol. Everyone is suggesting that we reduce the scale of celebrations,” another resident said. South City is likely to organise their Durga Puja meeting on a virtual platform on Tuesday. Sources said that although nothing had yet been decided on whether to organise cultural events, several residents have started rehearsing at home. The residents’ welfare association of Avishikta-I, on the Bypass, has declared there would be no cultural events this year. “A resident has donated the idols’ price. So, we have placed an order for the idols. Nothing else has been finalised. But there will be no cultural programme this year,” said a member of the residents’ welfare association of Avishikta-I. Sherwood Estate in Narendrapur has formed a committee for all pujas, from Ganesh Puja till next year’s Saraswati Puja. The residents’ welfare association had invited participation from residents to organise the events. “Those who wish to participate and work for the Puja preparations have volunteered. There is no compulsion,” said a resident of Sherwood Estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain forecast tonight, says Met||Heavy rain is on its way despite a clear sky and bright sun for most of Monday’s first half. A low-pressure area has formed over the north Bay of Bengal and the system is gaining momentum, a Met official said. Its effect is likely to be most pronounced in the city between Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, according to the forecast. “A low-pressure area has formed over the north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood on August 24. It is likely to become more marked during the next 48 hours. Under its influence, widespread rainfall is likely to occur over the districts of south Bengal between August 24 and 27,” said a Met bulletin on Monday afternoon. The system is likely to travel westwards passing over the northern fringe of Calcutta between Tuesday evening and early Wednesday. “Between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning, at least one spell of heavy rain is due in the city,” a Met official said. The city was bracing for heavy rain on Monday as well, but the morning was dry and sunny. The sky started becoming overcast in the afternoon and showers started by evening in many parts of the city. The Met office recorded around 30mm of rain in Alipore till 8.30pm on Monday. The system is expected to travel westwards from the Bay. Bengal’s western districts are likely to get more rain from Wednesday, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||CM appeals to Modi to defer entrance tests||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assess the “enormous health risk involved” and put on hold the national entrance examinations due in September “until the situation is conducive again”. “On the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic is going on and the student community on the other hand is... suffering a lot of mental agony and depression…. I would therefore appeal to you to get the enormous health risk involved in such steps assessed,” Mamata wrote in her letter to Modi. She added: “The central government must not take a decision for which the students feel upset and also ensure that students are not deprived of the opportunity to take examinations. I am sure that you will appreciate the point and postpone these examinations until the situation is conducive again.” The JEE-Main exams, through which most engineering colleges admit undergraduate students, are to be held from September 1 to 6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which all medical colleges admit undergraduate students, is scheduled for September 13. Earlier in the day, Mamata tweeted her concern about holding the exams amid the pandemic. An official of the state education department said the health risk arose from the fact that the aspirants would have to turn up at centres to write the test at a time any kind of physical assembly is being discouraged as a precaution against Covid. “Although the authorities that conduct the exams have issued guidelines on the precautionary measures to be taken by the candidates and others, any assembly can pose a risk. That’s why the chief minister appealed for postponing the tests,” the official said. Covid-19 cases are on the rise in all eight cities and towns in Bengal where exam centres will be set up, an official said. The National Testing Agency — which conducts all-India entrance exams such as JEE-Mains, JEE-Advanced and NEET — has said that each candidate will be offered a three-layered mask before he or she enters the venue. Also, before entering the centre, each candidate will have to wash their hands with soap and water or clean them with sanitiser. The chief minister in her letter sought to underscore that she was appealing for postponement of the entrance tests for the same reason that prompted her to oppose the UGC’s instruction to the colleges and universities to conduct their terminal exams by the end of September. Mamata concluded her letter by saying: “It is our duty as elders to ensure a safe public environment for all our students in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||Mamata worried over Covid in North 24-Parganas ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday expressed concern about the Covid-19 situation in North 24-Parganas and the “very high” positivity rate there. Mamata warned officials at a televised meeting that parts of the district were densely populated and asked them to take adequate measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. She also asked elected representatives from the district to be more vigilant. The positivity rate — percentage of tests turning out to be positive — gives a measure of the spread of a disease in the community, public health specialists said. “The positivity rate is 20.6 per cent in the district. Why is the situation in North 24-Parganas still not under control? There are some urban areas and some rural areas in the district. A lot of dengue cases are also reported from the district every year,” Mamata said during an administrative review meeting held through videoconferencing and attended by officials of a number of south Bengal districts. “Are the zilla parishad chief, the MLAs taking care of their areas? The municipalities should be careful. I will tell the urban (development and municipal affairs) department to be especially careful. This (North 24-Parganas) is a very densely populated district. There are too many people living within a small area. You have to ensure that the positivity rate goes down,” she said, addressing officials from the district. The state health department’s bulletin on Covid-19 states that 700 cases were reported from the district on Monday and 696 on Sunday. The district reported the highest number of new cases in the state on both these days. “For a few days now, North 24-Parganas is reporting more cases than Calcutta,” said a health department official. The district was reporting between 500 and 600 cases every day about a fortnight back. Officials later said densely populated pockets such as Dum Dum, Barasat, Barrackpore and the areas off VIP Road were a concern. Sources in the district’s health administration said all these places had been reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases. The chief minister went on to add that the discharge rate among Covid patients and the death rate in the district were 77.2 and 2.2 per cent, respectively. She also cited the positivity rates of some districts that were lower compared with that of North 24-Parganas. Mamata said the positivity rates in Howrah, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas were 13.7, 8.3 and 7.9 per cent, respectively. “A high positivity rate means the right people, those with symptoms, are being tested. It leads to faster isolation of infected people,” said a public health specialist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
25-08-2020||Calcutta||A new life with a new heart||A 17-year-old girl from a village in East Midnapore is looking ahead to a life with a new heart. Ahsana Khatun walked without support for the first time on Monday since undergoing a heart transplant a week ago. After that almost symbolic demonstration of her will to stand on her own feet, Ahsana told Metro that she was keen to return to school at the earliest and write Madhyamik next year. She could not sit for her Class X boards this year because her heart was incapable of taking the strain. The resident of Kumarpur village in East Midnapore underwent the transplant at Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah on August 17. A week on, she walked slowly without any support, said doctors. “The first thing I want to do after recovering fully is go back to school. I could not sit for Madhyamik this year because of my illness. But I want to write the papers next year,” Ahsana said on Monday from her hospital bed. About two years back she was diagnosed with dialectic cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart’s pumping muscles keep weakening and the organ fails to pump adequate blood to the rest of the body. Doctors said Ahsana would suffer from severe respiratory distress as fluids accumulate in the lungs, along with other organs. The condition, which doctors said leads to heart failure, forced Ahsana to miss classes as she needed to be admitted to hospital often. “I had been feeling unwell for the last three years and would frequently miss school and could not play with my sisters and brothers,” said Ahsana, a Class X student of Omarpur High Madrasa. When she was in Class VI, Ahsana had developed a hearing problem that still persists. “My parents had then said I must  complete my education. Once I fully recover, I want to get back to school and study as far as I can,” said Ahsana, whose favourite read is Tagore’s poetry. Ahsana’s condition had been worsening over the past two years as her heart was steadily losing its capacity to pump blood. “She had to be admitted to hospital four times over the past three months because of heart failures. About four months back, we enlisted her for heart transplant,” said Debasis Das, the cardiac surgeon who led the transplant team that operated on Ahsana for four hours. “Every time she was admitted to hospital, we would give her some medicine and discharge her. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we didn’t want to keep her in hospital for long.” Along with Das, cardiac surgeon Nilanjan Dutta and pediatric cardiologist Amitabha Chattopadhyay treated the patient. Ahsana said she would always leave the hospital depressed. “I would feel very depressed after reaching home from the hospital. I would be anxious about what would happen to me. Then I would sit and listen to Tagore songs,” she said. Finally, on the evening of August 16, the hospital got a call from an official of the regional organ and tissue transplant organisation of the state health department that a young man had died and his organs were donated by his family. The parameters matched Ahsana’s. “We contacted Ahsana’s father and asked him whether he could bring her to Calcutta as soon as possible. He hired a vehicle and reached the hospital with his daughter,” said Das. The heart was harvested from the donor’s body at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “In about two to three months, Ahsana would be able to go back to near-normal life, including attending classes,” said Das. Ahsana said she was feeling much better than she had in the past three years. “I can’t wait to go back home, this time cured,” she said. Her father, Sk Hidayatullah, the imam of a mosque in East Midnapore, said he had been worried about the cost of treatment of Ahsana, the eldest of his three daughters. “I went to SSKM Hospital but could not get her treated. I was worried about how to raise money for her treatment but said yes when doctors at the private hospital asked whether I wanted my daughter to be treated there,” he said. The hospital authorities later told him that he need not pay anything and they would take care of her cost of treatment. “The total cost of her treatment was around Rs 10 lakh. Our patient support cell helped in raising funds through donors and various funding agencies. The rest of the cost was borne by the hospital,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Howrah hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-332
