26-08-2020||Calcutta||Online, nursery kids open up to school heads||The online interaction for admission to nursery has become a more informal and comfortable experience for children as parents log in from their homes, heads of several schools said. Many parents are getting the opportunity to log in from other countries, cities or their offices in the same city, the heads said. Some of the heads who have been conducting such online interactions for two or three-year-olds have felt that children are “at ease” because they are in a familiar space and at times “more responsive” than they would be during an interaction on the school campus. In the principal’s office they are intimidated by the “foreign environment” but in their homes they are jumping on the bed, bringing their toys to show over the screen and running across the house with their mothers following them with phones, at least heads of two schools said from their experience of conducting the interaction online this year. In one school parents have “bribed the child” with a chocolate to make him sit and the interaction was conducted in between mouthfuls of chocolate. There have been instances of parents preparing themselves while in the waiting room, applying make-up and adjusting their hair and completely unaware that they have already been let in the meeting room. Calcutta International School, South Point, Indus Valley World School, South City International School are some of the schools conducting online interactions at present. Many more will start in September. “When we planned we didn’t realise what the interaction would be like; but it has been a heartwarming process so far. Children look more comfortable and at times more responsive than they are when they attend the interactions in school,” Dalbir Kaur Chadda, principal, South Point School, said. In one of the interactions at South Point, the grandparents joined and the school did not object to it. “They were curious to know how the interaction was being conducted and we did not object because they did not interfere,” Chadda said. Often, the big school gates, the waiting time or moving from one room to another can be intimidating for the child, a teacher said. “Our interactions have been informal always but the big difference is that the school is an unfamiliar environment for the child. The nature of the questions have not changed and we ask them to point out objects or pictures on the screen but the comfort level of the child is more because they are in a familiar terrain,” Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School, said. To give the interaction more structure Calcutta International School communicate to parents beforehand a set of things that they have to keep with themselves before the start of the interactions. It includes stationery such as a set of crayons, drawing book and blocks. “These are aids used during the interaction. We observe the child’s behaviour, which gives us an insight into the family and how the family is dealing with their behaviour,” Farishta Dastur Mukerji, psychotherapist and counsellor at Calcutta International School, said. Online interaction gives children an edge as they are in their own territory, Mukerji said. “There is no separation anxiety for the child. For children as young as three or four they often end up crying when separated from their parents, all of which is now taken care of,” Mukerji said. The online interaction allows parents to join the interview from other countries, too. “We have had parents logging in for the interaction from abroad. For one child, the father was in Mumbai, the mother in London and the child is here with grandparents. Even doctors have attended the interaction before going for a surgery,” Chadda said. South City International School has been helping parents who are abroad. “We have scheduled interviews taking into account the time lag between countries because parents are abroad,” principal John Bagul said. This generation is hooked to devices and their responses are quick, Bagul said. “There is no hesitation while they interact.” In the past few months many children have been making video calls to other members of the family, which perhaps familiarised them with the new mode, a teacher said. “There are some who cannot perform to their actual ability because they are not exposed to the screen. The online interaction has been with known family members but for the school interaction they see new faces,” Mukerji said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||‘Embodied kindness but knew when to be firm’||Mother Teresa used to say often: “Love one another as God loves each one of you.” On August 26, as the world celebrates Mother’s 110th birth anniversary, this is the message that we must carry in our hearts and live by. I first met Mother Teresa in 1985, when I was the commanding officer of the 1st Bengal Battalion of the National Cadet Corps at Jodhpur Park. From then till she breathed her last in 1997, I remained in touch with her. Service at the Missionaries of Charity is voluntary. Sisters from all over the world come forward to serve the great cause sacrificing personal comfort. My association with Mother allowed me a glimpse of how she bound the sisters in a well-knit family with the sole aim of serving humanity. “Families that pray together stay together,” Mother used to say. Mother was an embodiment of kindness but she knew when to be firm. I remember one occasion when I was accompanying Mother for an important work in Barrackpore. It was around 3.30pm and just as we were leaving Mother House, a sister came up to her and informed Mother that she had an appointment with a minister at 5pm the same day. Mother replied: “Please inform the minister that I am proceeding on an urgent work. If he could see me at 6.30pm.” The sister returned after some time and said: “But Mother, an appointment had been given to the very important minister.” Mother replied firmly: “I have told you, please convey that I can see him not before 6.30pm because of the very urgent mission of mine.” Mother Teresa was always sympathetic to the poor and took care to ensure they faced no difficulties under her care. Once while visiting a newly built section at Shanti Dan, the home for the destitute at Tangra, Mother spotted a broken door glass pane. She immediately instructed the sister-in-charge: “This broken glass can injure the inmates. Kindly get these removed and replaced urgently.” Mother Teresa was very practical and methodical in all her actions. It was this approach that helped her manage such a vast and spread-out organisation. My wife and I had made it a point to meet Mother Teresa on weekends regularly to seek her blessings and guidance. Mother had everything in abundance but she preferred to lead a simple life. She did not use a fan in her room, not even during summer. Mother once said: “You know, I was given thousands of saris in Singapore. How nice of them.” I asked her: “But Mother, you always wear old saris that have been mended all over with stitches.” Mother replied: “If I change my saris often, then I shall become rich.” Mother was forever down to earth. It did not matter whether she was in the company of kings and queens in palaces, or with the Presidents and Prime Ministers of the most powerful nations. She spent most of her time with slum-dwellers. She treated all the same way — greeting everyone, rich or poor, young or old, with her infectious smile and blessing one and all. It was not possible to fathom the extent to which she had touched the world with her kindness and benevolence. When she passed away on September 5, 1997, it seemed the whole world had congregated in Calcutta. Never ever have I seen such a gathering of delegates from all over the globe. They poured into Netaji Indoor Stadium to pay respects to Mother. Mother Teresa came to India and served the cause of the poor till her demise, inspiring millions to follow in her path. As we celebrate Mother Teresa’s birth anniversary, let us all remember her motto: “The fruit of silence is prayer. The fruit of prayer is faith. The fruit of faith is love. The fruit of love is service. The fruit of service is peace.” Let us all pray together that more Mother Teresas are born to continue her noble work that can bind the world as a common home. Pratapaditya Mazumdar is a retired army lieutenant colonel||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||‘She continues to live in the hearts of her sisters, followers’||August 26 2020 is Mother’s 110th Birth Anniversary. I am fortunate and blessed to share my birthday with her and with Archbishop Thomas D’Souza of Calcutta. Mother’s favourite words have always inspired me: “The fruit of silence is prayer; the fruit of prayer is faith; the fruit of faith is love; the fruit of love is service and the fruit of service is peace.” In August 1990, I planned an article on ‘Jesuit Influence on Mother Teresa’, and I dropped in to meet her not knowing that she was in Retreat. She did see me. While I apologised for disturbing her, she just smiled and said, “I will always have time for Jesuits.” When she heard that I was from St. Xavier’s, she conversed with enthusiasm and advised me, “Being a priest is not enough, being a good priest is important…. The Jesuit vocation is very special. You are called to a great and cosmic spirituality. You are called to aim at nothing less than St. Francis Xavier….” Mother was a woman who spoke with authority and gentle yet firm conviction. It is said, ‘every beginning has an end and every end has a new beginning’. Mother is not dead; such a life cannot have a conclusion. She bridged the gap between life and death like Jesus Christ and her legacy continues to live in the hearts of her sisters and followers like me. Mother Teresa had habitually preferred Jesuits as Retreat Preachers, spiritual directors and confessors for herself and her Sisters. Many Jesuits of Calcutta Province, including Cardinal Trevor L. Picachy and Fr. Camille Bouche, were in close contact with her. Fr. Celest Van Exem was the earliest main advisor and supporter to Mother Teresa and for the foundations of the Missionaries of Charity, since her days as Loreto Sister. He was the spiritual director to whom Mother Teresa confided her inspiration and who first sought to discern the authenticity of her experiences. He was the first to support Mother in requesting Archbishop Périer to begin the process for her to leave the Loreto Congregation. He made major contributions to the writing of the Constitutions of the Missionaries of Charity. A less known fact in her life is that as the Missionaries of Charity flourished and gradually gained the attention of the world at large, Teresa progressed from confessor to confessor the way some patients move through their psychoanalysts. Fr. Van Exem gave way to Archbishop Périer, who gave way in 1959 to Cardinal Lawrence Picachy, who was succeeded by Fr. Joseph Neuner in 1961. By the 1980s the chain included figures such as Bishop William Curlin of Charlotte, N.C. For these confessors, she developed a kind of shorthand of pain, referring almost casually to “my darkness” or spiritual dryness and to God as “the Absent One”. There was one respite. In October 1958, she rejoiced, because “the long darkness or absence of God.... That strange suffering of 10 years” disappeared. She was confirmed that God ordained her Society, the Missionaries of Charity. Fr. J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Kolkata||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||City containment zone total falls to 11||The city has only 11 Covid-19 containment zones, according to a fresh list published on Tuesday. The previous list of containment zones had 17 places in it. The places present in the fresh list include two places each from Ballygunge, Barisha and Chetla. Two addresses in Queens Park are the two places from Ballygunge. The other places on Tuesday’s list are Burwari Tala Road in Beleghata, Mansatala Lane in Kidderpore, a stretch of Jugal Kishore Das Lane in the Amherst Street area and a stretch of Canal Circular Road. The list of containment zones is updated every three or four days. Places from where multiple infections are reported in the last 14 days are included in the list and old places are removed if no fresh case is reported from there in the last 14 days. Two places from Rowland Road in Ballygunge were among the places removed from the previous list of containment zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||Sunny day ends with rain in Calcutta||Bright and sunny, morning and afternoon; wet and breezy evening — this was most of Tuesday in Calcutta, just like Monday. A spell of heavy rain is in store post Tuesday midnight when a low-pressure area headed west will cross the city, a Met official said on Tuesday evening. “The low-pressure area had formed on the Bay of Bengal on Monday. It has gained strength and is now a well-marked low-pressure area. It is travelling westwards. It is expected to cross Calcutta around Tuesday midnight and trigger heavy rain thereafter,” the official said. Tuesday morning was hot and sunny. The maximum temperature was 34.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. The sky was clear for the better part of the day. As the system came closer, the clouds started gathering. The city saw the first spell of rain after 6pm. “The system had formed off the Myanmar coast, quite far from the city. Around 6.30pm on Tuesday, the system was more than 100km from Calcutta,” the Met official said. The system is likely to travel west, triggering heavy rain in Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura on Wednesday. “The weather in Calcutta is likely to remain cloudy for the first half of Wednesday. The sky will clear later,” the Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||CM’s fresh plea to PM on entrance exams||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the second time in two days on Tuesday, requesting the JEE/NEET exams scheduled for September be postponed because of “grave health risks”. On Monday, too, she had requested the Prime Minister to postpone the national entrance exams. “Today, our government has received a letter from the National Testing Agency to conduct the JEE/NEET exams starting from September 1. We are really worried and concerned,” she wrote in her letter on Tuesday. Referring to the Supreme Court’s verdict on approving the tests, Mamata said: “However I would like to request for your kind intervention and to consider the central government making an appeal to the honourable apex court to review its decision in the interest of the student community, so that they are free from mental agony and mental disaster. “I would request you to kindly appreciate the sensitivity of the matter and consider taking necessary action for postponing these examinations until the public health situation becomes conducive again.” The JEE-Main exams, through which students are admitted to engineering colleges, are to be held from September 1-6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which students are admitted to medical colleges, is scheduled for September 13. The National Testing Agency on Tuesday told the Bengal government about its decision to go ahead with the exams, a state education department official said. The agency apprised the government of the safety measures it has taken to protect students from any potential health risk, the official said. Exams will be held across eight cities in Bengal. The agency, which conducts all-India entrance exams such as JEE-Main, JEE-Advanced and NEET, has said that each candidate will be given a three-layered mask before he/she enters the exam centre. Also, each candidate will have to wash their hands with soap and water or clean them with sanitiser before entering the centre. Distancing rules will be followed while making seating arrangements. “But the health risk stems from the fact that candidates will have to turn up at the centres to write the test and any assembly during the pandemic poses a grave health risk,” the official said. “In her second letter, the chief minister has reminded the Prime Minister about her concerns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||IIT students asked to sign undertaking||Students at IIT Kharagpur who are still on the campus had to sign an undertaking on Monday night that they would leave at the earliest, said a number of students. Many had to attach printouts of their air tickets with the undertakings to prove they were serious about leaving the campus, where three students have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past week. The undertaking was sought hours after a video emerged that purportedly showed an institute official, accompanied by guards, telling students at the Madan Mohan Malviya Hall of Residence to pack up and leave immediately, failing which their belongings would be taken away. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. These students said they could not leave for home earlier because of lack of transport in the middle of the pandemic. A student from a hill state said he had received a job offer in Bengal. “I felt it was unsafe to return to my hometown and then report for duty,” the student said. “We had wanted to leave when other IITs were vacating their hostels but were denied permission.” Another student said the authorities were “failing to realise that normal train services have not resumed yet”. Flights are irregular, too. Many of the students on the campus are from faraway states. “I had to give an undertaking to the warden that I would leave the hostel within two weeks and had to attach a copy of the flight ticket as a proof of my intention. Several others had to do so,” a student said. Another said the dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, was advising them to approach travel agents on the campus who were charging a premium. Many are worried that they would be quarantined for two to three weeks once they reach home. “We are not sure about the quarantine facility. These concerns would not have arisen had we been allowed to move out before the imposition of the lockdown,’’ he said. Dean Kumar said the students were expected to honour the undertaking. ’’We are asking them to leave for their safety,” he said. He denied that the travel agents were charging a pre-mium. “A few students may have genuine problems. But most stayed back because they wanted to use the Net connectivity on the campus. If most students could vacate the hostels by June 20, they should be able to leave as well,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
26-08-2020||Calcutta||In gloom, idol hub mirrors financial doom from Covid||Tapan Rudra Pal is no longer in a hurry and finds time in the afternoons to sit for lunch. Till last year, with less than two months till the Puja, the artisan at Kumartuli would be forced to skip lunch. With rows of idols waiting to be readied and labourers moving around in a frenzy inside his studio, Pal could squeeze out just enough time for a cup of tea. This year it’s different. Puja is less than two months away and the idol-making hub in north Calcutta, which hums with action in the run-up to the festivity, is plunged into gloom. As orders for Durga idols have sharply declined compared with previous years, most studios are empty and the usual rush to meet deadlines is missing. Artisans believe the Covid-19 blow has landed them in the worst financial crisis in at least five decades. Kumartuli has so far received orders for Durga Puja idols worth less than Rs 15 crore, artisans said. Last year, it had received orders worth around Rs 50 crore. If the figures are correct, Kumartuli has garnered just 30 per cent of last year’s business. And last year wasn’t exactly great — several big pujas had to curtail their budgets as the economy was on a downward swing. “Last year was bad compared with previous ones. But nothing like this time. Organisers are not even turning up to book idols. The ones that are calling up are seeking idols for half the last year’s price,” said Babu Pal, the secretary of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sankritik Samity. “The organisers that had last year bought idols in the price range of Rs 60,000 to  Rs 70,000 are unwilling to pay more than Rs 25,000 this year.” Every year, over half of Calcutta’s 4,500-odd community pujas buy idols from Kumartuli. The bulk of the bookings are done by July, latest by mid-August. Committee members would turn up in hordes and scan idols across studios before placing their orders. The goddess would usually be at least 12ft tall. “This year organisers are looking for idols that are 6-7ft high,” said Kaushik Ghosh, an artisan, who was busy packing a two-and-a-half foot idol, the shortest by any standard, to be sent to Sweden. Fewer orders and shorter idols mean lesser work for assistants and helpers at Kumartuli, the bulk of whom are from Nadia, Howrah, East Midnapore, and North and South 24-Parganas. “Kaaj i nei (There is no work),” said Uttam Pal, a seasoned hand among the assistants. “I have been hopping around studios from Kumartuli to Ultadanga to Tollygunge looking for work. Ei somoy (this time, referring to the run-up to the Puja), bhabtey paren (can you imagine)?” In his 50s, Pal is from Taherpur, near Chakdaha, in Nadia. His daughter is pursuing BCom and son is in Class X. Pal is part of the 3,200-odd army of assistants and helpers that plays a key role in giving shape to idols. “These workers would get paid between Rs 10,000 and Rs 30,000 a month this time of the year, depending on their skill sets,” said Akhil Kumar Ghonta, of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Karigar Samity. Only around 700 of these workers are now engaged in Kumartuli. Many like Pari-mal Ranjit of Canning and Saktori Pal of Burdwan are sitting at home, counting days for the pandemic to come to an end. “We are surviving on the little we could save over the years,” said Dipankar Pal, a helper from Chakdaha. “There is no hope round the corner.” Apart from assistants and helpers, a large number of labourers would turn up at Kumartuli around the time idols were to be taken to pandals. Most of them are residents of the Sunderbans, Canning, Baruipur, Joynagar and their adjacent areas in South 24-Parganas. Each group of labourers would take Rs 5,000 from each organiser to carry the idols from a studio to the pandal and place them on their perch. “They would turn up in groups of 25-30 each and around 100 such groups would arrive at Kumartuli just before the Puja,” said Mintu Pal, an artisan. “They would stay back and return home after immersion.” This time, around six or seven groups have said they would come despite the risk of the coronavirus. The rest are not sure about what to do. Each artisan in Kumartuli depends heavily on different sets of people for their supplies of straw, mud, bamboo, dress materials and ornaments. Suppliers bring the items from East and West Midnapore, Burdwan, and North and South 24-Parganas. Bamboo is mostly sourced from Murshidabad and Nadia. Last year, ornaments worth around Rs 3.75 crore were used to deck out the idols. A family of four usually works on different kinds of ornaments and dress materials. Around 400 families work on shola or pith ornaments. “A majority of them are without any order this year. The orders that have come add up to a little over Rs 1 crore. Imagine the slump!” Babu Pal, of the Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sankritik Samity, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
26-08-2020||Calcutta||CM irked over construction materials on roads||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday expressed concern about construction materials lying dumped on the roadside and blocking drains, increasing chances of flooding during the monsoon. She told urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim to ask all civic bodies to impose penalties on people caught dumping construction materials on or along roads. The chief minister raised the issue during an administrative review meeting of several districts that she attended from Nabanna via videoconference. Mamata narrated a personal experience while travelling to Behala, when she found that drains were blocked in Tollygunge, New Alipore and Behala. “People keep bricks, sand and other construction materials on roads. As a result the drains get blocked,” Mamata said. “Fine them. You have to be aggressive at times. Conduct a drive and find out who is not adhering to rules. Fine them and withhold their permission till they adhere to the rules,” Mamata told Hakim, who is also chairperson of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). “Why should someone dump materials on the footpath and block the drains. Don’t they have a responsibility? No one is saying that they cannot build a house. But why will other people in the neighbourhood suffer? People have to understand this,” Mamata said. “I was going to Behala one day when it was raining. I found the drains blocked in the entire area from Tollygunge, New Alipore to Behala.” Metro has reported several times how footpaths lie encroached with construction materials, forcing people to walk down roads putting their lives at risk. Outside some buildings under construction, materials block the footpath as well as the road. Engineers and officials of the CMC admitted that dumping construction materials on footpaths or roads was common. “Anyone building a house is allowed to stack construction materials outside for three months from the day the building plan is approved. They have to pay a stacking fee to the CMC,” said an official. “The three-month time is given on the assumption that after that period the owner will be able to create enough space on the plot to keep the materials. But even during this three-month period, no one should stack a huge quantity of materials that can block a drain, footpath or a road,” the official said. Anyone who finds that a builder or plot owner has kept materials on a road for many months can lodge a complaint with the building department of the CMC. “We will issue a show-cause notice to the architect or the builder or the owner of the plot. If they still do not amend ways, we will issue a stop-work notice,” the official said. The chief minister also criticised the tendency of councillors to only think about the welfare of their respective wards and not a neighbouring ward. “Some councillors have a habit that they ensure pumps work in their areas and not in neighbouring wards. They want their wards to remain clean but do not bother about a neighbouring ward. This cannot happen. All people are ours,” Mamata said. Covid warriors from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s Borough III after their felicitation at the civic body’s solid waste management department in Narkeldanga on Tuesday.
Covid warriors are those who have been rendering their services during the lockdown. The borough’s outgoing chairperson, Anindya Routh, and other civic officials had organised the programme. The 110 people who were honoured included civic employees who sanitise an area or a building where someone has tested positive for Covid-19, municipal solid waste cleaners, drivers, doctors at civic clinics and some officials at Beleghata ID Hospital. “All these people work in the nine wards of the borough,” Routh said. The borough covers Beleghata, Phoolbagan and Kankurgachhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-331
