27-08-2020||Calcutta||Missionaries of Charity celebrate Mother Teresa's birthday sans outsiders||Missionaries of Charity nuns celebrated the birthday of Mother Teresa through prayers and distribution of cake among the poor. A mass was held by the Sisters at Mother House, the headquarters of Missionaries of Charity. But unlike previous years, no outsiders were allowed to take part in the mass to mark the birthday of the order's founder as a preventive measure against Covid-19. "Every year many people visit Mother House and pray with us on this day. This year, we decided not to allow any outsiders to participate in the mass to maintain Covid-19 restrictions," a nun said. But many people offered floral tributes through the windows. Soon after the mass the nuns came out of the chapel and sang Happy Birthday at the tomb of Mother, like they do every year. A cup of coffee and bread are distributed among the poor from Mother House at 7.30am everyday. On Wednesday, a piece of cake was added to the menu, the nun said. The Catholic Association of Bengal organised a mass at St. Thomas' Church on Middleton Row to celebrate Mother's birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Septuagenarian's fatal fall off bus||A 75-year-old man slipped and fell while trying to board a moving bus at the Mayo Road-Dufferin Road crossing on Wednesday afternoon, police said. Sheikh Ladu, a resident of Ekbalpore Road, died of injuries later. He was trying to board the bus around 1.30pm when the accident occurred, the police said. “The elderly person started running after the bus… he tried to board the bus while it was moving. He slipped and fell on the road. Luckily, he did not come under the tyres,” an officer of Maidan police station said. Ladu did not lose consciousness; but he sustained injuries to the waist. He helped cops contact his family while on way to SSKM Hospital. He died while being taken to a private hospital by his family members, the police said. “There were no bleeding injuries. He was stable and talking about his family. We thought he had escaped a big accident despite his age. It is sad to know that he passed away hours later,” said the officer. The bus is still to be identified. Missionaries of Charity nuns celebrated the birthday through prayers and distribution of cake among the poor. A mass was held by the Sisters in the chapel at Mother House, the headquarters of the Missionaries of Charity. But unlike previous years, no outsiders were allowed inside to take part in the mass to mark the birthday of the order’s founder as a preventive measure against Covid-19. “Every year many people visit Mother House and pray with us on this day. This year, we decided not to allow any outsider to participate in the mass to maintain Covid-19 restrictions,” a nun said. But many people offered floral tributes through the windows. Soon after the mass the nuns came out of the chapel and sang Happy Birthday at the tomb of Mother, like they do every year. A cup of coffee and bread are distributed among the poor from Mother House at 7.30am every day. On Wednesday, a piece of cake was added to the menu, the nun said. The Catholic Association of Bengal organised a mass at St Thomas’ Church on Middleton Row to celebrate Mother’s||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||CM says Metro services can resume with social distancing||Metro services can resume by maintaining social distancing norms, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. Suburban trains can also resume in phases and railway officials can “talk to” the state government on resumption of both services, she said. But railway officials said they would wait for directions from the Centre before approaching the state government. “If Metro authorities want to resume services, by maintaining physical distancing norms… we don’t have any objection. Similarly, if local trains resume gradually… may be one-fourth to start with. If this is done, we don’t have a problem. The railways can talk to us on resumption of services,” Mamata said at Nabanna. Asked about the statement, Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said: “We will work out the modalities with the state government. But the ministry of home affairs has to allow resumption of Metro services first. The railway ministry will then take a call on specifications.” Metro services have been suspended since March 25 because of the Covid-19 curbs. On June 29, the home ministry had issued guidelines that listed Metro among activities that would not be permitted. The guidelines were issued hours after Mamata had said her government would talk to the railways for partial resumption of Metro for essential service providers. Railway sources said any direction on resumption of services from Delhi would come with a set of standard operating procedures, like the number of passengers allowed in each coach. The implementation of the SOPs will be challenging because most trains in the Metro fleet do not have cameras inside them. “For effective crowd control, the feed has to be accessed by the control room,” said an official. An eight-coach Metro train can seat around 400 people. The carrier used to ferry over 600,000 passengers a day before the lockdown. Maintaining social-distancing among even a third or fourth of that number would be daunting, officials said. Access for only smart-card users and ensuring crowd control right from the station gates are some of the steps being considered by Metro for resumption of services, sources said. Eastern Railway officials said they, too, were waiting for a nod from Delhi. “The chief minister spoke of the resumption of one-fourth of local trains. That might make crowd control more difficult because most local train passengers are office-goers or workers,” said an official. “Anything we do for crowd control and social distancing, we cannot do without the help of the state government,” said Sheelendra Pratap Singh, the divisional railway manager of Sealdah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Cab driver in ‘spray attack’||An app cab driver allegedly sprayed something on the face of a woman passenger sitting on the backseat after they picked a fight over dropping her friend on the way to the booked destination, the woman has reported to police. The driver, who allegedly fled with the women’s belongings, has been arrested. The incident happened on Jatin Bagchi Road, near Vivekananda Park, around 8.35pm on Tuesday when the 19-year-old complainant and her 25-year-old friend were returning home in the hired cab. The complainant had booked the cab from Mahanirvan Road, near Gariahat, for an address in Haridevpur around 8.20pm. “My friend was supposed to get off near Tollygunge Phari. Once we mentioned that, the driver said we should add the destination to our booking and that the fare would change, too. The moment he turned his face towards us and started talking, I realised he was intoxicated,” said the 19-year-old college student. The woman alleged that when she protested about his state of intoxication, the driver said the smell was that of a sanitiser. “Before I could react, he got hold of a can and sprayed something on my face. It blinded me for a few minutes and my eyes started watering. My friend and I started screaming for help,” she said. The driver then apparently lost control of the car and the vehicle rammed into a road-side railing. “Just when the car stopped, the driver again turned towards us and tried to touch my feet as if trying to apologise. But while doing so, he touched me indecently. I screamed. My friend and I jumped off the car leaving our belongings inside,” she said. The vehicle sped away from the spot with both its rear doors open. The women reported the incident to Rabindra Sarobar police station. The driver, arrested early on Wednesday, has been booked for outrage of modesty of the woman and theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Faster radiotherapy for cancer patients||A private hospital in Calcutta has introduced a new machine for radiotherapy treatment of cancer patients. More patients can avail themselves of the treatment in a day because the machine gives more targeted radiotherapy in a short time, doctors at the hospital said on Wednesday. The Halcyon E linear accelerator, which the Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has started using, can provide radiotherapy treatment in two to three minutes compared to the 15-20 minutes taken by older linear accelerators. A patient goes inside a linear accelerator machine for radiation therapy, a doctor said. The Halcyon E is advanced in one more respect. The therapy is fully “image guided”, which means doctors will be able to see the exact location of the tissue where they intend to target the radiation. A tumour can move 1-2cm because of various reasons such as breathing if it is in the breast or of if the urinary bladder is full one day and empty on another day, a doctor said. “The image guided radiotherapy (IGRT) will enable the doctor to see the exact location of the tumour when the therapy is being administered.” “The doctor can accordingly manipulate the direction of radiation and target the affected tumour, completely protecting neighbouring tissues,” said Tanweer Shahid, a radiation oncologist with Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “In the older accelerators, we could give therapy to 60-70 people in a day. In the Halcyon E series machine, we can provide treatment to close to 100 people in a day,” Shahid said. The Apollo Gleneagles Hospital had two linear accelerators. After the introduction of the Halcyon E series, one of the older accelerators has been decommissioned, a doctor said. Prathap C. Reddy, the chairman of the Apollo Hospitals group, who attended the formal inauguration of the machine on Wednesday through videoconferencing from Chennai, said the hospital had made consistent progress in the field of cancer treatment. “We have consistently improved in cancer. Patients not only from India, but also from abroad visit our hospitals for treatment,” he said. An oncologist in the city said this was the first Halcyon machine being introduced in any hospital in Calcutta. If more hospitals procure the machine, it will benefit more patients, the oncologist said. “Patients have to endure a long wait to undergo radiotherapy. But a machine like Halcyon will reduce their wait.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Six-city flight services thrice a week from September 1||Flights between Calcutta and six cities in the country, suspended since July 6 as a precaution against Covid-19, are set to resume on September 1 but services will be available only three days a week. “I will tell the chief secretary and home secretary that flights from six places such as Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai can operate for three days. Then there will be some (relief) after September 1. But everyday operations should not happen,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. In the evening, Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kahrola, saying flights could operate from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad to Calcutta “thrice a week” from September 1. Airlines immediately complained that there was a difference between what the chief minister said and what the home secretary wrote. An official in the Bengal government clarified to Metro on Wednesday night that what the chief minister announced was the state government’s stand. “Calcutta will have flights ‘three days a week’ to these six cities and not ‘thrice a week’,” the official said. The state government’s letter to the civil aviation ministry reads: “This is also to inform you that restrictions on flights coming in from six cities viz Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai and Ahmedabad is being partially lifted from September 1, 2020 onwards. Flights from these cities can come to West Bengal thrice a week.” It also mentioned that the state would be under lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12 and the ministry should “ensure that there is no flight coming to or going out of West Bengal on those three days”. Airlines said there would be confusion on who would fly since the state government had not clarified on which days flights would operate and how many flights would be allowed each week. Before the ban, 25-odd flights would operate from these cities to Calcutta every day. “We are getting in touch with the Airports Authority of India headquarters to get clarity on the schedule. We hope there will be clarity in a day or two,” said an official of a private airline.  
A team in Delhi will allocate the slots after discussing with airlines, said an official at the Calcutta airport. Flights to Calcutta from the six cities were suspended on July 6, following a request from the Bengal government, because of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases there. “The decision is welcome but it would be better if the ban was lifted completely. Also, we once again appeal to the state government to reconsider allowing international evacuation flights,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Father Gaston Roberge dies at 85||Father Gaston Roberge, considered the doyen of film studies in Calcutta, died on Wednesday. He was 85 and suffering from age-related-ailments. The Jesuit priest-turned-film academic from Montreal, Canada, reached Calcutta in 1961, and the city became his home. He founded Chitrabani, a centre for film studies, with the help of Satyajit Ray, in 1970 as an extension service of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, and remained its director till 1996. He taught in the film studies department of St Xavier’s College. He was the founder-director of the UGC’s Audio Visual Research Centre, which later became Electronic Multi Media Research Centre under St Xavier’s College. Father Roberge lived on the college campus. “He had not been keeping well for the past few years… he was living at the infirmary for priests,” a member of the college’s former students’ association said. He had told this newspaper earlier that the first Indian film he saw was the Apu Trilogy in New York on the eve of his journey to India. “I was very impressed, particularly with Pather Panchali,” he had said. He had done his Masters in theatre arts (film) at the University of California in Los Angeles. “With the passing away of Father Gaston Roberge, the Jesuits lost a noble companion who served the Society of Jesus for 64 years and a guru of film theory, who was confident of India's potential in the area of film, art, culture and media,” Father Dominic Savio, principal of St Xavier’s College, said. He was associated with the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune, Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, Calcutta, National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad, Jamia Milia Islamia University, New Delhi, and Calcutta and Jadavpur universities among other institutions. Father Roberge conducted several discourses in various countries on the films of Satyajit Ray and Mrinal Sen, with whom he had the best of academic exchanges. He was also an expert on Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein. He did his research on Eisenstein in Moscow on a Canadian scholarship. Father Roberge’s funeral will take place at Dhyan Ashram near Joka on Friday at 11am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Distance digital, not online at JU||Jadavpur University has decided that “online real-time classes will not generally be held” considering the digital divide among “a considerable number of students”, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said. The preferred mode is “distance digital”. An official said a central repository was being created on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials and lectures would be uploaded. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — will be shared with the students. “Teachers will share the addresses of the files with the students through email or any messaging service,” the official said. The university is also subscribing to online platforms for more space. “The lectures and study materials will be uploaded on YouTube. Students will be given links to view the content,” the official said. A teacher of the physics department said the advantage of this mechanism was that a student could go through the content at any time of the day. “Then, in consultation with the teacher, a slot will be fixed for clearing doubts through conference calls,” he said. Parthapratim Roy, a teacher of the physics department, said he had asked students to make conference calls for clearing doubts. “As making a conference call does not require Internet connectivity, those without a smartphone can be engaged, too,” said Roy. VC Das said: “Real-time online classes will not be held generally. We want classes to be held in distance digital mode. If a teacher wants to hold online classes on a paper that has 10 students, with each enjoying sound connectivity, he is free to do that.” The departments have been asked to adopt a digital mode in consultation with students, so that whatever platform is used for online dissemination of knowledge, no student is left out, Classes for the next semester will start on September 14. The university is raising funds to provide smartphones and high-speed Internet data packs to 800-odd students with poor connectivity at home. “We are raising a corpus on our own and with the help of willing individuals and business houses,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Teachers’ help sought to vacate IIT Kahragpur hostels||The IIT Kharagpur director has requested teachers to ask all students to vacate hostels and leave the campus by August 30 after 10 people in the institute, five of them students, tested positive for Covid-19. The rising numbers “is a serious concern”, director Viredra K. Tewari said on Wednesday evening. In a letter to teachers, he said: “You maybe aware that 10 people of our campus, out of which five are students, are Covid positive. This is a serious concern for all of us. Considering the safety and well-being of everyone, I appeal to the faculty to instruct their students who have been staying in the halls of residence to vacate them and leave the campus by August 30. “I request all to ensure that no student is on the campus and everyone leaves positively by August 30.” The director requested the teachers after visiting the halls of residence, registrar B.N. Singh said. “We have accommodated the students as long as possible. But now the scenario has changed.” The appeal from the director came two days after a video emerged showing an IIT Kharagpur official, accompanied by guards, telling students at a hostel to vacate the campus, failing which their belongings would be taken away. “Today, there was a perceptible change in tone. The director requested us to understand the gravity of the situation. We are not sure, though, how we will move out at a time when transport options are scarce,” a BTech student who hails from another state said. “On Monday, the warden of Madan Mohan Malaviya hall of residence came with guards to throw us out. Today, the director has asked teachers to speak to us,” an MTech student said. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. “On Sunday, two more tested positive. By Wednesday, the overall number rose to 10, prompting the director to request teachers,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Potholes on VIP Road and Jessore Road trigger traffic snarls||A series of potholes on VIP Road and Jessore Road near the airport is causing long traffic snarls during rush hours every day, even on days the city is under lockdown. Commuters headed towards the airport as well as Ultadanga, in the other direction, are facing a harrowing time around the airport as the asphalt surface has worn off on both flanks of VIP Road. To add to the woes of motorists and pedestrians alike, construction materials are stacked along VIP Road at various places, including in front of the airport’s gate number 1. Near the airport, a combination of craters, construction materials on the roadside and bottlenecks created by traffic guardrails are triggering traffic snarls during rush hours. Motorists headed towards Belghoria Expressway as well as cars driving into the city from the expressway are facing regular snarls because of potholes on Jessore Road. The problem gets compounded at night when trucks drive to the city from the expressway as well as places like Barasat. It takes as long as 30 minutes during non-rush hours to travel between the airport gate number 2.5 and the point where Belghoria Expressway meets Jessore Road. Adding to the problem, traffic guardrails placed in a zig-zag manner on VIP Road and Jessore Road narrow down the carriageway and increase the travel time. Traffic snarls are also being reported regularly from the EM Bypass-Broadway intersection, near the Sports Authority of India (SAI) complex, as a 200-m stretch of the road is pockmarked with potholes.
Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Monday raised the matter of battered roads in the city and neighbouring areas during an administrative review meeting, which she and other participants attended via videoconference. She said she had found the top coat of a road worn off on her way to Nabanna a few days ago. She also expressed concern about construction materials lying dumped along roads, blocking drains and increasing chances of flooding during the monsoon. Metro had on August 12 reported about the poor condition of some of Calcutta’s roads. Engineers of several state government agencies had blamed the poor condition on the absence of repairs ahead of the monsoon because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
A resident of Baguiati said her husband had faced a traffic snarl around 9pm two days back and had to take a detour to reach Dunlop. “My husband usually drives down Belghoria Expressway to reach Dunlop. However, there was such a traffic snarl near the airport that he took a U-turn and turned back to Teghoria. He then took Dum Dum Road and drove to Dunlop,” she said. Chandan Agarwal, a Sreebhumi resident, said snarls were a regular occurrence near the airport and it was taking half an hour to reach the airport’s gate number 2.5 from Baguiati, a distance of around 5km.
A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s traffic wing said the width of the road near the airport gate number 1 crossing had reduced by some extent because of the ongoing construction of the Airport-New Garia Metro line. “We have a regular deployment of traffic personnel at all hours in an attempt to keep traffic moving. However, it is a very busy area as vehicular traffic from Nagerbazar, Dum Dum, Barasat as well as from the city converges here. We have asked the agency that maintains VIP Road and Jessore Road to undertake repairs,” said the officer. According to a plan drawn up by the commissionerate, one lane of the EM Bypass-bound flank of VIP Road is being cordoned by guardrails in the evening to make room for airport-bound vehicles. “This is being done to ensure faster dispersal during the evening rush period,” the officer said. Another resident of Dum Dum said every spell of rain washed away some of the soil from the Metro construction site near the airport, making the road surface slippery. “My bike skidded and I fell into a pothole while riding home in the rain. I was wearing a helmet and am fortunate to have escaped with minor injuries. The authorities must do something about it immediately,” said Sunil Biswas, a resident of Dum Dum Station Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
27-08-2020||Calcutta||Unlock 4: Schools to stay shut, flights to resume||Schools and colleges in Bengal will remain closed at least till September 20 because of the Covid-19 situation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. “Under these circumstances, I do not believe it will be prudent to lift the lockdown completely. As of now, we are announcing that the schools, colleges and universities will remain closed till September 20 as they already are. The status quo in terms of functioning will be maintained,’’ Mamata Banerjee said at a news conference in Nabanna. Earlier, the chief minister had expressed a wish that schools could open on alternate days from September 5, Teacher’s Day, if the situation improved. On Wednesday, Mamata requested the Centre for a third time in three days to put on hold the all-India engineering and medical entrance examinations until the situation became conducive again. “25.06 lakh students will write the tests (JEE-Main and NEET). They will be crammed in the centres to write the test…. Let the tests be held when the situation becomes conducive,” said Mamata. The JEE-Main exams, through which students are admitted to engineering colleges, are to be held from September 1 to 6. The National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET), through which students are admitted to medical colleges, is scheduled for September 13. “The chief minister scrapped the plan to reopen schools from September 5 as the Covid situation has worsened,” an official in the higher education department said. Five-hundred-and-fifty-four Covid-19 cases were detected in Calcutta on Wednesday, according to the state health department. Nineteen people died from the disease in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the city stood at five. “Given the spike in cases, the chief minister announced on Tuesday that her government had launched a door-to-door survey to identify people with comorbidities. The death of over 87 per cent of Covid patients has been attributed to such health conditions,’’ the official said. “She is against conducting JEE-Main and NEET now as any kind of physical assembly at the exam centres could pave the way for the spread of the disease.” A professor at Jadavpur University, where only a handful of employees are attending office to run the essential operations, said the administrative headquarters of the institute, Aurobindo Bhavan, had to be closed twice as two employees tested positive for Covid. “If normal gathering is allowed, there could be a disaster,” he said. “In the absence of regular transport, how will students come to campuses?” asked a vice-chancellor.
The teachers, many of them elderly and suffering from comorbidities, are too scared to visit campuses. Non-teaching employees are reluctant, too. “How could there be classes without teachers? The state government is justified in extending the closure. Let the situation stabilise first,” said another VC. The condition is so bad that the state government has not been able to announce the start of the academic session even as colleges are about to publish the merit list for the first-year students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-330
