28-08-2020||Calcutta||Bengal looking to hold final year college, varsity exams before Puja: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that her government was weighing the pros and cons of holding final-year college and university exams before Durga Puja in October. She slammed the Centre over its decision to conduct JEE and NEET exams in September, and said the Union government's "adamant approach" will add to the Covid-19 woes. "I have told our education minister to look into the possibility of conducting the final-year exams in universities and colleges before Durga Puja in October. The options of both online and offline exams should be looked into. "We are not against any exam; we are just saying that a pandemic is on, and it could put lives of students at risk," Banerjee said while addressing a virtual rally of Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad (TMCP). The Supreme Court ruled earlier in the day that states and universities cannot promote students without holding final-year exams by September 30. The court said if any state feels it can't conduct exams by September 30, it must approach the UGC for new dates. Criticising the Centre over its decision to hold JEE- NEET exams in September, Banerjee said, "We asked the Union government to defer the process due to the pandemic. But the Union government is adamant... It is busy issuing sermons instead of listening to Mann ki Baat of students." Ministers of six opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE entrance exams this year, amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Fishing on New Town road||Police officers in New Town collect nets with which some people caught fish off Major Arterial Road on Thursday morning. Water overflowed from a fishery in the township after a spell of heavy rain and partially inundated a smaller road. Along with the water came fish. Police said they had been alerted about a group of men violating the lockdown. On inquiry, they came to know that residents of villages in the Rajarhat-New Town area had gathered at the spot, near Eco Park, and were fishing. The group fled on seeing cops, leaving behind the nets and the fish they had caught. They were later prosecuted and the fish seized. “They violated the lockdown by stepping out of their homes. They were not wearing masks. They have been prosecuted,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather: 24 hours late, it pours and floods||It rained heavily on Thursday, more than 24 hours after it was supposed to according to the weather office, leading to several roads being waterlogged. Strong southerly winds from the Bay and the monsoon trough passing over Digha led to the formation of many small shells that brought the rain, a Met official said. Citing the formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay, the Met office had predicted heavy rain in the city from Monday. The latest forecast on Tuesday evening warned of heavy rain in the city after midnight by when the system was expected to pass over Calcutta’s outskirts. But a drizzle or two was all the city received throughout Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. The system deviated from the path it was supposed to take and took a northwesterly direction, past Odisha and adjoining regions, leading to heavy rain in those areas, the Met official said. “It was too far from Calcutta to have an impact. On Thursday afternoon, the system was in south Jharkhand. The rain that came down on South and North 24-Parganas, Calcutta, Howrah and Hooghly from Wednesday night was triggered by the formation of local clouds because of strong southerly winds,” G.K. Das, the director of IMD, Calcutta, said. The monsoon trough, which was passing over Digha, contributed to the cloud formation, he said. The weather in Calcutta is set to improve from Friday, Das said. It was hot and dry for the better part of Wednesday, like the previous two days. A light drizzle started in the night. As the night progressed, the rain became stronger. In phases, the showers lasted well into the early hours of Thursday. After a gap in the morning, the city saw intermittent showers in the afternoon. The Met office recorded around 50mm of rain in Alipore between Tuesday night and Thursday afternoon. Santoshpur Jora bridge was among the wettest areas, registering 74mm of rain between 4pm on Wednesday and 4pm on Thursday, according to data collected from the civic body’s pumping station. Patuli and New Market received 70mm each, Cossipore 50mm and Dum Dum 48mm in the same period, the civic body’s data showed. The soft targets in the city were not spared. Around 11am on Thursday, several stretches of Amherst Street, Thanthania and Muktaram Babu Street in the north had ankle-deep water. In the south, some areas in Kidderpore and Tangra were waterlogged. But there were no traffic snarls as it was a complete lockdown on Thursday. “The showers coincided with high tide in the Hooghly. The lock gates were shut and the water flooded some low-lying areas. But portable pumps were used and the water was cleared within a few hours,” Tarak Singh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators in charge of drainage, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||House collapse kills 70-year-old in Calcutta||A portion of an old house on Beleghata Main Road collapsed early on Thursday while it was raining heavily, killing a 70-year-old woman and injuring her son. Around 4.30am, the front portion of the house’s roof that is supported by iron beams and mounted on old pillars came crashing down, police said. Pratima Saha and her son Rajesh were trapped in the debris. Some residents of the area alerted Beleghata police station and a team of cops and Disaster Management Group personnel reached and rescued the two. They were taken to NRS Medical College and Hospital where Saha was declared dead. Rajesh, who had received severe injuries on the head and arms, was admitted to the orthopaedic ward. “The house is nearly 150 years old. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has served several notices to the family asking them to pull down the structure,” a civic official said. “Even a board declaring the house to be a dangerous building had been put up.” Rajesh lived in the house with his mother, wife and son. His wife had recently gone to her father’s place. His son was asleep in a room at the rear side of the house when the front portion collapsed. “The family members will be asked to vacate the house as soon as they can because we are not sure about the structural stability of the remaining part,” an officer said. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, called up senior officials of the civic body early in the morning and instructed them to help the police in removing the debris.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Prescription not needed for test at CMC camp||One can now walk into a camp organised by the civic body and give swab samples for an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 without a doctor’s prescription, officials said on Thursday. So far, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has been organising such camps to collect swab samples from those who were identified as possible coronavirus-infected persons during a surveillance by health workers of the civic body or others mobilised by the local ward coordinator. And those turning up to get tested needed to show a doctor’s prescription. The RT-PCR test is the most reliable method to find out whether a person has been infected by the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), which causes Covid-19. The samples collected in the camps are sent to SSKM Hospital for testing. CMC officials said a decline in the turnout at the camps had prompted them to do away with the condition that one needed to show a doctor’s prescription. “So many people would come to the camps from May to July that resources would be overstretched to collect their swab samples. But the turnout this month is quite low,” said a CMC official. To ensure a better turnout, the CMC is updating its Facebook page every night with information about the wards where such camps will be held the next day. “We have been publishing this information on our Facebook page for the last couple of days. We want more people to know whether swab samples will be collected near their home the next day,” said Sandipan Saha, advisor (information technology), CMC. Saha, who is also coordinator of Ward 52, said that only 30 people gave their samples at a camp in his ward on Wednesday. “The team was prepared to collect many more samples. We had made announcements about the camp, yet the turnout was low,” he said. “Laboratories are conducting the RT-PCR test if someone has a doctor’s prescription. But someone who has failed to consult a doctor but has symptoms of the disease can come to any of our camps and give swab samples for a test,” said a CMC official. The camps are conducted in six wards of the Calcutta municipal area every day. The CMC Facebook page is only naming the wards where the camps will be held and not the venue because locations are often changed at the last minute, Saha said. “Those who want to be tested should contact the ward coordinator or the ward health clinic of the CMC to know the venue,” he said. CMC officials said they were aiming to collect swab samples from about 500 people for the RT-PCR tests daily. The CMC is also conducting rapid antigen tests — another type of diagnostic test for Covid-19 — in highrises and other locations. “We have a target of doing about 1,600 tests, RT-PCR and antigen, every day,” said a CMC doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Anti-fraud card curbs and headache ||Rising instances of fraudulent online transactions have prompted banks to disable many debit and credit cards by default. Customers have to go through a “tedious” process of reactivating the cards through Net or mobile banking, or through relationship managers with an option to deactivate them when they are not needed. Bank officials said customers could use deactivated cards to make payments at retail outlets or withdraw cash from ATMs. But a customer has to get such a card reactivated if he or she wants to use it to make an online payment. Banks — public and private — are disabling cards to prevent fraudulent online transactions or contactless payment. Once a card is disabled, alerts are sent through SMS and email to the account holder. According to Reserve Bank of India’s January 15 circular, cards that have not been used for online or international transactions will be mandatorily disabled. In other cases, banks will take a decision based on risk perception of cardholders. Bank officials and financial technology experts concede that the process to get a card reactivated is tedious but they say allowing customers the freedom to switch on and off their debit or credit card is crucial, and the best option available globally, to prevent fraud. RBI data shows the number of reported fraud cases for card and Internet-based transactions has increased from 1,866 in 2018-19 to 2,678 in 2019-20. The amount involved has risen from Rs 71 crore to Rs 195 crore. The first quarter of the current fiscal (April to June), much of which coincided with the nationwide lockdown, saw a rise in the dependence on online transactions. The number of reported fraud cases stood at 530 during the period, involving Rs 27 crore. “The decision (to deactivate cards) is based on an RBI directive in January. Banks are gradually rolling this out…. What we have seen in many European countries is that transactions are not OTP-based and payments can be made by simply swiping the card or in a contact-less manner through Near Field Communications technology. Even if there is a two-factor authentication, it is not difficult for fraudsters to secure OTP through skimming and cloning or simply misleading the customer,” said a State Bank of India official. “If a fraud is committed in India, it is easy for banks and RBI to track it and take action. But, if the card is used overseas without the knowledge of the cardholder, it becomes difficult to track. So the RBI’s move to allow a manual toggle for online and international transactions is a preventive measure,” said an HDFC Bank official. “On the face of it, this seems to be an inconvenience to customers but, through this, they are in complete control of the security of their cards. RBI nowhere has said that the liability is now on the customer to manage the fraud. They are only bringing this as an additional security feature. The process will be made easier going forward with technology,” said Rajesh Mirjankar, MD and CEO, Infrasoft Technologies, a Mumbai-headquartered firm that has partnered with banks to offer application-based solutions for this purpose. Several banks such as SBI, Axis, ICICI and HDFC have rolled out this option to easily toggle between activating and deactivating a card. More banks are set to follow. “The idea is to be omnichannel when it comes to security. In the next phase chatbots and voicebots (such as Alexa)-based solutions are being rolled out. Artificial intelligence will also be used in future to validate digital transactions based on past mandates of the customer,” said Mirjankar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Funds cloud on Jadavpur University alumni noble goal||The Jadavpur University Alumni Association is usually flush with funds, thanks to its well-established alumni around the world. But it is now reeling under a financial crunch. So acute is the crisis that it is finding it difficult to pay salaries to the people it employs in its office on the university campus. Donations have dried up and an end to the problems is not in sight, according to several association members. They are unsure how they can keep supporting the poor but meritorious students. The earnings by letting out the association’s auditorium and guest rooms on the university campus have stopped as the campus has been closed since March. Hiren Ghosh, the president of the alumni association, shared with JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das the scale of support the association has been providing to students amid the pandemic. “The financial status of the alumni association is not at all favourable now,” he said in a letter to Das. All donations from the usage of auditorium and guest rooms have stopped since March 2020 because of the closure. Foreign donations for students’ funds and other causes have stopped, he said. “We have been somehow paying wages to our 10 employees… till July. Do not know how long we can continue. But these are issues for the alumni association to handle. This is for your information only.” Ghosh had graduated in mechanical engineering in 1961. The main earnings come from generous contributions of the alumni based in the US and the UK and in other parts of the globe, he said. “While renewing the membership they make generous contributions. At times some make hefty endowments. All these contributions are converted into fixed deposits and we pay scholarships to hundreds of students from the interest on the FDs. But we are not receiving that support from March,” Ghosh said. Also, interest rates on fixed deposits have been dwindling, another office bearer said. So, the association looks forward to a sustained support to continue with its activities. “The interest rate on a fixed deposit was 9.5 per cent three years ago. Now, it is 5.5 per cent. On the other hand, the list of recipients is shooting up. So, we try to keep the coffer slush with funds… that has gone dry.” The association, which has 4,000-odd members, has informed the vice-chancellor that it has helped 338 needy students; Rs 10, 37,800 was distributed to them. The money was transferred to their accounts last week. Additionally, more than Rs 10 lakh was distributed to an equal number of students in February. The association told Das about the figures to let him know that this support ensured the students could buy smartphones or high-speed data packs, which helped them attend classes through distance digital mode. Das had on August 16 wrote to the association, seeking its support for 800-odd students encountering Net connectivity problems. “We could provide substantial support based on the donations we had received till February. We don’t know how we can sustain the move in future. The members are reluctant to donate as everyone is facing financial troubles,” Ghosh said. The association runs the Dr Triguna Sen auditorium on the ground floor of its building and lets it out for any kind of programme other than political. The upper floors have five double bed AC guest rooms, which can be hired. “But earnings have stopped because of the pandemic. We are struggling to pay the monthly wages to the employees of the association,” a member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-328
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Schedule for 6-city flights to Calcutta||Flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and three other cities to Calcutta will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays in the first two of weeks in September and Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays after that, civil aviation ministry officials have said. The dates have been fixed keeping in mind the three lockdown days chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced on Wednesday — September 7 (Monday), 11 (Friday) and 12 (Saturday). “Between September 1 and 13, flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur to Calcutta will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. From September 14, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The airlines have been informed about the days,” an official in the civil aviation ministry said. The Centre had on July 6 suspended flights between the six cities and Calcutta, following a request from the Bengal government, because of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases there. The chief minister announced on Wednesday that the flights could operate three days a week from September 1. Soon after Mamata’s announcement, the state government wrote a letter to the civil aviation ministry, formally informing the Centre about the decision. Officials of private airlines said they would start filing applications for slots. The civil aviation minis-try guidelines allow 45 per cent of domestic flights on respective routes compared with the pre-Covid times. Initially, the ministry was allowing 33 per cent of the flights. Airlines had been operating 25-odd flights from the six cities to Calcutta daily since the resumption of domestic flights till the ban kicked in on July 6. “It was 33 per cent of the flights that used to operate on these routes before Covid-19 struck. Now, under the revised guidelines, more flights can operate but that would depend on the airlines,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. Tour operators said they had started getting queries from passengers. “Many Calcuttans are still stuck in places who are unable to come back because the flights were stalled. They can now come to Delhi or Mumbai on these days and take a connecting flight to Calcutta,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. The Centre has relaxed quarantine norms and a passenger taking an international evacuation flight to India need not go for quarantine at the entry point. The passen-ger has to test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before the journey to become eligible to board an evacuation flight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
28-08-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown worry for CLAT aspirants||At least 10,000 students set to appear in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) from Bengal have no clue if they will be allowed to go to an exam centre and take the test during a complete lockdown on September 7. They have been writing emails to the authorities conducting the examinations and the state government and also calling up local police stations for help since the government announced the fresh lockdown dates on Wednesday evening. CLAT will be held online this year but students have to take the test sitting at various centres. A St James’ School student said his first choice for a centre was Calcutta and the second Howrah. He is worried whether he will have to travel to Howrah in the middle of the pandemic. None of the students has yet been told where their centre will be. There are students who have recovered from Covid-19 and are worried about taking public transport and the gathering at their centres. “Nine members of our family had Covid and we are all negative now. But yes, my family and I are worried about exposing ourselves to a gathering,” said a student. Students set to appear for CLAT said the number of examinees was less than JEE-Main and NEET but it still exposed them to the same risks. Apart from Calcutta and Howrah, the exam will also be held in Barasat, Barrackpore, Hooghly, Asansol, Kalyani and Siliguri. Unlike other all-India entrance examinations, such as JEE and NEET, CLAT has fewer centres and students often have to travel long distances to reach their respective centres. While many students have their own transport, there are quite a few who depend on public transport. “If so many students have to go out on a lockdown day, the entire purpose of a lockdown is defeated,” said a student. Several students said they did not know whether the centres would be properly sanitised. “We will be sitting on desks, using the mouse. Even one cough in the exam centre could be a cause of fear and stress,” said Samya Amir. Samya’s first centre preference is Calcutta,  second Barrackpore and the third Barasat. The high prevalence of coronavirus cases in North 24-Parganas is also a cause of concern for students like Samya. “I am worried about my parents’ health and the risk I will be exposing them to. A home proctored test will be a safer option,” she said. St James’ student Shlok Saha, who lives in Ballygunge, said:  “My first preference for centre is Calcutta and the second is Howrah because that is the closest to my place. If I get a centre in Howrah, I will have to travel that far. We have been hearing about so many Covid cases there. My family is worried but CLAT is very important for me.” Devansh Murmuria, another student of St James’, said that since Wednesday evening he had called several people but there was no definite answer. “What if we are stopped on the road? Will the admit card suffice?” wondered Shashank Jain, from St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Another all-India entrance test, conducted by IIM-Indore for a five-year integrated management course, is scheduled for September 7. Students who will appear in the test and their guardians requested the state government to change the lockdown date. “Kindly change announced lockdown on 7th September, as there’s Pan India admission test for IIM Indore,” the father of a candidate tweeted and tagged the chief minister’s office. An official of IIM-Indore told Metro: “As of now there has been no change in the examination date.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-329
